Gaining traction in popular culture these days is a tricky business. There is so much competition. In an earlier era, everyone would have been familiar with, say, Sinatra or the Stones. But where is the modern equivalent? Pop has seen its position of genuine mass popularity decline as increased access to entertainment has both diversified and focused tastes, making it so much harder to achieve a crossover.In gaming, however,Call of Dutyhas done just that. It is one of the few franchises of the past decade that is recognised across the board and is, simply, a phenomenon. Industry magazineMCVnotes that in three of the past four years it has been Britain's best-selling entertainment product (topping both music and film) and was elbowed into second place in 2011 only by the extraordinary success of Adele's21. These statistics explain why it was so important for Microsoft to have the game's latest iteration,Call of Duty: Ghosts, on show as a launch title for its new console Xbox One and why its debut on new hardware has attracted so much attention. The fans are concerned with details of the new game, but also of interest is just how farCall of Dutyhas come.The first instalment was released by publisher Activision in 2003 and a decade on, the quest to improve continues. SoGhostswill push the new consoles with improved graphics; a technique called Sub-D rendering makes for more realistic curves. Compared withModern Warfare 3, the effect is impressive. Gunsights, the view most gamers will be fond of, appeared genuinely circular.Improved texture-mapping offers more dimension as well: lush jungle dense in detail, spectacular light and water effects, and  superior illusion of depth – previously achieved through shading – to create rocks that on closer inspection curve away from the eye. Details that make the experience more immersive include the brightness changing to mimic the player's eyes adjusting to the light.The storyline sees the ghosts in question brought together from the remnants of various special forces to fight an as-yet unrevealed "mass event" that has left the US in disarray. Oh, and they've a fully modelled AI Navy Seal dog to help out too. A level played underwater looks extraordinary, but it is also classicCall of Duty, exciting and engaging, a piece of grand theatre in which the player is squarely in the footlights.Which is, perhaps, largely the point. Although the series takes flak from hardcore gamers for being too conservative, Activision's chief executive, Eric Hirshberg, points out that keeping the franchise fresh is key to the series' success. Yet really, at its core, there is also something more basic and, for all the high-tech, something more human."Take a broader look at popular culture from superheroes, from comic books, to action movies," says Hirshberg. "We've always been attracted to bravery, we've always been attracted to heroism, to characters and heroes that put themselves in harm's way for the greater good, andCall of Dutyis built on that timeless narrative. But unlike other forms of entertainment, you get to inhabit the skin of the hero."It's a thrill ride, it has a sense of what we call epic realism. On one hand it looks very realistic but on the other it is exaggerated, it is over the top – bombastic in the way a great action movie is."Which it is, but it is also, ultimately, fantasy. Yet Hirshberg also notes that many great novels and films are pure escapism.Call of Duty'spopularity, its longevity and position in modern mass culture, however, make it something more. IsGhostsa step towards video games becoming recognised alongside their cultural siblings?"We once argued about whether hip-hop was an art form and before that whether rock'n'roll was an art form and before that, movies and television. We've been having that argument on a loop. Whenever a new art form or new form of popular culture takes hold with youth," says Hirshberg, who is thoughtful and articulate beyond the usual PR-speak of corporate gaming."Jay Z just sang at our president's inauguration. That would be hard to imagine just a few years ago and yet now that is such a universally accepted art form and form of popular culture."There's no doubt in my mind that video games will one day be in art museums, that the very question will sound like it came out of a time capsule," he concludes. As gamers awaitGhostswith bated breath, perhapsCall of Duty'sposition in the bigger picture is, in fact, already assured.Call of Duty: Ghosts will be released on 5&nbsp;November
Google's indexing of extremist websites helps police track their activity and will continue, the company's chief told an audience at the Hay festival.Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Google, was asked to act to take down terrorist-sympathising websites from his search engines during a question and answer session at the literary festival on Saturday.This weekend MPs, including the Labour politician Paul Flynn, called on the company to prevent searches listing sites for groups such as the Islamist organisation Al Shabaab.Schmidt said: "We cannot prima facie identify evil and take it down. We have taken the decision that information if it's legal, even if it's despicable, will be indexed."He went on to argue that extremists are usually possible to detect through their internet activity and that their online presence can sometimes help."Extremists are not clever enough not to be found out. They leave a digital trail the police can follow," he said, after an interview with the mathematician Marcus de Sautoy.Schmidt put the ball firmly back in the court of government when it came to questions raised this month about corporate tax avoidance, following criticism that Google does not pay a fair level of tax in Britain. Answering a question posed from an impassioned audience member, he said: "I am rather perplexed by this issue. The international tax regime has been around a long time. No rational computer scientist would have erected such a system."He said that decisions about these matters should be taken by elected governments and not companies. "Under US law we have a fiduciary responsibility to do what we're doing. We understand the complaint but we can't fix it. The British government can fix it," he said.Asked if Google is now more powerful than many countries and whether it in effect operates just like one, Schmidt said it was not an aim of the company. "We're not becoming a state. We don't want to be because states have a lot of complicated problems."On the whole, it is a fight between the internet community and government who do what they want to do. We can't force governments to do what we want," he said.
How do you turn a&nbsp;cee'd into a&nbsp;pro_cee'd? Take away two doors. No, it wasn't supposed to be a&nbsp;joke. I was just explaining the difference, OK? This is just the coupe version. But because it's Kia, they can't simply call&nbsp;it a c'eed coupe – they have to commit further atrocities against language (having already inserted that apostrophe) by adding a prefix and an underscore. And – cleverly (they probably thought) – it kind of makes a new word: pro_cee'd, proceed, meaning move forward, which is sending out the right messages about the direction the car is going, both philosophically and on the road (unless it's reversing, of course, or stuck in traffic, or parked).The choice of prefixes was limited. Maybe they considered suc_cee'd, which also sends positive messages, but suc is a bit like suck, which is rude (whereas pro means in favour of and professional). And ex_cee'd? Hmmm, hints of overindulgence – not good for a budget, eco-friendly car. Or em_cee'd? Only good for former DJs. And that's it, I think. Anyway, it's obviously an abomination of a&nbsp;name.The car? Well, my girlfriend is quite happy (she's never very happy) in the front. But my brother and my son in the back are less content. There's enough leg room, but my brother feels claustrophobic because of the small rear windows, which don't open. (What does he expect? It's a bloody coupe – sorry,pro.) He's into design, and he's sniffy about this one, calls it "dishonest". By which he means it's trying to look all sleek and sporty, which it isn't, so why not make it nicer for the passengers? My&nbsp;son doesn't know the word "dishonest". Actually, at the time of writing, he knows only one word: car (good boy), pronounced "caaaaar". His favourite thing in the whole world is to ride around in the back of a caaaaar, spotting more caaaaars. But he can't see them from this one. The small, high rear windows are to blame, so he's cross, too.And me, driving? I've got loads of buttons to play with – things, like cruise control, you normally find on more expensive cars. I'm feeling smug about my fuel economy and emissions, and the money I'm saving (not to mention the planet). Plus there's Kia's amazing seven-year warranty. But it's not the most engaging or fun ride. The diesel engine is strong enough, but this isn't a dynamic driving experience: if I was having a really good time, I&nbsp;wouldn't mind having two grumpy&nbsp;boys in the back. But the pro_cee'd is not theVW Scirocco, or even the Vauxhall Astra GTC, it would like – and is pretending – to be. Dishonest, you might say, in&nbsp;so&nbsp;far as dishonesty can be attributed to a&nbsp;caaaaar.Kia pro_cee'd 1.6 CRDi S ISGPrice£18,595Top spee'd121mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11.5 secondsCombined fuel consumption74.3mpgCO2 emissions100g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating4/10
Games currently doing the rounds includeDonkey Kong Country Returns 3D(3DS) in which Nintendo's corpulent simian mascot deals with surprisingly harsh punishment in a stereoscopic remake of his 2010 outing;Fast &amp; Furious: Showdown(Xbox, PS3, PC, 3DS) lets you undertake a global set of car-destroying challenges either solo or as part of a team;Call Of Juarez: Gunslinger(Xbox, PS3, PC) shoots first and skips the questions, back in the Wild West after the series' awful sojourn into contemporary Mexico;IL-2 Sturmovik: The Ultimate Edition(PC) assembles all the game's downloadable content in a comprehensive tour of the second world war's Pacific aerial campaigns; andWorms Collection(Xbox, PS3) demonstrates its publisher's unswerving belief that there's still an unmet need for versions of a game that has hardly changed since its inception 20 years ago.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewStarting where Metro 2033 left off – Earth a blackened husk, humanity eking out its survival in Moscow's metro system – this retains the original's gloriously gloomy interiors and environmental storytelling, letting overheard conversations and shattered scenery deliver much of the plot. Hearty, atmospheric and nerve racking when you're lost, down to your last gasmask filter and being attacked by the game's large, aggressive bestiary, Last Light is thrilling, with persuasively acted characters and authentically Slavic sense of ingrained melancholy.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewGuide a miniature robotic Mario, Princess Peach, Donkey Kong or – Mario's main squeeze in the original Donkey Kong – Pauline to each level's exit by dragging and dropping pieces of pipe. It's a modern twist on ancient favourite, Pipemania, and while it starts with a gentleness that's almost patronising, its puzzles quickly acquire the power to bend minds, adding bombs, magic tiles, pivoting corners, springs, catapults, warp pipes and conveyer belts. Four modes and 180 individual puzzles along with Nintendo's usual lofty production values make for a compelling challenge.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewRevelations is an extended remake of last year's handheld game, which adds HD textures, new bits of plot, and appearances from series stalwarts Jill Valentine and Chris Redfield. It draws heavily on Resident Evil's golden era with wood panelling that could be from the original game and a selection of familiar monsters to kill. Sadly, the action feels wooden too, while the dialogue and voice acting are so startlingly poor you wonder whether it's meant to be a parody. "This is not good," notes Jill in a tone of voice suggesting she's found an out-of-date yogurt in the fridge, rather than been assaulted by a seven-foot mutant with a flailing, blood-sucking proboscis for a face.
The online video service Hulu is at the centre of a frenzied bidding war, according to US media reports, with the tech giant Yahoo rumoured to have made an offer for the second time in its history.With the ink is barely dry on its $1.1bn deal to buy the lite-blogging platform Tumblr, Yahoo made a formal proposal to buy Hulu on Friday morning, according to the tech news websiteAllthingsD.comand the news agency Reuters.Yahoo told the Guardian it "would not comment on rumour or speculation" in regards to the reported offer.A deal would confirm Yahoo's fresh drive into "native" advertising – branded or sponsored editorial content – led by chief executive Marissa Meyer. Yahoo made an earlier, unsuccessful attempt to buy the French video site Daily Motion; the move was vetoed by the French government in April.Yahoo faces some hefty competition for Hulu, which is co-owned by Disney, News Corp and Comcast. Offers are reported to have been made by Time Warner, News Corp executive Peter Chernin, satellite operator DirecTV, talent agency William Morris and two investment firms, Guggenheim Digital Media and KKR.Yahoo firstapproached Hulu in 2011under Carol Bartz, when Hulu had recruited Morgan Stanley to find a buyer – without success.
The US federal trade commission is investigating whether Google's DoubleClick advertising subsidiary has illegally pushed customers to buy its other products, the Guardian has established.The regulator is understood to be looking at whether the display advertiser, acquired by Google in 2008 for $3.1bn (£2bn), is being used to muscle clients into buying adverts on other Google advertising properties such as its text-based AdSense. That could constitute "tying", which is illegal under antitrust law.FTC spokesman Peter Kaplan declined to comment. The Guardian has, however, confirmed that the investigation is under way from other sources with knowledge of the FTC's work.The FTC, which has a remit to protect consumers, has a number of preliminary investigations under way at any time, many of which are subsequently dropped for lack of evidence or harm. The first sign that it was moving towards a formal investigation would be the issuing of investigative requests to affected companies. The Google investigation is understood to be in its preliminary stages.Reuters reported that the concerns have been raised by rivals who have complained that DoubleClick products such as its ad management system have been used to encourage sites to use other Google products such asAdExchange.An antitrust investigation by the FTC could seriously hamper Google's freedom to manoeuvre in the advertising market. DoubleClick provides ad targeting based on various criteria. Since the purchase was completed in 2008, the number of players in the online ad market has shrunk.Google had about 15% of America's $15bn online display advertising market in 2012, ahead of Facebook's 14.6%, said research firm eMarketer. That's expected to widen in Google's favour over the next year.Microsoft famously fell foul of antitrust law in the 1990s, found guilty of illegally tying PC vendors' ability to buy its Windows operating system to the use of its Internet Explorer browser. That shut out the rival Netscape. Microsoft escaped a direct sanction following an appeal in 2000 but had to submit to antitrust oversight until May 2011. The trial and subsequent consent decree substantially changed Microsoft's corporate culture – and created the opportunity for Google to emerge with the rise of the internet.Separately, the European commission has yet to decide whether it will accept a number of suggestions made by Google to end an investigation into potential abuse of its search monopoly. Google in April offered a number of concessions relating to search labelling – but rivals who previously complained to the ECindicated they would reject them, which could set back any agreement and might trigger legal action.The FTC has carried out formal investigations against Google a number of times in recent years. In 2011 itinvestigated its Google Buzzsocial media system, for which it was bound over for 20 years in March 2011 on privacy-related matters. It thenhad to pay a $22.5m finelast August for violating that ruling by hacking Apple users' browsers to track them online.In January, theFTC cleared Googleof biasing its search results in its own favour after a two-year formal investigation that ran in parallel with – but separate from – the one in Europe. However, the FTC did slap down Google's Motorola Mobility (MMI) subsidiary for its attempts to seek injunctions against companies including Apple and Motorola for using its "standards-essential" patents – a decision seen by many as lowering MMI's overall value, because it reduced the amount that Google could demand for use of its portfolio of 17,500 patents.That weakness in MMI's patent portfolio was reinforced on Thursday, when a panel at the ITC, which adjudicates on trade disputes over US imports, declined to grant MMI a sales ban against Microsoft's Xbox, ending a dispute that had gone on since November 2010.Previously a US judge cut to just $1.8m an MMI claim under which it was demanding royalties on a standards-essential patent that would have cost Microsoft billions of dollars annually.The US district court judge argued that having a patent with comparatively small functionality used in a standard should not be an excuse for demanding a "hold-up" rate.In Europe, Apple and Microsoft have both complained to the EC's antitrust arm – the same one investigating Google's alleged search bias – about MMI's use of standards-essential patents to seek injunctions.
A few weeks ago, I Googled a pub to find out where it was. I clicked on the map that came up, for a&nbsp;larger view of the surrounding area. To the left of the map, under the pub's address and phone number, was a single quotation from a customer. "I had to wait 40 minutes for my chips!" it said.The pub, which is part of a large chain, clearly had a problem: a bad review – a complaint, really – was the first thing that greeted potential customers, some of whom, like me, only wanted directions. Had I not arranged to meet people there, I might have looked for another pub. I don't want to wait 40 minutes for my chips.This 21st-century problem now has its own solution: online reputation management. Businesses and brands are increasingly seeking the services of companies that specialise in tidying up search engine results. The effect of a terrible review, a critical blog, an unflattering link or a rant from a disgruntled ex-employee sitting in one of the top 10 Google spots can be devastating for a business as click-through rates plummet. Obviously some companies have the online reputation they deserve, but an unjustified, malicious or obsolete complaint may linger for years, blighting every new query.However, the future of online reputation management seems to lie not just with rescuing brands, but with individuals. In the wake of the 2008 Wall Street crash, it was reported that prominent bankers were paying retainers of up to $10,000 a month to keep their search results clean.Reputation.com, which claims to have more than a million clients in more than 100 countries, charges a starting price of £1,200 to repair the online reputations of individuals. In his bookThe New Digital Age,Eric Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google, predicts that in the future, employing the services of an "identity manager" to maintain one's online presence will be "the new normal for the prominent and those who aspire to be prominent".So that's exactly what I've done. My identity manager for the day is Simon Wadsworth, managing director ofIgniyte, a UK online reputation management company with offices in Leeds and London. We are sitting at a boardroom table with a bright pink top, looking at Wadsworth's laptop. He is about to type my name into Google, and I'm getting ready to pretend to be surprised by what he shows me, as if I'd never done it myself.The idea of offering online reputation management was first presented to Wadsworth, a&nbsp;digital marketing consultant, 18 months ago by a client, a financial services company whose name brought up "four or five different bad blogs" when people searched for it. "They said, 'What can you do about it?'" Wadsworth says. "I just went and sat in a darkened room and thought about how, if I was going to do this, I would go about doing it. From that point onwards, we spent the best part of nine months learning how to do that one job."Online reputation management now accounts for 95% of his business. Initially, he worked exclusively with firms and brands, but these days 60-70% of Wadsworth's clients are individuals. "I&nbsp;did not anticipate that," he says.His customers range from "senior execs in household name companies" to medical professionals, actors, presenters, politicians and beyond. "I'm not exaggerating when I say I've had phone calls from people as they've left prison," he says. "There's a fine line with that. I don't know if I can define the line, but we do turn down people quite regularly, because of the nature of what they've done."For the most part, it's not people you would necessarily have heard of. One client is a former NHS professional who was implicated in an expenses scandal and is looking to move on with his life. The matter was settled four years ago, but it still comes up in searches.  Another is an actor who wanted some pictures from when she was younger removed from the web. Confidentially is&nbsp;an essential part of the job. "Would the individuals that we have on our books want their friends, family, relations, work colleagues or industry to know that we're trying to fix issues for them?" Wadsworth asks. "I don't think so."An online reputation is notoriously prone to the tarnish of outdated or contentious information, of the sort which is now the subject of proposed EU rules concerning the so-called "right to be forgotten". Google's search algorithms can make stuff seem more current or valid or relevant than it is. Memories and newsprint fade, but decades-old allegations are often among the first things to appear when a name is searched. If the law can't help you, an online reputation manager may be your only option.For companies and individuals alike, the ultimate goal is much the same: a clean page one. Most people never look beyond the first page of a Google search – 94% of all clicks go to a top 10 result – so pushing negative results down the list until they fall on page two or three is the strategy. A business or brand, Wadsworth says, should be looking to "own the assets that are on that first page". In other words, most of the content linking from the top 10 results should be stuff generated by the company itself. Coca-Cola can manage this – its main site, partner sites, customer sites and Facebook pages dominate – but a company such as Monsanto has a harder time: news reports and organic protest sites feature prominently.For the individual, owning page one isn't really an option, or even desirable. And while the idea of shifting unfavourable content down the list sounds simple, it's far from easy.Tim Dowling with Simon Wadsworth from Igniyte: 'People almost become obsessed about Googling their own name.' Photograph: Manuel Vazquez  for the Guardian"If Joe Bloggs sat in his bedroom in Pittsburgh decides that he doesn't like Tim Dowling's article," Wadsworth says, "I can't control him going on there and saying, 'Yes, but he writes these terrible articles and he's unfunny and da-da-da-da." (My&nbsp;mind automatically fills in the da-das with appropriate insults.) It is possible to get a malicious blog post removed if it's defamatory, or if it violates the terms and conditions of the host site, but taking issue with criticism – legitimate or otherwise – risks making matters worse. "I have a particular client who's got a blogger in Belgium," Wadsworth says. "Every time we try to do something, he's tripling his efforts to make sure the negative stuff stays on page one."By way of demonstrating how he might begin an audit with a new client, he turns to his laptop and types in my name. A few suggestions – "tim dowling guardian" is one – immediately present themselves in a drop-down box. "People come to&nbsp;us to fix that as well," he says. "If the second suggestion down is 'tim dowling scam artist', you're in trouble before they've even looked at page one."How would you go about fixing that?"The reason it appears in the drop-down in the first place is based on the number of searches performed for that phrase. So we do searches to effect those moves: 'tim dowling journalist'; 'tim dowling nice guy'…"Is online reputation management just gaming the system to give someone a clean slate they haven't earned? The system, Wadsworth says, is&nbsp;already inherently unfair, often providing a platform for unsubstantiated gripes or preserving complaints about problems that have long since been addressed. One angry employee can wreak havoc online. "I would like to see us more as the defender," he says. "But you can push that point only so far, because clearly some of the things we do are covering up."My page oneis, as I am fully aware, fairly clean. Guardian website pages claim the number one and two spots. Then there'sa Wikipedia entry, followed bymy Twitter feedand links referring to other Tim Dowlings – an attorney, an Austin-based realtor, the head of North American structuring at Deutsche Bank AG – whose reputations are not my problem. As neutral placeholders in the top 10, they're more of an asset than a nuisance. In the fourth spot area string of Google images I'd dearly like to push to page two, but I posed for all of them, so I shouldn't complain. Wadsworth tells me of a prospective client whose highest-ranking image was his prison mugshot.Wadsworth returns to the search box and types a "u" after "tim dowling". The first suggestion in the drop-down box is "tim dowling unfunny". We&nbsp;stare at it in silence for a moment."Have you seen this?" he asks.I have. The number one spot for that search is a&nbsp;link toa 2009 Mumsnet discussion entitled "Tim Dowling, for example, is a twat."I have only myself to blame for its existence. I stumbled across that sentence online, wrote about finding it and inadvertently spawned a thread with 484 posts. At some point my wife signed up to Mumsnet to commiserate with my detractors. Dark times.Wadsworth says I made a classic mistake, creating a forum over which I have no control. "You opened up an arena for people to debate whether or not you were funny." And a twat.The other results confirm that when it comes to&nbsp;the search results for "tim dowling unfunny", I&nbsp;do not exactly own page one. But that may not necessarily be a problem. The negative stuff is out there, but is anyone looking for it? "People almost become obsessed about Googling their own name," Wadsworth says. No comment.Logging intoGoogle's adwords tool– the one businesses use to determine what keyword searches to target with advertising – he shows me that, on average, the search term "tim dowling" is typed into Google in excess of 3,600 times a month. But the search "tim dowling unfunny" is executed globally fewer than 10 times a month. It barely registers. Something shameful occurs to me."That's probably just me searching," I say."Yeah," he says. "That'll be you. And I'll have added a couple this morning."I am lucky, he tells me. The way Google's search algorithm favours established and authoritative sites means my Guardian profile page will probably retain its number one spot. But this means that for his clients, a damaging newspaper article can be all but impossible to shift to page two. Consumer sites such asmoneysavingexpert.comandTripAdvisorare also stubborn.For businesses, the solution is to create positive  – or even neutral – content to overwhelm the negative. "What we don't do is post false reviews on behalf of the company," Wadsworth says, "because it's a game you're never going to win." Straightforward, genuine, usable content is preferable – he encourages companies to set up a separate jobs portal for recruitment, for example – but even so, the change tends to be glacial. And while it can take many months to get the negative stuff off Google's front page, its arrival can happen overnight."We've got a global alcoholic drinks brand that&nbsp;posted an ad on Facebook for one hour and ended up with three completely full pages of bad&nbsp;stuff on Google." He reckons it will take a&nbsp;year to sort out, and having seen the pages in question, I agree.For an individual, there are a few simple things one can do to maintain a healthy online reputation, and I am apparently doing none of them. I should be colonising page one by joining big networking sites such asLinkedIn. I could sign up for a DIY reputation-management service such asBrandYourself. I should have online profiles lodged with professional listings sites. I should have my own website, my own blog, and I should post on them until they rank in the top 10.When I get home, I don't do any of those things. Instead, I sign up for Google adwords, and start working my way through the alphabet. "tim dowling arsehole": no searches! "tim dowling bastard": no searches! When I'm done, I'm going to go back to the search box and type "tim dowling nice guy" until my fingers bleed. It's the future. &nbsp;• This article was amended on 28 May 2013 to correct a reference to reputation.com, from reputations.com.
"It was always a dream to build one, after having built helicopters in my bedroom for a while. I mostly like flying for fun, seeing whether I can get the device to auto-stabilise. As opposed to a plane or helicopter, you don't need a lot of knowledge to control them. They fly themselves. Something like this – you can put in a backpack and carry it with you." Electronic circuit designer Matt Lloyd is talking about building his first quadcopter, a type of drone popular with the growing number of DIY drone makers in the UK.He's not alone. Hobbyists with backgrounds in electronics and robotics are kitting out home-built drones with expensive cameras for activities as diverse as extreme sports, aerial photography, guerilla film-making – and making videos of cats.Amateur drones rarely resemble the sleek silver drones used by the US military. One of the first videos of a home-made drone to circulate widely onlinefeatured a taxidermied cat named Orville strapped to a quadcopter, flown by Dutch artist Bert Jansen last year.Bart Jansen's Orvillecopter: got the fur flying. Photograph: Stringer/ReutersIt didn't spark off an aeriLOL cats meme, but home drone building has continued to rise in the UK, supported by lively online forums and the emergence of companies selling hardware components to individuals. The capability to fly a pre-programmed flight path is what distinguishes a drone from other "unmanned aerial vehicles" (UAVs) such as model planes. The software which enables this is freely available online. Arduino, known as "electronics prototyping software", has been used to develop the platformArduCopter, widely adopted by most amateur drone makers to power their vehicles.Off-the-shelf drones such as the Parrot AR have been around for a couple of years, and cost on average £200 – about the same price as building a fully customisable, upgradeable version at home. AGizmodo reviewer saidflying the Parrot "makes you feel like a robotic peeping Tom crossed with a cybernetic monk with a splash of soon-to-be-killed Call of Duty side-story operative".Parrot AR drone: costs about £200.But amateur drone makers are less open about any illicit thrills had when flying home-made devices, though they're keen to point out the limitations of the models available in shops. The basic camera, the limited Wi-Fi range and small sizes make shop-bought drones less exciting, especially when it comes to using them outside. Home-made versions can be programmed for extended flights, and to take professional-quality footage. Drones are also being built on a smaller scale to be used around the home, whether it's for gaming or for "tracking children and pets", according to London drone builder Anish Mohammed.In the UK, drone makers have affiliated themselves with the much bigger "maker" movement, which includes sewing, baking and amateur robotics. This is the idea that's been championed by former Wired chief and robotics evangelist Chris Anderson, who hascalled the US hobbyists the "homebrew drone class"– and it's catching on over here.For the first time in its three years, the Maker Faire held last month (27-28 April) at Newcastle's Life Centre featured a live flying demonstration field for makers of unmanned aerial vehicles alongside workshops for bunting, knitting and bookbinding. Event organiser Marisa Buckingham says: "We've seen an increase in popularity for UAVs since we started the Faire." ExhibitorUniversal Air, of Wallingford, Oxfordshire, which showed off its first mass-market quadcopter drone at the show, wants to get one of its devices into "every household" in the country, according to its website."I started flying model aircraft when I was about 16, maybe 14," says Universal Air co-founder Henry Fletcher, 23. "I went on to study engineering at university and to specialise in aerodynamics. After I got into autonomous flight, I was keen to make the field of study into my work. I met my business partner Yuan and we started building these drones – or whatever you'd prefer to call them – from scratch. The be-all-and-end-all of this is that people do love creating things themselves, but it's quite a formidable challenge to get something to fly."The company's Kickstarter-funded quadcopter is the most basic self-assembly model out there. It can be assembled with just an Allen key and controlled with an XBox. While the GPS technology and free software used to develop the drone is relatively new, the quadcopter design is as old as the aviation industry itself.Universal Air's R10 quadrotor. Photograph: Universal AirIt was one of the earliest helicopter models, originally built in 1920, but repeatedly failed to live up to its promise as a commercial flying vehicle. The quadcopter's appeal for drone makers lies in its scalability – it can be designed to fit into a palm, or large enough to mount expensive cameras and other gadgets.However, Fletcher admits most people imagine sinister aircraft "swinging over battlefields in Afghanistan" when they think of drones, rather than something they can fly for fun in their spare time. He and 24-year-old co-founder Yuan Gao believe that the only way to diffuse the connotations of the term is to replace it with a brand name that becomes synonymous with the device itself, such as Google for internet search or Hoover for vacuum cleaner.To that end, Universal Air named its first mass-market UAV "Pam" – which stands for Personal Air Machine. According to Gao, the feminine name "really brings out the character, the kind of thing we're trying to portray, that it is a device that assists you".But the word "drone" is less likely to offend Mohammed, a self-confessed "UAV addict", former moderator of DIY Drones, and organiser of the London-based meet-up group Drone Zone. Mohammed started making his own aircraft after finding model planes too difficult to remotely control. His main interest is in building the craft but he has seen them used for "tracking children, and pet dogs and cats" around the home.While the average household is still some way off from being able to build their own UAV, people are starting to accept that they are here to stay – and they might actually be a force for good in the right hands. Everyone I spoke to was dismissive of the idea that private "surveillance drones", as Google chief Eric Schmidt has described them, threaten privacy any more than do smartphones, Facebook or Google, which we happily use every day.Mohammed also believes that Schmidt might be better off looking closer to home. Drones pose "much less of a threat than Google or Facebook – if some action needs to be taken, it should be aimed at them first", he says.Fletcher says: "One of the critical reasons for trying to drive a change in the way [drones are] viewed – even a change in what they're called – is to make people understand these things aren't roaming around trying to spy on their personal privacy. The amusing thing is that the state and the police department have every recipe in the book for getting information about people right now. Something like this may well reduce the amount of prying and intervening they do because they can just spot-check rather than following people around."According to Mohammed, the media's view of drones as spybots – or worse, as targeted killing machines – has made it harder for the public to understand their social benefits. In particular, he points to the work of the startup Matternet which delivered chocolate via a fleet of drones to children in Haiti last year.He says: "The association of drones with military use is a bit of a disservice, in my view. Given I'm Muslim, I'm not going to be in favour of drones being used to kill people in the Middle East. Drones could provide eyes and ears for all situations where it's risky for humans – which could be anything from delivering food to medicine or providing the internet."However, the biggest debates on personal drones have centred around immediate threats to personal safety and the misuse of video footage. A recent neighbourhood blog report in the US of a drone pilot operating his device outside of people's windowssparked a huge online discussionof the potentially criminal uses of drones. The Digital Journal listed each of blackmail, murder, kidnapping, coercion, rape and paedophilia as a possible "nasty side of drones" in its op-ed calling for legislation.The arrival of self-assembly drones on the mass market will make it harder to tell which drones are licensed for commercial purposes and which are being operated by civilians.The UK's long tradition of model flying – that most innocuous and British of hobbies – means that there are very strict rules governing where UAVs can be flown. Martin Toovey, who sells hardware for building personal drones at the UK company Build Your Own Drone, says: "I think the UK is the one of the best in the world at keeping up and not being restrictive with rules, good and bad."
With a new generation of games consoles on the way, the industry is going to be under huge scrutiny over the next five months. But are specialist journalists doing enough to really investigate the major publishers and manufacturers? And what are the skills needed to write compelling and revealing long-form features on the games industry?These are two of the questions set to be tackled at a special Bafta event on Wednesday night. I'll be chairing a discussion on games writing, talking to veteran journalists Jon Hicks (Official Xbox Magazine), Guy Cocker (ex-editor, GameSpot UK), Leigh Alexander (Gamasutra, Edge, Kotaku) and Kieron Gillen (Rock Paper Shotgun) about the challenges facing the games media. The last year has seen some major controversies in gaming journalism, but there are also huge possibilities for the sector. And with the next consoles aiming to take commanding positions in the living room entertainment set-up, it's a pretty important time to be considering how to cover the games industry in general.On the evening, we'll also be announcing the winners of theThumbstar Games Journalism prizes, a new award set up by myself and fellow journalist Dan Griliopoulos and supported by mobile publisher Thumbstar, which seeks to discover and celebrate great games writing from around the globe. We asked members of the public to submit their favourite pieces of games journalism from 2012 and then appointed a judging panel of veteran game writers to select a shortlist and three final winners, one of which will claim the overall prize.It should be an interesting evening then –tickets can be bought at the Bafta site for £5 each, butI have 20 tickets to give away to Guardian readersinterested in attending. You just need to go to that site and enter the code GJDEBATE.The event kicks off at 7pm – really hoping to see as many Gamesblog readers there as possible!
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.Looking for Android apps? Check this week's30 best Android appsroundup, which was published earlier in the day.Here's this week's comparable iOS selection:Kung Fu Robot (Free)Comic-book app Kung Fu Robot is supposedly for children, but really it should appeal to anyone with a yen for robots, ninjas and/or peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. This is a creative motion-comic with a real sense of fun, with three chapters at launch and more to come. A ninja-splatting mini-game and soundboard are thrown in for good measure.iPadCity Guides by National Geographic (Free)National Geographic is the latest company to have a bash at travel-guide apps, with its City Guides iPhone app. It's downloadable for free, with four guides available as in-app purchases at launch: London, New York, Paris and Rome. They cost £2.99 individually or £8.99 for the lot, offering suggests for walks, tourist sights, galleries of photos and tips on making the most of your visit.iPhoneTetris Blitz (Free)Huge popularity of the Bejeweled Blitz game has persuaded EA to try the free-to-play blitz-gaming model for the most famous puzzle game in the world: Tetris. Blitz meaning two-minute sessions to score as many points as possible, boosted by power-ups, and compete against Facebook friends' performances. The game is free-to-play, so in-app purchases are involved.iPhone / iPadMailbox (Free)iPhone email app Mailbox got lots of hype when it launched earlier in the year, but having been using it to lay waste to my overflowing inbox ever since, I can say that its swipey user interface and ability to fling emails out temporarily justifies the excitement. Now it's available on iPad too, with similarly-clever tools to manage your email clutter.iPadBaby and Child First Aid by British Red Cross (Free)Few apps can be called genuine lifesavers, but that's certainly the case for this new app from charity the British Red Cross. It offers step-by-step instructions and videos for a host of childhood ailments, including emergencies, plus an A&amp;E finder and feature for tracking medication dosage.iPhone / iPadSymmetry School: Learning Geometry (£1.99)This is an interesting example of the work going on to make children's apps that fit neatly into the educational curriculum. Based on geometry, this gets children to solve symmetrical puzzles, with each app coming with a "Whiteboard version" for teachers, and printable materials online to back up its lessons.iPadFry (Free)Are Stephen Fry's tweets not enough for you? How about an app where he delivers his latest musings through a 3D avatar? That's the idea behind Fry, which was developed by startup HeadcastLab, whose animation may remind you of satirical TV show Spitting Image (no surprise: some of its staff used to work on it). The company is hoping to do the same for other celebrities, but Fry is the guinea pig / canary / other appropriate form of wildlife.iPhone / iPadBlip Blup (£1.49)Blip Blup is a hypnotically-addictive puzzle game from UK studio ustwo, which sees you tapping to fill a screen-full of tiles with colour. The complication being walls and obstacles that get in the way of your colour-pulse's path. There are more than 120 levels to work through, and aseparate ad-supported free versionis also available.iPhone / iPadPoker Night 2 (£2.99)Having struck gold with Walking Dead: The Game on iOS, now publisher Telltale is turning its attention to the casino. It's a poker game with a difference: that difference being the appearance of game characters including Claptrap from Borderlands 2, Ash from Army of Darkness and Sam from the Sam and Max games. Silly in the best possible way.iPhone / iPadDisney Junior Appisodes (Free)The Disney Junior channel is popular in the UK as well as the US, with this new app aiming to capitalise by delivering full episodes of shows including Mickey Mouse Clubhouse and Jake and the Never Land Pirates. One episode is included in the initial download, with others sold in-app for £2.99 each.iPhone / iPadEpic (Free)Ahead of the release of animated movie Epic, Gameloft has published the official mobile game. It's a freemium title that sees you building a kingdom then battling against enemies, with a choice of single-player and online multiplayer modes in the latter case. Facebook provides the social connections, while in-app purchases fund the action.iPhone / iPadUrturn (Free)Dealt with at more lengthin this interview earlier in the week, Urturn is a social app that aims to make it easy to customise photos with slogans, stickers and multimedia, then share them on Twitter and Facebook, as well as Urturn's own network. The customisation happens through "Expressions" – creative templates – with everything you see available to remix and re-post.iPhoneSago Mini Forest Flyer (£0.69)Sago Sago is the recently-acquired and rebranded subsidiary of children's apps firm Toca Boca, with a focus on younger toddlers. Sago Mini Forest Flyer features a bird named robin, who kids guide through the forest finding other characters and animations along the way. It's well-crafted and very charming.iPhone / iPadYap Music (Free)If Twitter's music discovery app is dropping down the App Store charts, can Yap Music fare any better? It's hoping to tempt music fans with its reliance on Facebook rather than Twitter, aggregating Facebook updates from the artists you've Liked on the social network, and suggesting new artists you may like (or, indeed, Like).iPhoneFast &amp; Furious 6: The Game (Free)There's a long history of Fast &amp; Furious games on mobile devices, but social publisher Kabam is the latest licence-holder, aiming to do for the cars'n'guns movie franchise what it's already doen for The Hobbit. Which is? A lucrative freemium game, of course. Here, you'll be racing, customising cars and trying to work your way up the global leaderboards.iPhone / iPadGuitar! by Smule (Free)Smule's music creation apps have been downloaded more than 100m times so far, with Magic Piano, Glee Karaoke and Ocarina among its hits. This latest app focuses on a virtual guitar, with the twist being that you can strum along to vocals provided by users of the separate Sing! Karaoke app. Tracks by the likes of Bruno Mars, Ed Sheeran and Leonard Cohen are available as downloads.iPhone / iPadGrimm's Bookshelf (Free)Irish startup StoryToys has turned a number of the Grimm Brothers' fairytales into pop-up storybooks for iOS. Now it's got a single Bookshelf app to promote them all, with free samples and the ability to launch any of the apps you already own from within it.iPhone / iPadThingLink (Free)ThingLink and Urturn are different, but they share a similar ethos: making still images more interesting then sharing them. In this case, you can add interactive tags to photos including YouTube videos, your own clips, Twitter handles and text, before sharing to Facebook and Twitter.iPhone / iPadBondsy – Trade With Friends (Free)Bondsy is a new app whose subtitle says it all: a way to offer up items you don't want any more for swaps with friends, from books, games and concert tickets to jewellery, babysitting and other "experiences" (not a euphemism). Items are added by taking a photo and adding a few words.iPhonePlane Finder 3D (£1.99)With one plane having made an emergency landing at Heathrow Airport, and another diverted to Stansted amid reports of an in-flight disturbance, today is a strange day to be thinking about watching virtual representations of planes in-flight on an iPhone or iPad. That's the idea behind Plane Finder 3D though: based on real data from flights, it plots them on a 3D landscape, which integrates with the same developer's existing Plane Finder apps. Eerie, but interesting.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
The travel app company Waze is believed to be the subject of a billion-dollar bidding war between Google and Facebook, in a move apparently aimed at tying its social functions more closely into the rival firms' networks.A fortnight ago reports suggested that Facebook had bid $1bn for the business, in order to wrap the "social travel" element into its billion-strong social network. But those initial approaches seem to have been rebuffed – and now Google is said to have entered the fray.Any buyout by Google or Facebook could also have implications for Apple, which buys data from Waze for its much-criticised Maps application on the iPhone and iPad. In January, Waze was said to have been in takeover talks with Apple, for which it is a supplier of some map data. Apple was reported to have been offering about $500m for the company – an amount that was apparently rejected by Waze chief executive Noam Bardin, who was holding out for substantially more.Now those bids seem to have arrived for the company, which has more than 40 million users, and which has attracted attention in the US for its ability to provide real-time information about traffic. Its social influence was highlighted after Hurricane Sandy, when the White House and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)contacted Wazeto ask its users to indicate which petrol stations in New Jersey were short of fuel after the devastating storm so they could be prioritised for deliveries.Waze, founded in Israel in 2007 but now headquartered in Silicon Valley, provides a free smartphone app which uses GPS sensing when the user is in traffic to determine their speed; by amalgamating it with other Waze users' data, it can generate real-time information about holdups, accidents and other problems. That, in turn, helps to predict optimal routes avoiding congestion or roadblocks. After Hurricane Sandy, the company sells anonymised data sets of maps and traffic to third parties.For Facebook, Waze would provide a further route into the burgeoning mobile space, wherepurchased photo-sharing app Instagram for $1bnin April 2012. Buying Waze could give it more opportunities to sell mobile ads, as well as getting better data about its users' movements.For Google, Waze would help to enhance thesocial side of its new maps app, which was unveiled at its recent I/O conference earlier this month.Waze has received a total of $67m of venture capital funding, the most recent a $30m injection in October 2011 which valued it at around $250m,.Facebook declined to comment. Waze and Google did not return requests for comment.
When it comes to the development and distribution of content, the pace of innovation has been breathtaking. Today, people consume media on multiple platforms and devices and, with the rise of mobile technologies, they do it any time and in any place. So, how should this proliferating and diverse consumption be measured?Some, such asFrédéric Filloux in his Monday Note post on 20 May, argue that a site-centric approach using server logs is required. At Nielsen, though, we believe this overlooks some of the essential aspects of media measurement in today's world.Currently, each publisher can only measure its own data. They can understand volume but, while some collect extensive user data through registration, in many cases they know little about their visitors. That's why Nielsen measures people.Online audiences don't just visit websites in a vacuum – they are real people with real lives and real families and they no longer consume media in a linear way. When Nielsen recruits people for a panel, we do so with their explicit permission, and that allows us to get to know them. We construct panels that statistically represent the census of the region, and this gives us (and our clients) unique context about consumer behaviour across a wide variety of devices – computers, yes, but also televisions, smartphones, tablets, and more.This measurement of people provides us with a full-market view – something which is missing from site-centric analytics. Data from a single publisher will only ever be one slice of the pie. What Nielsen does is measure all the players in a market, apply a common set of rules, and report the data such that comparisons can be made across sectors and industries. Our clients can feel confident that the whole universe is being reported, both the winners and losers.And while panel-based sampling is a core methodology, it's not all we do. Depending on the region, we measure online advertising campaigns, smartphone app usage, digital programming, consumer tablet behaviour and, of course, television programme viewing. Right now, we use multiple forms of hybrid methodology that combine panel and census-based measurement to provide insight into all the "hows" and "whys" of a person's media diet. What's more, we continue to develop advanced technologies that deliver innovative capabilities into the marketplace.Importantly, too, Nielsen is an objective third party. We provide data and insights across many devices and platforms. And, significantly, independent third parties such as the Media Rating Council audit our methodologies.Gathering, measuring, aggregating and analysing consumer data so that it provides thoughtful and meaningful insights is not easy. It's complex, and becomes more so every day. Doing it well requires significant investment in people, methodology and technology, and it takes experience.The consumption of media is moving into ever-expanding and evolving technologies. That's why we believe independent, people-based measurement is more indispensable now than ever before.David Gosen is managing director of digital, Europe, Nielsen
When the Cookie Directive, officially known as the EU e-Privacy Directive, was first drafted two years ago, tablets hadn't been adopted in their millions, and smartphones had nothing like their present-day ubiquity.Their rise in popularity raises a number of difficult issues for publishers and other website owners when it comes to the directive, which has now been in place for 12 months, not least because of the way mobile devices deal with cookies, those small bits of code left by web browsers on your computer or mobile devices that personalise your online experience.To complicate matters, not all cookies are the same. There are session-based cookies, or temporary cookie files which are erased when you close your browser, and persistent cookies, that stay in one of your browser's subfolders until you delete them manually or until your browser deletes them based on the duration period contained within the persistent cookie's file.These persistent cookies can stay in your browser for anything from 18 months to 18 years. Of all the cookies written onto users' browsers, roughly half are first party and belong to the site you are visiting, and half are third party, and belong to partners, services or advertisers working with the site.Nearly a third of all page views in the UK now occur on a smartphone or tablet, according to ComScore, with one in five UK users using their smartphone to buy online during the three months ending January 2013. But users are more aware than ever of the potential threat to their privacy.According to a survey by online privacy management services provider TRUSTe at the start of this year, 66% of smartphone users are now more concerned about their privacy on the devices than a year ago, while 79% say they avoid using apps they don't believe protect their privacy online.The mobile landscape is still developing and the way that mobiles and tablets deal with cookies is inconsistent. It's a complicated and changing environment which merits some attention from the information commissioner.With first-party cookies, there are not really significant issues, as they improve the user online experience, enabling you to stay logged on, remember passwords, items in your shopping basket and so on. The difficulty arises with third-party cookies, which are used to track activity and recognise frequent and returning visitors, to optimise advertising, or improve the user experience by tailoring content or offers, based on that cookie's history.Apple's Safari, for instance, blocks third-party cookies such as those from advertisers, so it's impossible to track a highly significant portion of the mobile audience, the iPhone users, when they're online. Mozilla is joining Apple in the latest version of its Firefox browser and intends to disable third-party cookies.Why is any of this important? In short, the current web environment requires user movements to be tracked, and cookies are needed to achieve this. And it's right that the placing of cookies on computers and mobile devices should be monitored and users protected from unscrupulous elements. But the internet simply would not work without cookies – they are a fundamental currency of the internet, enabling web analytics as well as tailoring the online experience, compiling a browsing history and the rest.In particular, third-party cookies are critical for the automated trading that has come to dominate digital media since the Cookie Directive was introduced. It's no exaggeration to say that there has been a sea change in the volume and usage of third-party cookies over the last year because of the rise of automated trading methods like real-time bidding. The marketplace for exchange-traded media has doubled in the past quarter and has grown 184% over the past year, according to a recent report from Accordant Media.The internet runs on an advertising model, and payback for it being free to users is that their movements and behaviour online can be tracked by advertisers. In fact, 23% of UK users are "OK with companies tracking me in exchange for free services or content" according to TRUSTe's research, accepting that such an exchange keeps the services free or low priced.The move from Firefox is of concern for AOP members because it raises the possibility that other browser makers could follow suit, which may mean that even publishers' first-party cookies would be seen as third-party cookies by a browser and disabled, denying the user the benefits and convenience they provide.A year ago, the UK's information commissioner ruled that websites only have to obtain implied rather than explicit consent from users before cookies or any other form of data can be stored on their browser, and most website owners have interpreted this to mean that it is sufficient just to alert users that their sites use cookies.Twelve months on, this stance has yet to be proven, and in the meanwhile, the mrket has developed to become much more complex. The UK has the slackest regulation of all EU members; other member states are much more stringent in their approach. In the UK, no one knows how far they can go and there is a real risk that the desktop internet could become over-legislated while mobile internet becomes under-legislated.It's an issue for all websites, whether they are well-resourced businesses like the premium publishers represented by the AOP, or smaller businesses which may fall foul of the regulations more easily. For the benefit of both users and web site providers we need more guidance on best practice and more clarity from the information commissioner.John Barnes is chairman of the AOP and managing director digital &amp; tech, Incisive Media
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android apps posts).Tetris Blitz (Free)Huge popularity of the Bejeweled Blitz game has persuaded EA to try the free-to-play blitz-gaming model for the most famous puzzle game in the world: Tetris. Blitz meaning two-minute sessions to score as many points as possible, boosted by power-ups, and compete against Facebook friends' performances. The game is free-to-play, so in-app purchases are involved.Amazon Local (Free)Available already in the US, Amazon Local is now accessible in the UK too. It aggregates deals and discounts from local and national businesses, from shops to spas and hotels, aiming to show you the offers closest to your current location, with digital vouchers to redeem them.Blip Blup (Free)Blip Blup is a hypnotically-addictive puzzle game from UK studio ustwo, which sees you tapping to fill a screen-full of tiles with colour. The complication being walls and obstacles that get in the way of your colour-pulse's path. There are more than 120 levels to work through, with an in-app purchased used to remove the game's in-app ads.Clueful (Free)Concerned about privacy and apps? Clueful is trying to capitalise on uncertainty around the attitudes of some developers and startups with its "personal Privacy Consultant". Released by Bitdefender, it monitors how apps on your device are accessing your personal information, providing a score for each on how nice (or nasty) they are.Cloudee: Backup &amp; Share Videos (Free)Cloudee is the work of set-top box maker Boxee: a service for storing and sharing videos, as well as organising them into collections. "If YouTube is for everyone on the Internet, and Facebook is for everyone you know, then Cloudee is for those who matter to you the most," suggests the company. Once uploaded, vids can be watched on smartphones, tablets, computers and TVs.AppGratis (Free)Famously booted off the App Store by Apple, app discovery service AppGratis has now turned its attention to Android instead. Its app promises daily offers for free and discounted apps, with recommendations from the AppGratis team and a daily push notification with a new offer.GPS Navigation &amp; Maps +offline (£1)Skobbler is making a big push for its new navigation app, pricing it at £1 with a combination of turn-by-turn navigation and a single map of the world that can be used online or offline. The business model is that you buy access to country maps offline as in-app purchases, although one country is included in the initial download.Epic (Free)Ahead of the release of animated movie Epic, Gameloft has published the official mobile game. It's a freemium title that sees you building a kingdom then battling against enemies, with a choice of single-player and online multiplayer modes in the latter case. Facebook provides the social connections, while in-app purchases fund the action.Mensa Academy (£2.99)Mensa has teamed up with Square Enix for an official brain-training game on Android, promising more than 1,000 questions to test your grey cells in numeracy, language, logic, memory and visual. The male character looks like a professor, while the female character looks like Lara Croft. No stereotypes there, then.EasilyDo Smart Assistant (Free)There's a trend in 2013 for startups trying to provide personal-assistant apps for smartphones, aiming to out-Siri Siri. EasilyDo is the latest on Android, promising that it "tells you when to leave to arrive on time, monitors for important emails and friends' news, warns you of bad weather, tracks packages, files receipts, and even helps you celebrate birthdays".Fast &amp; Furious 6: The Game (Free)There's a long history of Fast &amp; Furious games on mobile devices, but social publisher Kabam is the latest licence-holder, aiming to do for the cars'n'guns movie franchise what it's already doen for The Hobbit. Which is? A lucrative  freemium game, of course. Here, you'll be racing, customising cars and trying to work your way up the global leaderboards.Pocket Rally (£0.65)If you prefer your racing to be less furious (but still fast), Pocket Rally may be worth a look. Taking its cues from console games like the Colin McRae series, it sees you belting through circuits (tarmac, gravel and grass included) racing up to three other cars at once, with a choice of Challenge and Single Race modes.Glide - Video Walkie Talkie (Free)"Would you rather write about going to the beach or show yourself at the beach? Exactly," suggests Glide's Google Play listing, pushing the idea that video messages are better than texts (and blithely unaware of the general quality of 3G reception on many British beaches, by the sounds of it). Still, this is one of the apps aiming to help people ping video to their Facebook friends, even if they're not available at the time.Grimm's Bookshelf (Free)Irish startup StoryToys has turned a number of the Grimm Brothers' fairytales into pop-up storybooks for Android. Now it's got a single Bookshelf app to promote them all, with free samples and the ability to launch any of the apps you already own from within it.Week Calendar (£1.49)Can anyone outdo the Google Calendar service on Android? Week Calendar is trying with an impressively-slick calendar app that ties into Google Calendar, Exchange and other services. Intuitive drag'n'drop controls make creating and moving appointments easy, with good use of colour to sort everything.Arma Tactics THD (£3.24)PC strategy-game series Arma has spawned this mobile game, initially for Tegra-powered devices. It sees you controlling a four-person special forces team through a series of military missions, with slick graphics and freedom to try different tactics to succeed.Catch Phrase (Free)Mr Chips! This is an officially-licensed game of British TV game-show Catch Phrase, which has recently been revived by ITV. You'll be guessing 48 catch phrases for free, with more available as an in-app purchase, and a Facebook-powered high-score table to compare your skills with friends.Combo Crew (£1.49)Developer The Game Bakers made the popular Squids games, but now it's turning its attention to a new beat 'em up game called Combo Crew. "Inspired by classics like Streets of Rage, Final Fight, and Street Fighter" it sees you punching and kicking your way through a giant tower to beat the suitably-named Mr Boss – complete with asynchronous social features that see you rescuing friends as you go.Men's Room Mayhem (£0.68)Okay, who had May 2013 in the "When will there be a mobile line-drawing game based on being the manager of a men's toilet?" sweepstakes? Congratulations. Yes, this loo-based game is the work of developer Ripstone, and has you "directing patrons, keeping everywhere sparkling clean and steering patrons away from trouble".Total Recoil (Free)One more Android game – it's a busy week – and another one with a military theme. Total Recoil sees you waging war with a variety of weapons, with an emphasis on action. Or, as the developer puts it: "If you can see it, you can blow it up..."That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.EA: Xbox One and PS4 "are a generation ahead of the highest end PC on the market" | MCVRajat Taneja, the executive VP and CTO of EA, froman article on LinkedIn:"These architectures are a generation ahead of the highest end PC on the market and their unique design of the hardware, the underlying operating system and the live service layer create one of the most compelling platforms to reimagine game mechanics. Our benchmarks on just the video and audio performance are 8-10 times superior to the current gen."Spec Analysis: Xbox One • Articles • Eurogamer.netAnd as a counter to the Rajat Taneja overview, here is Richard Leadbetter dissecting the Xbox One specs and targeting a key difference between this machine and PS4:Very early on it was established that ESRAM is indeed incorporated into the Xbox One design - essentially a large, very fast cache of embedded memory attached to the GPU and CPU that helps to make up the bandwidth deficit inherent in using slower memory. So even without direct confirmation, we now knew that the 8GB of memory in Xbox One is indeed DDR3 as opposed to the bandwidth-rich GDDR5 found in the PlayStation 4 (and Wired's internal photography of the One confirms 2133MHz DDR3 Micron modules). Xbox One may well have a latency advantage over PS4 and power consumption will probably be lower, but GPU bandwidth - a key element in graphics performance - is indeed more limited on the Microsoft hardware.EA plans to publish on current generation consoles through to 2017 | VG247CFO of EA, Blake Jorgensen, has said that the publisher plans to release games on the current generation of consoles at least through to 2017.He made the comments earlier this week at the Stifel 2013 Technology Conference in New York. Courtesy ofJoystiq.No more details were given although Jorgensen did also mention EA's exclusive Star Wars deal saying, "The opportunity to do a new Battlefront, for example is very exciting." He noted that while some of the games may coincide with the upcoming movies, none of them will be film adaptations.Need for Speed Rivals brings cops and racers to an open world, launches this year on current and next-gen | PolygonNeed for Speed Rivals, the next installment in the nearly two-decade-old series in development at EA's new studio Ghost Games, will launch on current generation platforms Nov. 19, and Xbox One and PS4 sometime this year, EA announced today.Those current-gen platforms include Xbox 360, PlayStation 3 and Windows PCs. The title is not planned to launch on Nintendo's Wii U, an EA representative confirmed to Polygon.It's cops and robbers in an open world, plus drop in/out multiplayer. And it's not Criterion, which means the Guildford developer may be working away from Need For Speed for its project, ashintedby the studio recently.Shutting out the indies is a big mistake for Xbox One | GamesIndustry InternationalMicrosoft's seemingly decision not to allow indie devs to self-publish on Xbox One is a mistake says Rob Fahey:In short, while Sony is making efforts to step back from its role as gatekeeper and knock down the walls around its garden (although it will no doubt still wish to maintain a quality control role), Microsoft is hiring new bouncers and re-grouting the brickwork. It's an approach that runs contrary to the general trend in the industry, where strict curation is very much out of fashion; even Nintendo, usually the slowest of the platform holders to acknowledge wider cultural change in the industry, is now paying lip service to the notion of letting developers have more freedom on its platforms.Unlearning To Share: The Industry's Hatred Of Generosity | Rock, Paper, ShotgunTypically impassioned and incendiary piece by Rock Paper Shotgun editor John Walker on industry attempts to outlaw our ability to share games:Steam, and so many other digital distribution platforms, are abhorrent when it comes to notions of sharing. Our willing allowing of the PC gaming market to become unshareable makes us all complicit in this erosion of freedom. We went from plastic circles with idiotic impositions of limited installs, to pure data and not even the option for those few installs. And we thanked them for the convenience.Indie Press Day Developer Demos | IGNWhat do Braid developer Jonathan Blow, a former NASA Engineer, and a veteran Bioware developer all have in common? All three were in town this week showing off awesome indie games for Indie Press Day. We had 11 of these developers come in to the IGN office and explain what it is that makes their game rad.Some interesting new indie titles, besmirched slightly by the unnecessary use of the word 'rad' in the intro copy there.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGlass Questions &gt;&gt; ongoingTim Bray on Google Glass:Do They Meet a Need? · Seems pretty ob­vi­ous to me; I'm damn sick of haul­ing out my mo­bile to find out what time it is, or to check on my next meet­ing, or to glance at a map, or to snap a quick photo of an in­ter­est­ing street­light or what­ever.Will They Suc­ceed? · I haven't got the vaguest. They need work on power con­sump­tion and soft­ware fit/fin­ish and sync­ing and lots of other things, and the man­u­fac­tur­ing cost needs to come way, way down.A lot of the things Glass does could maybe work just fine on a smart watch or some such. So in a cou­ple years it might be ubiq­ui­tous, maybe it'll just catch on for cer­tain pro­fes­sional uses, or maybe it just falls flat.But peo­ple, and there are a lot of them, who are say­ing "Glass is doomed be­cause it's dorky-look­ing/pri­vacy-in­va­sive/anti-so­cial" are pretty well wrong; it's more com­plex than that.Yup.Microsoft caught lying about tablet size in comparison to Apple's iPad &gt;&gt; AppleInsideCan't we all just get along? (Thanks @slimbowski for the link.)Bitcoin hits the big time, to the regret of some early boosters &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewBitpay recently received $3m from Founders Fund, led by Facebook's first major investor, Peter Thiel.BitPay CEO Tony Gallippi told me that Thiel invested because he saw how the company could help ease online commerce across borders; the company already handles $5m in transactions each month and says the figure is growing. "Traditional payments such as credit cards don't even work in half the world, so companies just choose to not service international customers," Gallippi said. "That leaves a big opportunity." He plans to take further investment later this year but told me it will be more for reasons of making strategic contacts than a need for cash, since he and his cofounders have significant Bitcoin holdings.One reason Bitcoin is interesting, says Jeremy Liew, a partner with Lightspeed Venture Partners, is that it could displace the practice of wiring money across borders, which underpins much international trade today and can be onerous. "If I'm trying to wire a supplier in China it's a three- or four-day process with heavy fees," he says. "Bitcoin transactions can be instant and free."Bitcoin will work in places where credit cards won't, seems to be the suggestion.Superfast broadband for Staffordshire after BT wins £27.4m deal &gt;&gt; V3.co.ukBT has won yet another superfast broadband deal, this time in Staffordshire and Stoke-on-Trent, in which the vast majority of the region will be hooked to speeds of at least 24Mbps.The £27.35m deal will see 472,000 premises – around 97% of the region – receive the high-speed service. The councils involved are investing £7.44m, while £7.44m will come from the Broadband Delivery UK (BDUK) framework and £12.47m from BT.A Staffordshire county council member described the fibre infrastructure as being "as important as road or rail in providing the accessibility and opportunities for our residents and businesses."And this apparently means we're just past the halfway stage in the national fibre broadband rolling.Samsung GALAXY S4 hits 10 million milestone in first month &gt;&gt; SAMSUNG TOMORROW GlobalSamsung Electronics announced that global channel sales of its GALAXY S4, a life companion for a richer, fuller, simpler life, has surpassed 10 million units sold in less than one month after its commercial debut. Launched globally on April 27 in 60 countries, the phone is estimated to be selling at a rate of four units per second.Android's market share is literally a joke &gt;&gt;Tech.pinionsJohn Kirk:Android accounts for approximately 70% of global smartphone shipments and 29% of global profits. This means that the average Android manufacturer creates just 0.41% of profit for each point of market share (0.29/0.70 = 0.414). In other words, the average Android manufacturer needs to capture 2.4 points of market share just to increase their [share of] market profit by 1 percentage point.Such a low fair share profit index may indicate that Android manufacturers are:– Having difficulty differentiating their product;– Sacrificing profits in order to buy market share (the "race to the bottom");– Unable to reacheconomies of scale in the manufacturing process.Kirk's point is that people who talk about low-cost iPhones are overlooking price elasticity. Although might he be overlooking the fact that the sector of the market which is price inelastic has been almost exhausted?How Google plans to rule the computing world through Chrome &gt;&gt; Tech News and AnalysisKevin Tofel:if you're a Chrome user today, you'll be more immersed in the Chrome ecosystem a year from now, even if you don't have an "official" Chromebook. This all depends on how well Google pulls off its strategy to upend the desktop computing world, but so far, it seems to be on track.Bear in mind the apps in this vision will be truly cross-platform as they'll run on any Windows, Mac or Linux computer with Chrome installed. If it can get developers on board — and those I spoke with at Google I/O are ready to embrace the effort — Google will have a thriving desktop platform built on top of the platforms created by others. But it will be a desktop that's far more agile, with new features added within days or weeks, not months or years.Welcome to Chrome, my desktop today and your desktop of the future.It depends more on how much people want web apps that might or might not run offline, and might or might not have a better UI than a native app, on their desktop. Other than that, solid.At the Mayo Clinic, iPhones and iPads are the standard &gt;&gt; CITEworldTroy Newman, an IT specialist who oversees app development for Mayo, adds that the clinic was accustomed to running on a single platform - Windows - and wanted its mobile initiative to be similarly standardized."All our developers know how to do Windows development, so we made the same kind of same decision for iOS. We wanted a platform where we could get developers up to speed and train them to develop apps."Finding that expertise hasn't always been easy."Our team's pretty small," says Newman. "As we've grown, it has been difficult to find people with the right skills who want to work in Rochester, Minnesota."15,000 devices using those apps. Meanwhile, the 25,000 PCs that it also uses might be scaled back. Unless Surface Pro has come along in the nick of time.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Taiwanese phone manufacturer HTC has seen an exodus of top managers as the company struggles to stay profitable amid falling revenues. Key figures including the chief product officer Kouji Koudera, Asian chief executive Lennard Hoornik, director of global communications Jason Gordon and five other senior staff have departed in recent months.In another blow to the company, Facebook has delayed the European launch of the HTC "First" - the first and so far only phone to incorporate its "Home" app whichtakes over the Android home screen- following disappointing sales in the US which saw it axed after only a few weeks on sale.With HTC's monthly revenues for the first four months of 2013 at under two-thirds of that for the same period in 2012, and first-quarter operating profits down by 99%, the company is struggling to cope with the growing power of South Korean rival Samsung, which announced on Thursday that it hasshipped 10m units of its new Galaxy S4 smartphoneless than a month after its formal launch - substantially faster than the 50 days its predecessor, the S3, took to reach the same mark.Koudera's departure comes after HTC generally won plaudits from reviewers for the design of its HTC One flagship phone, which uses an aluminium case; many preferred it over the Galaxy S4. But the company has been unable to secure volume shipments in the way that Samsung - which owns its own production lines for screens and memory - does.The mood inside HTC appears to be darkening, though. Asfirst pointed out by The Verge,Eric Lin, formerly HTC's product strategy manager for two and a half years who quit the company in February to join Skype,suggested in a tweet"to all my friends still at HTC - just quit. Leave now. It's tough to do, but you'll be so much happier, I swear." Linclarifiedthat he actually uses the HTC First, and that "I think HTC makes great phones".The next day headded"My heart goes out to the huge number of current and ex-HTC-ers who reached out to me today. I love you all." He suggested that "I don't miss the place, only the people" - perhaps implying that he disagreed with higher managers.TheWall Street Journal quoted an unnamed HTC executivesaying that the company had sold around five million of the One smartphone since its launch a month ago. As with Samsung's figure, those would have been shipped to carriers and wholesalers rather than necessarily being in the hands of users. The executive told the WSJ that orders "are still more than what we can supply".Other recent departures from HTC include:• Rebecca Rowland, global retail marketing manager, to Microsoft;• Phil Roberson, UK and Ireland regional director• Mike Coombes, UK and Ireland head of sales• Florian Seiche, chief of Europe, Middle East and Africa• John Starkweather, manager and worldwide director of digital marketing, joined AT&amp;TMeanwhile the HTC First, which waspulled off the marketby the biggest carrier, AT&amp;T, in the US after just over a month following what are believed to have been disappointing sales - which are expected to leave HTC with excess inventory -  will not go on sale in the UK as scheduled this month.In a statement, Facebook said: "We've listened to feedback from users on their experience using Home. While many people love it, we've heard a lot of great feedback about how to make Home substantially better. As a result we're focusing the next few months on adding customisation features that address the feedback we received.  While we focus on making Home better, we are going to limit supporting new devices and think it makes a lot of sense for EE and Orange to hold off deploying the HTC First in Europe."
This week, Guardian technology editorCharles Arthurmeets CEO and founder of Silent Circle Phil Zimmerman. Phil discusses how he created one of the earliest online email encryption software, PGP, and why his new venture in the app market is proving a popular with security services and businesses around the world.In her latest Email from America,Aleks Krotoskiwrites to Yahoo to plead for the survival in it's present form of their most recent purchase, Tumblr.And we have a tech news round-up, including Apple's tussle with the US senate over their tax affairs and the 'hit and tweet' incident which led to Norwich police tracking down a driver who boasted on Twitter about knocking down a cyclist.
Kim Dotcom, the New Zealand-based creator of the MegaUpload file-sharing site who is fighting an extradition demand from the US, is asking Google, Microsoft and others to contribute to his multimillion-dollar defence fund in return for a licence he claims to hold on a key patent.However it has emerged that the patent is not valid in Europe, having beencancelled in Europe in 2011following opposition from Ericsson, which holds a prior patent.Dotcom, 39, said on Twitter on Thursday that he has a patent on "two-factor authentication", used by Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, Twitter, Dropbox and others to provide extra safety on user accounts. The patent wasfiled in 1998under his former name of "Kim Schmitz". He also issued a veiled threat to sue the companies if they don't help.Howeverpatent filings seen by the Guardiansuggest that Dotcom's claim is predated by others filed by telecommunications companies Ericsson and Nokia in 1994 in the US, Europe, China and through the international patent system.Under the patent system, earlier filings take precedence in any claim, which would rule Dotcom's patent invalid unless he can show that it covers elements of authentication which are not covered by the earlier one. Dotcom had not responded to an email from the Guardian raising this point by the time of publication.Dotcom said that he would allow Google, Facebook and others to use his patent for free. "I ask you for help," hetweeted. "We are all in the same DMCA [Digital Millennium Copyright Act] boat. Use my patent for free. But please help funding my defense."He has claimed that the costs of his legal defence, which has been going since a raid by police in January 2012 which saw him imprisoned pending an extradition hearing, have reached $62m. He is presently on bail. Dotcom has previous convictions under the name of Schmitz in Germany for computer fraud and separately for embezzlement relating to insider trading, and in Hong Kong for securities-related offences.The patent awarded in 1998 by the US Patent Office appears to be the only one Schmitz holds. On his Twitter feed, hesaid: "Big reveal: 1 billion+ two-step authentications on the internet weekly. I invented it. Here's proof", linking to the patent filing. He thenadded: "I never sued them. I believe in sharing knowledge &amp; ideas for the good of society. But I might sue them now 'cause of what the US did to me."However it is difficult to say whether such a claim would succeed. The Ericsson patent from 1994 describes "a method and an apparatus for authentication of a user attempting to access an electronic service, and, in particular, providing an authentication unit which is separate from preexisting systems."That fits as a description of two-factor authentication, which typically uses a combination of a password typed into a browser with a code received by text message or from an app to authorise the user's access.Update:Emily Weal at the IPCopy sitepoints outthatA look at theEPO registerfor the equivalent European patent reveals that the European patent was granted, but subsequently opposed and then revoked in its entirety in 2011.The key prior art document in the opposition wasEP0745961, owned by AT&amp;T, with an earlier priority date of 31 May 1995. Interestingly, AT&amp;T's US equivalentUS5708422is granted, and still appears to be in force.In the view of the EPO's opposition division then, Kim Dotcom's patent is not valid, and while Kim Dotcom may indeed have developed two-factor authentication himself, he was not the first inventor, having been pipped at the post (by a good 2 years!) by someone else.
I need to replace an old Dell desktop and have no idea what I should buy. I don't use it for gaming. I do use it to watch some TV via an HDMI cable to my TV and I might want to download films. It's mainly used for photos, web browsing and emails. What sort of things should I be aware of?GillThere are at least two interesting types of desktop computer: all-in-ones with touch screens, and high-end gaming rigs. Traditional desktops are boring and almost nobody writes about them. However, in this case, I think boring is best. The ideal desktop is one that keeps on working quietly and reliably for five years or more.Almost any desktop PC that you can find will do what you want, so the final choice will depend on how much space you have, and how much you want to spend. I budget £1 a day and aim to spend around £1,000, including monitor, but you could easily spend half of that.Most desktop PCs come in tower cases of various sizes. If you want to add expansion cards and extra hard drives, then it helps to have a large case. If you're never going to open it up and add to it, a mini-tower (MT) or small form factor (SFF) case will be fine.Most desktop PCs come with a built-in DVD optical drive that will also read and write CDs. If you want to play Blu-ray movies as well, then you will need to specify a Blu-ray drive.It's also handy to have a built-in multi-card reader that will read SD memory cards from cameras, voice recorders and other devices. These are the modern equivalent of floppy disks, if anyone remembers those.For internal storage, you will also need a hard drive. Check the size of the one in your current PC by opening Windows Explorer, selecting My Computer, and seeing what it says for Local Disk (C:). Make sure the PC you buy has at least twice as much storage space, preferably five times as much. Currently, 1TB (terabyte) drives are cheap and 2TB drives are affordable. You won't need that much unless you want to store lots of movies — probably more than 100, depending on length and resolution. You can always install a second hard drive later, or get a friend to install one for you.For external connections, it's best to have some USB 3.0 ports, though most desktop PCs also have USB 2.0 ports as well, both front and rear.Processor and operating systemThe processor and memory are among the most expensive parts of a desktop PC, and they are where you can save some money, if you need to.Currently, I recommend the Intel Core i5-3570K as the best-value Ivy Bridge chip for someone who might want to overclock it, and the Core i5-3550 for people who don't know what overclocking means. For your purposes, any Core i5-3xxx or Core i3-3xxx processor would be fine. If you're buying for the long term, it's probably not worth dropping down to a Pentium-branded chip. It's nicer to have power to spare.Intel Core chips now have built-in graphics, which means you don't need to buy a desktop PC with a dedicated graphics card. You can always install a cheap graphics card later, if you find you need one.Most desktop PCs come with 4GB or memory as standard, and unless you go in for heavyweight tasks such as editing movies, this is enough for Microsoft Windows 7 and 8. More memory is always better, so don't turn away the chance to have more, if the cost is nominal. Desktop PCs with 6GB and 8GB of memory are common.You will also have to decide whether you want to buy a new screen and/or speakers, or whether you can re-use the ones you already have. If your current screen is less than 20in, it's worth considering a 22in or larger screen, now they are relatively cheap. If you plan to run Windows 8, you should also consider buying a touch-sensitive monitor.Bear in mind that all versions of Windows support two screens without any problems. You can use the old screen alongside the new one, even if they're different sizes.Whether to go for Windows 7 or Windows 8 is a matter of some debate. I like Windows 8 a lot on touch-screen tablets and laptops, but I don't use it on my desktops. Play with it in a shop and see how you like it.Ideally, desktop users who are upgrading from Windows XP and not sure what to do should go for 64-bit Windows 7 Pro with a Windows 8 disk. Basically, you're buying Windows 8 but with downgrade rights that allow you to run Windows 7. The nice thing about the 7 Pro version is that it has an XP Mode that lets you run a copy of XP under Windows 7. It's a bit of a geeky approach but it does enable people to move at their own pace from XP to Windows 7 to Windows 8. Otherwise, the Great Leap Forward can come as a bit of a shock.Picking a DellAs you're already a Dell user, you may as well stick with the brand. Our last three desktops have all been from Dell, and none of them has given any problems. The Pentium-poweredDell Dimension 8400I bought in April 2005 is still going strong running Windows XP (with a RAM upgrade and a new graphics card), and I added a Dell Vostro 460MT running Windows 7 on a Core i5-2500 in September 2011.Dell's Vostro range is aimed at boring business buyers rather than consumers, so they tend to be well made and they don't include a lot of bundled crapware to mess things up. They're not the least bit flash. They also come with one year (sometimes two years) of next-business-day support.At the moment, you can get a Dell Vostro 470MT with a Core i5-3470 processor, 4GB of memory, Nvidia GeForce GT 620 graphics card, 1TB hard drive, DVD, Wi-Fi and 64-bit Windows 7 Pro for£538.80including VAT and shipping. It's much more than you need.However, there's also a similar but smaller and cheaper Vostro 270S (small form factor) for£382.80. This lacks the dedicated graphics card and has Windows 8 Pro pre-installed, but saves you £156.You could add a standard 23inDell E2313H1920 x 1080 (Full HD) monitor with a DVI-D connection, or even anUltraSharp U2312HM, though there are plenty of alternatives on Amazon and similar stores.If you want to try something that isn't from Dell, theLenovo ThinkCentre Edge 72offers some good alternatives. Prices range from about £300 to £750, depending on the processor. A model with a Core i5-3470S and a similar spec to the Dell 470 MT will cost about£500.Lenovo also does aTinybusiness desktop PC: tiny by name and by nature.The trend over the past decade is for people to replace desktops with big notebook PCs. However, a desktop provides a bigger (and often better) screen, is usually faster, more upgradeable, and may be cheaper. It's also better for your health, because using a laptop for long periods isbad for your health. I have the physiotherapy bills to prove it.
Mobile firm Shazam has revamped andrelaunched its iPad app, with a new feature that automatically identifies TV shows, advertisements and music, rather than waiting for people to manually tag them.The app also sports a redesigned homescreen, makes it easier for people to see what their Facebook friends have been watching and listening to, and plots tag charts on a map of the world to show what's popular in specific continents, countries, regions, cities and towns.Shazam is working on similar features for an Android tablet app to be released in the coming months, and the new features will also be added to the company's iPhone and Android smartphone apps later this year.Leading on iPad is a sign of the growth Shazam has seen on Apple's tablet. "We have seen triple-digit growth over the last year for our existing iPad app, even though we haven't really aggressively promoted it," Shazam's executive vice president of marketing, David Jones, tells The Guardian.Across all platforms, Shazam's apps have been used by 300m people since the service launched in 2002, with 200m of those having used it in the last year according to Jones. The company recently announced that it currently has more than 60m monthly active users.Jones citesrecent research by NPD Groupin the US on the growth of people using second screens while watching TV. The survey of 3,387 people found 87% saying they used at least one second-screen device while watching TV, with 49% of them reporting usage of a tablet – versus 55% for smartphones and 50% for computers.The auto-tagging feature is a significant step forward for Shazam. Capable of running in the background while people are using other apps on their iPads, it will identify music, shows and ads and make their details available in an in-app carousel."We've been testing it extensively to see if it drains the battery when running in the background, but the iPad can go for a couple of days with this running," says Jones. "It doesn't change your charging behaviour – how often you have to plug in – which is very important."There will be differences in the way Shazam's app works around the world. In the US, Shazam identifies shows on any TV channel, whereas elsewhere it remains limited to those where a deal exists between the broadcaster and Shazam – the Brit Awards earlier in 2013, for example."For the time being it's select television shows in the UK, but over time we want to expand that to every channel," says Jones."Music is still our bread and butter, but more than 10m people have Shazammed television in the last year. Those are real and meaningful numbers for networks, brands and advertising agencies."The auto-tagging feature does raise some questions for those kinds of companies, though. With manual tagging, people are actively using Shazam to find out what a song is, or to interact with a show or ad. With passive auto-tagging, Shazam will be capturing data on content they may not be interested in."We've thought long and hard about that," says Jones. "If you open or favourite a piece of content that's in the carousel, we're going to consider that a tag: a piece of content of interest. If the device just auto-tags it and it stays unopened, we'll treat it as something that wasn't of interest to you."There are more interesting implications around the idea of an app that automatically identifies and stores every show someone watches on TV, both for the way TV audiences are measured, and for the privacy of TV viewers.Shazam seems alive to both of these. "We're not trying to do anything like audience measurement on a grand scale across our user base. We're only interested in what our consumers actually engage in, not what auto-tagging may pick up around you," says JOnes."We're already sitting on a goldmine of data, and we're being respectful and thoughtful about how we monetise that."Jones is enthusiastic about the creative possibilities for brands and their agencies within Shazam's iPad app, and tablets more generally, with second-screen marketing campaigns."We think of iPad as just a bigger canvas for our brands and agency partners to paint on," he says. "If you think about making a television advert interactive, it's wonderful to be able to do it on a smartphone, but even better to do it on a bigger 10-inch iPad or seven-inch iPad mini."The iPad app's relaunch comes during a busy year for Shazam as it ramps up its TV business. The companyappointed a new chief executive, Rich Riley, in April, shortly afterpoaching BBC iPlayer boss Daniel Dankerfor a role as chief product officer.Former chief executive Andrew Fisher remains with Shazam in a role as executive chairman, tasked with plotting the company's path to an IPO. In its last full financial year, which ended in June 2012, Shazam's revenues rose 39.8% year-on-year to £21.8m, but its net losses grew from £619k to £3.3m.
Microsoft created a stir when itunveiled its first two tablets– Surface RT and Surface Pro – at amystery press conferencein Los Angeles on 19 June last year. Indeed, it was something of a shock, because for the first time, Microsoft was competing against its biggest customers: Windows PC suppliers such as Acer, Asus, Dell, HP, Lenovo, Samsung and Toshiba.The good news is that the Surface Pro is finally being released in the UK – it went on sale at midnight on Thursday. The bad news is that 11 months on, it's the same Surface Pro. My guess is that Microsoft is following Apple in trying to sell products on their capabilities and style, rather than the usual tech specs and discounted prices. This could be tough at a time when the free Windows 8.1 "Blue" update and Intel's next generation of Core processors, codenamed Haswell, are just coming into view.The Surface Pro is a 2lb (903g) hybrid PC (the Surface RT is 676g) that appeals in four different ways:• Surface Pro is a tablet designed to work with Windows 8's touch-first user interface and new-style apps, which are downloaded from the Windows Store. In this respect, its responsiveness is a big improvement over the Samsung slate that software developers and many journalists used during the Windows 8 beta test.• Surface Pro is a full-scale Windows PC with an Intel Core i5 processor, 4GB of memory, and 64GB or 128GB solid-state drive (SSD). Add a Touch or Type keyboard cover, flip out the kickstand and you have the equivalent of anUltrabook, though it's a bit tricky to balance on your knees.• Surface Pro is a slate that comes with a digitising pen that you can use for on-screen drawing, handwriting recognition, filling in forms and so on. There has been a small but steady market for slates for commercial, industrial and health industry applications since theGRiDPadarrived, running Microsoft MS-DOS for Pen Computing, way back in 1989.• Surface Pro is tough, thanks to its unique VaporMg construction. Microsoft dropped a Surface onto the floor during its launch and Steve Sinofsky, former head of Windows, added wheels and used one as a skateboard. It's an obvious choice for field workers, police and even military applications. Some companies are already buying. For example, if you've had OpenReach broadband technicians visiting your home or office with Panasonic ToughBooks running Windows XP, you can expect to see them using Microsoft Surfaces instead.There are some benefits to the four-in-one design, and some drawbacks, so you will have to decide whether a Surface Pro matches your needs as well as your pocket.The benefits:if you are mostly mobile, if you can do much of your work using commercial or in-house Windows 8 apps, and if you need a tablet that works with – in Microsoft's phrase – "your existing enterprise management infrastructure" (including Active Directory), then the Surface Pro is a very attractive product. If you need a robust machine, albeit one that's not fully sealed, it's cheap compared to the phones and PDAs sold for industrial use.Also, if you want to switch between full PC power and tablet convenience without moving files between devices, the Surface Pro does that well. It's great for running Adobe Lightroom as a desktop program before viewing photos using tablet apps.The drawbacks:if you want a PC to run traditional Windows XP/7 programs, and if you do most of your work with a keyboard, then it's not a good choice. A Surface Pro will do the job, but an Ultrabook or traditional laptop would be better value. Also, if your tablet requirements can be satisfied by a small, cheap Google Android or similar device, then the Surface Pro is a bigger, heavier, and much more expensive option. If you want a 15.6in laptop and a 7in tablet, the Surface Pro falls awkwardly between the two.Microsoft Surface Pro: comes with a digitising pen. Photograph: MicrosoftHardware featuresAt first glance, the Surface Pro looks exactly like the ARM-basedSurface RT, which is already on sale in the UK, and it takes the same Touch and Type keyboard covers. Up close, however, you notice it's thicker (13.5mm v 9.3mm) and heavier (903g v 676g). The giveaway is a thin vent that goes round the outside of the case to allow heat from the Core i5 to escape.The left edge of the Surface Pro has a single USB 3.0 port, a rocker switch for volume control, and an audio jack. The right edge has a microSD card slot, a Mini DisplayPort, and a magnetic socket that connects to a charger and doubles as a holder for the digitising pen. The top edge has a tiny on/off button, while the bottom edge has magnetic connectors to snap in the keyboard covers.The front of the Surface Pro has a 720p HD webcam above the 10-point multi-touch screen and a Windows Start button below it. The back has another webcam and a kickstand, which hides various bits of labelling. The 48-watt battery is sealed inside. Other features include an ambient light sensor, an accelerometer and a gyroscope. The small power supply has an extra 5W USB port so you can charge another device at the same time.For a tablet, the Surface Pro has an impressive range of connections. For a Windows laptop, it's minimalist, though it's similar to some Ultrabooks. It is missing an RJ45 Ethernet port for a wired internet connection, one or two USB 2.0 ports, an HDMI port, a full SD card slot, and a SIM slot for a 3G or 4G mobile connection. If you want to use it with a separate keyboard, mouse and monitor, you may want to buy a USB 3.0 dock as an extender, though you could also use the Mini DisplayPort for the screen and buy a Bluetooth keyboard.I transferred files from SD cards using a small USB converter (£1 from a handy Poundland). If I owned a Surface Pro, I'd probably buy a large microSD card to bump up the built-in storage.Although it's glossy and not very big, the 10.6in ClearType 16:9 widescreen is one of the best things about the Surface Pro. It's very sharp, has great blacks, and a Full HD resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels. In tablet format, it's great for catch-up TV using the BBC's iPlayer in the IE10 browser.Software and servicesAs you'd expect, the Surface Pro comes with Windows 8 pre-installed, and this works beautifully in tablet mode. The experience is better than smartphones (which use Windows Phone, of course) and other tablets I've tried, including the Surface RT. Given that it's running on a Core i5 with 4GB of memory, of course, it should be.Unlike most tablets, you can run two apps snapped together on the same screen, so you can run Twitter alongside a streaming video, for example. Also unlike most tablets, you can give your spouse and or parents/children their own guest accounts, and they can have touch-based picture log-ins to avoid typing.With normal Windows XP/7 programs, the performance is smooth but not noticeably better than you'd expect.The Surface Pro scores 5.6 on the open-endedWindows Experience Index, where the limitation is the Core i5's built-in Intel HD4000 graphics. Otherwise, the processor scores 6.9, the memory 5.9, and the solid-state drive (SSD) 8.1. The gaming graphics score of 6.4 suggests it will run some serious games, though not to the level of a typical PC gaming rig. It's more than good enough for Angry Birds, Fruit Ninja and similar game apps downloaded from the Windows Store.Although there's no crapware, the Surface Pro does come with a number of preinstalled Microsoft apps. These include Skype, SkyDrive, Mail, Maps, Weather, Photos, and Bing apps for News, Sport, Travel and Finance. The Bing apps are excellent, and really show the value of devoting the full screen area to content. Microsoft also offers a free Fresh Paint app for download, though Microsoft Paint is still provided as a desktop program. The free Microsoft Office OneNote app is also worth having.The Photo app can consolidate photos from the picture library on the Surface Pro, and from SkyDrive, Facebook and Flickr.The Live Tiles for Games, Music and Video are fronts for Xbox Live services, and should appeal to people who use the same services on an Xbox games console or Windows Phone smartphone. If you're doing something on one device, you can pick it up and continue on another.Storage furoreWhen the Surface tablets appeared, there was a minor furore over the amount of free storage, compounded by the fact that drive manufacturers use decimal instead of binary counting. Your 500GB (billion byte) hard drive, for example, only holds 465.65GB of actual files (counting 1KB = 1024 byte, 1MB = 1024KB, and so on).My loan Surface Pro machine had a 128GB Samsung SSD which provided 110.7GB of user storage space, of which 85GB (76%) was free. There were three hidden partitions: 200MB for theEUFIsecure boot system, and two recovery partitions taking up 7.62GB and 600MB. These enable users to refresh or restore the operating system if they run into problems.Storage isn't a problem with the 128GB version, but anyone buying a 64GB Surface Pro should be aware that only about 25GB (or less) will be available for storing files, and they may need to use removable microSD cards. With the growing use of network-attached servers (NAS) and cloud storage, it shouldn't be a major problem. For IT departments, Windows 8 supports storage pools with thin provisioning, like Windows Server 2012.Some observations….The Surface Pro shows an impressive attention to detail, and works really well as a portable PC and an armchair tablet. It's not perfect, of course, and some things could be improved.Screen:combine high resolution with a small screen, and Windows features can look tiny. The Surface Pro ships with 150% scaling pre-set, which is mostly OK as long as Windows programs scale correctly; not all of them do. Incidentally, the screen has a pixel density of 208ppi, which is a "retina screen" at a viewing distance of 17 inches (43cm).Pen:the digitising pen turned out to be much more useful than I expected. You can capture your handwriting and annotate documents in OneNote (as you could in Windows XP Tablet Edition a decade ago), and this is a great feature for meetings and jotting things down in front of the TV set. The pen also comes in useful as a mouse substitute when dealing with tiny icons in Windows desktop programs. But it would be nice if the pen fittedinsidethe Surface Pro rather than attaching via the magnets provided for recharging.Battery life:I normally use a long-life laptop that nominally provides 12 hours of battery life. As this gives about eight hours of real usage, I was somewhat apprehensive about the Surface Pro's five-hour battery life. In fact, I always got at least five hours of word processing and web browsing with Wi-Fi on, a bright screen and a balanced (rather than battery-saving) power scheme. This was enough for most purposes, but you may need to pack the charger.Instant on:Windows PCs have usually been laggards at opening and closing down, but the Surface Pro's fast start system works well enough for tablet use. Waking it up first thing in the morning takes about six or eight seconds. After that, it appears to turn off instantly (the screen blanks), and it turns on in about two seconds. It takes longer than that to type in a password, which is why I set up picture passwords with quick taps.Apps:Being new, the Windows Store doesn't have as many apps as the Apple and Google Android stores. Still, the selection includes Netflix, 4oD, TuneIn Radio, Shazam, Dropbox, Evernote Touch, Adobe Reader Touch and almost 150,000 more. Of course, where apps are missing, you can load IE10 and go to the website using the full power of a PC.Microsoft Surface Pro: the kickstand has its drawbacks. Photograph: MicrosoftKickstand:this works if you have a table or other flat surface, though I stopped trying to use it on my knees: for quick access you just lay the screen flat and have the keyboard at an angle. The drawback with the kickstand is that, on a table, the screen angle is fixed. The advantage is that the front- and rear-facing cameras are then aligned correctly, but I often wanted the screen tilted further back. The workaround is to prop up the front with a book, or whatever. The kickstand wins for simplicity and portability, but it loses on adjustability.Keyboard covers:almost everyone will buy a flat Touch or keyboard-style Type cover to go with their Surface Pro, at considerable extra cost (£99.99 or £109.99). I didn't like the Touch cover, but the Type cover is surprisingly good. When I tried some online typing tests, my score was an insignificant 1 character per second higher than on my desktop PC. Having grown up with typewriters, I prefer big clicky keys, but the Type cover does the job better than expected. Also, attaching and removing the keyboard is almost instant and you can do it with your eyes shut.Processors and pricesThe Surface Pro's estimated UK prices are £719 for the model with a 64GTB SSD and £799 for 128GB; that's without the £100 keyboard covers. This compares with £849 and £929 for the equivalent Apple MacBook Air models, which don't have touch screens, don't support digitising pens, and don't run iPad apps.I'd like to see a cheaper Surface Pro that uses a slower Intel chip such as a Core i3 or even an Intel Atom, but then it wouldn't be such a prestige product. I don't see a way round that conundrum.Either way, the Surface Pro should become faster and possibly cheaper later this year, when Intel launches the fourth-generation Haswell chips designed specifically for Ultrabooks. Haswell promises improved battery life and about twice the graphics performance of the current Ivy Bridge generation. Intel will start with high-end Core i7 chips, perhaps at the Computex trade show in Taiwan in early June, but the low-power versions may not arrive much before Christmas.It's a good schedule for companies testing a few Surface Pros before ordering hundreds, but not so good for geeks who want the latest and greatest.Microsoft could sweeten the pot by throwing in a free copy of Microsoft Office, as it does with Surface RT. Otherwise, as mentioned above, value for money depends on what you want to do with your Surface Pro. If you want an Ultrabook, a tablet, and a slate where you can draw on the screen, it's good value. If you just want a Windows 7 laptop, it's not.The New MicrosoftOne thing that's noticeable with the Surface Pro is that it's just as much of a Microsoft device as a MacBook is an Apple device, or even more so. To really exploit the system, it's best to sign in with a Microsoft account on Outlook.com or Office365 and use Microsoft's powerful cloud-based ecosystem. This includes free Microsoft Office programs in SkyDrive. The cloud also stores your settings so you can have your own Windows 8 set-up by logging into any Windows 8 PC.With Xbox Live music, movies and games services, and apps such as SmartGlass, the ecosystem extends beyond the PC to Windows Phone 8 smartphones and the forthcoming Xbox One entertainment system, which has added some Windows 8 features. Microsoft is now close to delivering a complete ecosystem as envisaged by Ray Ozzie with the mantra of"three screens and a cloud". (The three screens are the PC, TV and smartphone; the cloud is Azure, hosting a wide range of subscription services.)Ozzie was Microsoft's Chief Software Architect from June 2006 to December 2010, which gives you some idea of how long ago the project started, and how long it will take to bring to fruition. Win or bust, it's a full-blown attempt to transform the company.Microsoft no longer thinks of itself as a software company: it's now a"a devices and services company", like Apple. A Surface Pro running Windows 8 is not just another PC, it's concrete evidence that Microsoft has shifted to what CEO Steve Ballmer calls "a new computing paradigm".Pros:A light, fast, laptop in a tablet format. Great multi-touch screen with pen input. Well made. Good value if you want a hybrid tablet PC.Cons:Compromises on size: it's small and light for a PC but big and heavy for a tablet. Sealed unit: it can't be expanded. Expensive if you don't need the features.
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMetro Apps Usage Report &gt;&gt; SolutoHow often are Metro apps used?We found that, on average, a Windows 8 user will launch a Metro app 1.52 times a day. Tablet users launch the most Metro apps at 2.71 times per day. People who have touch-screen enabled laptops launch 47% more Metro apps than people with a standard laptop…We found that among desktop and laptop users, 60% of users launch a Metro app less than once a day. This number significantly improves with tablets, but still 44% of Windows 8 tablet users launch a Metro app less than once a day.That latter statistic is really weird. A Windows 8 tablet where you don't launch a Metro app? (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Xbox 360's Kinect causes trouble for users during next-gen livestream reveal &gt;&gt; PolygonXbox 360 Kinect owners had some trouble today watching Microsoft's Xbox One reveal due to device's response to "Xbox" commands spoken during the livestream.Several users took to Twitter to document their problems, which included pausing, opening Xbox Live or quitting the stream entirely. Polygon's own reviews editor Arthur Gies experienced similar problems with his Kinect while watching the stream.When the presenter said "Xbox Live", spectators' Kinects picked it up and obeyed. Nice demonstration. Let's hope nobody does "Xbox, wipe my files" in a demo. (Thanks @Nazo for the link.)Flickr, Vimeo integration likely to bolster social ties in iOS 7 &gt;&gt; 9to5MacBoth Flickr and Vimeo will now also be integrated deeply into the new operating system, so users will be able to sign into the respective networks via iOS 7′s built-in Settings application. Like with iOS's Facebook and Twitter ties, Apple customers will be able to log-in one time into each social network and have full sharing access.Add salt as required. But if it's correct, note this point: it looks as though iOS 7 won't introduce Android-like  "intents" to connect between apps.IBM's Watson for smartphones? It could be. &gt;&gt; Android AuthorityFor a select few companies, Watson will begin serving as their customer service representative. IBM may also make Watson available via apps on your smartphone, as well as web chats or email queries.For many of us, the term "customer service" relates to hold times and an agent on the other end who seems befuddled by that charge on your credit card. Watson may be able to handle that, but the aim and scope seem different. It looks like Watson will concentrate more on the financial matters for now, but could also serve to assist representatives get faster access to more poignant information. Many of Watson's guinea pigs are banks or other financial institutions, and seem intent on using Watson's knowledge to better analyze and serve their customers' needs.Touch control is pervasive (and even spreading "back" to PCs); voice is next.Accidental Empires, Chapter 8 - Software Envy &gt;&gt; I, CringelyA wander down the alleys of early software development in the MS-DOS days, and a riff on software development. Pretty sure he's wrong about the first software patent, though he might be correct about the first to go to the US Supreme Court.Pirate Swede in 'biggest ever' hacking trial &gt;&gt; The LocalPirate Bay founder Gottfrid Svartholm Warg is on trial once again in Sweden for his role in committing what prosecutors believe may have been the largest data breach in Swedish history.Warg, who is currently serving a prison sentence after being convicted of copyright infringement in the infamous Pirate Bay trial, is suspected of having perpetrated a years-long hacker attack against Swedish IT-firm Logica through which he gained unauthorized access to personal data of thousands of people."This is, I believe, the largest hacking case ever in Sweden," prosecutor Henrik Olin told the TT news agency on Monday morning as he prepared to enter the Stockholm District Court for the first day of the trial."We're talking about customer information, information from the Sweden debt Enforcement Agency (Kronofogden), and a large number of police officers' organizational affiliations."Alleged to have carried out the attack using a user account belonging to a lawyer who represented US film studios in the original Pirate Bay trial. (Thanks @ivanivanovich for the link.)This is how much Nokia made from patents last year &gt;&gt; Seeking Alpha…while the exact number will depend on how well the smartphone industry performs as a whole, Nokia is expected generate between $800m and $1.5bn in patent licence fees and royalty payments annually. Considering how IDC estimates that the smartphone industry is expected to double in size between now and 2017, this number can grow considerably. If we assign a P/E ratio of 10 to Nokia's patent portfolio, the patents under the mobile devices segment alone will be worth between $8bn and $15bn.Smart digging. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's now Thursday.
Twitter is introducing "two-factor authentication" using mobile phone verification on the social network, after a number of high-profile cases in which passwords were stolen by hackers.The worst case occurred in April when the Associated Press's feed was hacked by a group calling itself the Syrian Electronic Army, which put out afalse tweet claiming President Obama had been injuredin a bomb attack - briefly causing a dip in US stock markets. Organisations including the Guardian, FT, and BBC have also been hacked by the group.With "2FA" enabled, any attempt to log in from a new device requires a code that is sent to a pre-designated mobile phone. Even with the correct password, the login will fail without the code.Asfirst reported by the Guardian in February, the company has made the move in the face of a growing number of such attacks over the past year, and the increasing importance of Twitter to organisations and individuals who can command huge followings.The companysays in a blog postthat the introduction is the first step as it adds greater security that is being added to the service: "much of the server-side engineering work required to ship this feature has cleared the way for us to deliver more account security enhancements in the future," it says.The setting is being rolled out gradually.Two-factor authentication uses a combination of a password and a code sent to a mobile phone to verify a login. It is offered as an option by email services including Google's Gmail, Microsoft's Outlook (formerly Hotmail), Yahoo mail, Apple's iCloud, Facebook and cloud storage service Dropbox.The hacks by the Syrian Electronic Army and others occurred after they hacked into email accounts using phishing - to capture the email address and password of the user - and then using that to gain access to their Twitter account. That attack only works for users who have not enabled two-factor authentication for their email - but many have not. That leaves associated accounts, including Twitter, open to hacking.With "2FA" enabled, the SEA's hacks would not have worked because although they would have had the password for the account - or a reset code - they wouldn't have had the code sent to the mobile phone required when a new device.
A week or so ago, Google's chief executive, Larry Page, caused ripples whenhe suggestedat a public event that laws older than 50 years or so shouldn't apply to internet companies, and that it might be fun to have an island where Google could dabble in new ideas without all the silly meddling of governments. (That's only a slight paraphrase.) The only way he could have seemed more like a Bond villain would be if he had been stroking a cat while speaking.While not an island, Google created its own patch of turf in Hertfordshire on Wednesday with its Big Tent event, which really is held in a big tent – a gigantic one with perfect Wi-Fi, and tables, chairs, coffee machines and a big stage in the grounds of the Grove hotel. Think of it as the most glamorous camping imaginable, Google's little island in the UK.Sadly, there were no self-driving cars (buses were laid on), nor people sportingGoogle Glass. About 250 people turned up for a day out of London to hear deep thinking about the future, whether we'll all turn into robots, and perhaps a bit of fisticuffs about tax.For that, we looked to Eric Schmidt, formerly the company's chief executive but now its executive chairman – in effect, its roving representative on earth. Especially on tax, he is a master at not really answering questions. He's like the un-Google. So he turned up in the afternoon to un-answer lots of questions about tax.For someone so brainy, he has a remarkable capacity not to know things. How much money does Google ship to Bermuda under its complex tax system? He doesn't know. Couldn't Google live by the spirit as well as the letter of the law? He doesn't know enough law. How should international tax law be reformed? He's really not sure. When will Google Now (a Google program that suggests bus journeys and hotel rooms based on your travels) seem as smart as a human being? Well, that's hard to say.If he were a search engine, you'd type your question and get a blank page back. Getting direct answers out of Schmidt would tax a saint – at a low rate, of course.He also has a surprising capacity for going missing at opportune times. Despite having been at the Grove for a Q&amp;A on Monday morning, and being scheduled to talk on Wednesday afternoon, he somehow missed Wednesday morning's session.There, Ed Miliband cruelly (and cleverly) used Google's original "letter from the founders" to argue that its tax structure – "close" sales in Ireland, ship money to the Netherlands, and then ship even more money to Bermuda, where it must form a sort of digital sand dune – was short-term thinking, something that Larry Page and Sergey Brin had said they wouldn't do.Yet when Miliband looked around to say this to Google's man – like the guest at a housewarming who slags off the owner – Schmidt, like Macavity the cat, wasn't there. Not until the afternoon, when he un-answered like a pro.Certainly he must tut and sigh when he hears Page talk about ignoring laws and creating fiefdoms but, when he was asked about capitalism, he replied: "Of course, Google is a capitalist country …" Laughter. "Company," he said, uncomfortably. A slip of the tongue? Perhaps the truth is out. Perhaps Larry Page's island isn't so far off after all. One has to wonder – how soon can one move there, and what will the tax rate be?• This article was amended on 23 May 2013. The original said "Despite having been at the Grove on the Monday and Tuesday for the private Google Zeitgeist, he [Eric Schmidt] somehow missed Wednesday morning's session." While Schmidt was at the Big Tent event at the Grove hotel on Monday morning, he was not present on Tuesday.
The Google chairman, Eric Schmidt, has told political leaders to sort out a rational and predictable international tax system, as he faced a wave of criticism over the firm's failure to pay more tax.Ed Miliband attempted to deliver his rebuke direct to Schmidt when invited to speak at the Google Big Tent conference, although the US executive missed the Labour leader's address on Wednesday, saying he had to attend a meeting in London.Nick Clegg disclosed at a press conference he had also criticised Google at a Downing Street meeting earlier in the week at which Schmidt was present. David Cameron's aides, after earlier denying the prime minister rounded on Schmidt at that meeting, later briefed that Google had been implicitly rebuked in the context of the prime minister's general call for greater tax transparency as part of his agenda for the G8 summit next month.Speaking at the annual Big Tent event after Miliband had left, Schmidt said one of his key concerns about changes to the tax structure was that Google might be "doubly or quadruply taxed".Asked by Labour MP Stella Creasy how he would reform the tax system, he suggested: "Have a rational system that's predictable and doesn't change very much."Virtually all the American companies have tax structures like this, and UK companies operating in the US do too. But if we pay more taxes in one area, then we pay less in another."Google feels very, very strongly that tax information, tax policy should be done openly. I don't think companies should decide tax policy, governments should ... we're in a very long-standing tax regime ... we need to have a conversation about this, we're not trying to do the wrong thing, we're trying to do the right thing."We don't want to be in a situation where we get double or quadruple taxed."Asked how he would cope if Miliband were to come to power and, as promised, stop transfer pricing, Schmidt said: "If he does – if he does so, we will follow the rules." Transfer pricing involves firms shifting profits between countries.Schmidt also said Google would continue to invest in the UK, no matter what tax regime was in place: "We love you guys too much. We will continue investing in the UK no matter what."He rebuffed Miliband's suggestion there was a distinction between the letter and the spirit of the law. "You'll have to define the difference," he said to a barrister who challenged him to say whether Google would comply with the "spirit" of the tax laws, which might then lead to it being taxed more. "We're governed by US securities laws – in that scenario it might be seen as incompetence," added Schmidt.Earlier Miliband told the meeting of the firm's staff that he was "disappointed" it had paid £6m in corporation tax on UK sales worth £3.2bn in 2011. Most of Google's profits are routed through Ireland. Miliband said the US company's employees expected it to do the "right thing", as its motto was "Don't be evil."He said: "I can't be the only person who feels deeply disappointed that a great company like Google, with great founding principles, should be reduced to arguing that when it employs thousands of people in Britain, makes billions of pounds in revenue in Britain, it is fair that it should pay just a fraction of 1% of that in tax."So when Google does great things, I will praise you ... But when Google goes to extraordinary lengths to avoid paying its taxes, I say it's wrong."Labour rejected Schmidt's explanation, saying Google has been making sales to UK customers from its UK staff, but pretending the transactions were being made from Ireland so the firm could register the profits as made in Ireland rather than the UK.Booking those sales in the UK would not mean taxing profits twice – just taxing them in the UK, not Ireland.Even after profits were shifted to Ireland, Google avoids paying 12.5% corporation tax there by switching the surpluses to tax havens such as Bermuda, according to a Reuters investigation.This is done by using two Irish firms, (hence the name, "double Irish") one a tax resident in Bermuda and owning the intellectual property of the company. The offshore firm then charges the onshore one royalties, which shifts the profits out of Ireland and into Bermuda.By doing so Google would not be taxed on the same profits in different countries; it is shifting profits between tax jurisdictions to avoid paying tax.Clegg told a press conference in London on Wednesday morning: "My overall approach to tax is the obvious one. I put this directly to Eric Schmidt from Google and other business leaders at a meeting in Downing Street a couple of days ago."We are bringing the tax burden on corporations down by lowering the rate of corporation tax but in return people have to pay their fair share."He said tax havens were symptoms of the growing pains of globalisation. "You have got tax systems that are national rooted in an old economy, and now we have got these new corporate goliaths that operate in this disembodied way particularly in the digital sector, that quite unsurprisingly think they can exploit the best deal for themselves in the cracks and crevices between the national tax systems."
In his fascinating book, You Are Not A Gadget, the tech veteran and virtual reality pioneer Jaron Lanier spells out a major concern he has with modern life. His fear is that social media, especially Twitter, is manipulating us into to acting like neurons in a global brain, disseminating information as quickly as possible, rather than actually taking the time to really process it. To consider things. To think like individuals, to sum up evidence and mull it over. This often becomes extremely clear after a video game launch event.On Tuesday, Microsoft revealed Xbox One to the world via a one-hour presentation on the backyard of its vast Redmond Campus. The upshot of the briefing was that the machine will be an all-in-one entertainment device – something for TV lovers as much as gamers, something that wants to become a vital element of the 'living room ecosystem'. Something that transcends games – but still takes games really seriously.It wasn't a perfect introduction, far from it – but of course in consumer technology that isn't really possible anymore. Devices have become so multifaceted and complex that they deny a single interpretation, a defining message.So, with the Xbox One briefing, we got a bit of TV, a couple of well-known game franchises, some stuff about Kinect and the cloud, some promises about E3, and then it was over.But of course, even before it was over, Twitter had exploded. And when Twitter explodes it is rarely a graceful controlled detonation, it is a cluster bomb of malice. Somehow, Call of Duty: Ghost's dog came to be the symbol of the day; a metaphor for faintly absurd boasts and unwanted additions. I joined in; it's fun, we enjoy shared topical reactions. But it's not real. As MCV writer Ben Parfitt tweeted on Wednesday, "It's important not to confuse Twitter and forums whining about a new console reveal with the belief that a company has actually 'blown it'".A few hours after the presentation, came the satirical YouTube videos – because YouTube is the way our digital culture processes reality. And certainly, some of them have wincing truths to tell – especially the video thatcruelly edits the whole Xbox One presentationinto a series of robotic buzz phrases.Of course, this is the problem with percolating a hugely complicated entertainment proposition into a one-hour pitch. Everything gets distorted and nothing is really represented. The modern launch event is a sort of information phantasm, ethereal and abstract. It takes time to root out the physical truth of the matter."I think if you only watched the press conference, then you would rightly have a pretty strong negative reaction. I certainly did at the time," says Tom Bramwell, editor of Eurogamer. "But the subsequent panels, interviews and technical demonstrations I attended made a better impression."There is a vision there for how to make games more interesting – they want to harness the computational power of the cloud, take advantage of the fact everyone owns a smartphone or tablet, and improve Kinect and put it in every home so developers can rely on its presence. There is potential there for the people making Xbox One games to do new and interesting things beyond simply making things look better graphically."Part of the problem here is that successful consumer devices tend to evolve beyond their initial functionality in an organic way. Take the mobile phone. Texting was added almost as an afterthought yet it came to define mobile communications. Similarly, the smartphone was originally marketed as a business device, with WAP providing very functional access to internet services; but people decided how they wanted to use them and the industry changed as a result. With Xbox One, Microsoft is trying to provide us with an evolved service from day one and that is … tricky.Brian Blau, a research director at Gartner reckons Microsoft will need to build its 'vision' over the next few months. "We often describe devices like the smartphone and tablet as multi-function devices, capable of providing users with a consistent but broad content consumption experience, and I think the same will be said of Xbox One," he says."On Tuesday, we only saw the reveal and had an initial look at entertainment content and concepts, and in a few weeks at E3 we will get a better idea of the future of games on the console. Microsoft said multiple times that they are building the One for the future, and will include cloud services as well as companion device/gaming capabilities, so in fact its not just the new console, but also how its connected to other services. When taken all together, it is an attempt to capture users into the Microsoft ecosystem."But as broad as the Xbox One entertainment offering may be, Microsoft still seems to be speaking to a mono-culture of fairly well-off young men – indeed, fairly well-off youngAmericanmen. All the TV and movie content shown at the event was about sports and science fiction – NFL, ESPN, Halo –  if this was an attempt to speak to a wider audience, why nothing for children or, you know, people who don't like sport?Inher interesting articlefor Gamasutra, Leigh Alexander sees the launch event as almost an elitist fantasy of our daily lives:The company said "groundbreaking," "immersive" and "connected" more times than I could count during this presentation, yet this is a rich boy's black box for playing Call of Duty and Halo on -- and even that assumes fans of those franchises who can and will continue to invest in the living room fantasy, will continue to invest in the same game mechanics, the same brands, the same ideas but with better graphics. This is what our advancements have bought us? This is all?But then it's so difficult to make pronouncements about the consumerist activities of the masses, because there are no self-signifying masses anymore. Digital entertainment has shattered the audience into millions of demographic shards – so all a launch presentation can hope to do is introduce enough tropes to catch the eye of the mainstream media to in turn reel in a big enough user-base.If you look at BBC or CNN coverage of the Xbox One launch, it is all about the promise of the technology; the Twitter and forum debates rarely figure. Yes, there's a huge section of the internet that sits in sardonic judgement over mankind, but that's nothing compared to the vast disparate audience of people whodon't knowthat there are all these concerns over whether there will be support for indie developers or that the console looks a bit portly.  Microsoft's communications are designed to speak to those people, not to us."The kind of person Xbox One is being pitched at isn't exactly the same kind of person that'll sit and watch a livestream of a console reveal event – that's why there has been a lot of criticism," says Neil Long editor of Edge Online."The existing Xbox audience wants games, and some muddled messages around 'always-on' and second-hand games certainly haven't helped. If there's one thing we've learned about these 'first look' events from Xbox One and PS4, it's that they don't satisfy a games-playing public hungry for games, not to mention hard facts about next generation consoles."But what Microsoft really needs to contend with is that, where connected content is concerned, consumers tend to rush toward convenience rather than the optimal experience. It's a well-worn example, but the reason YouTube came to dominate in the online video space was because it emphasised ease of use and ease of access over picture quality.Nobody cared if that video of the guy falling off his skateboard was really low resolution, it was a guy falling off a skateboard. Surenowthere's HD and long-form content, but the service has been allowed to mature and adapt to demand.However, the Xbox concept of TV and movie content delivered via one box is an optimal proposition – it's going to rely on your Xbox being in the right place, with the right companion services, and it's going to be best with specific high-value content, like live sport coverage. With every abstraction beyond simply switching on a TV, you're losing vast segments of the potential user-base. You are no longer YouTube, you areThemTube.As James McQuivey, a senior analyst at Forrester put it to me, "Until we know the price of this setup, it's hard to say whether consumers will pay extra to have such an enhanced experience. Changing the channel or the input today may be a hassle, but if it costs hundreds of dollars to get the privilege of changing the input with a two-word voice command, people will just keep reaching for the remote."It's interesting because PlayStation 4 is coming at this from almost exactly the opposite direction. While Microsoft is saying let's use a games machine to be more like TV, PS4 is saying, let's use some of the functionality of TV to be a better games machine.This is why Sony invested £380m in cloud technology company Gaikai – it will potentially mean that gamers can fire up the console and switch effortlessly between different games and entertainment apps, like changing channels on a television – every game becomes a TV series. In short PS4 is about the form of TV, Xbox One is about the function. I'm not sure if either has more merit, but the latter is going to be a tougher sell because a huge number of viewers are happy with their current setups.As Rob Crossley, associate editor of CVG wisely put it inhis forthright op-ed piece, "it's frankly staggering that Microsoft observed the modern ways people view cable TV and believed, somehow, that it could add to that experience by getting in the way of it."But for Microsoft, this is a long play, it will remain calm. For gamers, living in a 24-hour information stream, this is going to be difficult and tempers will fray. "I don't think that's too surprising for the simple reason that Microsoft didn't really show any new games," says Bramwell. "Call of Duty, FIFA, Madden and Forza – fine, great, but this occasion needs something different, and yet the closest thing we got to originality was a few seconds of Remedy's Quantum Break."If it wasn't for the fact I was able to stalk about the Redmond campus putting the story together from all the different developer accounts, panels and interviews, then I'm sure I would be screaming bloody murder right alongside them. Instead I'll be trying to cool them off until E3 when we can judge it all based on all those mythical first-party games that we were told were kept out of sight today. Should they fail to ignite the senses, then E3 will be a very grim occasion all round."Really though, we come back to Lanier's point. Social media has two broad responses to any event: the swift dissemination of information and snark. Every corporation involved in consumer technology needs to know how to both reach that audience and reach the hell over it.I'm still excited about Xbox One because the prospect of a console war in the digital age is fascinating and enthralling; I'm excited because somewhere inside that Xbox Campus on the edge of Microsoft's kingdom there are people that know that games are awesome and need to be taken seriously. Just talking to the engineers who designed the controllers, their enthusiasm and knowledge cannot be denied. And yet these aren't the voices we hear on stage at major events. These are the voices we'll hear at E3. And yeah, Xbox One and PS4 both need an awesome E3.I thought Rob Fahey'sarticle for GamesIndustry.Bizwas very insightful in its analysis of the Xbox One launch hubris. It gets to the heart of a problem about message and perception in the digital era.It's only the first hour of Xbox One, but it suggested a company that's curiously both mired in arrogance and somewhat directionless. I don't know who the Xbox One reveal was meant to appeal to, other than the TV executives whose egos it massaged. Worse; I'm not sure that Microsoft knows who they're meant to be appealing to. The company is desperate to head off Apple in the consumer space, and Xbox One right now feels less like a competitor to Sony's heavily games-focused PS4 and more like a pre-emptive shot at a hypothetical future version of the Apple TV.It's harsh, but reflects a lot of views today.Pat Garratt on VG247, though, has a more downbeat, reflective and open approach:"What surprises me is that certain quarters are throwing their arms up in shock. What did anybody expect it to be? Answer this question with complete honesty: what did you expect? Did you turn up expecting 720, the ultimate core gaming device? Did you expect Microsoft's entertainment strategy for the entire home to kick off with a pretend spaceman shooting an alien in the balls and everyone screaming "fuck" at 4K resolution? Did you expect insight into how Xbox is going to embrace bedroom development and fight for small-scale creativity? Did you expect the next-gen Xbox message to be aboutyou?"Every console launch is really an act of absurdist theatre, played out to an audience of boo-boys and disinterested consumers; it's the latter that Microsoft wants to capture, but it is possible that they are unattainable in this way. Whatever the Xbox One launch event was, it wasn't a fatal disaster, it wasn't the end of Xbox or the end of consoles; it was the beginning of a conversation.We all need time to work out if its something we want to listen to, or whether we want to shout "Xbox go home" at our TVs. And time is the one thing the Xbox One launch hasn't had.• This article was amended on 23 May 2013 to correct the name of Jaron Lanier's book You Are Not A Gadget, from You Are Not A Robot as the original said.
Google executive chairman Eric Schmidt rejected the idea put forward by Labour leader Ed Miliband that the search giant should practise "responsible capitalism", arguing the company simply follows international tax laws – which he described as "irrational".Speaking at Google's annual Big Tent event in the UK, Schmidt said one of his key concerns about reform of the tax structure was that the company might be "doubly or triply taxed". Asked by Labour MP Stella Creasy how he would reform the tax system, he suggested: "Have a rational system that's predictable and doesn't change very much." But he said he wasn't arguing for uniform tax rates: "I don't think taxes should be the same everywhere – they're a cultural construct," he said."After beinglambasted in his absence by Labour leader Ed Milibandin the morning for having overseen the creation of a tax system which uses "transfer pricing" – where different parts of a company charge themselves for "services" to shift profits – Schmidt was unrepentant. Asked how he would cope if Miliband were to come to power and, as promised, erase transfer pricing, Schmidt responded: "If he does – if he does so, we will follow the rules."His comments seemed to mark an end of what had looked like a softening of Google's line over its taxation setup, which has come under sustained attack from MPs and ministers who havecalled it "evil" and "amoral", and over which whistleblowers have come forward to question its claims that no sales are concluded in the UK, where they would attract taxes.But Schmidt also said the company would continue to invest in the UK, no matter what tax regime was in place: "Google will continue to invest in the UK, no matter what you guys do, we love you guys too much. We will continue investing in the UK no matter what."He also rebuffed the suggestion that there is a distinction between the letter and the spirit of the law – a distinction that was emphatically made by Apple chief executive Tim Cook in testimony to the US Senate on Tuesday, who said that Apple complied with both."You'll have to define the difference," he said to a barrister who challenged him to say whether Google would comply with the "spirit" of the tax laws, which might then lead to it being taxed more. "We're governed by US securities laws – in that scenario it might be seen as incompetence."Asked whether Britain has a different approach to capitalism than the US, Schmidt made a rare speaking slip: "Google is a capitalist country … company," he corrected himself, to laughter from the audience. "It's easy to say you would like us to have to have less profits and have that somewhere else. We will comply with the letter of the law, but we're trying to avoid being doubly and triply taxes, which would prevent us investing in some of the wilder things we do."
3.46pmBSTAnd that's it: Miliband and Schmidt left at loggerheadsA recap of the day: Ed Miliband suggested that Google should practise &quot;responsible capitalism&quot; and chided the company for not living by the tenets of its&apos; founders&apos; letter to shareholders in 2004; Eric Schmidt rejected the suggestion that there&apos;s anything more than the letter of the law for deciding how to organise tax affairs.The tax row goes on - with no clear sign of a solution on either side, so far. Thanks for being with us today.3.25pmBSTGovernment data continued ...Heather Brooke describing &quot;mutant&quot; data – particularly health: &quot;Huge number of datasets collected about health.&quot;“Third risk – information asymmetry: information is power, and power is unaccountable when it&apos;s faceless where there&apos;s no individual you can talk to. Watch lists, kill lists, war logs. WikiLeaks war logs discovered Task Force 373, which has no due process, but went around killing people [in Afghanistan/Iraq].&quot;Particularly with the state having the monopoly of force, when data is collected and you don&apos;t know – that&apos;s where the principles of consent and accountability is needed. A lot of people don&apos;t want knowledge out there, but for the public good the datasets need to be out there.&quot;But companies are like this – Facebook has an office in London, but they won&apos;t tell you where it is because they want to keep it behind this wall&quot; (fabulous irony).&quot;There&apos;s no contradiction between freedom of information and privacy.&quot;Updatedat 3.33pm BST3.20pmBSTHeather Brooke: the risks of government collection and data disseminationThe famous Professor Brooke (of MPs’ expenses fame; she&apos;s a professor at City University)...&quot;We have little choice about having a government, we have to fund it whether we like it or not, and it has a monopoly on force ... which can be contracted out ... We have an official identity that can be usurped by the state.”Brooke tells the story of the American who didn&apos;t exist because he didn&apos;t have a credit record and wasn&apos;t on the council file, because they&apos;d made a clerical error changing an ‘S’ to a ‘G’. &quot;Your official identity becomes more important than your actual one.&quot;Updatedat 3.24pm BST3.17pmBSTHow data can help keep communities safeEmmanuel Kala ofUshahidi(which if I recall is a project in which Clay Shirky had a hand, at least as a midwife). Ushahidi is used to co-ordinate information after disasters ... or to monitor elections and hate speech, as it was in Kenya.(… somewhat hard to figure out what is being discussed here. I&apos;ll give you a few of the words..) &quot;crowdsourcing ... poilicies that create a permissive environment..&quot;Ushahidi can collect data from social media too.Updatedat 3.20pm BST3.10pmBSTWe're now doing some 7-minute talks... First: Cancer ResaerchFirst one from Amy Carton of Cancer Research on programs for crowdsourcing cancer cures....(it&apos;s a bit hard to transcribe the video she&apos;s on...)She&apos;s telling us about &quot;genegame&quot; – where people can analyse genes on smartphones. There are 12 that you can play and take part in.Updatedat 3.18pm BST3.01pmBSTSchmidt:A barrister asks on tax: &quot;You said you&apos;ll comply with the laws, will you comply with the spirit as well, because they&apos;re very different things.&quot;Schmidt: &quot;You&apos;ll have to explain the distinction. I take a relatively straightforward view.&quot;Barrister: &quot;If somebody comes into to say I&apos;ll restructure to let you keep 82% of your earnings ... that means I&apos;m keeping with the letter of the law, but the spirit says as a barrister I should be in that high bracket paying above 40% to 50%, and I&apos;m keeping HMRC away from my money. If given that chance to restructure to abide by the letter but not spirit ... which choice?&quot;Schmidt: &quot;We&apos;re governed by US securities law.. in that scenario it might be seen as incompetence, and you could classify some of it as a donation ... that exhausts my understanding of international tax law. But internationally we&apos;re governed by many legal jurisdictions, not just the UK&apos;s.&quot;Krishnan Guru-Murthy: &quot;Capitalism – it means different things in different places? It&apos;s absolutely worshipped in the US but not in the UK?Schmidt: &quot;Google is a capitalist country ... company.&quot;(In front of the TV cameras, oh my.) &quot;It&apos;s easy to say you would like us have less profits and have that somewhere else – we will comply with the letter of the law but we&apos;re trying to avoid being doubly and triply taxed which would prevent us investing in some of the wilder things.&quot;Updatedat 3.18pm BST2.56pmBSTStella Creasy MP: &quot;How would you reform our tax system?&quot;Schmidt: &quot;Personal answer: when you have high differential tax rates you will have widely divergent outcomes, you have this in the US where you have lots of different rates. There&apos;s some feeling this is good because it makes governments moderate ... this is a big fight in the economics community.&quot;Have a rational system that&apos;s predictable and doesn&apos;t change very much. I don&apos;t think taxes should be the same everywhere – they&apos;re a cultural construct.&quot;Updatedat 3.16pm BST2.55pmBSTQ: &quot;How soon before Google Now passes the Turing test?&quot;Schmidt chuckles. (The Turing test is when you can&apos;t tell if it&apos;s human or a computer; Google Now is its &quot;AI&quot; system for telling you where to go.) He waffles a bit, talks about IBM&apos;s Watson (which won Jeopardy) and suggests that could do it in five to 10 years.Google Now? &quot;Mine is confused because I&apos;m on a book tour.&quot;Updatedat 3.16pm BST2.54pmBSTPhilip Blond (the Tory spinthinker?): &quot;A digital ombudsman: what&apos;s your advice about how to approach dominance in the internet age?&quot;Schmidt: &quot;I&apos;m not familiar with UK laws but am with EU laws ... If you look at the dominant companies of the PC industry they&apos;re not the ones in the internet age. It&apos;s pretty easy to lose dominance in the internet age as consumers shift, this is the one click away problem, in Google&apos;s case – 900m Android users, we&apos;re happy with that, we achieved that by giving away the source code and letting you change it as you wish. I would argue that ... should the government appoint an ombudsman? I think the internet is pretty competitive.&quot;Updatedat 3.15pm BST2.51pmBSTITV News asks: &quot;The deputy prime minister said on Monday you should pay your fair share – what will it take to change your tax arrangements?Schmidt: &quot;Depending on how the law changes. Or the governments in other countries ... of course!&quot;Updatedat 3.14pm BST2.50pmBSTQuestions for SchmidtBig Brother Watch asks: &quot;You&apos;ve had legal proceedings in the US and Europe about how you use data, which is how you raise Google; a poll showed that 66% of adults in the UK wanted data regulated to protect privacy online ...&quot;(Schmidt has his concerned face on.)Schmidt: &quot;This may be a case where we disagree with the interpretation ... we try to be as transparent as we can about what we&apos;re doing with people&apos;s data ... we would say &apos;this is what we&apos;re doing with your data ...&apos; This was widely covered. From our perspective we disclosed what we were doing. So there must be another interpretation. There must be concern we&apos;re going to misuse this data and not tell you.&quot;There seems to be a separate concern that we use the data at all, but that&apos;s how we pay for the servers we use and so on. But if we were to violate your privacy we would lose your trust and wouldn&apos;t get you back. We have a clear business incentive to protect your privacy because if we don&apos;t we will lose you.&quot;We say it, we do it, we suffer a penalty if we don&apos;t do it, and we&apos;ll get sued, because we get sued on everything. I think this conversation is a metaphor – people are concerned about the data that&apos;s collected from them.&quot;Updatedat 3.13pm BST2.46pmBSTWork, life, and everythingOn to the future of work and life.Schmidt: &quot;There&apos;s a whole meme of people wandering around saying &apos;there will be no jobs&apos; but there are winners and losers - the winners will be the educated ones.&quot;Jared Cohen: &quot;even when people haven&apos;t got access to the internet, they recognise it as a place for access and free expression – it&apos;s raising consciousness. Take Estonia, 1.3m people with a cold war legacy. Estonia&apos;s economy is small, it&apos;s not a world powerhouse, but in cyberspace citizens can pay and vote online, working with the FInns to provide an interoperable system, they provide services to other countries – it&apos;s a cyber-superpower. In a world that&apos;s more connected will they have the chance to punch around their weight if they make the right decisions about transparency and accountability.&quot;Updatedat 3.12pm BST2.40pmBST...and here they areEric SchmidtUpdatedat 3.11pm BST2.35pmBSTSchmidt on taxQ: &quot;But you effectively pay a licence for using Google to Google Ireland. There&apos;s a huge amount of money leaving European tax jurisdictions and going to Bermuda and no tax paid on it.&quot;Schmidt: &quot;The no tax part is not true. We love the UK, it&apos;s a huge operation for us, we have 3,000 employees, doing a huge development in King&apos;s Cross, we care a lot about this, Google is free to the citizens of the UK as to the rest of the world, we work very have not only to follow the rules but to make the world a better place.&quot;Q: &quot;But I get a tax bill, don&apos;t get to choose where I pay tax ...&quot;Schmidt: &quot;Indeed we do ...&quot;Q: &quot;But the same way ...&quot;Schmidt: &quot;I can&apos;t defend the international rtax regime, both your government and mine say it needs to be changed, I can&apos;t defend an irrational structure, a computer engineer would not have designed this.Q: &quot;Ed Miliband says he will change it ...&quot;Schmidt: &quot;If he does, if he does so, we will follow the rules.&quot;Q: &quot;If Britain acted unilaterally, would that affect your decisions?&quot;Schmidt: &quot;Hopefully the law wouldn&apos;t say Google, the debate over whether you tax companies ... I have some personal feelings, Google will continue to invest in the UK no matter what you guys do, we love you guys too much., we will continue investing in the UK no matter what.&quot;And so the tax questions end, for now.Updatedat 3.10pm BST2.31pmBSTSchmidt: &quot;Taxes are not a choice.&quot;Q (from Krishnan Guru-Murthy): &quot;The way you use transfer pricing, Ed Miliband says that&apos;s wrong. You&apos;ve taken a decision to put a lot of money in Bermuda, and you take moral positions in lots of other areas.&quot;Schmidt: &quot;If the international tax regime changes we will too.&quot;Q: &quot;But is that moral?&quot;Schmidt:&quot;Virtually all the American companies have tax structures like this, and UK companies operating in the US do too. But if we pay more taxes in one area then we pay less in another.&quot;Q to critics it feels like Google is outmaneouvring the governments.Schmidt:&quot;Governments have a lot more power than we do. They do. If the law changes, we will follow it ... we don&apos;t negotiate taxes, they are the law.&quot;Q: &quot;But what about how much money you send to Bermuda?&quot;Schmidt: &quot;I don&apos;t personally know, but we absolutely disclose it.&quot;Updatedat 3.06pm BST2.28pmBSTEric Schmidt and Jared Cohen on stageKrishnan Guru-Murthy of Channel 4 News is asking the questions.Q: &quot;Eric Schmidt has just arrived. Let&apos;s just deal with the tax question first. Ed Miliband was terrible disapoointed you weren&apos;t here ... is your tax structure wrong?&quot;Schmidt: &quot;No.&quot;&quot;Google feels very very strongly that tax information, tax policy should be done openly. I don&apos;t think companies should decide tax policy, governments should ... we&apos;re in a very long-standing tax regime ... we need to have a conversation about this, we&apos;re not trying to do the wrong thing, we&apos;re trying to do the right thing.&quot;&quot;We don&apos;t want to be in a situation where we get double or quadruple taxed ...&quot;Updatedat 3.07pm BST2.20pmBST... and we're back! Eric Schmidt will be with us imminently ...The executive chairman of Google is going to talk about tax. Pity he wasn&apos;t here earlier, when he could have heardEd Miliband being quite blunt that Google is being short-term in its tax affairs– and using its S-1 filing as the stone to hit it with.One point made by an attendee: how odd that Schmidt was absent this morning, because he was here for the previous two days (when Google held its Zeitgeist days, which aren&apos;t open to the press). A convenient absence? Or a clash of calendars? He seems to have these regrettable misses – last year he missed the panel about child safety, and the year before about privacy.Updatedat 3.03pm BST1.13pmBSTWe'll be back in a while...We&apos;ll now be taking a break – lunch beckons.Updatedat 3.02pm BST1.13pmBSTQ: Warfare and competition ... the original moonshot ... Does Google X want to get there before the other guys, or do you want to just get there?&quot;Teller: &quot;I want to get there as fast as possible. The more do it, the sooner we will. I don&apos;t care if Google does it or someone else does. The single thing that&apos;s most effective isn&apos;t saying they&apos;ll get rich, or pit groups against each other. We made this steampunk trophy and every quarter each one of the moonshot groups sets an audacious milestone, incredibly high, and they tell the other groups, and it&apos;s for the pride – looking good relative to the other groups. They work incredibly hard for the small chance of hitting the target and getting this rocket-ship trophy with no monetary value. Everybody feels they&apos;re in it together. Instead of sandbagging it so it&apos;s easy, we have many quarters where they don&apos;t.&quot;Updatedat 3.02pm BST1.09pmBST&quot;Shovelling money at problems hasn&apos;t been the best way to get things resolved.&quot;(OK, my battery needs a moonshot now....)&quot;If I could cheer on government, it would be to take personal responsibility to enable more moonshots – not directly taking them.&quot;Updatedat 3.01pm BST1.07pmBST&quot;You probably don&apos;t have Montessori schools in the UK.&quot; A shivery rumble goes through the somewhat middle-class room. &quot;Oh, you do.&quot;Updatedat 3.01pm BST1.05pmBSTGoogle X ... Sebastian Thrun started it, but now isn&apos;t there at Google, because he&apos;s looking to fix education. &quot;If I had to put a bet on where the next radical fix for education will come from, I&apos;d put it on Udacity [which Thrun founded].&quot;Updatedat 3.00pm BST1.01pmBSTQ: What are the low-hanging fruits of moonshots?A: Global warming ... agriculture ... health care especially in the US, ageing population, and we don&apos;t even get great results. Transportation is a good one, self-driving cars would be awesome but that&apos;s not the alpha and omega – we spend a lot of money moving things around, there&apos;s lots of room to move around. The construction industry creates about $6tr of waste and 20% of greenhouse gases, and we can&apos;t house everyone who&apos;s going to be born in the next 20 years. The manufacturing industry is seriously overdue for an update... the QWERTY keyboard was designed 100 years ago to make you type slower ... that&apos;s a good start.&quot;Updatedat 3.00pm BST12.58pmBST&quot;I could rant like this for hours... let&apos;s do some questions.&quot; (Yes, let&apos;s.)Jon Snow comes over: &quot;Cern ... completely funded by governments. remarkable..&quot;Teller (is he related to the atomic physicist or the magician?): &quot;I&apos;d gently ask the question... the first thing was that it&apos;s going to solve a huge problem in the world.. I&apos;d love for someone to come and explain what problem they are solving.&quot;(My riposte: how to organise a really big physics system)Updatedat 2.59pm BST12.54pmBSTMoonshots, and how to do themAstro Teller talks about what governments could do: what about setting long-term capital gains tax ... forcing people to put it in holding for five years ... revenue ... corporations ... ah, he&apos;s trying to find a way to get tax into it. It&apos;s the topicdu jour.&quot;There have been examples in the past where governments have taken the best moonshots in history. Bletchley Park. The Manhattan Project. The Great Wall of China. The aqueducts that brought water into Rome. But all of these were military in nature. The exigency was great. You want this, but to give people the permission to be as weird as necessary to make the world radically better. When war is the matter, things get twisted. Apollo 11 was great for the world.. but why do we have to wait for a war? Why do we do 10%, why not go for 10x [times]?&quot;Updatedat 2.59pm BST12.50pmBSTHe offers people the choice between a safe investment or a risky huge payoff one. Lots of people choose the huge payoff. &quot;You&apos;re all moonshot thinkers!&quot; Well, easy enough in this context.&quot;If you get hundreds of shots, which big companies do, there&apos;s no reason not to.&quot; Err ... do big companies get lots of chances to build quantum computers and self-driving cars? Not so sure there.&quot;Corporations have the least excuse, because they don&apos;t have motivations like the public good.&quot;(Yes, butthe original moonshot was done by a government and had nothing to do with the public good. It was an arms race thing.)Updatedat 2.58pm BST12.47pmBSTThe self-driving car is the &quot;poster child&quot; of moonshots. The big question: how can governments take moonshots? (One would think that&apos;s where the original name came from, isn&apos;t it?)(Here he is on Instagram.)&quot;Everybody thinks it&apos;s somebody else&apos;s job. It&apos;s not about how much money you have, or smart people, it&apos;s about bravery and creativity. Vision that something can be solved... that gives you reason to believe, not just blind faith.&quot;12.40pmBSTJon Snow and Google's &quot;captain of moonshots&quot;Roll video! (And pray for my battery life, which is dying fast.)And his name really is ASTRO TELLER.12.37pmBST(Questions on this are much more lively than for Miliband.)Q: &quot;This is all about personal data ... Tesco, Google, Amazon.. but nobody is discussing that fundamental data is being used to try to help me understand what data&apos;s out there ... we&apos;re not equipping people to understand what&apos;s going on.&quot; (Hmm, easy to forget that Tesco&apos;s data crunching makes Google&apos;s look tame, at least in terms of shopping. Tesco knows much more about your home life than Google, probably.)There&apos;s no simple answer ... and we&apos;re done.Updatedat 2.56pm BST12.33pmBSTAllotments and technology and WFHQ: Are we too fixated about technology? Don&apos;t we need to teach kids cognitive skills rather than the technology itself? (Applause for questioner Dave Coplin from Microsoft)Matt Atkinson of Tesco &quot;totally agrees&quot;.Q from a social business consultancy: &quot;People feel like robots in work ... how does the blend of humanity and technology improve life at work?&quot;A: Julie Dean of the Cambrige Satchel Co: &quot;We&apos;re introducing allotments...?&quot; (You have to imagine the enormously hopeful tone.) They let people work from home on Fridays if they want. It&apos;s not about just giving money bonuses - that&apos;s like gift vouchers on birthdays, isn&apos;t really the right way.&quot;(For a technology meetup, it&apos;s getting very touchy-feely.)Updatedat 3.05pm BST12.24pmBSTRobots! In supermarkets!....And we&apos;re back, with a panel on robots, which somehow (because we have someone from Tesco) is turning into the question of whether we&apos;d ever have robots in Tesco.&quot;Some would say we already do,&quot; says Matt Atkinson of Tesco. Pause. Krishnan Guru-Murthy: &quot;that&apos;s almost aRatner remark.&quot;11.34amBSTMiliband finishes...Jon Snow takes over to ask a question following up on Nick Robinson question: do you regard the big internet companies as the banks of the past?Miliband: &quot;The banks caused a financial meltdown we&apos;ll be paying for, Google isn&apos;t about to do that, but I do have deep problems with the culture because it is short-term, because that letter [S-1] said even if it&apos;s in short-term interest we shouldn&apos;t necessarily do it if it isn&apos;t in long-term interest.&quot;And with that, he&apos;s done.Updatedat 3.05pm BST11.32amBSTApple/Amazon/Google all benefited from venture capital – how can we make Britain more attractive?Miliband: &quot;One of the problems Britain faces is that when it comes to small firms scaling up, with Apple and Intel, it was government programmes, small business investment, which helped them to grow from their early stages. So we&apos;ve been talking about different ideas to provide that investment to growing firms.&quot;Updatedat 11.46am BST11.30amBSTNick Robinson of the BBC: &quot;Are you saying Google/Apple/Amazon are the banks of now, isn&apos;t the PM doing the right thing trying to change tax?&quot;Miliband: &quot;There&apos;s a culture of irresponsibility among some of the biggest companies, we can&apos;t lecture on benefits and responsibility if the biggest companies aren&apos;t. To David Cameron I&apos;m saying, put your proposals on the table; he&apos;s not putting them there. Secondly, you&apos;ve got to be willing to say you&apos;ll act here at home. Thirdly, he did the wrong thing in not talking to Eric Schmidt about it on Monday. That&apos;s why the PM isn&apos;t going to do the right thing on this issue.&quot;Updatedat 11.48am BST11.29amBSTMiliband says &quot;Commercial pressure can have an impact, consumer pressure can have an impact.&quot; (I&apos;m not so sure. Examples? Has Vodafone changed anything?)If he would act unilaterally, would that put UK at a disadvantage when companies are looking to base companies? (eg Dublin seems to win)He replies: &quot;That is the judgment you&apos;ve got to make. I don&apos;t agree that companies won&apos;t locate or be in Britain ... In the end you&apos;ve got to do the right thing. Look at what the banks were saying – don&apos;t regulate us, or we&apos;ll leave the country. I&apos;m not saying that&apos;s going to happen in the internet world but I think we have to think about it.&quot;Updatedat 11.31am BST11.26amBSTMiliband Q+AAsked what he would actually do: &quot;Take a company like Google, it&apos;s deeply committed to Britain for commercial reasons. I don&apos;t think Google&apos;s about to leave the country. Governments have more power than they realise in what they can do. But you also have to work internationally.&quot;11.22amBSTMiliband winds up&quot;I started with my dad; I&apos;ll end with him too. He came as a Jewish refugee and joined the Royal Navy. He said it was about people coming together for a common purpose. That&apos;s how countries succeed. The only way we come through the storm is through that idea of responsibility shared. I call that One Nation&quot; – you can hear the capitals – &quot;and that&apos;s the country I want to build for us all.&quot;Updatedat 11.25am BST11.20amBST'Google needs to do the right thing'&quot;Do tax responsibilities lie in obeying the letter of the law? No. I refer you to the letter written [in 2004] by Page and Brin.&quot; (Reads extract from the 2004 letter on flotation.)&quot;What do I take out of that? A company and its employees expect it to do the right thing. As a society we need to set the right examples from the top ... Google needs to do the right thing.&quot;(Very neat to use Google&apos;s S-1 filing ahead of its 2004 flotation.)&quot;I can&apos;t be the only person to think that a great company like Google that makes billions of pounds in revenue – can&apos;t think it&apos;s fair to pay a fraction of 1% of that in tax. I&apos;m sorry Eric Schmidt isn&apos;t here to hear me say this. When Eric Schmidt says it&apos;s just capitalism, I disagree. When Google goes to extraordinary lengths to avoid paying its taxes, I say it&apos;s wrong.&quot;(Very strong words from Miliband there – especially digging at Schmidt.)Updatedat 11.23am BST11.17amBST&quot;Responsibility of government is to set the right laws ... Government should be arguing for country-by-country transparency so we know how much tax is being paid country by country and company by company. We need to reform the rules on transfer pricing, the crazy rules that allow transfer of profits. And crack down on tax havens. A Labour government would be willing to act on its own.&quot;Updatedat 11.18am BST11.16amBST&quot;Working with companies ... to design the next wave of technology. Now sometimes the private sector can stop the smaller firms being pushed aside by larger firms. Take the example of Google providing Android as open source – that opened up the market to small firms.&quot; (Er, not sure about this. Samsung and the many dwarfs.)&quot;The British Library, the BBC ... the old idea of the British Library is you go along to a dusty building ... the public sector needs to do more on open access. We also need to make sure there are better returns on creativity ... and then there is regulation, we&apos;ve got to prevent monopoly and make sure we don&apos;t stifle innovation. We&apos;ve put forward the idea of a digital ombudsman, who would advise government and work with the proper regulators on emerging technologies. If responsible capitalism is to work then the opportunities can&apos;t be grabbed by large firms.&quot;Responsible capitalism also needs responsible companies. That takes me to the issue of tax which has been controversial in the past few days, not just for Google.&quot;Updatedat 11.20am BST11.13amBST&quot;Think of Sir Jony Ive, incredibly famous designer, and what he&apos;s done at Apple.&quot; (Shiver through the Google tent.) &quot;Christmas at the Ive household when he was a child was spending a day at the design classroom. We don&apos;t just want our children using Google and Facebook, we want them designing. We would put creativity back at the heart of the curriculum, not downgrading it as this government is doing.&quot; (Ah, politics at last.)11.12amBST&quot;That is the big question facing the world. What can we in Britain do to make sure we don&apos;t leave people behind and aren&apos;t left behind as a country. There are millions of people - I know this is hard to believe - who&apos;ve never used the internet. It&apos;s not just bad for them, it&apos;s bad for the country as well. We&apos;ve got to turn it round for their sake and the sake of the country. But it&apos;s not just about access.&quot;11.09amBSTMiliband getting tougher on Google...&quot;I pay tribute to what Google has done ... you&apos;re used to politicians coming along and saying the internet&apos;s great... while the internet can take us to a more responsible capitalism it can also take us to a more irresponsible one as well. The digital divide is something we all know about ... It can create new vested interests, powerful vested interests. It&apos;s great we connect people but what if we allow global footloose companies to escape their responsibilities. That&apos;s something government has a responsibility to resolve.&quot;Updatedat 11.14am BST11.08amBST&quot;We can have irresponsible capitalism ... or responsible where we all face up to our responsibilities. Those are the choices we face.&quot; (OK, but how are you going to change the tax laws to make that happen?)&quot;Responsible capitalism is a fair society ... let&apos;s talk about the internet in this context. The immediate thought is the internet takes us to the more responsible, nor irresponsible capitalism. It opens up access to markets, microfinance, when it comes to opening opportunity ... it breaks down hierarchies – ask anyone in politics or the media. And connects people across the world. And Google&apos;s been in the forefront of this.&quot;Updatedat 11.15am BST11.05amBSTOdd one out explainedMiliband&apos;s father was the odd one out because he was a Marxist professor...He talks about constituent in a cleaning service who pays a living wage to employees. He cites Dr Muhammad Yunus, creator of Microfinance. And he uses Montgomery Burns from the Simpsons to illustrate the problems of free enterprise.Updatedat 11.22am BST11.02amBSTHello, Mr MilibandMiliband: &quot;My kids would be delighted to know I&apos;m after the killer robots and before the captain of the moonshots.&quot;Four pictures - his father Ralph, a Marxist professor; Willy Wonka (gave away the factory); Margaret Hodge, Labour chair of the Commons public accounts committee; Google. Who&apos;s the odd one out?Updatedat 11.10am BST10.57amBSTAnd now, it's time for Ed Miliband....Jon Snow is just busking for a moment or two ahead of Ed Miliband coming on to the stage. And now a video about the Global Impact Challenge.They&apos;re also getting the robot off the stage. Don&apos;t want to have any confusion about who&apos;s doing the talking when the LLP comes up.Updatedat 11.00am BST10.55amBSTIf you want to see Meyer&apos;s robot, it&apos;shere on Instagram.10.49amBSTThe talk turns to the possibility of hacking people&apos;s embedded systems in order to kill them (&quot;my hand was hacked! That&apos;s why I strangled him!&quot;). It sounds a bit Dr Strangelove-esque. But Meyer is at least acknowledging the reality.Sharkey has a slightly &quot;told you so&quot; look.Updatedat 11.00am BST10.43amBSTRobots: killer or not?The first session, moderated by Jon Snow of Channel 4 News, includes Bertolt Meyer, Noel Sharkey, and Carole CadWalladr, talking about killer robots, good robots, and so on.Bertolt Meyer from the University of Zurich is showing us a robot which incorporates all the extras that we can add to people - cochlear implants, skull implants, artificial hands, artificial hands. He speaks from some experience as he was born without a left hand.Noel Sharkey of &quot;Stop The Killer Robots&quot; is also on stage - but he is concerned he says about killer drones rather than killer robots bearing optical implants.Carole Cadwalladr, Observer feature writer, points out that it&apos;s the people who have more money who will get more access - &quot;my moment of epiphany was when I saw Sergey Brin with his Google Glasses on, and they tested your mindpower - how well you could focus - and he was pretty much top. They&apos;re going to turn him into a semi-cyborg whereas I&apos;ll put them on and they won&apos;t increase my capabilities. They&apos;ll just increase the inequality of welfare, I feel the cost of that will be increased by access to technology.Moderator Jon Snow: but everything introduced has done that.NS: using robots that make the decision to kill people muddies the water. We can just about tell the difference between a human and a car at the moment.10.42amBSTThe Big Tent unveilsGoogle&apos;s Big Tent is an annual UK event at which it tries to get the great and the good, and also the media, to talk about its visions for where everything is going in technology. This year it has an extra spice: Ed Miliband, leader of the Labour party, will be here later to talk about tax. And so will Eric Schmidt, Google&apos;s chairman.Updatedat 10.54am BST
It does everything. But iseverything what we want? When Microsoftunveiled its new games console, the Xbox One, yesterday, tech fans struggled to keep up with an information overload. It will, we learned: read your heartbeat; recognise and respond to your face and voice; play games, music, films, TV and Blu Ray discs; browse the internet; make Skype calls and conference calls; and, in its split-screen Snap Mode, do two of the above at once. Well, so what?Computer manufacturers have attempted to market such all-in-one systems before, with limited success. "These flexible all-in-one entertainment centres, called PCTVs, let you watch television in stereo, capture and save images, edit footage from a camcorder or video recorder and listen to audio CDs," wrote Paul Bray in the Daily Telegraph, way back in 1996. "You can also watch television in a little window on the computer screen while you work." Sales of PCTVs were poor, however, and many manufacturers stopped making them. Consumers didn't want to buy one basket for all their eggs.The Xbox One is not the first games console to claim the role of universal entertainment system. Consoles have doubled as DVD players since the PS2 in 2000, and in 2009 Microsoft's rivals Sonyadvertised its successor, the PS3, with the tagline: "It only does everything." So what does the Xbox One do that we haven't seen before?Well, a few things, but of debatable value. It uses face recognition in place of a password login, for example, which is a time-saving of a few seconds at most, and has the potential to be a serious faff on shared consoles. Voice recognition will let users switch from games to films to music with a couple of words, but for families whose kids already scrap over the remote control, the ability to switch with a word will only make things worse.Then there's Snap Mode, for doing two things at once, such as Skype calls and gaming, or watching a film and looking up the cast on IMDB. But we can do both already with a smartphone, without interrupting the film for others. We can also just pause a game when we get a phone call, since if we don't we're unlikely to be at our best in either. Plus, who wants their cousins ringing them in the middle of a Halo marathon or a film night? And who, more importantly, has ever wished their games console had a heartbeat monitor?Microsoft clearly want the console to be all things to all living rooms. The Xbox One is swaggering into the household entertainment marketplace and bellowing: "I'll take you all on!" That's a decision people have been known to regret.
1. What exactly is the Xbox One?It's the latest games console from Microsoft,announced at an elaborate event co-hosted in Seattle and London this week. It's the first new Xbox console to be launched by Microsoft since the Xbox 360 launched in 2005.2. Why is this new Xbox One so special?Gaming is an important differentiator for Microsoft against rivals Google and Apple. In the gaming world, Microsoft competes against Sony's Playstation and the Nintendo Wii but it has tried to broaden the appeal of Xbox beyond gaming and into the living room – a kind of one size fits all, web-connected device that will connect to and record live TV, play films and TV shows, play Blu-ray HD discs and even allow Skype calls. The jury's out on whether Xbox One would be the best device to do that, or whether you may as well stick to your laptop.3. Can you still play games?Call of Duty: Ghosts: will launch on the Xbox One. Photograph: ActivisionGamers would be forgiven for feeling a little disappointed by Xbox One, which seems so focused on being the hub for the living room that there has been little apparent innovation in the games themselves, though no doubt Microsoft is saving the juiciest games updates for E3 next month. Added to that, Xbox 360 games aren't compatible with the Xbox One, so dedicated gamers will have to restock – and re-pay for – their games library, though their Gamerscore will transfer. Microsoft says this is because Xbox One is designed for next-generation games – games that use Kinect's facial recognition and heart-rate sensor features, for example.4. Does Xbox One have to be connected to the internet?Xbox One's internet-based services mean that the console does need to get online at least once a day, but doesn't have to be permanently connected. Microsoft says Blu-ray films and TV shows will still play if the connection drops out, though Skype wouldn't work. Games and media are stored in the cloud, so you'd need to connect to access them. Plus Microsoft wants users to be able to synchronise games between different devices as well as share real-time activity between friends, which will only work if those products are online.5. When can I buy one?No price has yet been announced, though it is expected to be up to £399 or $600; it is due to launch before the end of the year. As Nintendo's Wii U is already on the market, that just leaves Sony's forthcoming PlayStation 4 to join the party and that might also happen at the end of the year – putting Microsoft and Sony head to head for the lucrative Christmas market.Vital statistics• 500 GB hard drive• 8GB memory• Built-in Blu-ray player• Kinect as standard with larger field of view, improved gesture recognition, better microphones, 1080p HD camera• New Wi-Fi connected, improved D-pad controller with tactile feedback
Labour Leader Ed Miliband has said Google is "wrong" to avoid paying taxes on UK revenues, citing its founders' 2004 promise to forgo short-term gains in order to do good things.At an event hosted by the search giant near London, Miliband also pledged that a future Labour government would change laws unilaterally to stop "transfer pricing" by which companies such as Amazon shift profits between countries and to increase transparency about profits and revenues. Miliband called the system "crazy" and said he would also lead a crackdown on offshore tax havens.He warned too that internet companies risked taking the same approach as banks had during the early part of the century, when their corporate culture meant they took a short-term approach which ignored wider effects.Speaking at the company's annual "Big Tent" event, Miliband pointed to theletter written by founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin in 2004in which they said they would sometimes ignore short-term interests in favour of the long term.Miliband read out the passage, in which Page and Brin wrote: "Don't be evil. We believe strongly that in the long term, we will be better served – as shareholders and in all other ways – by a company that does good things for the world even if we forgo some short-term gains. This is an important aspect of our culture and is broadly shared within the company."Referring to that, the Labour leader said: "I can't be the only person in this room who feels deeply disappointed that a great company like Google, with great founding principles, should be reduced to arguing that even though it employs thousands of people here in Britain, makes billions of pounds in revenue here in Britain, that it's fair that it should pay just a fraction of 1% of that in tax."Miliband referred to comments by Google chairman Eric Schmidt, who has previously said that Google's tax arrangements – by which "sales" are begun in the UK but "completed" in Ireland, where it pays a small corporation tax rate – are "just capitalism".Miliband retorted: "I'm sorry that Eric Schmidt isn't here this morning to hear me say this directly. When Google does great things I will praise you. But when Eric Schmidt says that its current approach to tax is just capitalism, I disagree. And when when Google goes to extraordinary lengths to avoid paying its taxes, I say it's wrong. And it's not just me that says it, it's Google's founding principles, and it's crystal clear from them."He said that paying fair levels of taxes was important to support health, education and transport services, and was part of "responsible capitalism".
If the thought of an iPhone app for people to slap virtual stickers and slogans onto photos – often of One Direction – share them with the world and then remix one another's creations makes you angry, you'd best click away now.Urturn's app does exactly that. Itlaunches today, alongside news of a $13.4m funding round for the London-based startup, including $10.7m from Balderton Capital, whose previous investments include Bebo, Lovefilm, Betfair and Wooga.Urturn began life in early 2011 as a service called Webdoc, before rebranding and relaunching its website in January 2013.Billed as a "social platform for self-expression", it provides its users with templates to customise photos, pull in music and video clips, and then share them on Urturn itself, as well as Facebook and Twitter.Templates currently available include the ability to doodle, add speech bubbles and associate SoundCloud and iTunes tunes with photos, turn images into polls ("Love it/Leave it" and "This or That" for example), as well as a "Daft Punkify" template to add the electronica duo's robot helmets to photos.If it sounds like a silly novelty, you may well not be in Urturn's target audience. Chief executive Stelio Tzonis thinks that it's the desire for this kind of self-expression that may peel away teenagers from Facebook, even if the things they want to self-express about remain the same."The kind of usage we have on Urturn reflects the usage on social networks: music, celebrities, lifestyle, design, fashion…" says Tzonis. "Our audience is first US, then UK, and then South America, and it's teens and young adults talking about these topics."He adds that Urturn currently has more female users than males, and while the ratio swings week-by-week – "it depends what One Direction are doing!" – on average he thinks around 60% of usage comes from girls and women.The impetus behind Webdoc (and now Urturn) was frustration at the difficulties of "sharing and playing around with content" on social networks. People could post photos, videos and status updates, but getting more creative with them required skills and tools – Photoshop, for example."What we learned was that social networks really brought to us a way to connect to people and share, but weren't so good when it came to expressing yourself," he says."The more expressive you wanted to be, the more complex it was, and you needed something like Photoshop. If you wanted to be more spontaneous, you had to be very simple. We wanted to connect those two ideas."Browse the Discover tab on Uturn's website, and you'll get a sense of what spontaneous expression means for its users. Yes, lots of cats and lots of Harry Styles, but also fashion – Cosmopolitan UK is using Urturn for example – music and lifestyle content.Musicians and their marketing teams have already taken to the platform too: it's been used by/for Alicia Keys, David Bowie, Green Day, Ellie Goulding and Kendrick Lamar, as well as One Direction and Union J.What they – and Urturn's young users – have caught on to is the potential of the "Your Turn" button on every piece of content created on the service.When clicked, it enables the user to make their own version using the same template. In a musician's case, it might mean fans customising and sharing their own versions of a tour poster, for example."We have seen teens totally get it, immediately. We didn't have to educate them," says Tzonis. "They understand that the Your Turn button means it's their turn to express themselves. And that's the reason celebrities are using us: they want to engage, rather than just post one piece of content that is replicated with shares and retweets."For now, Urturn is creating the templates, but it is planning to launch an API for external developers to make them too – something that has commercial potential for brands and media companies, but also for quick-off-the-mark satirical memes.The new iPhone app is part of Urturn's drive for as much spontaneity as possible, with Android and other devices to come. The company currently has 25 staff, and while its focus is global, Tzonis says being headquartered in London has been an advantage."When I was in Silicon Valley, a lot of people said 'Why aren't you here?' The reason is very simple: in London, we have all the technology industry – Facebook, Twitter, Google etc – but also all the music industry, media and publishing, lifestyle and the advertising industry. In the US, those are spread between Silicon Valley, New York, Los Angeles."The $13.4m funding round is large for a London startup, and not bad for a company at this stage by Silicon Valley standards either. Tzonis says that building the API for developers is the first thing that it will fund, as well as further development of Urturn across all devices."We didn't want to be one of those startups that just try to develop yet another Instagram, yet another Pinterest or yet another iPhone app," he says."The reason we had interest from top VCs in the US and Europe was the bold vision that we had: there is this trend of people looking beyond Facebook for ways to express themselves in a very spontaneous and fast way, and the VCs saw the vision that what we want to achieve is really big."So how does Urturn make money from all this? Tumblr being bought by $1.1bn despite only making $13m of revenues in 2012 suggests that Urturn's investors may be less worried about short-term financial success and more concerned with the company getting big and disruptive enough to persuade a tech giant to acquire it.Still, Tzonis has ideas. "The service will always be free to anyone can express themselves, but we believe we will have so many opportunities to monetise what you could do in an expression, and how we can promote an expression or post inside the service," he says.Brands, then, although affiliate deals for music and other products will also be a source of revenues, albeit not a large one.What about copyright and other legal questions? As Pinterest has grown, for example, it has faced more scrutiny about where people are finding the images they pin on that service, and whether it has the rights to republish them.Music is covered off for Urturn – "we don't allow uploads of music by users, and we use SoundCloud and iTunes," says Tzonis – but a service where people can grab photographs from, say, MailOnline and then customise them with any text they like may have other challenges in store.The fact that Urturn "always links back to the source" of images may not mollify some photographers, rightsholders and media companies, while it will be interesting to see what happens when the first Urturn post libelling someone famous (and rich enough to afford good lawyers) goes viral beyond the service.There are two main risks for people who aren't part of Urturn's target demographic when trying to gauge how successful it might be.One: assuming that because you don't get it, Urturn is a rubbish idea that's doomed to fail. Two: assuming that because you don't get it, Urturn is bound to be a hit with The Kids. Both assumptions may be proved false.In the first case, there's already evidence that the kind of "self-expression" offered by Urturn really is meaningful to teenagers. In the second case, it's easy to say that something is targeting teens, but harder to predict whether they'll take to it in large numbers and stick around for the longer term.$13.4m at least gives Urturn the runway to find out, and possibly attract the acquisitive attention of Facebook as it nervously monitors the behaviour of its younger users, and figures out how to give them more tools for self-expression."It's important for them to wait until there is a very big success, then do an acquisition," says Tzonis. "They will have these kinds of features ultimately, but through acquisition and then integration."
The Xbox One is now a reality, and after Microsoft's event on Tuesday, plenty of questions remain about the company's vision for an all-in-one entertainment system. So what is the message behind the machine, and when are we going to find out more?We spoke to Europe's Xbox chief, Chris Lewis, directly after the reveal event, throwing in questions about innovation, pre-owned titles and the dangers of cloud computing. We found that Microsoft has big plans for E3 and the future of gaming – it just isn't ready to talk about them just yet.It seems the concept behind Xbox One is an all-in-one entertainment device; something that will effectively run our living rooms. Was that what you wanted to get across?That's certainly what we set out to do. We thought this was a logical first step, to have folks here in an intimate environment in our home, and to talk about the vision in the way that we did. Sometimes the temptation is to put in too much, but we're trying to be logical, to have a cadence to the way that we communicate the vision and the content. Think about today as the first step – you'll learn a lot more about the games at E3. We gave a strong taste of what is to come, it was tempting to show more. I loved to show how we're deepening our relationship with EA – that's crucial for Europe.Can you tell us more about the "strategic partnership" you've set out on with Electronic Arts? What does it mean, in practical terms?I can tell you some fairly generic things. We'll be more specific in due course. You can be confident that this is a more meaningful partnership than we've ever enjoyed with them in the past. What we're now going to be offering is something unique to our consumers, particularly around Fifa and we'll be more specific about that later. But we've always partnered well with publishers, retailers and content companies.So Xbox One will allow users in North America to view live TV on their consoles. But it seems that feature won't be available in Europe for the console launch. Is that correct?Well, you shouldn't assume that necessarily. What you should assume is that we know how important it is to get that proposition right everywhere; not just in North America and Europe, but everywhere. We have a vision for more intelligent TV – what Yusuf Mehdi showed on stage was a natural and intuitive way of handling television, whether it's live or catch up or movies, Kinect is the centre of that experience; it is a natural way to interact with your entertainment. We know we have to offer that everywhere, but we're not being specific about when and where. We're committed to make it happen.And similarly, the content deal you have with the NFL, which will mix live match footage with interactive 'companion' apps like Fantasy Football – surely you're working on similar partnerships elsewhere? The Premiership in the UK for example?Yes. We know we have to deliver partnerships like that everywhere. I mean, look at what we did with Sky, that was the first of these relationships on 360, we led the way in Europe – we know these are critical to deliver. I'll have to frustrate you by saying that I can't be specific. But it is an important point.You've also announced a Halo TV series, produced by Stephen Spielberg. Does this hint toward a future of Microsoft as a TV content creator? Will there be more exclusive series' like this to come?Sure. Is Halo a logical place for us to start? Sure. The reaction to that has been very positive. I have nothing to announce today, but we know we have to offer a portfolio of entertainment content.One of the things that has come up on Twitter after the event was the whole area of pre-owned games. It seems that if you buy a game it has to download on to your system, and then if you sell the disc, the purchaser might have to buy a pass to use it, and it could be that the data is removed from your own hard drive if someone else tries to install the same copy. There's a lot of confusion here. Can you clarify things?I'm not going to get as specific as you might like. I'd answer that by saying today is great news for gamers: we will support the dynamic of used games – it's important for them, it's important for retailers. We are supporting that but the details as to how it will work, we'll reveal over time. But I want you to take a positive message form this: we support it.Okay, well, let's go back to this idea of the all-in-one entertainment system. Who are your rivals in this space?You may be surprised to hear me say that we don't fixate on our competitors, in the way you might think. That's not to imply that we don't think their highly competent, it's not that. It's not about us being complacent. It's more, our focus is on our consumers. It depends on the consumer you're talking about – if you're thinking of a hardcore gamer, of course we have to consider our competitors in that space; we have to make sure the experience is more unique and compelling than anywhere else. But we have to focus on the consumer.So these days you think more about consumers than gamers? I mean, there are plenty of people in your core audience who don't care about NFL or gesture controlled television – they just want to play games. And it was 30 minutes before we saw any games footage at the event.Well, actually I use consumer as a collective term for everyone who uses our digital entertainment. A gamer is a part of that community. We're not in the least bit complacent about delivering great content for gamers. We need to talk at E3! I think we will use E3 as an opportunity to talk about the portfolio of games we have coming, both from our own studios and from third parties. People will see an awful lot more about games there.At the event you mentioned eight entirely new franchises – what will they bring us that we've never seen before?The technology platformhasto allow experiences that were only ever dreamed of in the past. The power of the platform, lined with the power of the cloud – that's going to create a huge step-change in terms of the offering – more immersion, more detail, automatic downloads that increase the game universe… all of those things will be compelling. The developers like the power of the platform, they like Kinect and how it can enhance the game experience.I think, though, that you have a challenge ahead, both with gamers and with many studios, to convince then that Kinect is worth another try.Well, you know, we've sold more than 25m Kinect sensors…Yes, but how many of those are still in regular use? And developers certainly aren't supporting it in great numbers.Look, I understand your point. As you saw today, Kinect is central to the design and thinking of Xbox One, but that centrality has to be based on the fact that the power of the device gives consumers what they want and is natural and compelling. For some games it will be very central to the experience. There is a lot more to come in the coming months, I think you will feel better about things than you do today.Call of Duty: Ghosts: will launch on the Xbox One. Photograph: ActivisionBut are we going to get a game at E3 that is totally original and would be fundamentally impossible on an earlier console? I mean,Call of Duty Ghostslooks nice but it's Call of Duty. Fifa looks great but it's Fifa…Stay tuned! We know it's important. I can't tell you everything today. It sounds like I'm trying to duck your questions but I'm not! There's more to come.The Cloud stuff is interesting – the idea that some of the computation can be cloud-based that it will lead to emergent worlds, and games that evolve over time…Absolutely…But there are also worries in this area. First, how long will games be supported if they have cloud content and secondly how secure is that data?We take security really seriously, we need to apply diligence to it. Words are easy, but an awful amount of work has gone into ensuring its safety. We appreciate the need for privacy and security. And the investment into infrastructure is huge – the way [chief product officer] Marc Whitten puts it is this: the user has one Xbox One at home, but you also have three or four more in the cloud – that's the way to think about it, it's that big.But what about longevity. If I buy an Xbox One game this Christmas, will I still be able to play all the cloud-based content in 2020? Or beyond?Same applies. This generation proved to be even longer than the last one. Xbox 360 will sell for multiple more years. People like the fact that generations have got longer – we have to be invested in the longer term with content. We're planning with that in mind.And will retail stores be an important way to purchase Xbox One games throughout its lifespan?Yes... Yes. I think we want to be where our consumers want us to be, and they want us to be in retail. Retailers have great relationships with consumers – we're respectful of that. But equally we want to have a digital relationship with consumers. The two will coexist.Will you announce a price at E3?We're not sayingwhenwe're going to talk about price – we're going to announce it at a logical time. I'm not going to tell you today.I would have been surprised to be honest...We're not being specific about when, but be confident we will announce it in a timely fashion.There have been rumours about a subsidised pricing model – the idea of being able to buy the console for a cheaper price if you commit to a subscription. You tested that with Xbox 360 in some territories – will we see it for Xbox One?I'm not being specific about that. We test lots of things. We talk to consumer groups all the time about how we offer value – we'll say more in the coming weeks and months.So the industry is facing the prospect of two consoles arriving within a month of each other. Are you ready for that as a company?Yeah... if it happens. The market is primed for it, people are excited about it; the console market is continuing to grow. Our anticipation is that the next generation will be bigger than this one. We see a healthy trajectory for this business. There is massive growth potential for us in countries like Russia, South Africa, Poland… Retail is ready, we've just got to make sure we deliver.
You can't trust the internet. Prior to theXbox One launch event, there were rumours the controller would be a wildly different beast, perhaps with its own touch pad in response to Sony's refreshed PS4 Dualshock. The truth is simultaneously more mundane and more intriguing. The new pad looks and feels a lot like the old Xbox 360 version; it's roughly the same size and the same weight. But the design team has added or improved on over 40 features – some of which become immediately obvious when you first use it.A good starting point is the addition of intricate rumble motors on the triggers – which are now rather excitingly called "dynamic impulse triggers". It seems the tech behind these has changed, from a mechanical linkage to a magnetic sensor, so developers are now able to register even the slightest touch, bringing more analogue depth to the squeezing action.In a demo session after the reveal event, journalists were given the chance to try out the controller with some very short (non-interactive) demos. In the first, we're shown a heartbeat pounding in the chest of a simple human figure; every two-phase beat produces a rumble that moves across from one trigger to the next, which is actually faintly disconcerting and may well prove useful in horror games. I preferred the driving demo, in which hitting the button to start the engine sends a clunk through the triggers as though you've just twisted a key in the ignition. Another one has a character forming a fire spell in their hand, which has vibrations growing in the triggers, before the spell is cast, which is accompanied by a blast of rumble across the whole controller.It seems that the trigger rumble is great for close up personal movements, while the main part of the pad is more for environmental effects – there's a real sense of depth to it now. And of course, the trigger feedback is going to be great in shooters – another demo simply shows a gun being fired, and has the right trigger rumbling alone in response, so you get a real feeling of a metal trigger being depressed.The new thumbsticks feel really nice. They're smaller in diameter than the Xbox 360 versions and the outside rim is textured (Microsoft refers to this effect as "knurling") so you have a better grip. They also apparently require 25% less force to move them, making for more fluidity of movement. Also, although the size and shape are similar to the predecessor, the edges have apparently been better contoured to fit a wider variety of hand sizes and the battery compartment has been changed so that it's now inside the controller body rather than sitting beneath it, getting in the way. I hadn't noticed this in the past really, but the new designiscomfortable and pleasingly bulky. Oh and fighting game fans may be pleased to not that the D-pad is now a proper cross rather than a circular disc, and you get a satisfying click from button presses, which should be better for moves which require circular sweeps.Elsewhere, the designers have updated the port where the headset used to go. Apparently, this will allow much higher fidelity of communications and will be used in unannounced peripherals, perhaps some sort of text input device, or a microphone? The communication between the wireless controller and the console has also been improved, with the response times reduced by about 15% to 20%.As for Kinect, it seems that every aspect of the technology has now been hugely improved and updated. The camera is three times the fidelity of the old version and offers a much wider field of vision (about 40%, meaning that up to six players can now be spotted and tracked by the system. Importantly, too, it allows participants to stand much closer to the camera – when I tried it, it was able to track me to within a couple of feet of the console – not the generous six feet that the Xbox 360 Kinect wanted out of you.Kinect group programme manager Scott Evans shows off the new generation sensor for the Xbox One.  Photograph: Nick Adams/ReutersDuring a demo with Scott Evans, the group programme manager of the Kinect department, we see how the motion tracking sensor can pick out the user's individual fingers, facial expression, even the buttons on a shirt. Apparently, to create this almost 3D model, it uses a technology called 'time-of-flight' which measures the amount of time it takes for photos to bounce back off you to the sensor. And if you're playing in low light conditions there's even a infra-red – or 'active IR' mode so it'll see you even in pitch darkness.The best part of the demo, however, is when I get to test the skeletal tracking, the part of the tech that analyses player body movement – which now happens in high-definition with 25 joints tracked. Again, the message is, it's all massively improved. The sensor can pick up where I'm looking – if I move my face away it knows (and may even be able to pause onscreen content until I look back). It knows if I swivel my arm or even my wrist; it can even use physics to track muscle use – when I stand on one leg it knows that all my pressure is on that one limb. If I jump in the air, it can tell that there is no pressure through the leg muscles at all. If you squat it can calculate the torque being applied through your legs. And when you throw punches at the screen it can measure the force of the movement. It's… weird.But that's not the weirdest thing. The weirdest thing is that new Kinect can also track your heart rate. Yes, the sensor can track micro fluctuations of blood flow in your face, through the combination of the colour feed and the active IR. This will be useful for fitness games of course, but there's the potential here for use in survival horror games, ramping up the action if you're showing a fear response. In fact, the camera also reads facial expressions – it knows if you're smiling, frowning or looking surprised. All of this could be potential data for game designers.Microsoft's Kareem Choudhry demonstrates how the new Kinect for Xbox One can read facial features and other visual indications to approximate the heart rate of a user. Photograph: Ted S Warren/APSo, the new controller is a rather nice, sturdy but sensitive re-think of the classic Xbox 360 pad, with decreased latency and increased functionality on those triggers. New Kinect takes all the ideas behind the first one and apparently makes everythingworkso your body is accurately tracked, different players are properly distinguished and you don't need a living room the size of a tennis court to play it. Microsoft is certain it can bring developers back into the fold – even though there's still this uneasy feeling that gamers don't actuallywantto get up and dance around their coffee tables. Actually, though, even if we see titles that merely use the microphone or heart monitor, it's still a huge leap over the first rendition of the tech. And of course with a 1080p colour camera and Skype functionality, you have a decent video chat system too. There is, whatever else you think of Xbox One so far, some potential here. The tough part is going to be convincing people.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChinese hackers who breached Google gained access to sensitive data, US officials say &gt;&gt; The Washington PostChinese hackers who breached Google's servers several years ago gained access to a sensitive database with years' worth of information about US surveillance targets, according to current and former government officials.The breach appears to have been aimed at unearthing the identities of Chinese intelligence operatives in the United States who may have been under surveillance by American law enforcement agencies.The database contained the information about court orders ordering surveillance relating to those operatives.Windows Phone inventory buildup: bad sign for Q2 Nokia Lumia shipments &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh:The tech media has long been obsessed with the semantic differences between smartphone shipments and sales. In reality, all figures announced by companies, and those announced by IDC, are shipments (also known as channel sales or sell-in). Gartner is the only research house that tracks sales to end users (also known as sell-through). Comparing data from IDC and Gartner can give us good insight into channel inventory patterns across different smartphone platforms. This data suggests that Nokia &amp; Windows Phone may be in for some trouble in the next few quarters.Never knew that there was that difference between IDC and Gartner. But should the headline be "shipments" or "sales", then?Hardware Roundup: Wristwatch Macintosh revealed &gt;&gt; The RegisterWe haven't mentioned MacSlash for a while, but there's a rather interesting link to a story on the iWatch - a wristwatch running MacOS on a Transmeta chip. Or is there?If anyone has an earlier reference to the fabled "iWatch" than this sighting from September 2000, get in touch.Tánaiste says Apple tax 'not an issue' for Ireland &gt;&gt; RTÉ NewsThe [US Senate] committee said the [Irish] Government has since the early 1990s negotiated a special tax arrangement with Apple, resulting in it paying corporation tax of less than 2%, and avoiding around $44 billion (€34bn) in US tax over the last four years.Speaking on his way into a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Brussels, Mr Gilmore said: "They are not issues which arise from the Irish taxation system.""They are issues which arise from other jurisdictions. That's an issue which has to be addressed, first of all in those jurisdictions and secondly … it needs to be tackled by having robust international agreements, and Ireland very much is in favour of that," he said.Mr Gilmore said the Irish tax system was "very transparent".Common thread in this tax stuff: it's always someone else's fault they didn't fix their tax loopholes.Teen's invention could charge your phone in 20 seconds &gt;&gt; MSN CAWaiting hours for a cellphone to charge may become a thing of the past, thanks to an 18-year-old high-school student's invention. She won a $50,000 prize Friday at an international science fair for creating an energy storage device that can be fully juiced in 20 to 30 seconds.The fast-charging device is a so-called supercapacitor, a gizmo that can pack a lot of energy into a tiny space, charges quickly and holds its charge for a long time.What's more, it can last for 10,000 charge-recharge cycles, compared with 1,000 cycles for conventional rechargeable batteries, according to Eesha Khare of Saratoga, California.Isn't the thing about recharging batteries that if you try to put too much power in, they overheat and catch fire? This sounds promising, though.The One-Person Product &gt;&gt; Marco.orgMrco Arment was the first (and for a long time the only) employee at Tumblr, working alongside founder David Karp:Intense focus requires neglecting almost everything else. David's focus on pushing the product forward meant that he didn't want to think about boring stuff: support, scaling, paperwork, and money.Every time we'd get close to needing more funding, I'd try to convince David to hold out a bit longer or try to become profitable, and he'd convince me that everyone was better off if we'd focus on the product instead. And every time, he was right.It's a great post.Solar panel cost breakdown &gt;&gt; SolStatsThe solar panels make up around 42% of the costs – or £4,200 of a typical £10,000 installation. The inverter adds 10% or £1,000. And the biggest cost? It's the labour, cabling, roof fixing and Installer profits making up 48% or £4,800 for a £10,000 installation.As wereported in a recent blog, the price of the panels has dropped by half over recent years. Just don't expect that to mean your quote for a home solar installation will drop by the same amount.My one talk with Marissa Mayer &gt;&gt; Dave WinerWiner recalls a day in 2003, when Mayer was working for Google, which had bought Blogger and promised not to treat it specially:a few weeks after the deal they broke the promise. They added a BlogThis! button to Google Toolbar. It only worked with Blogger. It would have been a simple matter to make it work with any blogging tool. But they didn't see why they should do that.Back then Google cared a little about what I thought, so the result was a conference call between me and an exec at Google, Marissa Mayer. I was driving cross-country from California to Boston, so I stopped in Utah, in the parking lot of a 7-11 just east of Salt Lake City, and we had the call.All I remember of it was there came a point in the conversation when Mayer had had enough. She just got up and left. I think the people remaining in the conference room were a little embarassed. Google didn't do anything to change the BlogThis! button.All this is to say that the promises execs make on acquisitions are meaningless. They own the thing, they will do what they want to with it. It doesn't matter how many nice sounds Mayer makes on the deal. At the core she cares not one bit what the users of Tumblr think. She's saying what she needs to say to make the deal happen. To avoid a PR crisis on Day One. To make the team at Tumblr feel like their work has value to the new owners. That somehow this acquisition isn't actually an acquisition.Dropbox vs. Google Drive vs. Amazon vs. Skydrive: which one Is fastest? &gt;&gt; ReadWriteAs cloud computing services become ever more popular, you might begin to wonder how much you can really trust them to perform when you need them? I decided to find out - by testing the top file-transfer/file-storage/file-backup services.In many ways, getting a file from one computer to multiple computers is the most challenging task for the cloud. And becauseI like to use multiple computersrunning multiple operating systems, including Linux, Windows and the Mac, that function is particularly important to me.Helpful and thorough.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Microsoft revealed a new Xbox console on Tuesday that not only integrates TV, internet and gaming, but also will measure your heartbeat and recognise your voice.The company said the Xbox One will revolutionise its users' lifestyles by integrating the cloud, voice control and gesture technology into a simple, intuitive machine."It changes everything," Marc Whitten, an Xbox executive, told a packed hall of technology journalists at the company's campus in Redmond, Washington. "This is rocket-science stuff."At the hour-long event in Richmond, Washington, Microsoft unveiled an ambitious vision for the new Xbox. It remains a games machine at heart, but Microsoft's broader aim was clear: to make the Xbox an all-in-one entertainment solution, funneling live TV, video-on-demand and web chat, and allowing users to swiftly and easily move between all three.The integration with television goes deep: Microsoft announced a deal with the NFL to integrate coverage of the sport with game-like elements such as a Fantasy Football app, allowing viewers to manage their own fantasy sides while watching the real thing in action.The announcement that Steven Spielberg will be producing a TV series based on the best-selling Halo games,  exclusively available on Xbox One, indicates Microsoft sees itself as a content maker as well as a platform provider.Analysts who had wondered whether the company could follow up on the success of its Xbox 360, first unveiled in 2005, said its successor offered a complete entertainment system designed for the family."The Xbox One really looks to advance the state of video game technology and entertainment in a way that we haven't seen before," said Brian Blau, a director of Gartner Research."The Xbox One is a real advancement, one that will transform the way we experience TV, games, music, movies and more. From what we can see so far Microsoft has met and far exceeded expectations for the Xbox One. This is Microsoft branching out into the living room to reach more of a family audience rather than a core gaming audience."Fred Huet, a managing partner at Greenwich Consulting, said Microsoft had thrown down the gauntlet to Sony's PlayStation and other rivals. "The Xbox One is set to mark the beginning of a new generation of games, TV and entertainment."The Xbox One, which will be available from the end of the year, will be powered by 300,000 servers, more than the entire world's computing power in 1999, said Whitten.An improved, ultra-sensitive Kinect sensor will track wrist and shoulder rotations and be able to read users' heartbeats. Its main camera can record 1080P RGB video at 30 frames per second.Microsoft executive Yusuf Mehdi wowed the audience by calling out commands and using minimal hand gestures to manipulate content on the Xbox One. He said "a new set of universal gestures to control your TV" would banish the fumbling confusion many feel with existing remotes.TechCruch called ita "massive, massive upgrade" from the original model.A "snap mode" similar to Microsoft Windows 8 experience allows users to run two activities – such as watching TV and browsing the internet, or using Skype – simultaneously. It offers a second screen.The Xbox One has 8GB of Ram, along with a Blu-ray drive, 64-bit architecture and a 500GB onboard hard drive. Microsoft also unveiled a new version of its camera-based Kinect system with better motion and voice detection. It showed how users can watch live sports on TV while getting updates on fantasy leagues on a split screen. In an effort to stay ahead of rivals, Microsoft said new content for the popular Call of Duty game can be downloaded on the Xbox One before any other system.But Microsoft gave little detail on games, apart from glimpses of EA's Fifa and Madden stalwarts, some shiny cars in Forza Motorsport 5 and a confusing glance at Quantum Break, a futuristic action adventure that appears to mix televisual sequences with gameplay.Microsoft said more games would be shown at next month's E3 video games conference in Los Angeles.The previous model, the Xbox 360, was launched eight years ago, and has been the leading games console for the past two years.
Apple has called for US corporate tax rates to be slashed after it admitted sheltering at least $30bn (£20bn) of international profits in Irish subsidiaries that pay no tax at all.In a dramatic display of how threats from multinational corporations are driving down taxes across the world, chief executive Tim Cook warned Congress that he would refuse to repatriate a total of $100bn stashed offshore unless it acted to slash the 35% US rate.Cook said the tax rate for repatriated money should be set "in single digits" to persuade companies to bring it back. Standard tax for US profits should be, he said, in the "mid 20s".He also revealed that Apple had struck a secret deal with the Irish government in 1980 to limit its domestic taxes there to 2%.Three subsidiaries based in Ireland are also used to shelter profits made in the rest of Europe and Asia but are not classed as resident in any country for tax purposes – a tactic dubbed the "iCompany" by critics.Cook's testimony to a Senate sub-committee investigating multinational tax practices largely confirmed its findings that Apple had taken tax avoidance to a new extreme by structuring these companies so they did not incur tax liabilities anywhere.Phillip Bullock, the California company's head of tax, estimated that just one of these subsidiaries – Apple Operations International – had channelled $30bn in global profits over the last five years without filing a single income tax return.The only taxes paid were on the interest earned by the cash pile and small sums in local markets. Senate investigators allege a total of $70bn has been sheltered this way in four years.Despite heated exchanges with committee chairman Carl Levin, Apple largely shrugged off criticism of the practice, insisting it was acting "in the letter and the spirit of the law".An independent tax professor, Richard Harvey, testified that its tax avoidance was "probably legal" and could have been much more aggressive.The Apple chief used his appearance to renew lobbying for Congress to cut a deal with multinationals to encourage them to bring back, or repatriate, the billions of dollars kept offshore to avoid tax.Cook said he had no plan to bring back the $102bn built up by Apple at current tax rates, and recently opted to return money to shareholders by borrowing money instead. "I have no current plan to do so at the current tax rates."Unlike some technology companies, I am not proposing a zero rate," he said. "My proposal is that we have a reasonable tax for bringing back money from overseas."A permanent change is materially better than a short term tax holiday."Cook said he "personally doesn't understand the difference between a tax presence and a tax residence".He was even defended by some members of the committee who accused Levin and Republican John McCain of "bullying" Apple. "I am offended by the tone and tenor of this hearing," said fellow Republican and presidential hopeful Rand Paul.The hearing was seen as a watershed in the increasing tense clashes between governments and multinationals, particularly technology groups such as Apple, Amazon and Google.Edward Kleinbard, professor of law at USC Gould School of Law, said: "Apple is not an outlier in its efforts to produce 'stateless income' – income that is taxed neither in the United States nor in the countries where its foreign customers are located – but it is an outlier in the baldness of its strategies. Apple shifted tens of billions of dollars of income without even breaking into a sweat."The hearing will forcefully remind policymakers that international tax reform will require the implementation of really thoughtful anti-abuse rules, ideally developed in conjunction with other OECD member states.Every country is the worse off when they facilitate multinationals aggressively pursuing stateless income strategies, just as every country is worse off when they all engage in trade wars."Corporate tax expert Jennifer Blouin at University of Pennsylvania's Wharton business school said the Apple revelations were "extraordinary but not surprising"."We have seen versions of this with Microsoft and with Google," she said. "I hope it gooses the notion that we need to fix the worldwide system."She said Apple was working within the law but that the law was written before huge profits could be made by companies that trade not in goods and manufacturing but in ideas."I have worked in this area for years and it's been largely an obscurity. But it's at the forefront now, and it needs to get fixed."
So Xbox One has been unveiled and Microsoft is set to introduce us to a new interconnected entertainment universe. We've got a million questions about the console, but here are three issues important to lots of gamers, as well as the answers as they stand at the moment...Always online connection?Nope. Apparently, you will need to be able to hook your console up to the net, but it won't have to bealwaysonline. A Microsoft spokespersonto Polygon: "It does not have to be always connected [...] We are also designing it so you can play games and watch Blu-ray movies and live TV if you lose your connection."UPDATE:Kotakuspoke toMicrosoft vice president Phil Harrison on Tuesday and asked for clarrification. The exchange went like this:Kotaku:If I'm playing a single player game, do I have to be online at least once per hour or something like that? Or can I go weeks and weeks?Harrison:I believe it's 24 hours.Kotaku:I'd have to connect online once every day.Harrison:Correct.However, ina later article on Polygon, a Microsoft spokesperson referred to Harrison's comments as, "potential scenarios".So, yes, still plenty of ambiguity here and it's like Microsoft will re-group and provide a more cogent response at or before E3.Backwards compatibility?No again. Xbox Live Vice President Marc Whitten: "The system is based on a different core architecture, so back-compat doesn't really work from that perspective." However, music and video content downloaded via Xbox Live will be compatible with the new machine. Microsoft has not yet mentioned whether it will make Xbox 360 titles available via a streaming service a la PlayStation 4.Second-hand sales of games blocked?A third no - but with a caveat.From Develop:"On the new Xbox, all game discs are installed to the HDD to play," said a spokesperson.Microsoft then confirmed that users of a pre-owned game will have to pay a fee to gain access to the title if it had already been installed on another console so they could use it on their own account.UPDATE:It appears that this has now been discredited. Other sources suggest that things will work like this: when you buy a game disc, the game has to be installed on to the hard drive. But then if you sell the game and the new owner tries to install the game on their machine, the version on your console is rendered void. In short, one disc = one owner.UPDATE 2:Eurogamer hasspoken to Phil Harrisonwho issued this explanation:"So, think about how you use a disc that you own of an Xbox 360 game," he began. "If I buy the disc from a store, I use that disc in my machine, I can give that disc to my son and he can play it on his 360 in his room. We both can't play at the same time, but the disc is the key to playing. I can go round to your house and give you that disc and you can play on that game as well."What we're doing with the digital permissions that we have for Xbox One is no different to that. If I am playing on that disc, which is installed to the hard drive on my Xbox One, everybody in my household who has permission to use my Xbox One can use that piece of content. [So] I can give that piece of content to my son and he can play it on the same system."Harrison then explained what happens when you want to take that game beyond the borders of your own home and into a friend's place."I can come to your house and I can put the disc into your machine and I can sign in as me and we can play the game," he explained.So, to paraphrase, once a game is installed on a system it is tied to that Xbox account. However, you can go to a friend's house, sign in and play. The idea is to stop someone buying the game, installing it, then handing that disc around for dozens of mates to install it too. As for pre-owned sales:"We will have a system where you can take that digital content and trade a previously played game at a retail store," Harrison said. "We're not announcing the details of that today, but we will have announced in due course."Will Gamerscores carry over from Xbox 360?Yes! You won't have to start from scratch on your new machine. I'm just looking into whether your gamer reputation also transfers over or if you get the chance to wipe the slate clean.More details later...
2.57pmETSummaryA slew ofMicrosoftexecutives rolled out a stream of new features for theXbox Onein a single, speedy hour. Here is a summary of those announcements:Xbox Onewill respond to voice and gesture input. It can also detect your heartbeat. &quot;This is human control for a human experience,&quot; Marc Whitten said.Thenew controllerlooks similar to the current controller but is more ergonomically correct and has a new d-pad.Microsoft landed severalexclusive partnershipsincluding one with theNFL.The company is also focusing on creatingexclusive gamesfor its console. Microsoft Studios plans to launch 15 new games in the first year of Xbox One, including8 brand new franchises.Steven Spielbergis producing a Halo television series.Call of Duty: Ghostswill feature dogs.More features are set to be announced at theE3 conferencein June.Here it is!twitter.com/keefstuart/sta…&mdash; Keith Stuart (@keefstuart)May 21, 20132.09pmETThe end of theCall of Duty: Ghostspreview is the end of the conference, apparently. Unless the black, quiet stream is just a zoomed in look at the new console.Either way,The Guardian&apos;s Keith Stuarthas a preview of the game.Yes, this is the next generation Call of Duty, targeted at the coming Xbox and PlayStation machines. It&apos;s built around an entirely new engine, which ramps up every facet of the visual experience. The poly count is through the roof, the textures are super high resolution. The coders have added fluid dynamics, interactive smoke and a new AI system.We&apos;re introduced to a cavalcade of improvements. There&apos;s a better lean system, which lets you look out over battlefield from cover; the animation is more intuitive and reactive – when your character runs at a wall, he&apos;ll just leap over, maintaining momentum. The team has also added a slide mechanic which lets you slip straight out of line of fire, or into an offensive position. It looks like the sliding in Bulletstorm – and indeed, much of this sounds familiar. But here, the screen is alive with detail and activity.2.03pmETHere&apos;s the trailer forCall of Duty: Ghosts.Updatedat 2.03pm ET2.01pmETThough the conference has devoted several minutes toCall of Duty: Ghosts, the general consensus is that the conference has said very little about new games.It&apos;s possible Microsoft is saving this information for the itsE3 conferencein early June.There will be much gnashing of teeth amongst gamers about the lack of games in this event. Which keeps the stakes of E3 high.#XBoxReveal&mdash; Noah J Nelson (@noahjnelson)May 21, 20131.57pmETDogsMattrick just saidMicrosoftwill release the console by the end of the year. Which everyone knew already.The event is wrapping up with a world premiere ofCall of Duty: Ghosts, launching exclusively on Xbox One.&quot;America is in disarray,&quot; explain an Activision employee. He is referring to the Call of Duty: Ghosts America, not actual America, I think.Most importantly, the game will havedogs.1.52pmETA video of Xbox president Don Mattrick speaking withNFL commissioner Roger Goodellis on screen. The two are discussing their new partnership and how it will improve the sport.&quot;You&apos;re going to change football in a way that is so dramatic,&quot; said Goodell.So there&apos;s one more exclusive partnership for Microsoft, take noteSony.1.50pmETSteven Spielbergstarted playing Pong in 1974. I know this because he is talking about the Halo universe in a video at the conference.He&apos;ll be behind the new Halo live-action television series Ross and Tellem are very proud to announce. Quite a get, no?This is happening Photograph: NICK ADAMS/REUTERSUpdatedat 2.06pm ET1.49pmET&quot;Xbox Liveis about to become the next water cooler,&quot; says Nancy Tellem, formerly of CBS and now head of Xbox TV studios, is on stage to talk about television integration.Tellem brought us CSI and Survivor – truly, TV&apos;s lowest common denominator.She has now brought out Bonnie Ross to introduce an interactive Halo television show. Which she seems to think will be as good as Breaking Bad – this might be like when they showed us Internet Explorer and expected us to take it seriously.1.43pmETExclusive gamesAchild with superpowersjust arrived on the conference screen. Guess it&apos;s time to preview more new games. This one is calledQuantum Break.&quot;Microsoft is investing more in studios around to world to create new and original IP for Xbox One.&quot;Microsoft Studios plans to launch 15 new games in the first year of Xbox One, including8 brand new franchises.1.38pmETPhil Spencer, corporate vice president ofMicrosoft Studios, is on stage now to talk about games.Games will be &quot;more immersive, more personal and more connected than ever before,&quot; says Spencer.Forza Motorsport 5announced for Xbox One. It will be available at launch.Updatedat 1.48pm ET1.34pmETNow fromEA Sports, the launch of FIFA, Madden, NBA Live and UFC, which will all be released in the next 12 months.EA Sports Ignitehas just been unveiled: &quot;to blur the line between real and virtual.&quot; It will utilize the Xbox One&apos;s exclusive updates for enhanced game play.&quot;Sports are as much about your head as your feet or your hands,&quot; saysMicrosoft.The words &quot;human intelligence&quot; are flickering on screen and I think this is not supposed to scare me.Updatedat 1.35pm ET1.30pmETThenew controllerwas created with game players, Whitten said. It will have improved ergonomics and a new d-pad.&quot;This is your controller,&quot; he said.Whitten said the Xbox One will use more power than the entire world did in 1999.Whitten moves on to explain the updates to Xbox Live, including a way to post bragging rights to the cloud: &quot;A dedicated game DVR to capture and access your game-winning moments.&quot;The controller Photograph: Nick Adams/ReutersUpdatedat 1.31pm ET1.26pmETWhat it looks likeThe Xbox One on display Photograph: NICK ADAMS/REUTERS1.25pmETWhitten, corporate vice president of Xbox LIVE, said the console candetect your heartbeatwhen you are exercising – which is helpful? Scary? You decide.&quot;This is human control for a human experience,&quot; Whitten said.1.23pmET&quot;This is rocket science-level stuff,&quot; says Marc Whitten, taking us beneath the hood and explaining the tech behind the voice recognition.1.21pmETXbox One Guideis a feature that makes it so you don&apos;t have to memorize television channel numbers, instead, just say what channel or show you want to watch. I don&apos;t know why this wasn&apos;t invented before.So far, all the new features focus on the console&apos;s entertainment features, we&apos;ve heard nothing about how this improves game play.Interesting that Microsoft has kicked off Xbox one with Skype and live tv - not games. Massive change in approach compared to sony and PS4.&mdash; Keith Stuart (@keefstuart)May 21, 20131.17pmETMehdi is showing off &quot;snap mode,&quot; which lets you play a game or watch a movie while using an on-screen window to, say, browse the internet (with Internet Explorer, natch).It&apos;s poised to take on two-screen &quot;interactive TV&quot;, wherein we all watch awards shows and snark on Twitter.All of this can be controlled through voice control--Mehdi is simply telling the Xbox what he wants to do, and it does it.Updatedat 1.18pm ET1.16pmETYusuf Medhi, senior vice president of Microsoft&apos;s interactive entertainment business, just unveiled howvoice inputcan be used to controlXbox One. It will also respond to gesture controls.Medhi is demonstrating how people will be able to do &quot;instant switching between input modes – tv, game, music.&quot;People usingSkypeon Xbox One will be able to do group chats now.Updatedat 1.16pm ET1.09pmETXbox One&quot;Team Xboxis on a new mission,&quot; Mattrick said. And that mission is focused on making this an entertainment console.He said the goal is to build a system that lines up games, television and software and that the most important part is that it must be &quot;simple, instant and complete.&quot;&quot;It is time for technology to step behind the curtain and you and your entertainment to take the stage,&quot; Mattrick said.He then announced that the new console will be calledXbox One.Updatedat 1.10pm ET1.05pmETThe event has begun with a promotional video that featuresSteven Spielberg,JJ Abramsand a bunch of strangers explaining how we will all have relationships with our televisions thanks to the new Xbox.Don Mattrick, president of the interactive entertainment business, is now delivering his opening address.1.01pmETComputerandvideogames.com said that the new Xbox will be called simply Xboxafter a trailer for the newCall of Duty: Ghostswas allegedly leaked.This information has not been confirmed by Microsoft though many names have surfaced from reliable anonymous sources in the past few months including: Durango, Infinity, Fusion, 720, 666, Fusion Durango Star.It is possible some of those are made up.12.48pmETJust so you know, this is a picture of the building the event is being held in, not thenew Xbox.It's a video game event so... HUGE EXCITO-QUEUE!#xboxrevealtwitter.com/keefstuart/sta…&mdash; Keith Stuart (@keefstuart)May 21, 2013Inside the tent of future Xbox...twitter.com/keefstuart/sta…&mdash; Keith Stuart (@keefstuart)May 21, 201312.38pmETThe Guardian&apos;s Keith Stuarthas sent his first dispatch from Redmond, Washington.It&apos;s a rainy, overcast morning in Redmond, and the world&apos;s gaming press is arriving on the Xbox Campus in a convoy of coaches, here to finally discover the future of Microsoft&apos;s console. Somehow, the company has managed to keep the contents of this enormous &apos;reveal&apos; event secret – even the name of the machine still eludes us. Current guess are Infinity, Fusion or even just Xbox – an iPad style definitive branding endeavour.What we do know is that the console itself will be revealed, unlike Sony&apos;s PlayStation 4 announcement in February, when the machine design remained curiously under wraps. We&apos;re also expecting a range of exclusive game reveals; possibly something from veteran UK developer Rare, maybe a whisper of the next Halo, the next Fable or Forza Horizon.Activision will no doubt corner off a section of the one-hour event for Call of Duty Ghosts, the next gen debut of the multi-million selling shooter series. EA should also have Fifa, Battlefield and a UFC tie-in to show. &quot;We&apos;re expecting a lot of third-party exclusives - Microsoft has put a great deal of effort into securing these - although it&apos;s unlikely we&apos;ll see them all today,&quot; says Andy Robinson, editor of CVG [cvg.co.uk].Also likely to feature are lots of new video-on-demand and entertainment services: Microsoft is pushing its next Xbox as a true living room hub, and may even include PVR features, such as recording and storing TV programmes.Join us now, then, as we venture into whatever version of the future Microsoft is preparing...12.26pmETHello and welcometo the Guardian&apos;s live blog of theXbox revealin Redmond, Washington. The as-yet unnamed console will be the first major revamp of the popular Xbox since Xbox 360 debuted in 2005.Microsoft&apos;s announcement comes two months after its rival Sony released some details on its forthcomingPlaystation 4console. The two systems are expected to have similar technical specifications and a key focus of today&apos;s announcement will be how Microsoft plans to differentiate itself from its competitor.One way Microsoft might be able to do this is with updates to the motion-sensing Kinect device. Kinect 2.0 is rumored to have advanced capabilities that can track four separate players and allow people to log in with facial recognition.It&apos;s possible Microsoft will save some announcements for its E3 conference in June and the company will likely keep quiet on a release date or price for the new console.The Guardian&apos;s games blogger, Keith Stuart, is at the Redmond conference and he&apos;ll be sending in updates throughout the event. Keith&apos;s preview piece on the anticipated updates and expectations forthe new Xbox is here.Keith Stuart&apos;s travel and accommodation was paid for by MicrosoftUpdatedat 12.30pm ET
