Nosy Crow isn't a physical books publisher, and it's not an apps developer. It's both. The London-based company publishes children's books and apps, with the latter not just digital versions of the former.Its first iOS book-app was a version of The Three Little Pigs that stood out from the dozens of others – fairy tales are ten a penny on the App Store – for its craft and attention to detail. The company has now released a second title,Cinderella, which refines the format.Characters can be tapped to hear them speak and moved around the scenes, each with their own musical theme played on a different instrument. There are flashes of humour – the Prince and Cinderella break into a Bollywood dance routine or a disco shuffle on the ballroom dancefloor – but most importantly, everything supports the story rather than distracts from it."It had to be integral," says managing director Kate Wilson. "The Three Little Pigs was about drama and chasing, building and destruction. This is about work and transformation, so it was about making the interactivity of the app tie in with that idea of work and transformation. Magic."Nosy Crow is a new company, launched by Wilson following a 25-year career taking in roles running Macmillan Children's Books, Scholastic UK and Headline. Her co-founders and team are similarly experienced in the books world, joining from companies including Macmillan, Scholastic, HarperCollins, Campbell Books, Orchard and others. Meanwhile, its twin heads of apps development have a games background."We felt there was room to bring real publishing knowledge, contacts and ways of thinking into this technology space," says Wilson. "A lot of people who are creating apps are approaching it very much as technology companies, but we felt there was real scope to mix the two different ways of being."For many developers, making book-apps based on fairy tales is a decision based on licensing issues (or rather non-issues: no rights are required). In Nosy Crow's case, there is more theory behind the decision.Wilson talks about the idea of "the known text" – children learning a story and reciting it from memory, even if they can't read the actual letters and words on the page. "It's the building blocks of reading, and at least as important as phonic knowledge," she says. "They are understanding how stories work and internalising that."Those stories aren't scary, either. The wolf doesn't eat any of the Three Little Pigs, and he burns his bottom in the cauldron rather than being scalded to death, for example."The thing about fairy tales is that they do have a flexibility," says Wilson. "You can bend them and they don't break. You can do quite a lot with them and still retain the core Cindarellaness or Three Little Pigsness. Our apps are very visual, so we won't have death. The wolf burns his bottom, and I suspect when we do Little Red Riding Hood, the wolf won't get killed there either."She adds that these decisions are another example of core publishing skills in action: not just deciding how to animate a story, but also considering child psychology, and how to shape the narrative to ensure it is age-appropriate.Also notable about both Nosy Crow apps is the use of children's voices for the characters, rather than an adult narrator. It's a contrast to some high-profile children's book-apps like The Velveteen Rabbit and The Heart and the Bottle, which were voice-narrated by Meryl Streep and Helena Bonham-Carter respectively.Wilson says this was a very deliberate decision, partly spurred by noticing that her own children's attention was held more by "things that big girls said" than what adults said."We could have spent a lot of money getting a 'name' person, and apps like The Velveteen Rabbit and The Heart and the Bottle are beautifully done," she says. "But we thought it was better to have multiple children's voices, to make it feel very accessible, immediate and inviting. Admittedly, what we saved on not having a star, we probably spent on studio time! Getting the performance out of these kids is not as easy…"Deb Gaffin, digital product and marketing director at Nosy Crow, adds that more than 600 comments have been recorded for the characters in Cinderella, to ensure the book-app doesn't feel like a purely linear affair with a set script. That attention to detail applies to the artwork and music, too."It's about quality," says Gaffin. "We feel we have extremely high-quality artwork, animation and music. We're using interactivity in a way that really invites the child in."In the meantime, Nosy Crow is experimenting beyond the basic English content of its apps, partnering with publishers overseas to translate them. The Three Little Pigs is already available in France and Germany, with locally-supplied voice narration as well as text.Nosy Crow will also be making apps based on its print books, including its series of Bizzy Bear titles. Wilson and Gaffin stress that the apps will not just rehash the storylines and add a dash of animation and interactivity, as is common for apps based on long-established print titles."We're luckily not in the position of saying 'This is the story and it has to go in this particular way', which is one advantage of being a new company," says Gaffin. "It's interesting to be coming to this without having to stop and find out what rights we have in our backlist, which is where as a bigger publisher you can waste a huge amount of time."Nosy Crow is an example of a wider digital trend across all the creative industries: the idea of small, nimble startups having greater flexibility than the larger established companies. Not because there aren't clever, innovative people within those firms, but because they have what Wilson describes as "a machine to feed" – their established business."If you're a big company, you're constantly feeding that machine, and it's very hard to say 'we're going to try this thing that's really quite different, and requires attention, focus and energy," says Wilson."Don't do 17 board books, come over and do this thing that's an – to quote Rumsfeld – unknown unknown. It's difficult if you're a big company, and the low-risk thing to do is to pay somebody else out there to make the new thing for you. But we really wanted to use our freedom of being a new startup without a machine to feed. We could make the machine we wanted instead."Gaffin says that Nosy Crow's analytics show many people who bought The Three Little Pigs in February or March were still using it regularly in August. On those grounds, the machine looks like it's working pretty smoothly.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCriminal hack versus FOIA request: the showdown &gt;&gt; Police-Led IntelligenceFollowing the Texas police hack by an offshoot of Anonymous, some thinking: "Let's say you think law enforcement officers are using their computers for porn and racist humor and making fun of people. First, though it's by no means necessary, you'd want to get a lawyer. File a civil suit to get disclosure of the non-investigative emails from an agency. You'd need to convince the judge that this is likely, however a good lawyer can make the case that taxpayer dollars paid for the machines and the people who placed the information upon them, so you'd probably prevail. Prolly cost you a thousand bucks - since you've got lots of friends, ask 100 of them for $10 and you're good to go."The agency would release the emails and you could go to town, plastering them on websites and declaring victory, publicly. You could print them out and place on Facebook photographs of you holding the printouts, smiling, legally."Very clever, though wouldn't work in the UK.The frustrating experience that is Android Honeycomb on tablets &gt;&gt; ZDNetJames Kendrick is an Android fan, but not a Honeycomb fan: "I have been all over the Android platform since the first phone hit the scene. I saw the potential of Android on phones and have followed its evolution through Froyo, Gingerbread, and now Honeycomb."My current phone is the Gingerbread-packing Nexus S 4G (which I dearly love) and my original Galaxy Tab (also running Gingerbread) has more miles on it than my car."I have used more tablets with Honeycomb than anyone I know, and after hundreds of hours of use I still find Honeycomb tablets to be totally frustrating to use."How much of the internet is actually for porn &gt;&gt; ForbesTry to guess the answer before you read the article. Then try to resist the answer to say "How much??" when you read the answer.Indices of Deprivation: Linked Data Prototype &gt;&gt; Open Data BlogFrom the OpenViz blog: "Those of you with longer memories will recall my post back in May, promoting the then new triple store for DCLG's Indices of Deprivation."I'd love to report that this has generated a flurry of new apps.  I think I'm not alone when I say: we need some more real-world examples which show us the true power and potential of blending together different data sources....over the web.....using open standards."Very impressive demonstration. The thought that occurs on seeing it is that indices don't tell you much about behaviour or other things; they don't provide any predictive power, and that's what's lacking.Canaccord slashes RIM PlayBook sales estimates &gt;&gt; Financial Post"When leading electronics retailers dramatically cut the price of a tablet just to get it off the shelves, conventional wisdom and recent history suggests that device is likely failing to post a challenge to Apple Inc.'s iPad."Canaccord Genuity financial analysts Michael Walkley and Matthew Ramsay raised those very fears about Research In Motion Ltd.'s BlackBerry PlayBook over Labour Day weekend, after Best Buy discounted the RIM tablet  by $50 to $150, depending on the model."The analysts have cut their estimates for 2011 Playbook sales from 2.2m to 1.5m, and for 2012 from 3m to 2.5m. Anyone know of any pre-PlayBook launch forecasts from RIM itself?RIM signs license agreement covering Dolby Audio technologies; Dolby agrees to withdraw patent infringement actions against RIM &gt;&gt; BusinessWire"Dolby Laboratories (NYSE: DLB) said today that Research in Motion ("RIM" ) agreed to enter into a license agreement for its use of Dolby's advanced audio technologies that were the subject of two lawsuits recently filed by Dolby against RIM. As a result, those cases were dismissed today based on agreement between the parties."RIM has Dolby sound? Apparently, yes.HTC boss on Windows Phone 7, patent wars and why iPhones aren't cool anymore &gt;&gt; GeekWireSome interesting points, particularly on patents.File Transfer &gt;&gt; xkcdTagline: "I like how we've had the internet for decades, yet 'sending files' is something early adopters are still figuring out how to do."And the rollover text is just brilliant.RIM Finds Indonesia Fertile Ground for BlackBerry Growth &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Booming demand for BlackBerrys here and elsewhere in the developing world is lifting hopes that the smartphone's embattled manufacturer might still have the means to grow even as its market share plummets in the U.S. and other wealthy countries."But no mention of recent scrape with Indonesian government over access to emails etc.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The phrase 'art game' means very different things to different people. True, some dismiss the whole idea as pretentious nonsense, the cynical appropriation of a mass entertainment platform by opportunist design students. But we'll ignore those views for now.For others, it's about the sometimes disturbing experimental games produced by the likes ofJonatan SöderströmandJason Rohrer. Titles such asClean Asia!and Passage have the trappings of sophisticated commercial releases, but often comment on the game development process or use game structures to explore much darker themes and ideas.And then there are the game-inspired experiences produced as non-interactive artworks – like Cory Archangel's Super Mario Clouds and Beat The Champ. Not so much games as meditations on digital culture, channeled through recognisable gaming idioms.Operating somewhere in between all of those is digital poet and artist Jason Nelson. Born in Oklahoma but now based on the East coast of Australia, Nelson has been producing thought-provoking and anger-baiting interactive works for years, the best known examples being Flash-based titlesGame, Game, Game And Again Gameand its sequel,I made this. You play this. We are Enemies.Recently, he has produced two new, and typically messy, strange and unsettling works,Six-Sided StrangeandScrape Scraperteeth, the latter commissioned by the San Francisco Gallery of Modern Art. They bear all of Nelson's trademarks – seemingly stream-of-consciousness text clips, hectic presentation and guarded messaging – and they push at the boundaries of what can be called a game.Last week, I spoke to Nelson about these works, and the whole idea of art games and their relationship to the mainstream interactive entertainment industry. If you want to know what connects Basquiat with Mario Brothers and James Joyce, come this way...Six-Sided StrangeCan you tell me some of the ideas and aims behind Six-Sided Strange and Scrape Scraperteeth? The latter certainly seems to be about alienating and belittling urban environments...Scrape Scraperteeth, a game/poetry/art monstrosity, is inspired by the city of Gold Coast, Australia, where I've lived and been vaguely professorial for the past seven years. The Gold Coast is a jumbled mess of overly priced real estate and investment property hi-rises hugging long tourist-filled beaches. Bike ride a few kilometers inland, past forests of construction cranes and you find cows wandering alongside undeveloped country roads.So each of the game's levels are images, sketched and mangled, of the city's skyline. The notion is simple. For a view of other buildings and a slice of ocean, the public is hypnotised into trading their future incomes for small and stacked concrete boxes. The game hovers around this real estate madness. The GFC hasn't really hit Australia, but when it does it will hit here first. Goodness I sound preachy, maybe I should move.On a brighter note, Scraperteeth was commissioned by the San Francisco Gallery of Modern Art, one the first major galleries to feature net-base indie art. Aside from the happy-wallet making support, it's significant because increasingly galleries are supporting net-based artworks, specifically of the game/interactive variety. Major institutions are beginning to realize that even simple platform engines and abstract mark-ups can spread artworks to the vast web-addicted world.As for Six Sided Strange, I've always been fascinated with the Rubik's cube, the box as societal construct, how we love and hate the Borg (Star Trek) and their super-techno assimilation square-shaped ships. And with SSS I wanted to play with that form and create a series of interactive digital sculptures, strange multi-dimensional story-spaces playing with colour, movement and pixilated monsters.  There are even prizes hidden in near impossible combinations. And if you find them, I might send you something fancy all the way from the Southern Hemisphere.Your background is in Flash-based fiction and poetry – can you tell me how and why you've come to Flash, and the digital environment in general, as a medium?Sadly Flash has somehow been transformed from a lovely, ever growing, golden coin-dropping oak tree into a one-eyed fungus creature eating the iPads of puppy-holding children. So while I'm now conforming with much angst to the marching HMTL5 mob, I still really love Flash as an artistic/game creating tool. Nearly all of my artworks involve layering of odd poetic content, of coaxing sounds into icons into moving drawings into text triggered by a lurching character. And Flash makes that easy and visually compelling to create. But as with all techno-wonders, obsolescence is just a shareholder's board meeting away.  Besides, I have a hard-drive flooded with raw flash files or decompiled game engines ready to be horribly and beautifully (depending on your aesthetic tastes) modified/broken/reborn by my mouse.My digital beginning is a much longer story involving monster trucks, a heavy set man in a tweed suit and a summer job using GIS (the mapping software). But briefly, I adventured into the digital environment because of my frustration with the limitations of the top-down, flat and static printed page. When writing traditional poetry and prose, composing a line or crafting a metaphor, I wanted to make the words move, to add sounds and write over images, to give the reader/player a stake, to make interaction and playing a way of composing.Video games and digital interfaces were the languages I grew up with, and multimedia was how I experienced the world through screens. So without knowing there was anElectronic Literature communityI started building curious interactive poetic creatures, using the gambit of electronic elements as vital texts with which to compose poems and stories. Most of the art/literary world is dominated by critics and styles, whereas the digital realm is about experimentation and seems accepting of my brand of WTF?!.Both the pieces below are, of course, game-like. Are you a gamer yourself?I'm writing this perched on a couch overlooking a four-story atrium filled with escalators. The people rising and falling, pushing and weaving, their conversations and awkward interactions are like a big video game. I so very much want to attach WiFi controllers to the mechanical moving stairs and make this mall into a chaotic real-life game. The world is a game, yes it's a lame analogy, but an entirely true one all the same.I'm not sure if I'd call myself a gamer, at least not the midnight to sunrise, blood clot in the leg sort of gamer. I love playing emulators of 1980-99 games, anything Atari or Nintendo or Sega. Early text adventures are also a weird sort of fascination of mine, their intricate game play and woven story-lines are still far beyond most current graphics intensive titles.Additionally, I'm charmed by those games where wandering through the game-scape, randomly exploring for items and areas are not necessarily relevant to the game's goals. There is an immediate satisfaction to achieving something in a game, but I'd rather be lost within a MOD that allows for infinite lives and uselessly disruptive weapons. I wish someone would create a "Lost in Oklahoma" game. And on those days when I feel sad, I play Ratchet and Clank, it's like having apple pie for breakfast.Are you more interested in the structure and semiotics of games, then?That is perhaps the most common criticism of my creations, that I don't toy with structure and game-play enough. Indeed someone sent me an email yesterday calling my work a game abortion, blasting my lack of, well, everything. As you might see in the comments to this article, people tend to have very strong reactions to my work, lots of hate and just enough love to keep me going.I am enamored with reading about and dissecting the semiotics, and as the MIT professor Nick Montfort calls them, the "twisty little passages" of games.  In the same way riots and mob violence are built from intricate intersections and dynamic disruptions, so too are great games forever altering and reacting to the player's keyboard/joystick mashing. I'm not trying to imply videogame cause looting, but rather that altering and recreation of rules is fascinating both in games and in the physical world.Sadly, what interests me and what I am capable of programming are separated by oceans of IT courses and textbooks. I would love to collaborate with some IT whiz or have a fancy officed games company bring me in as a strange game consultant. Having said that, I'm really happy to continue making small scale net-art creatures that reach into the backs of player's brains. And my creations like 'I made this. you play this. we are enemies' or 'game, game, game and again game' are centrally focused on playing with the semiotics of both games and the games community.Did Six Sided Strange or Scrape Scraperteeth have any specific game influences? The latter, I guess, works as more of a traditional platformer, but were there key titles that inspired you?If the abstract artist Basquiat, Mario Brother's creator Miyamoto, and writer James Joyce had a child that grew up in an amusement park and was raised by Steampunk robots, that child would be my art-games. Does that answer your question? No? Yes? Shift-Nine?Are you interested in the indie and art game scenes in general?The most innovative game-play, artistically compelling content and experimental creations are coming from the indie/art game scene. With little or no funding small teams of indie producers are creating brilliant experiences that make corporate productions look like embarrassing advertisements for video cards.  Some future historian will write about the games currently being built by these creators and label them as THE important art movement of the 21st century.And not only are they building far reaching and innovative artworks, but they also changing the way we experience and consume art and literature. The traditional gallery space is far less powerful than the web-based or portable device distribution channels that indie game makers use. My games for example, as bafflingly bizarre (or bad) as they are, have had millions of players; I'm reaching those who would never visit a gallery outside a first date or school trip.What are you working on at the moment?Heaps. My hard-drive is a mess of files. My current games centered work is tentatively titled 'Nothing you've done deserves such praise'. The game offers the player absurdly dramatic rewards for inconsequential actions and accomplishments. So when you jump over a small block the screen fills with congratulatory messages. Or when you fire a bullet that slowly moves across the screen, videos of me lamely celebrating cover the game-scape. Between those over-blown victories will be long stretches of boredom, of nothing but moving and crickets and the sound of threatening storms.I'm also creating a simple top-down meandering game exploring the fictional lives of the characters the player has to kill. When you shoot/stab/shove-to-death an enemy, a tombstone with a rollover biography is placed on the screen. Hopefully for this game I'll get some audience participation with players submitting their pictures or bios, and I will fictionalise/poeticise and use them in the game.There are others, but the most challenging is an iPhone/Android game I'm creating. I say challenging because it's an entirely new platform with new code and conditions. Scary really. But I hope to become a hundredaire (or even, gulp, a thousandaire) off that one.Lastly, I recently finished a game that takes one million minutes to play. 'The Loneliest Pilot' is a side-scrolling space shooter, where you are attacked over and over for two years straight, with the option of reading the pilot's daily diary, his frustration and joys of continuously fighting. Not sure if I'll even release it, as few would play it more than ten minutes let alone for months or years. Alas.Ultimately, what themes, subjects or ideas do you think can be explored through art games that couldn't be explored through other artistic media? What are art games good at saying?Yesterday, at the Sydney Opera House, ID games launched their new first-person shooter, Rage. They spoke, albeit only in a token way about story and artistic elements. But really the game is just explore and explode. What struck me though, was how games involving controlling a character's movement/actions/disruptions allow the player to inhabit the work/world, how their mind links/connects to the experience. With passive art or even interactive installation art, the audience is not that invested, having a brief watch and think from a distance.Art games require your attention, require your brain to be consumed by the screen. I imagine that is why I get such dramatic responses. I am asking the audience to inhabit my creations, asking them to play/exist inside a bizarre, messy and at times highly illogical and abstract artscape.Games also offer a common language. Most those aged forty and under grew up with the games interface as a central part of their childhood development (holy crap I sound academic!). So its like putting a steering wheel on an alien craft, people might be baffled by the gooey tentacle interior, but when they see a circular and spoked wheel, they at least know how to maneuver the ship.As for the subjects and ideas, that is perhaps the most compelling aspect of art games (and for some the most controversial). You can explore anything, in any way. The layering of ideas and themes creates really unique nuances, and the playlands begging for audiences to jump and run and shoot and move and think and puzzle and listen and watch opens up multi-dimensional/linear/temporal possibilities. No other artform, other than actual life, can offer the artist such happy making, heart crushing,  eye twinkling, chaos reeling complexity.If you were to work in the 'conventional' games industry, is there a company/designer/series you'd be interested in?Luckily I actually make a living being a Digital Poet. I realize the title Digital Poet sounds forever pretentious, but there is an ever growing audience for such work and besides, I'm a Lecturer of Digital Art and Writing at Griffith University here in Australia so that brings in enough money for laptops and canned soup.But if I were to be hired, however temporarily, I would love to design hidden areas and secret areas in big budget console games. Imagine racing in Gran Tourismo, crashing through a wall and finding your car hurtling through a strange landscape of hand-drawn oddities, muddy text hitting your windshield and with every turn the clouds change shape. Or while playing a zombie game you find a mind reading device that triggers thought bubbles showing the zombie's half formed abstract thoughts, the decay of memory masked by hungry aggression. And to win you have to weave through the most poetic of the undead. So if there's a games company crazy enough to do that, I just might play along...
Tuesday! Let's talk about games and stuff.
Nintendo announced a raft of new software on Tuesday as its attempted to prop up disappointing sales of its latest handheld games console, the 3DS, but there was no sign of the add-on accessory that games blogs have said is in the works.Nintendo's shares slid about 6% on Tuesday, doing worse than the broader market, in a sign that investors are not convinced boosting content will enable the 3DS to fight off growing competition from smartphones and tablets.It may also signal that 3D technologies - which were held up at the start of 2010 as a new way to encourage people to buy new laptops, TVs and consoles - are not grabbing the attention of buyers in the way that hardware makers had hoped.Analyst reckon that 3DS sales will miss the company's 16m target by as many as 3.5m, even after prices were slashed by up to 40%. That would put the company's profits at its lowest levels for 26 years as it struggles to attract "social gamers" who are being lured by Apple's iPhone and iPod Touch, and games on Facebook's service.Nintendo's president Satoru Iwata unveiled what he said was an unprecedented range of games, including some featuring the company's much-loved Mario character and others specifically aimed at attracting women, at an event held two days ahead of the Tokyo Game Show."From the end of this year to the beginning of next, we are planning the kind of extensive line-up that has probably never been seen before in the history of video games," Iwata said. "We will make an all-out effort to see that the 3DS sells enough to become the successor to the DS," he said.That will be no easy task, given that earlier models of the DS had sold a cumulative total of about 148m units by the end of June this year. The gadget, along with the motion-controlled Wii home console, enabled Nintendo to dominate the industry for years.But many casual gamers are now turning to smartphones and tablets, which offer cheaper content and multiple functions.In July,Nintendo slashed the price of the 3DS, which features glasses-free 3D images, after sales shrivelled to just 710,000 units in April-June from 3.6m in the first month after its launch, and a tiny fraction of the 16m unit target for the year.The company reported its first-ever quarterly operating loss and cut its full-year profit forecast far below market expectations, hit by sluggish sales and a strong yen.
It seems the brainstorming session forSaints Row: The Thirdjust went on and on, and no one was sober enough to put an end to it. We've already seen the car with the built-in pedestrian-firing cannon, we've seen the baseball bat-sized dildo that doubles as a melee weapon, and now here's a new feature – the ability to somehow battle gangsters in a virtual computer world.This trailer was launched today and probably needs to be seen to be properly appreciated. Your thoughts are, as usual, welcomed...Saints Row: The Third is released on PC, PS3, Xbox 360 on November 18.
Grindr, the location-based mobile dating app hugely popular among gay men, has launched a new version for straight people.Joel Simkhai, Grindr's founder and chief executive, said the only difference was that Blendr is less focused on sex."It's much, much deeper than 'hey, do you want to go on a date?'," said Simkhai. "It's about finding new friends. It is very difficult to meet new people who are interested in the same things you are – Blendr will help solve the problem."Simkhai said he created Blendr after being inundated with requests from straight women who were jealous of their gay friends' ability to use Grindr to meet people nearby. But he said the new app was designed as a "friend-finding engine" rather than purely for sex and dating."It's not the same as Grindr. It is similar to Grindr in that it's a community based on interests. But while that was based on one interest – being gay – this is based on lots of interests," he told the Guardian. "It could end up in a date, but the main goal is meeting new people."Both apps, which are available to download for free from the Apple app store, display photos and basic details of people nearby based on their phone's GPS location. While Grindr users are required to provide only the scantest of personal information, Blendr users are asked to fill in a survey of their hobbies and interests."This is so we can blend you with people in your area who share your interests and are similar to you," Simkhai said. "We think these interests are the basis of how people form friendships. If you're looking for someone to practice your German with, you can find other German speakers and have a chat right here, right now."Grindr has become something of a phenomenon among single gay people since it was launched in March 2009. The iPhone, iPad, BlackBerry and Android apps have been downloaded by more than 2.6m worldwide, with London the number one city with 104,000 users. The average user spends 1½ hours on Grindr a day and more than 450,000 pictures are exchanged each day.The app has managed to avoid notoriously strict internet censorship laws in China and has proved a hit in the Middle East, where gay relationships are either illegal or frowned upon. The company says there are only two countries where it has failed to gain a toehold: the tiny Pacific islands of Nauru and Tuvalu.Grindr, which has grown to employ almost 100 members of staff, is still almost 100%-owned by Simkhai. He said the company had received several approaches from private equity firms keen to buy him out, but he had declined all offers."I first conceived of Grindr three years ago because it was tough to meet other gay men because it was difficult to know who else was gay," he said. "It turns out I wasn't the only one with this problem, almost 3 million other men needed this too. Now everyone can try it."Simkhai claimed that Blendr will put an end to boring lunch breaks and solitary visits to art galleries and museums. "This is about seeing who's about in the real world in real time. Whether you're on the bus, in the checkout line or having a lunch break on your own you can meet new people," he said. "If you're sitting in the park all on your own there's really nothing you can do about it – now you can do something about it with Blendr."He said the app would bring secretive internet dating into the open. "I hope this will be the icebreaker that enables them to put the app down and meet to see if there's chemistry."Blendr will also allow users to scope out clubs and bars for people they might be interested in meeting before they stump up the entry fee. The app shows photos of users who have "checked in" to nearby clubs, in a similar way to Facebook or Foursquare."There is a list of venues and you will be able to see who's there and get real-time information from them before you pay to go in," Simkhai said.
Mark Rubin has been at Infinity Ward since Call of Duty 2. He's seen the series grow from a relatively successful WWII shooter to a global phenomenon. It's not been an easy journey – last year, the studio's co-founders Jason West and Vince Zampella departed amid accusations of insubordination, and a court case between the duo and Activision is looming. In the aftermath of the dismissal, half of Infinity Ward's staff left, many joining their old bosses at the newly founded Respawn Entertainment."It was actually an extremely tough time for all of us, as I'm sure you can imagine," said Rubin at a MW3 press conference last week. When asked how he'd got through it, he simply joked, "alcohol".Last week, we spoke to Mark about the development of Modern Warfare 3 and the philosophy behind the series. Here's his personal experience of the game so far.(Battlefield 3 fans: don't feel left out! We have a recent preview of the gamehere, and EA Dice is currently answering a whole bunch of reader questions for us, so look out for that very soon!)What's it like to be part of such a phenomenon?It's really bizarre! (Laughs) Every time I think about it, I'm not sure I actually get to a conclusion. When Call of Duty 2 came out it was a really successful game, but its success was in the vicinity of other games. But then CoD 4 was released and it was so huge. I think what happened was, it arrived at that point at which gaming became a more culturally acceptable thing. We had celebrities going on chat shows, talking about how much they played; suddenly everyone was talking about games. It started this snowball. It socialised gaming, suddenly it wasn't just the thing that guys do in their mum and dad's basement! But there were still games in the vicinity of CoD – Grand Theft Auto, for example.Then Modern Warfare 2 comes out and suddenly we're in the 28-29 million area – there's nothing else there. And it's breaking entertainment records across the board.  From a personal perspective… the hard part is managing the stress of that success. That may sound strange, but the more popular it has become the more stressed we are as developers at having to make this game. We're not reaping the benefits from it as much as some people think we are!The idea of 30 million people playing – does that feed into development?Definitely, and Modern Warfare 3 is sort of a big learning step for us. We realised we needed to address that larger community more. With 30 million people all communicating, that's a lot of voices, a lot of feedback – and a lot of the time it's contradictory; yes to quick scoping, no to quick scoping, yes to this perk, no to this perk. We're inundated. So early on with this game, we developed a better method of listening to the community – it's just about translating that cacophony of voices better. There's more to go, but we've made a big step forward.What have you learned from that process?One important thing is the variety of players we have and the variety of play styles. That's why in MW3 we have the three strike packages – each plays differently and lends itself to a different style. Our previous killstreak system was based solely around killing, but with this game's pointstreak system, it's not just kills that move you up – if I capture the flag, or a domination point or I take a headquarters, I'm getting points for that, I am being rewarded for my play style. There's more than that, there are a lot of things in the game that have been subtly added to support different play styles. We also added weapon proficiencies, which allow players to take the weapon they like and customise it more – not just putting camo skins on, it's about customising the feel of the weapon; so less kick, less sway, less flinch… you can really adjust the way the weapon feels and make it fit your style.Let's talk about technology. Critics of Modern Warfare will often point out that the games are based on the Quake 3 engine, which is several years old…There's nothing left in the engine from Quake any more. We've continued to re-write every section. We do a lot of re-writing the tools, re-writing lighting calculations. It doesn't sound very interesting. It's very iterative.Some gamers ask why you've never introduced vehicles into the multiplayer…In order to put vehicles in you have to expand the maps significantly and all of a sudden it becomes a very different kind of game. It's not our game any more, it's something else. We make a very specific game – the maps are small, you get into the action quick, there isn't a whole bunch of running from the spawn for five minutes to find an enemy. To us, it's almost like saying, well, why don't you have jumping platform puzzles? It's not our sort of game.What is your sort of game?Our philosophy in game design is all about fun. We don't make tech demos, we don't look for the latest buzzword graphics elements, like… I don't know… fullscreen ambient occlusion. We're not like, wehaveto put that on the box – we don't think that way. There are games I play that are graphically beautiful and that's why I play them, but there are games like ours that are just fun.  That's what we concentrate on. Everything is geared around making the game more fun.So what have you added to the engine for Modern Warfare 3?It's all back-end technical stuff.Like?There are a number of things. Look, our coders sit around and wait for our designers to tell them what to do. Coders aren't sitting there going, 'we're going to do this cool effect'. Security was a big problem in previous games, so we've done a whole lot on that to create what we hope is a much more secure game. Part of that is learning from Treyarch's work on Black Ops and being pro-active and aggressive on banning, watching the leader boards, looking for cheaters.And one of the big things we've changed is the ability to alter the game post-launch. That doesn't sound like a cool feature, it sounds simple – it's like 'why can't you just release patches?' Well, games don't work that way – you can patchsomethings, but for others, it's a significant deal, patching is not broad enough to do everything in the game.So one behind-the-scenes feature allows us to update files, sometimes without even doing a full patch – we can just tweak things like weapon balance, which we could never do before. In the past, we'd put out a game and realise, 'hmm, that's weapon's really over-powered' but there was nothing we could do about it. I mean, with twenty million people playing the game, you learn more in the ten minutes after release than you do in months of pre-launch playtesting. So that tech feature was a big thing for us.And also for single-player, our engine is very performance orientated – it's all about keeping 60 frames-per-second, it's all about fluidity, the feel of the game; we want you to forget you're even holding a controller, that's the key goal. So then design came to us and said, we want to stop doing these little villages in Russia or the Middle East, we want to go big, we want to go to the places that people live in, we want it on the streets that people walk down when they go to work. But it's not as simple as just 'oh yeah, go build London'. There was a lot of engine re-writing in order to make a big city work in our environment, in our technology, and still work at 60FPSAnd it changes the atmosphere of the game doesn't it? Having all these highly recognisable European cities…That's what we were hoping for. Call of Duty is not just big in America. Over half our audience is outside of the US. It's a global game and that's how we treated it, especially in the campaign mode. So you're not just in New York, you're in London, Paris, Berlin, Prague. And you'll recognise them; that corner of Westminster in the game, everyone knows it. Bringing the gameplay to right outside your door was the goal.Is there a greater sense of responsibility? Some terrible atrocities have happened in these cities.The Call of Duty world has always been fictional, it's not the worldwelive in – the history is different. The history of New York, of 9/11, it's not the same in our game. This is the US versus Russia, so it's almost like the Cold War from the Eighties, but in the modern environment, with modern weapons. It's more of a "what if…" scenario than a reflection of our world today. We're not trying to make a statement, the game is not socially conscious, we're not promoting any political direction. We're making stories. And, you know, it's quite simple. These are 'guys in wars' stories, they're like the WWII films we've all watched, the space war films we've all watched… the human spirit wins. That's what it is. The press does tend to point at the games industry, but well, fifty years ago it was rock-'n-roll, before that there were book burnings. There's always someone to point at.•Modern Warfare 3 is released on 8 November for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
A total of 3.62 million people own tablet computers in the UK, with Apple having a 73% market share, according to new research from Kantar Worldpanel ComTech.The number of owners is set to grow rapidly, although Apple's share may be eroded, with only half of potential tablet owners saying that they will buy an iPad in the next year, says the company. Kantar gathers its data from a panel of direct consumer interviews in the UK, France, Italy, Germany, US and Australia.The second most-popular tablet brand among owners is the Samsung Galaxy. Among would-be buyers, 6% plan to buy one. However, after that the brand split is "a long tail" with some brands having only one or two percentage point shares.The market is still up for grabs, with 28% of those who intend to buy a tablet over the next year unsure about which brand to buy, the research found.The rapid growth in tablet use since Apple launched the iPad in April 2010 suggests that it has already crossed over from the early adopters. With a UK population of around 60 million, and adult population of about 48 million, there may still be sizeable growth opportunities for the most successful brands.Among existing tablet owners, the most common use is for reading ebooks and online newspapers, apps, and playing games. Most tablets do not have 3G connectivity, but 43% of owners use them while commuting, and 36% while outdoors.Dominic Sunnebo, global consumer insight director for Kantar, said: "Apple's achievements in this market are clearly linked to its success in the smartphone market: 80% of people who already own an iPhone and plan to purchase a tablet intend to buy an iPad. This is clearly something other manufacturers will have to contend with."Advertising drives by a number of companies – including Apple, Samsung and Sony, as well as by retailers and phone networks – have driven very high awareness of tablets, so that only 3% of those interviewed said that they had "no" knowledge of tablets.By contrast among non-owners, 16% said that they have "strong" knowledge of tablets, and more than a quarter of those plan to buy one in the next year. From an adult population of around 48 million, that would equate to nearly 2m further sales.Penetration is lower among older Britons, leading Sunnebo to comment that "manufacturers will need to clearly market the benefits of the products, particularly to the older demographic (over-45), who have less understanding of the differences between tablets and PCs".He suggested that in some cases consumers who already have a personal computer might decide to choose between buying a tablet or a smartphone: the data showed that 10% of consumers are dithering between the two.The survey also found that:• 16% of consumers say they have a "strong" knowledge of tablets• 3% say they have "no" knowledge of tablets• 90% of tablet owners have connected them to a Wi-Fi network at home• 41% of tablet owners have connected to a Wi-Fi network outside their home
After months of rumours and speculation, Electronic Arts has finally confirmed that it's releasing an update to classic cyberpunk game,Syndicate. Due out early next year on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360, the game puts players in control of Miles Kilo, a prototype agent employed by mega-company EuroCorp for a series of assassination missions against two other corporations, Cayman Global, and Aspari. Unlike the original title – an isometric-viewed real-time strategy adventure – the new game will be a first-person shooter.The development team has changed too. While Syndicate and its sequel Syndicate Wars were developed by Peter Molyneux's now-defunct Guildford studio, Bullfrog, the new title is being handled by Starbreeze Studios, previously responsible for sci-fi action title Chronicles of Riddick and offbeat horror shooter, The Darkness.Although the gamer's perspective has changed, it seems the setting will be familiar to those who reminisce about the earlier titles. The game takes place in a 2069ad where governments have collapsed, their role taken by sinister global corporations (wait, hasn't this already happened?). According to the press release a bio-chip technology known as DART 6 allows players to slow down time to take down enemies using a range of 'upgradable hacking mechanics'. Max Payne meets Deus Ex? Don't be so cynical.Indeed, Syndicate was exploring elements such as bio-mechanical augmentation, computer hacking and cyber-terrorism back in 1993, seven years before the launch of Deus Ex.And for those scared stiff by the translation from RTS to FPS, EA has sought to provide some assurance. "It's been an amazing opportunity for us to use our expertise in the first person shooter and action genres to bring back, and reignite, the signature action/espionage gameplay of Syndicate," said Mikael Nermark, CEO of Starbreeze Studios. Jeff Gamon, EA Partners Executive Producer, chipped in with, "Fans of the franchise will recognize many weapons and environments in the game, but in a whole new way. The game also provides a separate and deep 4-player co-op mode featuring missions from the original cult classic, which adds another layer of depth to the overall experience."Lovers of classic sci-fi games have been rather spoiled recently. Deus Ex: Human Revolution has proved a worth successor to the much-loved PC series, while 2K Marin's first-person take on the legendary Xcom titles also looks interesting.The biggest challenge will to replicate Bullfrog's brilliant story-telling and its keen eye for cyberpunk details. The original titles were also fascinating for their amorality – players were neither rewarded nor penalised for gunning down civilians or destroying vast areas of real estate, reflecting the wider themes of urban nihilism and social breakdown. Fans certainly won't be appeased by a vaguely near-future shoot-'em-up with some hackneyed hacking mini-games tossed in for cyber-credentials.
Twitter's increasingly protective commercial strategy of gaining control of the third-party app-osphere starts looking a little wobbly when it comes to trademarks, registration 3699994 being the latest case in point.Twitter was apparently a little late to file for various obvious trademarks – the word "tweet" being one. The firm Twittad originally filed for "tweet" as part of its strapline "let your ad meet tweets" in July 2008, but Twitter has moved to sue the firm and attempt to have its trademark registration cancelled."The defendant's registration unfairly exploits the widespread association by the consuming public of the market 'tweet' with Twitter and threatens to block Twitter from its registration and legitimate uses of its own mark," details thelegal filing.The filing goes on to explain, rather quaintly, that prior to Twitter, "the 'tweet' mark was not generally known to the consuming public beyond its dictionary meaning relating to birdsong, and had no association with web-based social networking and communications services."Photo bymozzercorkon Flickr.Some rights reservedTechCrunch suggests that Twittad's founder James Eliason seems to be manoeuvring for Twitter to acquire the trademark. With a lawsuit under way, that doesn't seem too likely.Twitter does own "retweet" and "cotweet" among others. What this trademark battle is about though is not terminology, but about asserting control over interaction with users that ultimately leads to revenue. Would Twitter be using a lawsuit to aggressively pursue a trademark if it was being used by anything other than an advertising company?
What a difference a weekend makes. The last we heard from newly ousted Yahoo chief executive Carol Bartz was that the Yahoo board "fucked her over" but that she planned to remain on the company board because she didn't want employees to believe she had abandoned them. She then added some quip about owning lots of purple clothes.Well, four days and a $14m golden parachute later, Bartz has stepped down from the Yahoo board. I guess $14m more than compensates for any nagging feeling of commitment that she might have left the company with.The Wall Street Journal's Amir Efrati claimed the$14m estimatein a tweet that followed a detailed 'what next' story over the weekend.Bartz's severance payBartz's base salary was $1m, topped up with stock and bonuses that  totalled $47.2m for 2009 – though much of that was based on rising share prices.&nbsp;Bartz's severance package, according to aregulatory filingby Yahoo, was as per her contract: "Ms Bartz will receive severance benefits for termination without cause as provided in her employment and equity award agreements." It's the "without cause" term that denotes big compensation, according toCNN.Her contract entitles her to $3m, plus $1m-2m pro-rata for 2011, plus stock options that cash out upon termination that were worth $5.2m up to the end of 2010. Yahoo filings show her severance package for that year would have totalled $10.4m but haven't detailed how much for 2011.Photo byadactioon Flickr.Some rights reservedOn top of that, Bartz had the option of up to 5m shares at the Jan 2009 price of $11.73 and can collect most of those if Yahoo's share price reaches $17.60 and then $35.19 at target points up to December 2012 – the date her contract would have ended.It might sound impressive, but in top-flight chief executive world these kind of packages are standard. After stock options, HP'sMark Hurdleft with a package approaching $40m in 2010 - and that was after the sexual harassment accusations. His predecessor Carly Fiorina secured $42m in severance from HP despite being widely disliked. And walking away after massive redundancies and the stock market crash in 2000, Nortel's CEOFrank Dunncashed in $135m in share options.An AOL partnership?A successful outcome for Yahoo will mean more cash for Bartz. Yahoo's 'what next' basically depends on whether a sale of merger might be considered best, and the company has hired a bank to explore those  options.Most amusingly AOL – or "kiss of death" as some know it – might be one option for someform of partnershipor merger. That could either end up looking like an admission that AOL  is going down the pan as much as Yahoo, or, as is more likely, the focus is on advertising revenue and expertise where the two would complement  each other. Perhaps a little too much – we could expect scrutiny from competition regulators if a deal was to go ahead.Yahoo's concern, meanwhile, may have shifted onto chairman Roy Bostock. Daniel  Loeb of Third Point, which owns a 5.15% stake in Yahoo, wrote in a letter to Yahoo last last week that the company's board needed shaking up and called for Bostock – who had recruited Bartz and leading the rejection  ofMicrosoft's bidin 2008 – to step down.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 10 SeptemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Dead Island(18+)Xbox 360 (68)PS3 (29)PC (3)12 (–)Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine(15+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (22)PC (8)13 (2)Driver: San Francisco(12+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)Wii (2)24 (–)Resistance 3(18+)PS3 (100)15 (1)Deus Ex: Human Revolution(15+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (35)PC (6)36 (3)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (91)Xbox 360 (7)PS3 (2)247 (4)Rugby World Cup 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)38 (5)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (31)Xbox 360 (26)DS (21)PS3 (13)189 (–)Star Fox 64 3D(7+)3DS (100)110 (–)Gran Turismo 5(3+)PS3 (100)1211 (8)Cars 2(3+)DS (33)Wii (29)Xbox 360 (22)PS3 (16)812 (–)NHL 12 (16+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)113 (7)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (42)PS3 (38)PC (9)Wii (9)4114 (9)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (32)PS3 (27)PSP (13)Wii (13)5015 (11)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (39)DS (21)PS3 (19)Xbox 360 (18)2816 (10)The Sims 3(12+)PC (44)Xbox 360 (16)DS (13)Wii (13)4217 (6)Madden NFL 12 (3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (50)218 (18)Red Dead Redemption(18+)PS3 (52)Xbox 360 (48)3119 (12)Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars(7+)Xbox 360 (28)DS (23)PS3 (18)Wii (17)2220 (16)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)40UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Felix Dennis' battles with the establishment are the stuff of legend, most famously with the 1971 Oz obscenity trial, but also with the way he shook up magazine publishing with Dennis Publishing, and most recently with his emergence as a poet, to initial suspicion from the literary world.The latest establishment figure to arouse his wrath is Apple, and its now-former CEO Steve Jobs. The Guardian interviewed Dennis in the run-up to the release of theiPad app of his Tales From The Woods poetry anthology, at a point when he was wondering how to get the app into the hands of reviewers and literary friends before its debut."With a poetry book I can send 100 copies out to reviewers and other people, and even do it in advance and get their response," he says. "It's difficult with iPad: how do you send it out for free, and how do you even disseminate it before it goes into their store? I have huge issues - as does everybody - with the great difficulty of dissemination and the restrictions on distribution that Apple have introduced with their devices."Apple has a promo code that allows app publishers to send 50 free copies to reviewers every time they launch or update an app, and Dennis' PR team did use that before the launch. However, there is a strong sense that his concerns around Apple go beyond the mechanics of pre-release reviews into the wider question of its role as gatekeeper for the App Store."I know this is Apple's world and we just live in it, but we did fight a lot of battles over hundreds of years not to have one man deciding what people can disseminate," he says. "There were wars. People died! This might be Steve's world, but I think this is going to come back to haunt him." [Note: the interview took place before Jobs' resignation as Apple CEO].Dennis has been disseminating verse since 2001, when he gave his first public poetry reading, with a nationwide tour following the next year, as well as his first anthology, A Glass Half Full. Tales From The Woods is his sixth collection, published in 2010 by Ebury Press and already reprinted once in its hardback edition - a rarity for a modern poetry collection.The approving comments from critics, authors and celebrities at the start of the book is a far cry from the literary establishment reactions when he first started publishing and performing his poems."I'm an entrepreneur, a businessman. I've got a lot of money, and that doesn't go very well with the whole starving artist in a garret routine," says Dennis. "It didn't play well, and there was a certain amount of snootiness going on. But it helped to have one or two champions early on: people like Stephen Fry, Melvin Bragg and Robert Wood at the Wordsworth Trust."Besides his six volumes of poetry, Dennis has his own website where hundreds more unpublished poems are housed, and proudly reveals that the Bodleian Library is archiving the site's contents regularly to keep a permanent record. He's not worried about the unfinished nature of some of these poems. "It's giving readers the opportunity to look over the poet's shoulder into his notebook," he says.Now there's the iPad app for Tales From The Woods, which launches at an auspicious time for poetry on the App Store – Faber's iPad app for T.S. Eliot's The Waste Land recently topped charts around the world and earned back its costs in less than two months."It will be interesting to see just how new poetry is going to fare as an app," he says, before enthusing about the multimedia features of the new application, which include audio and video performances."Every now and again, you find one of these arrows pointing downwards, and there I am on stage reading the damn poem!" he says. "I think the audio feature is really well done, and there is music with many of the poems too."The Tales From The Woods app includes text, audio and videoHow does Dennis feel about apps more generally? He happily admits that he doesn't carry a mobile device himself, describing this state as "the last luxury in the 21st century", although he's keen to stress that he keeps apace with new technology."The reason I don't carry a mobile phone is I don't want people to know where I am!" he laughs. "People think I'm just an old Luddite, but that's untrue. I buy every new gizmo as it comes out, play with it until I understand how it works, and then give it away."Dennis has strong views on the apps and mobile device market, though: specifically that the people making both tend to concentrate too much on younger, more tech-savvy people.Dennis claims that even the "very clever people" working for his magazine company are unwilling to discuss this issue, but thinks there is a gaping hole in the market for someone willing to make a device aimed at older people."If you want to make a fortune, produce a thing like the iPad, make it very light, and preload it with stuff that people over 65 and 70 years old want to see: web addresses, apps, anything you want," he says."Make the buttons absolutely huge and only have a few of them, and put that on the market at 100 quid for people to buy their grandmothers. You would sell millions! My mother is 93, and if there was an app on a machine that she could see properly showing all the houses that have been sold for 100 miles around, she'd be on it night and day..."There have been mobile phones aimed at older people, so it is surely only a matter of time before someone takes up Dennis' challenge.In the meantime, what about that magazine company with clever young people making apps? Dennis says that Dennis Publishing's "low-to-non existent debt" and roster of lucrative brands is giving it the chance to experiment, building a team to build apps for some of its key titles.He says that the car magazine Evo's iPad app is doing well, while its technology-focused stablemate has been downloaded more than 200,000 times. Dennis Publishing also launched Padder in July 2011, which is described as "an iPad magazine app for the iPad on the iPad about the iPad", which has so far published three issues available as in-app purchases.Padder is Dennis Publishing's iPad mag-app about the iPad itselfNext up: an iOS app for The Week, one of the company's most popular brands. The app will be based on the print edition rather than its US website, and will be free to access for existing subscribers, with issues sold in-app to other people."It's a very beautiful thing, I'm really interested to see how well it does," says Dennis. "It has taken us a long time to agree in a consensual way about what should be on this website, and what should be on the app. I'm not going to pretend it's not been fraught, but we have a really great plan now."Dennis is also enthusiastic about the way sponsorship will work within the app, but warns that it will reflect the same editorial-first attitude of the print edition of The Week. "If you pick up any issue of The Week, there are 35 pages of editorial every issue, and they only allow a certain number of pages of ads," says Dennis."I don't want to irritate my readers: it's by far the most subscribed-to magazine in Britain in terms of paid subscriptions. I've always said that I love our advertisers and they're very welcome to the party: but I'm not throwing this party for them."This interview took place before the release of theViz Profanisaurus iPhone app, which went live on the App Store in early September.  At the time Apps Blog spoke to Dennis, the app was finished but had yet to be approved by Apple."I know it's going to be hugely popular," he says. "It's not a dictionary, which is what everybody forgets. It's the longest-standing joke apart from Mornington Crescent, and it's all made up by readers. I think people are going to be getting this app out in the pub after they've had a few drinks."Apple's approval of the app headed off the risk of a public argument with Dennis about censorship on its App Store, which in the context of his career so far, would certainly have been interesting to watch."If they turn it down, then I'm going to war," says Dennis. "There are laws in this country. No one is going to argue that this is pornography…"Thankfully, Apple didn't argue that either. The Profanisaurus app sailed through its approval process, as did Tales From The Woods.
Over the years, the video games industry has done zombies to death. So any new game that promises a new take on the theme of the shuffling undead ought to be welcome.Dead Island's approach is to turn a zombie infestation into an action-RPG, along similar lines to Fallout 3. Set on the fictional pacific Island of Banoi, it begins the morning after a heavy party at a previously idyllic resort hotel, with shocked survivors realising that the vast majority of their peers have been zombified overnight.So far, so survival-horror: the game genre most synonymous with zombies. But as you gather with a small, motley band in a beach hut, you soon realise it's first-principles stuff: you must use whatever comes to hand – oars, planks of wood, baseball bats and so on – to beat off the putrefying horde.But it's clearly an RPG from the off. You pick one of four characters according to their specialisation – knives, leadership, power or all-round abilities – and must carefully develop their skills or you won't prosper in the game's increasingly frenetic latter stages. Dispatching zombies and completing missions earns you experience points (XP), the accumulation of which causes you to level up pretty frequently.There's a complex upgrade tree. Each ability has three levels, and you must fully upgrade one ability in each division of the tree to unlock the next layer of abilities. One part of the tree governs your Fury ability; as you go about your business of slashing or battering rotting ex-humans to bits, you build up a rage meter, which can be cashed in for a short period when you go berserk, taking out anything within range.The available abilities are diverse, from increasing your likelihood of pulling off critical strikes with different weapons, via lock-picking, to increasing your stamina or becoming resistant to fire. As you meet more challenging zombies, the Fury comes increasingly into play.Dead Island hedges its bets as far as the constantly raging debate about just how shambling zombies should be is concerned. It features several different types of the undead: bog-standard walkers move slowly and are unlikely to land a punch on you; the so-called infected rush at you, thus can land devastating punches and take a lot of damage; hideously mutated suiciders explode if they get near you; and tanks in straitjackets charge you, necessitating sidesteps, but tend to run into things and stun themselves.Dispatching them is deeply satisfying. The game lets you slice heads clean off or smash them to a pulp, and you can disable swinging arms by breaking them. Careful aiming (Dead Island takes a first-person viewpoint) is essential, as is timing.There is a proviso, though: Dead Island is determined not to let you forget that it's an RPG, so if you're expecting the combat slickness you'd find in a shooter, you'll be disappointed.You have to work hard for your zombie-splattering satisfaction. Blindly flailing a club or slashing a knife will cause your stamina to run out, so it's important to master the kick (especially with onrushing zombies), which has no cost to your stamina. Once you get a zombie on the ground, it's at your full mercy.Weapons wear out quickly and become almost useless, but can be repaired at workbenches – which also let you improvise new weapons. You find blueprints which, say, teach you how to make electrified weapons, or turn knives into sticky bombs.The path to the most satisfying zombie-dicing on offer is through such homespun implements but, annoyingly, weapons become fearsomely expensive to repair (there's plenty of money to be looted from dead zombies, bins, suitcases and drawers) as you swiftly get attached to the better ones. Guns appear when you encounter the first human enemies, and are handy for taking out suiciders and thugs from a distance, but don't play an enormous part in the game.Thanks to the sort of non-linear, open-world path through the game, with innumerable side-quests, that RPG aficionados demand, Dead Island's single-player experience is pretty meaty, and it can be played co-operatively by up to four people. Teaming up with others who have different skills to you adds a welcome twist to the game.A sour note is introduced, though, by occasional bugginess, but at least a patch is available to fix that. Any true RPG fan will be well aware that such games (Fallout New Vegas being a classic example) are rarely bug-free, but can still be great fun.If you value polish and smoothness in your games above all else, you'd be best advised to steer clear of Dead Island. But if you crave wickedly satisfying zombie-dismemberment, a full, deliciously time-wasting RPG experience and a depiction of a zombie infestation which rings surprisingly true, Dead Island should float your boat.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
This Sunday'sUntangling the Webcolumn calculates the psycho-social age of the 21-year old Web. How has it matured since it first arrived online? Is it still running around in diapers or is it in the throes of a mid-life crisis? Are the debates about Internet regulation working through the balance between self-expression and responsibility that we seek in early childhood, or are they part of an adolescent strop?I'll be delving into my oldDevelopmental Psychologycourse notes for this one, dusting the cognitive cobwebs off theorists likeErik EriksonandJean Piaget, and others.If you have any ideas about this week's topic, send them toaleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.uk, comment below, or tweet me@alekskwith #uttw and #lifestages.Follow the progress of the article and all the background research on the officialUntangling the Web Tumblr.
A burst of 16 apps for your considerationNoel Gallagher's High Flying BirdsNow solo, Noel Gallagher is preparing for the release of his High Flying Birds project's first album in October. An official app has gone live for iPhone and Android in advance, with music clips, videos, news and social features.iPhone / AndroidTales From The WoodsFelix Dennis might be one of the more famous media entrepreneurs in the UK, but he's also a poet, having garnered critical acclaim and impressive sales for his published collections. Tales From The Woods is the latest, which has been turned into an iPad app with audio and video readings.iPadLive RugbyFollowing the rugby World Cup? The Live Rugby Android app is one of the most impressive apps we've seen to stay in touch with what's going on in New Zealand, not least because it taps into data from Opta. As the name implies, there is live commentary and stats on matches as they are played.AndroidHelga DeenHelga Deen is an iPad graphic novel based on the true story of a Jewish schoolgirl in Holland, who kept a diary during the Second World War before being deported and killed. Director Dario Picciau and writer Roberto Malini created the book, and then worked with White Mouse Publishing to turn it into this app with animation and sound effects.iPadOrbitalNothing to do with the legendary techno boffins: this is an Android port of one of the most addictive iPhone puzzle-action games, Orbital. Scoring points by tapping glowing orbs on the screen sounds simple, but it's famously moreish.AndroidNatWestNatWest has launched a mobile banking app for BlackBerry smartphones, enabling account holders to check balances and recent transactions, transfer money between their accounts and find their nearest cash machine or branch. People need an online banking account to use it.BlackBerryRBSRoyal Bank of Scotland also has a new BlackBerry app, released alongside the NatWest version. The features are the same.BlackBerryTeen Vogue SnapshotTeen Vogue magazine has launched a new iPhone app that aims to get its readers taking photos of their "personal style" and sending them in. One girl will be chosen every day as the best-dressed, but there are also photo competitions and social features.iPhoneJNL Fusion for Google TVJNL Fusion is one of the first apps we've seen go live on Google's Android Market for the Google TV platform, meaning it will run on Android-capable set-top boxes. It's a fitness app, offering workouts for upper and lower body, abs and glutes. "Bubble out your booty, get lean legs, and a tightened tush..."Android (TV)UNFoundationThe UN Foundation's mobile app aims to provide information on what the United Nations Foundation is up to around the world, from children's health initiatives to schemes relating to climate change and technology in the developing world.iPhoneRoamzCurrently in invite-only beta, Roamz is the latest location app that shows "what's happening around you by showing you social content about places, events and activities". The data comes from Facebook, Foursquare, Instagram and Twitter.iPhoneCapture the Flag – by SnaprToday is clearly a day for new location-based apps. Snapr is a photo-sharing service, but its new spin-off is more of a location-based photo game. Players are divided into teams based on nationality or interests, and then have to shoot photos of specific places, getting bonus points for sharing them on various social services.iPhoneTigatagTigatag is interesting: its beta Android app has just gone live with very little details. However, the company's website says it's "a platform for playing social games with your friends and the people around you, using information from other social networking sites like Foursquare, Gowalla, Twitter, and Facebook."AndroidFribiFreecycle has become hugely popular for people wanting to shift and/or blag free stuff once it's not needed any more. Fribi is (sort of) an iPhone equivalent, using location features to see what's being given away nearby, while using the camera to post photos and info on the items you want rid of.iPhoneISMS: A Faery Mobster StoryThis is described as "a children's book for adults", with visuals from artist Kevin Bertazzon and narration from horror author Peter Atkins.iPadGolliwogGolliwog? There's an app for that? Really?iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple's co-founder Ron Wayne on its genesis, his exit and the company's future &gt;&gt; The Next WebLong-forgotten Apple co-founder Ron Wayne on Jobs and Wozniak: "Soon as he came in, I knew that Jobs was right and I had to persuade Wozniak. I laid it out for him, Wozniak recognised that it was a core element of Apple and not something he could use in competitive fields. Jobs was taken with my diplomacy as a philosophical tiebreaker and said that we should start a company with Jobs and Wozniak taking a 45% share each and me with 10%. At that moment I got on a typewriter and typed up the complete original contract which kind of impressed Steve Wozniak particularly, that I would use all the right language and all the right things - I had done enough formal contracts in my life. I was 40 years old and these kids were in their twenties. I put these things together to make it work."Ultrabook: Intel's $300m plan to beat Apple at its own game &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"My desktop isn't the only computer I plan to replace in the next few months. I need a new laptop too, and my goal is simple: to find a 13" MacBook Air that isn't made by Apple."It turns out that I'm not the only one wanting this mythical non-Apple MacBook Air. Intel wants them too--it calls them Ultrabooks. The chip company has been kicking the Ultrabook idea around for a few months now, and it has grand ambitions: by the end of next year, it wants 40% of PC laptops to be Ultrabooks."To which end it has a $300m fund to "invest in companies that are working to build that kind of hardware - ultrathing, rapid boot, metal case, long battery life, long standby time.But as the article shows (and other analysts agree) that's not so easy. A really good examination of why the PC OEM business can do some things really well, but others far less well.Carol Bartz resigns from Yahoo board &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Carol Bartz on Friday resigned from Yahoo Inc.'s board, a person familiar with the matter said, three days after the Internet company's board fired her from her post as chief executive."The company previously said it expected her to resign from the board seat."Ms. Bartz's resignation from the board caps a drama-filled week for the 16-year-old Yahoo, whose independent directors ousted Ms. Bartz after 32 months on the job amid middling financial results and a stagnant stock price."On Twitter, @fakecarolbartz's comment: "Tim Morse smells."The new Apple advantage &gt;&gt; Daring FireballLooks at the supply chain and its effects. "Apple needs larger quantities of fewer different components to manufacture the same number of computers as other companies. It's not just the economies of scale that all companies get when they sell 3 or 4 million laptops in a quarter -- it's greater, because Apple's 3 or 4 million laptops sold share a larger number of the exact same components."This advantage is more pronounced with iOS devices. In four years, Apple has gone from not being in the phone business to reaping a majority of the handset industry's worldwide profits. Yet they make only two phones -- the iPhone 4 and 3GS."Makes you think, doesn't it?Browser Incorrect &gt;&gt; BlackBerry App World"BlackBerry App World"Get apps designed for your smartphone"Notice: This web page uses ActiveX controls that work only in Microsoft Internet Explorer. To ensure that BlackBerry App World is correctly downloaded to your BlackBerry, this site is not designed to work with any other Internet browsers. If you cannot use Internet Explorer, you may be able to download the software directly to your BlackBerry smartphone."Obviously, you won't see that if you go to it with Internet Explorer.Octopress framework &gt;&gt; Octopress"Octopress is a framework designed by Brandon Mathis for Jekyll, the blog aware static site generator powering Github Pages. To start blogging with Jekyll, you have to write your own HTML templates, CSS, Javascripts and set up your configuration. But with Octopress All of that is already taken care of. Simply clone or fork Octopress, install dependencies and the theme, and you're set."HTML5-ready, mobile-ready, built-in third-party support for Twitter, Google Plus, Pinboard, Google Analytics and others. Interesting?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Hey, wehay, it's Monday! Yeah! Come on, let's sing about games! Not chat, sing!
Dominic Williams has a noisy, vigorous weapon in his battle to take on the mighty kingdom of Moshi Monsters: he has four sons under the age of 10. The hugely successful Moshi gaming network might have reached 50 million users, spawned countless merchandising spinoffs and be expanding into TV, but it has also created a new market where there's yet more monster-based potential, says Williams.The lesson from the rough and tumble at home is that Moshi Monsters and rival Club Penguin are just too feminine and sweet – so Williams has spent a year creatingFightMyMonster.com. "Boys want more of a game than a social environment, with a bit of push and shove and more competition – an extension of what boys do offline," he says.Rather than compare the site to Moshi, Williams thinks there are closer parallels to cult Japanese animation franchise Pokemon or Yu-Gi-Oh!, a card-trading game so complex that kids have used its characters to invent their own, simpler games. FightMyMonster's game dynamics are based around trading, collecting and fighting monsters, much like a digital version of football card trading.It's certainly more visceral than Moshi, with players facing the humiliation of their monsters being eaten if they lose a fight, and having to assemble their monsters from various body parts. Players have to fight each other and complete mini-games to earn "nuggets" of money. The basic game is free, but a fixed paid subscription of £4.95 a month (via a parent's credit card) buys advantages including a monster generator and monster insurance.Williams claims the site recently added 25,000 new users in a weekend. The number of registered users – 90% in the UK – is approaching 250,000, each spending an average of 30 minutes per visit. There are just five core staff, and until an angel round that included serial  investor Dylan Collins, Williams had self-funded the site. This time next year the staff will have grown to 12."Boys aged seven to 12 are a commercially lucrative demographic," says Collins. "But online, boys fragment into lots of locations." Moshi has shown that one "transmedia" brand can span a game, TV, mobile, merchandise and a social site.Acutely aware of the need to keep its young users safe, FightMyMonster avoided usernames and passwords – instead developing a unique symbol-based login; one could be "bomb, smiley, cat, spider". It means that if a child's password is discovered it can't be tried on other, more revealing sites, such as Bebo or Facebook. FMM also uses parents to moderate the space – a strategy that Williams says is more scalable than using community managers. A parents' centre lets them read all their children's communication with other players, including instant chat. "As a parent you have responsibilities in the real world, so you should have a role online too. When we started the parents' centre we were terrified kids wouldn't want parents watching them, but we've not had a single piece of feedback to that effect."The site's biggest problem seems to be prioritising what to do next. TV production companies have already approached the site, recognising that characters from games such as FMM need to be created early on in a way that makes them work for TV. Mobile has huge potential for the game, where location-based events such as rain could trigger in-game missions. An iPad edition is also important because it would take advantage of video sharing."This generation is willing to embrace so much more," says Collins. "They are the first generation who'll go straight on to a game like this, but what will happen when they get older, and how will the game follow them?" That means that Fast Eddy the dealer, Grod the God and FightMyMonster's helpful animated gorilla could all be around for some time – not least on a TV screen near you.
Thomas L Friedman, theNew York Times's foreign affairs columnist, is an engaging master of the pithy half-truth. He once famously observed, for example, that two countries which had significant networks of McDonald's franchises would never go to war again, because an addiction to Big Macs signified the existence of a significant middle class with too much to lose from casual hostilities. In a subsequent book with the provocative titleThe World Is Flathe updated the thesis to the proposition that two countries with manufacturing industries which were part of the supply chain of giant companies such as Apple, Toyota, Dell and Cisco could no longer afford go to war with each other either.Friedman is a significant figure because his pulpit on theNYTenables him subliminally to insert ideas into the collective unconscious of America's ruling elite. Which is whysomething he wrote recentlyneeds to be challenged. "If we want to bring down unemployment in a sustainable way," he wrote, "neither rescuing General Motors nor funding more road construction will do it. We need to create a big bushel of new companies – fast. We've got to get more Americans working again for their own dignity… Good-paying jobs don't come from bailouts. They come from startups."When Samuel Johnson was asked how he would refute Bishop Berkeley's philosophical proposition about the non-existence of matter, he famously kicked a stone and said: "I refute it thus!" Not having a convenient stone, I pick up the nearest object that lies to hand. It's an iPhone. "Designed by Apple in California", it says on the back. "Assembled in China".Now of course it's a long time since Apple was a startup, but the iPhone still refutes Friedman's hypothesis. And it applies with even greater force to startups – a point that Andy Grove, the former CEO of Intel, made recently in aforceful article. "Friedman is wrong," says Grove. "Startups are a wonderful thing, but they cannot by themselves increase tech employment. Equally important is what comes after that mythical moment of creation in the garage, as technology goes from prototype to mass production. This is the phase where companies scale up. They work out design details, figure out how to make things affordably, build factories, and hire people by the thousands. Scaling is hard work but necessary to make innovation matter."The scaling process is no longer happening in the US. And as long as that's the case, ploughing capital into young companies that build their factories elsewhere will continue to yield a bad return in terms of American jobs."He's right. And it applies not only to the US but to every industrialised country whose government fantasises that new high-tech businesses are the key to industrial renewal. Startups do create good jobs in their countries of origin, but only for relatively small numbers of highly qualified people. That's why – as Andy Grove points out – the unemployment rate in Silicon Valley is actuallyhigherthan the US national average.Which is where ideology enters the picture. Evangelists for the twin doctrines of globalisation and maximising shareholder value simply shrug their shoulders at this point. The fact that manufacturing jobs have moved to China, they say, is just a fact of life, an economic version of Newton's first law.But actually it's not a fact of life: it's an ideologically driven choice. This emerged graphically ina recent TV discussion between CNN's Candy Crowley and Jim Hoffa, boss of the teamsters' union. Hoffa startled his interviewer by launching into an attack on Apple for sitting on its $78bn cash mountain and not spending it in the US. When the interviewer pointed out, mildly, that Apple was allowed to do that, Hoffa responded: "But they are not doing anything with it. And instead of investing here, everything they do is in China or is in Asia somewhere.""It's cheaper there," explained the interviewer, at which point Hoffa exploded. "But don't they have an obligation to America to build it in America, to put people to work?" he said. "I think the president should challenge the patriotism of these American corporations that are sitting on the sidelines saying, why do we have high unemployment but I am not going to hire anybody? You know, they have an obligation just like the federal government, just like Obama. We have all got to get into the game. And I don't see that happening. So the trillions and billions of dollars that they have on the sidelines, they have money, Pfizer and General Electric, they have trillions of dollars overseas, let's start repatriating that money. Let's start a programme to get America going again."Now of course Hoffa is a union boss and he would say that, wouldn't he. But the point he raises is nevertheless sobering. Not only is patriotism a completely outmoded concept for major technology companies, but so also is the idea that these corporations have any wider social responsibility to the societies which provide them with the skilled and educated people who make them so innovative and profitable. Welcome to Tom Friedman's flat world.
While sales of mobile games are soaring, the degree of originality often appears to be diminishing. For every novel approach to small-screen gaming, there's a thousand clones of the big genres – hurling and defending, basically. So, when RedLynx attempted a fresh spin on the racing sim in 2009, they were rightly congratulated.Two years later andDrawRace 2builds upon that impressive start to create a near flawless driving experience.Tailored specifically for a touch screen, unlike so many of the petrol-based offerings out there, you steer the car by drawing the racing line on to the track before the start. The line is thicker when drafted slower, edging round corners for example, and thinner as you speed down the straights. It provides a novel yet effective simulation, combining the racing genre with the phenomenally successfulFlight Controlgame mechanics.This formula has been finessed in the sequel with the addition of a turbo boost button, which charges as your car brakes, allowing for more involvement as the races are actually played out. Beware though – a boost at the wrong moment will send the car off the drawn line and out of the podium positions. The graphics have been improved, taking advantage of the added heft in Apple's devices, and with a plethora of single player challenges, a pass-the-iPad multiplayer option in addition to well crafted online options, this could well be the must-have app of the year.
If it got nothing else right,Resistance 3would deserve praise for its wonderful mise-en-scène. The game opens on a small Oklahoma settlement in a world ravaged by an extraterrestrial virus, just as "death squads" of alien chimera arrive to wipe out the remnants of humanity – and it's an astonishingly convincing, immersive setting. Sudden squalls whip up dirt and detritus, as harsh sunlight filters through gaps in boarded windows of derelict buildings. Outside, a parched gulch twists past a field of dead crops. It's an inhospitable environment even before the dropships descend, leaving clouds of dust and grit to obscure the ruthless invaders they deposit.After the militaristic action of its predecessors, this third game in the shooter series opts to tell a more intimate story, a small-scale tale of survival against impossible odds. Often there's no choice between flight and fight, as, ill-equipped to deal with towering mechanical foes, players must simply sprint for safety. Combat can be attritional but is frequently exhilarating, as the stakes seem higher: these refugees are fighting not to win, but to live. That players can no longer recharge health by simply hiding and waiting adds further tension, forcing risky dashes across open ground for the salve to heal their wounds.Thereafter, the game takes players on a journey to New York, hero (and Hugh Jackman lookalike) Joseph Capelli has the task of escorting the Russian scientist, Malikov, who has a idea to derail the chimeran plans for total global domination.Apart from one quiet, reflective moment, the script is a muddle of cliché and trite dialogue, but the action skilfully blends full-blooded shootouts in narrow corridors with more expansive set-pieces, culminating in a thrilling showdown in a frozen Central Park. The set dressing is often remarkable, proving that the medium is a splendid visual storyteller, even as it fumbles with narrative.There are missteps here: one particular plot detour provides a shocking story beat, but is otherwise a nonsensical change of direction. And, as Capelli's arsenal increases, so chimera tactics grow ever cheaper, an abundance of enemy snipers and rocket-launchers making for an unnecessarily punishing final act. Otherwise, Insomniac's trilogy ends on a high note – and with a substantial multiplayer portion to bolster what is comfortably the strongestResistancecampaign, this will do very nicely until the big guns ofBattlefieldandCall of Dutyrumble into view.
Dead Island'szombie-bashing action may have plentiful failings, but they disguise the beauty beneath its rotting carcass. Having cast you as a holidaymaker trapped on a tourist paradise turned hell by an undead epidemic,Dead Islandquickly reveals itself to be stylistically rather clumsy, lacking any kind of grace with regard to narrative or presentation. The voice acting and character design is poor, and the game's appetite for awkward sensationalism is less than appealing.And yet, despite all that, the game at the core of this title is particularly enjoyable. Focusing the player on scavenging the limb-strewn remains of the former utopia of Banoi for improvised weapons and ways to survive, it centres largely on first-person, close-quarters combat that boasts a simple, raw quality too often polished away and homogenised in modern action games.To paintDead Islandas some kind of digital equivalent to a charismatic B-movie would be too kind. Its shortcomings are not kitsch or charming, and this hammy dialogue will certainly not grant it cult status, but the fact remains that the gameplay itself, backed up by a tidy quests structure, is highly entertaining. Proceed with caution then, but don't writeDead Islandoff altogether as a destination for escapism.
Price: £135,760Miles per gallon: 17.1Top speed: 198mphWhat do you do when you see a&nbsp;sweating man changing the foot-wide punctured tyre of a Bentley Continental GT in the rain? You smile, of course, then drive past and inhale that most satisfying aroma – rank schadenfreude. Well, last weekend, on the busy A429, that man in the rain was me. To make the most of my time with the new GT, I'd taken it on a mini Grand Tour, up through the Cotswolds then back in a long lazy loop to London. I'd spent several happy hours powering past small fry and practising my look of haughty disdain. But then, to my horror, I&nbsp;plunged into a gaping pothole. A&nbsp;sickening thump was followed by the unmistakable slapping sound of a flat tyre. Worse was to come. The skinny spare has a limit of only 50mph, so I spent the day inching the 200mph supercar back home. The final insult was added when I was flashed doing 48 in a 40 just miles from London. Oh the perfect irony…The Bentley Continental GT is enormous – it weighs in at an immodest 2.3 tonnes. The bonnet stretches into the horizon. Peering forward you can only hazard a guess where your four corners are. And yet, despite its awesome scale, it's the little things that win you over. The steering wheel is heated. The air vents are controlled by organ-stop chrome knobs. You can press a button to remind yourself of not only the air pressure in each tyre (zero in the front left), but which set of wheels you're driving on – the 20in, the 21in or the winter wheels. The boot is opened by lightly brushing the "B" on the rear badge. The boot and doors are self-closing and, let's be honest, having to shut things can be a real fag. Best of all is the fact that when you sink into your fat-man's driving seat, a small arm passes you your seat belt. Heaven forbid you might have to reach over your own shoulder.If the Conti GT were a person it could well be Michael Winner. It is larger than life, brazen, unapologetic and quintessentially English – yet despite its shortcomings inspires great affection. It is packed with contradictions: it's hugely overweight yet boasts graceful lines and dances round corners; it is conservative yet technically ahead of its time; it is one of the most glamorous marques in the world, yet it is built in Crewe. But, channelling its inner Michael Winner, the Bentley doesn't hide this fact – it rejoices in it. Every vehicle has a metal plate screwed to the door with the words: "Handcrafted by Bentley Motors Ltd, Crewe, England."This most recent model of the Continental GT now comes with a&nbsp;revolutionary six-speed auto gearbox that reduces shift times by 50%. The monumental 6-litre twin-turbo W12 engine has been uprated and now puts out a heroic 567bhp. The car features active air suspension, so it raises and lowers itself to improve its aerodynamics.All this indulgence brings with it a&nbsp;certain amount of pain. And that pain is felt most acutely when watching the fuel-consumption figure. You feel like cheering when the figure jumps from 4.3 to 4.4 miles per gallon. Admittedly that was in nasty start-stop traffic – on the open road it was managing an average of about 21mpg – the official combined figure is a pitiful 17.1mpg. And that's surely enough to bring a blush even to the cheek of Michael Winner…Green Flash: the EcoVelocity ShowToday is the last day of the EcoVelocity (ecovelocity.co.uk) show. Set in the iconic grounds of Battersea Power Station, EcoVelocity is not your usual motor show. This outdoor motoring festival brings to life a new world of motoring for prospective buyers that are keen to experience the latest in eco-transport or just a great fun and interactive day out for those that just fancy coming along for the ride. You can also test drive the latest low-carbon cars and motorcycles around a specially designed track. Among the stars of the show have been the first UK public outing for the new Kia Rio hatchback, part of the Korean manufacturer's environmentally-conscious EcoDynamic range. The new Rio is set to be the cleanest non-electric vehicle in the world, emitting just 85g/km CO2 and doing 88.3mpg. Elsewhere, Hyundai's ix35 Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle will also be making its UK debut and you'll be able to be among the first in the world to travelling in a hydrogen-powered car. Please note that you will require to bring and show&nbsp;both parts of your drivers licence to test drive any of the vehicles at EcoVelocity. Tickets cost £10 for adults and £5 for children.The What Car? Green ParadeWhile at the show you'll also be able to see the full line-up of WhatCar?'s Annual Green Car Awards. The leading car magazine this week named the Vauxhall Ampera as its Green Car of the Year for 2011. The magazine's editor-in-chief Chas Hallett said: "The Vauxhall Ampera represents a massive step for alternative-fuel cars. It offers all the benefits of owning an electric vehicle with virtually none of the drawbacks. It gives motorists the ability to dramatically reduce their emissions without changing their lifestyle, which is exactly what green cars need to do." Other car's of note were Kia Picanto's 1.0 Air which won top green supermini, while the award for best green small family car went to Volkswagen for the Golf Bluemotion. Ford's Mondeo picked up the green family car prize, and the BMW 3 Series 318d was named best green executive car. Renault's Scénic picked up the award for best green MPV. SUVs continue to be popular with consumers, and the green SUV award went to Peugeot for the 3008 2.0 HDi Hybrid4, the world's first production diesel hybrid. The British-built Mini 1.6D Cooper picked up the fun car award, and in the process proved that being green doesn't mean waving goodbye to driving enjoyment.And finallyThe UK's first electric hearse has just been released. Steven Cousins, founder of Brahms Electric Vehicles, says that the plug-in electric hearse offers funeral directors a real green choice. "Electricity is a natural solution for this sector," he explains. "The hearse needs a smooth ride at speeds less than 30 miles an hour for relatively short journeys. This makes it ideally suited to electricity." It's also quite and silence is clearly important during a funeral. What next? Will we use the heat generated from the cremation to recharge the batteries?
We have become accustomed to Nintendo filling a new handheld's early months with ports of its old games, which are often compromised:Super Mario 64DS's controls;Ocarina Of Time'ssave system. However, in revisiting 1997 space shooterStar Fox 64, Nintendo appear to have finally mastered the remaster.Star Fox 64 3Dis, in fact, better-suited to 3DS than it was to the N64. Its depiction of Fox McCloud and sidekicks on a journey through space makes for one of the most thrilling uses of 3D the system has yet seen, and the gyroscope can be used as the principal means of control or for fine movements when flying using the circle pad.Its bite-size action, with levels that can be completed in a few minutes but contain hidden paths and other secrets, suits a handheld and, together with a focus on high scores, inspires repeat play. Multiplayer, while local only, offers support for four players with just one copy of the game. It may be primarily of interest to those that fondly recall the N64 original but this is also strongly recommended for newcomers keen to see what Nintendo was like before balance boards andBrain Training.
Look at the picture. Not the main one, the little one below, the detail of the dashboard. Anything strike you as odd? You'll notice I'm travelling at a smidgen over 60, but&nbsp;that's OK, I'm on the A1. I didn't take the picture, officer; Dan in the front passenger seat did, with his phone. Look at the middle, the diagram of what the satnav is telling me to do; it's instructing me to take a short cut on the roundabout, by going roundthe wrong way.Sure, I might shave a couple of seconds off my journey, save a teaspoonful of fuel. But chances are, given that this is theGreat North Road, I'll meet an articulated lorry coming the other way. In shortthis car is trying to kill me. And Dan. And Kat in the back, who's pregnant.It happens a few times on our trip back to London from the Norfolk coast. Not always – sometimes it tells us to go round roundabouts the right way, clockwise. Which makes me think that it is isn't a mistake and the car hasn't simply forgotten it's not in Germany. It really is trying to catch us out andkill us.I can't pretend I'm not pleased this is happening. And not just because it gives me the chance to use my expert knowledge of the British Highway Code to outfox the car. It also gives me something to write about. Without it, frankly, I'd be struggling.The new A6 is an excellent car, without being a particularly interesting one. It doesn't look very&nbsp;different from the previous model, but there are several improvements – especially in fuel consumption and CO2emissions (excellent for a posh car of this size)&nbsp;in this two-litre diesel model. To drive it won't set your heart racing, but there are sportier models&nbsp;that will, if you don't give a stuff about the environment or how much you pay for a tax disc.Inside it's classy in an understated Teutonic way, but there are still enough toys to keep Dan amused, and it smells pleasingly of leather. If I were an MD or a CEO of a medium-sized company I'd get one of these instead of BMW 5 Series or an E Class Merc because, being front-wheel drive, it wouldn't leave me stranded by the side of the road on the one day a year it snows.I'm not an MD or a CEO, though, I'm just a man in the middle of a midlife crisis, and there's plenty of room in the cavernous boot for three people's kitesurfing equipment (Kat doesn't let a little thing like pregnancy get in the way of adrenaline sports). At the beach car park I bump into Giles, who I haven't seen since we went to the same school. No, of course I don't tell him the big black Audi isn't mine. I wish it were, to be honest. If&nbsp;it&nbsp;didn't keeptrying to kill me.Audi A6 2.0 TDIPrice£30,145Acceleration0-62 in 8.7 secondsTop speed141mphAcceleration0-62 in 8.7 secondsAverage consumption57.6mpgCO2emissions129g/kmEco rating7In two wordsRemember: clockwise!
AOL and Yahoo, fallen giants of the first age of the internet, are reportedly discussing a merger. The news comes after Yahoo axed chief executive Carol Bartz earlier this week.AOL's chief executive Tim Armstrong has approached Yahoo's advisers to gauge its interest in combining the companies, Bloomberg reported. Armstrong has reportedly approached investment bankers from Allen &amp; Co. who are working with Yahoo.Yahoo announced this week that it was conducting "a comprehensive strategic review" after the decision to fire Bartz. She had been brought in to turn the company around but, while she cut costs by firing staff, she failed to grow Yahoo's huge but dwindling business.Armstrong reportedly teamed up with several private equity firms to make an approach to Yahoo last year but was rebuffed by Bartz. Yahoo was courted by Microsoft in 2008 but rejected a $47.5bn (£30bn) offer. The firm was worth $80bn in its heyday and is now worth just over $17bn.The firm is being outpaced by Google and Facebook but remains the most visited web portal in the US.AOL, once the hottest name on the internet, is valued at $1.68bn and has lost almost $800m since it was spun off from Time Warner in 2009 as its lucrative dial-up internet access business has dried up.Armstrong has tried to rebuild the business by buying content companies in the hope of building an attractive audience for advertisers. In February, AOL bought Huffington Post, one of the US's most visited news sites.The talks come in a week of controversy for both firms. Bartz gave an angry interview to Fortune after being ousted, calling Yahoo's board "doofuses" and claiming they had "fucked me over".AOL faced its own controversy after sacking Michael Arrington, founder of the influential TechCrunch blog that the company bought last year.Arrington has set up an investment fund in which AOL is a major backer. The fund will target tech startups, TechCrunch's area of interest. AOL reacted in a confused manner to criticism that there was a conflict of interest between the fund and the blog's editorial independence. First, it denied any conflict, then said Arrington would not work for TechCrunch, then pushed him out.Despite their downward trajectory, AOL and Yahoo remain huge players online and any merger is likely to trigger regulatory scrutiny.AOL and Yahoo declined to comment.
Vodafone, the mobile phone giant, opened a research and development centre in Silicon Valley on Friday, hoisting a British flag at the heart of the US technology industry.Based in Redwood City, Vodafone Xone will provide a test lab for local technology companies wanting to trial products on its network before taking them to market. The unit will employ 20.It will also act as an incubator, for up to 24 startups at a time, with a team of Vodafone professionals will be on hand to offer advice on such matters as managing a business, how the network is built, consumer electronics, payment mechanisms and data analysis.Trials will take place on a fully functional replica of Vodafone's global networks, and there will be connections into its actual European networks and those of Verizon, the US mobile carrier in which the British group owns a 45% stake.Vodafone Ventures, the company's venture capital arm, will also relocate to Redwood City to keep a close eye on companies emerging from the Xone.The initiative follows the dramatic reorganisation unveiled earlier this week by O2-owner Telefónica, which said it would concentrate its digital operations in London amid signs that the European mobile carriers are beginning to stir themselves.Compared to Vodafone's move, Telefónica's decision was far more daring putting one of its most senior executives, European chief Matthew Key, in charge of a "digital unit" whose purpose is to gee-up R&amp;D and the development of alternative business models.What the UK's Vodafone and Spain's Telefónica and its rivals need most is to maintain momentum, avoiding the future some are mapping out for them as boring, dependable utilities. Predictably perhaps, the word used by Telefónica to tie together the range of initiatives Key will be in charge of is "growth".Key is not being parked. Having negotiated the deal to make O2 and its owner Telefónica one of iPhone's first distributors in Europe, he is a rising star and the decision to move him from managing 30,000 staff across Europe to a 2,500-person unit in London is a statement of intent.Emerging markets are still there for the taking, but mobile operators have reached total penetration of western populations, and completed a decade of international consolidation. Vodafone has gone full circle and is now in slimming mode, selling off businesses where it holds only a minority interest. In Europe and America, the game has changed from a race to conquer virgin territory to a slow wrestling for market share and increased revenues per customer.Traditionally, the mobile giants have opted to spend more cash on marketing than on developing new business models. The millennium dome was spectacularly brought back to life as the O2, Vodafone is a lavish headline sponsor on Formula 1. The company spends over $1bn (£630m) a year on advertising, but half that on R&amp;D.However, Vodafone grew more slowly last year than at any time since 2006, with total revenues increasing just 3.2% in the 12 months to end March. The double digit years are coming to an end – and the carriers must find other ways to use their networks. Fixed-line broadband has been tried, most energetically by Orange, but Virgin Media, TalkTalk and BT Group have that market cornered in the UK and the picture is similar abroad.There is still an opportunity with using phones to make payments. They can be swiped on till readers for small purchases, or at tube and train barriers. Mobile advertising has yet to take off, but will in due course. As should clever parking, gas and electricity meters, with built in sim cards that allow them to send messages to and from a central control point.These ideas are not new, and mobile companies have been paying lip service to them for years. But they are still niche products, and there is an opportunity now to change that. Google is already taking an interest, and has started trialling Google Wallet on Android phones, so the race is on.While Vodafone's not insignificant army of 200 R&amp;D brains ultimately report in to chief technology officer Stephen Pusey, who is on the board, Telefónica has put a commercial talent in charge of its digital unit. Matthew Key's division is one of three – the other two are Europe and Latin America. Xone is a small step in the right direction, but compared to Telefónica, Vodafone could be bolder.
Britain's largest bookseller, Waterstone's, is to launch a digital e-reader to rival Amazon's Kindle within six months.The high street retailer will make the ambitious leap into consumer electronics before spring 2012, Waterstone's managing director James Daunttold the BBCon Friday."We in Waterstone's need to offer you a digital reader which is at least as good, and preferably substantially better, than that of our internet rival," Daunt told BBC Radio 4's You and Yours programme. "And you will have a much better buying experience purchasing your books through us."Daunt added that Waterstone's e-reader project was "well down the planning line". He said that the high street chain would look to emulate US books giant Barnes &amp; Noble, which has found huge success with its Nook e-reader. Barnes &amp; Nobleannouncedat the end of August that the Nook had brought in $277m (£174m) in revenues from hardware and digital content sales in the past quarter, a rise of 140%. Amazon dominates the e-reader market with around a 50% share andsold about 3m Kindles in the fourth quarter of 2010, according to figures from research company IDC, but has never released any formal sales figures for the device.Daunt, a former investment banker, was installed as Watersone's managing director in May, following a£53m takeover dealby Russian billionaire Alexander Mamut.The focus on e-readers comes as most major booksellers, including Waterstone's and Amazon, report that ebook sales are eclipsing sales of hardbooks by volume in the UK and US.The Waterstone's boss hinted inan interview with the Guardian in Junethat the bookseller would launch its own e-reader to compete more closely with Amazon, which dominates online book sales in the UK."I don't like Amazon. It has only two things going for it. It is cheap and efficient. But we can give you so much more," Daunt said in June. "We need to ask: how good is Amazon? Can it be done better?"Waterstone's will make a fresh assault on the digital marketplace just as Amazon steps up its domination of the online trade in the UK. Industry expertsdecried Amazon's "stranglehold"on online book sales in July after it bought online-only firm The Book Depository, which claims to be the fastest-growing bookseller in Europe.Daunt said he wanted to allow customers to download ebooks inside its 296 British high street stores, like Barnes &amp; Noble in the US.Barnes &amp; Noble last month predicted that it wouldsell around $1.8bn (£1.1bn) in Nook ebooksby the end of the financial year.A spokeswoman for Waterstone's confirmed that the company plans to launch an e-reader next year but declined to provide further details.
A German court has upheld a country-wide ban on sales of Samsung's flagship Galaxy Tab after a second successful claim by Apple.Düsseldorf regional court judge Johanna Brueckner-Hoffmann ruled on Friday the Galaxy Tab tablet computer had a "clear impression of similarity" to Apple's iPad.Samsung has been locked in a patent battle with Apple over the flagship device since April. Apple is seeking to block sales of Samsung's Galaxy range of tablet computers and smartphones in a number of territories, including Australia and Japan. Samsung has counter-sued the US electronics giant, claiming Apple infringes its wireless patents.The ban will prevent Samsung from distributing more Galaxy Tab computers to German retailers, who will be allowed to sell their existing stock.Samsung successfully fought a previous order that temporarily blocked the sale of its tablet computers in all EU countries, except the Netherlands.But the South Korean manufacturer has been hard hit by the patents battle, after it was forced to stop promoting its new range of products at Europe's largest consumer electronics fair, IFA, in Berlin last month.In a statement, Samsung vowed to appeal the ruling and claimed it would have a harmful impact on consumer choice in Germany."We are disappointed with this ruling and believe it severely limits consumer choice in Germany," it said. "We also believe that by imposing an injunction based on this very generic design right, this ruling restricts design innovation and progress in the industry."It added: "Samsung will actively and immediately appeal this ruling in order to ensure that consumer choice in Germany is restored. It should be noted that today's decision is inconsistent with the Dutch court's ruling on 24 August, which found the designs of Samsung's Galaxy range of products are distinctive and do not violate the cited design right.""To defend our intellectual property rights and protect our freedom to innovate, Samsung will take all available legal options including continuing to aggressively pursue Apple for its ongoing violation of Samsung's wireless technology patents around the world."
Bafta has revealed that it will be running two game design workshops at this year'sEurogamer Expo, a major video game event taking place at the end of the month.On 23 September, school children from throughout the south of England will be invited to learn about game design from development staff at Nintendo, Xbox and Sony's Bigbig Studios. There will also be a workshop the following day that will be open to all members of the public. Speakers will include John Foster of Sony Computer Entertainment, the Senior Designer on the popular SingStar range of karaoke titles. You can apply for tickets viathe Bafta website. Anyone who books in advance will also receive free access to the Expo that day, but anyone already attending the Expo can also visit the session, which takes place in the Conference Centre on Level 3 of Earls Court.Meanwhile, Bafta's Young Game Designers competition is coming to a close. The annual award encourages school children to get into small groups and draw up their own game designs ideas. All entries are judged by a panel of experts at Bafta, NESTA and the University of Abertay, and the winning entrants will see their design converted into a working prototype by a real games studio. They'll also get a week's work experience at an EA studio."The competition is going really well," says Bafta producer Niyi Akeju. "There's been lots of interest from schools and young people around the country. We've recently held workshops at the Edinburgh Interactive Festival, and Dare ProtoPlay in Dundee, which was a really buzzing event. Speakers have included Ian Livingstone from Eidos, as well as games professionals from Nintendo, Channel 4, Dynamo Games and Digital Goldfish."The deadline for entries to the Young Game designers competition is 24 October. You can find out more atthe official website.
Thousands of new apps are released every week, but which are worth a spot on your homescreen? Here is this week's selection.Minecraft – Pocket EditionAndroid, £4.41Minecraft has been an indie hit for PC and Mac on its own terms, attracting hundreds of thousands of happy players to its creation-focused blocky world. Its first mobile incarnation is an Android app, currently exclusive to the Sony Ericsson Xperia Play smartphone. I'll be upfront: a fair few features haven't made the leap from desktop to mobile at this stage, including enemies and the process of "crafting" new items. Instead, you're given 36 block types to play with: so it's even more of a sandbox rather than a game. Even so, digging and decorating your own underground caverns, or painstakingly constructing castles, tree-houses or giant phalluses in the sky (er, for example) remains very addictive. It works very smoothly with the Xperia Play's combination of touchscreen and gamepad controls, but it will be interesting to see how it is tweaked for touchscreen-only handsets.MadPadiPhone / iPad, £0.69 / £1.99MadPad has only just been launched, but an hour of riotous fun this morning tells me it should find a sizeable audience. Developed by music-focused studio Smule, it involves shooting short video clips in batches of 12, then tapping thumbnails of them on-screen to trigger them. The results can often be a bit Max Headroom, but there is lots of creative potential if you get out and about recording different and interesting noises. Social features are high in the mix too: you can record your performances on your video soundboards to share on YouTube, or download 12-sample sets from other people using the app. A novelty? Maybe – time will tell – but this stands out for its creativity and invention nonetheless.PostSecretiPhone, £1.49Pay money for an app based on a website? Many iPhone users will scoff at the thought, but PostSecret is actually rather marvellous. The site gets people to upload their secrets anonymously: the kind of stuff they're bursting to share but can't with anyone in the real world. It's hilarious and shocking in equal measures, and the app does a great job of presenting the latest uploads, with location features to plot them on the world. You can also use it to submit your own secrets, either standalone or in response to other people's postings. The app is very nicely designed, but it's the content that's beautiful.Ladybird Classic Me BooksiPhone / iPad, £0.69Ladybird books for children have never really gone out of fashion, but people of a certain age may have the strongest memories of books like Jack and the Beanstalk, Chicken Licken and The Three Little Pigs. Even just swiping through the available titles with their original front covers in this app gave me pangs of nostalgia. The Me Books app essentially digitises a bunch of Ladybirds books, selling them for £1.99 a go via in-app payments – although you get one, The Zoo, included in the initial download price. The covers, text and artwork are all as they were when you first read them as a child, but there is also some modern interactivity to be had: tapping on hotspots in the pictures triggers sounds, and there's a feature where you record your own sounds to replace them. For example, getting your child to do their best elephant impression to be triggered when tapping the pachyderm in The Zoo.Viz ProfanisaurusiPhone / Android, £1.49It goes without saying that the relaunched Viz Profanisaurus app isn't for the faint-hearted: if you're offended by swearing and euphemisms of varying degrees of filthiness, this isn't for you. Assuming youarea fan of Viz's famous Profanisaurus dictionary, though, this app is a big improvement on its predecessor. It serves up definitions from the world's rudest reference work at random, or by flipping through an A-Z list. Sharing features are included, as is the option to save favourites or browse the most popular terms being looked up elsewhere in the world. One criticism is that the option to suggest your own profanities – reader suggestions have always been a big part of the Profanisaurus – is hidden away in the Settings menu.Banksy Bristol TouriPhone / Android, £1.99Fancy a tour of Bristol? If so, why not do it using the early works of graffiti artist Banksy? That's the idea behind this iPhone and Android app, which can be used while in Bristol or remotely. It's built around a map of the city pinpointing the examples of his work, with photos. However, this is part book-app too, since every work has articles courtesy of publisher Tangent Books, which released Banksy's Bristol. Extra information on Lost Banksys and the artist himself – what little is known of him anyway – add extra depth. It's a really good example of building an interesting reference app around location features, without restricting people to being in those locations to use it.
Grand Prix Story –iPhoneandAndroidiPhone/Android; £1.99; cert 4+; KairosoftJapanese developer Kairosoft is making a cult reputation for itself among smartphone gamers, thanks to its quirky collection of simulation games. Game Dev Story introduced the company to the West with its oh-so meta simulation of a games studio, and it was followed by games focusing on a school, a hot springs resort and a shopping mall. Now comes motor racing. Grand Prix Story shares the pixel-art graphics of its predecessors, and also many of the game mechanics. You have to put teams of drivers and mechanics together, build cars and compete in races, while unlocking new parts and car types and upgrading them as you go. Playing the game is a balancing act, juggling upgrades, staff training and cars. As with other Kairosoft games, once the game pulls you in, it is fearsomely addictive.Stuart DredgeWarhammer 40,000: Space Marine ...PC/PS3/Xbox 360; £49.99; cert 18+; THQTHQ wades back into the Warhammer 40,000 universe with Space Marine, a third-person shooter with melee brawling thrown in for good measure. Playing as space marine captain Titus, you are given the task of liberating the forgeworld Graia from an orkish invasion. Or, to put it another way, to butcher your way through hordes of baddies as you progress through a linear campaign. To pick up and play it is a delight – with intuitive shooting controls and visceral hand-to-hand (or rather, chainsaw-to-power-axe) combat flowing seamlessly together in settings that are beautifully rendered. The basic combos available in close combat feel suitably brutal, especially when rounded off with a gory "execution" move that restores your health. With extended play, though, it loses some appeal. After flaying your way through sufficient numbers of disappointingly similar brawls, those same combos come to feel like so much button-bashing, the executions frustrating for their propensity to leave you open to attack by others. Although new weapons and skills made available along the way, the gameplay lacks variety. Furthermore the one-player campaign is rather short. Fans of Warhammer 40,000 will find plenty to like here – not least the extensive opportunities to customise your marines in multiplayer – but for all its positives it may struggle to hold the attention of the rest.Paolo BandiniNFL RivalsiPhone; £1.99; cert 4+; NaturalMotionHardcore graphics don't have to mean hardcore gameplay, as has been shown by UK developer NaturalMotion's two Backbreaker Football games for iPhone. NFL Rivals can be considered the third in the series, with the most obvious addition being an official NFL licence to include all the real-life American football teams. This isn't a full-blown simulation, though. As before, the gameplay is based on dashing down the field avoiding opponents through a combination of spins, leaps and sidesteps, before a spot of showboating while running into the endzone to rack up a few bonus points. The controls are simple, but the visuals are superb – the phrase "console-quality" is overused and abused in the mobile games world, but here it's justified. A feature that ties in your virtual play with real-life NFL matches will appeal hugely to fans of the sport, too.Stuart Dredge
Windows 8 will have much faster boot-up times, the divisional chief Steven Sinofsky haspromised in a new blogpost on Microsoft's developer blogs.To prove that Microsoft is serious about speeding up the process of restarting the machine from a "cold" state – which it says data retrieved from systems shows is used by 45% of laptop users, and 57% of all Windows 7 users – the company has posted a video showing a test system booting up in just two seconds.While the system in the demonstration is highly optimised, and relies on a solid-state disk (SSD) to help increase the speed at which data is read off the disk, the new posting shows that the Windows team is determined to cut the time spent by most users waiting for their machines to become usable."When it comes to talking about "fundamentals" we want to start with boot time – no feature gets talked about and measured more," Sinofsky noted. "We designed Windows 8 so that you shouldn't have to boot all that often (and we are always going to work on reducing the number of required restarts due to patching running code). But when you do boot we want it to be as fast as possible."The data gathered by Microsoft also shows that 45% of Windows 7 laptop users and 42% of all Windows 7 desktop users put their machines to sleep (a state where RAM is still powered via a trickle from the battery, which allows for a near-instant return to use) and 11% of laptop users but just 1% of desktop Windows 7 users use "hibernate", in which the content of RAM is written to disk and then read back in when the machine is activated.There are a lot of people who aren't clear about what "hibernate" actually does, since the Windows team notes that "people say they prefer to shut down because they want to have their PC completely 'off' so that it uses no power – either to preserve battery life or to reduce their energy use.Hibernateis also a good option for this since it similarly has no power draw, and many people really like it."Indeed – Hibernate is the sensible zero-power option. "However, it's clearly not for everyone, since one of the other things we've heard is that many people want to turn their PCs on and have it be a 'fresh start' rather than running all of the stuff from their previous session," writes Gabe Aul from the Windows development team at the blog.This is another way in which Microsoft and Apple are diverging in their approach to what they think people want.Apple's Lion offers a "Resume" functionwhich will take you all the way back to where you were – same programs, same windows, everything – when you invoke it. As Matt Gemmell said in the review: " Resume does exactly what it says: when you log back in, or even restart your machine, your session will resume exactly as it was before – right down to the apps and windows that were open, as if you'd never left. We've become somewhat used to this on iOS, but it really is a novelty on a desktop OS. Even current selections are preserved within documents. Extremely useful, and a feature quickly missed if you use another operating system or even an older version of OS X."Clearly, the Windows 8 team isn't expecting people to want a Resume function; instead the expectation is that people will want that "clean start". At which one pauses and asks "why do people want a 'clean start'? Clean of what?" To which the suspicion is that the answer is "cruft". Earlier versions of Windows would gradually bog down as their uptime grew, and the answer was to reboot. But newer versions aren't like that.However, theirs not to reason why, so the developers at Microsoft are offering a faster boot-up system: "Our solution is a new fast startup mode which is a hybrid of traditional cold boot and resuming from hibernate."The key difference is that the kernel session (the code at the heart of the OS) isn't discontinued; instead that is put into hibernation. Restarting then means that the whole system doesn't have to initialised (there are more details on quite what initialisation involves at the post; it's a lot).You also get an indication of why you shouldn't trust demonstrations, and especially carefully managed videos put out to massage expectations: "resuming the hibernated system session is comparatively less work than doing a full system initialisation, but it's also faster because we added a new multi-phase resume capability, which is able to use all of the cores in a multi-core system in parallel, to split the work of reading from the hiberfile and decompressing the contents".Translation: the video on the site is a multi-core desktop machine (probably eight cores) reading an SSD. If you're looking to run Windows 8 on your dual-core laptop with a spinning hard drive, the change in your boot up time is probably not going to be anything like as dramatic.There's also an indication that the already-complicated options for "turning off" your Windows machine – immortalised by former Microsoftie Joel Spolsky as The Windows Shutdown Crapfest – is going to get just that little bit more complicated:"Of course, there are times where you may want to perform a complete shutdown – for example, if you're opening the system to add or change some hardware. We have an option in the UI to revert back to the Windows 7 shutdown/cold boot behavior, or since that's likely a fairly infrequent thing, you can use the new /full switch on shutdown.exe. From a cmd prompt, run: shutdown /s /full / t 0  to invoke an immediate full shutdown. Also, choosing Restart from the UI will do a full shutdown, followed by a cold boot."No mention of whether Windows Updates will still force-restart your machine while you're in the middle of work. But at least it should come back faster.No mention either of what is viewed as the most interesting and important change in Windows 8: that there will be a version that runs on chips using the ARM achitecture, rather than Intel architecture. How will the boot interface for that look? Possibly the answers will come next week with Microsoft's BUILD conference.So, now: will this make any difference to your life? Are you an off again/on again person? A hibernator? A sleeper? Let us know.
A burst of 16 apps for your considerationMadPad – Remix Your LifeiOS music developer Smule is back with a new app for iPhone and iPad that aims to turn your video footage into a personal beatbox. You shoot clips, and they are then turned into "the ultimate percussive instrument". What's interesting is the way you can share your MixPad sets with other people – and download theirs – while recording performances to share on YouTube. Creative and very fun.iPhone / iPadGroovebugGroovebug is a bit like a Flipboard for music. It's an iPad app that scans your music collection, then sucks in "rich content from the cloud" (i.e. websites) to serve up as a personalised iPad magazine. It uses APIs from Echo Nest and YouTube, and is free to download.iPadTelegraph Pictures for iPadThe Telegraph has launched its latest iPad app, with a pictorial focus. Telegraph Pictures offers 12 photos every day from the newspaper's archives. "Ideal for photography and news enthusiasts, and anyone who appreciates the power of storytelling through beautiful imagery." A photography iPad app from a newspaper? Why has nobody thought of this before?Oh.iPadBloggerBetter late than never, Google has launched a proper iPhone app for its Blogger blogging service. It enables Blogger users to write posts and publish them or save as drafts, while also adding photos. It joins the existing Android version.iPhoneBritish Journal of PhotographyIncisive Media has released an iPad version of "the world's oldest photography magazine", offering a slickly-designed mix of photos (obviously), videos, articles and interviews, as well as reviews of cameras and lenses. The first issue is free to download, with others likely to be paid for in-app.iPadBlendrAt first sight, Blendr could be pigeonholed as "Grindr for heterosexuals", but there's a bit more to it than that. The idea is to "meet people who share your interests nearby", browsing profiles and chatting, with simple-to-understand privacy settings. "Think of it as the ultimate conversation starter and icebreaker in one great geolocation app..."iPhonePixel RainAndroid puzzle game Pixel Rain is picking up some very good ratings on Android Market already from early players. It pairs graph-calculator-inspired visuals and chiptune sounds with a thoroughly modern physics engine.AndroidInfluenceiPhone app Influence claims to be "the world's first social advice network", although unlike many social apps it's charging: £1.49 for the download. The idea is that users ask questions of their social network on anything from choosing an outfit, buying birthday presents or choosing a wine to go with a specific meal. Industry-focused features are coming in the future too.iPhoneShareShelfAndroid app ShareShelf is an intriguing idea: it "lets you track who you have shared your possessions with", including pinging messages back and forth with friends who have borrowed items. "Not only are you tracking who has your stuff, but you're actually building a personal inventory of your assets on the fly..."AndroidPayByPhoneUK service PayByPhone enables people to pay to park in public car parks by phone – traditionally by calling, texting or its mobile website. Now there are apps for that too, for iPhone, Android and BlackBerry. They can be used to register, pay and monitor/extend parking sessions, with an additional find-your-vehicle feature.iPhone / Android / BlackBerryPocket League StoryJapanese developer Kairosoft's latest simulation has made its debut on Android. The focus? Football. Players manage their way to the top of the league, with tried and tested mechanics (and a pixel-art style) seen in the company's previous games.AndroidKerrang! MusicBauer Media's Kerrang! Radio station now has its own BlackBerry app: a free download that plays in the background, includes a schedule and live track data, and social features.BlackBerryA Drama on the SeashoreStand by for a clunky word mash-up: apparently "literature+Tunes=literaTunes". That's the idea behind a series of iPhone book-apps, which match text with classic music. In this case, Honoré de Balzac's A Drama on the Seashore is paired with some classical Mozart music.iPhoneDiscosaltQuarterly magazine Discosalt focuses on independent music, film and art. This first issue has a "Remix" theme, and has been released as a free iPad app.iPadbmi Voyager magazineAirline bmi has launched an iPhone and iPad version of its in-flight magazine, including interviews, destination guides and style/travel stories. Oh, and "live internet links", presumably to be tapped on when not actually flying. bmi is working with Yudu Media on the apps.iPhone / iPadOne Man ArmyAnd finally... Android game One Man Army takes inspiration from real life. "The character Julian Assange has one and only aim to make the war sensitive information available to the world". Yes, it's the first (as far as we're aware) WikiLeaks first-person shooter.AndroidYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
For 15 years John Clark worked as an artist in the video games industry, rising to the position of Art Director at Sony Computer Entertainment Europe and working on leading titles like Killzone and Little Big Planet. But before his lengthy stint in the interactive entertainment industry, he'd studied at Oxford University's Ruskin school of Fine Art and Drawing, later moving to Scotland to help found the Glasgow Sculpture Studios and to lecture at Grey's School of Art in Aberdeen.In early 2010, he quit games and went back to painting, earlier this year appearing in BBC2's 'Show Me The Monet' series. Interested in the jostling relationships that exist between competing men in corporate environments, his paintings revolve around bizarre office bust-ups and futile workplace aggression. He says his style was once described by a visitor to his studio as, "a mixture of Goya, Monsieur Hulot's Holiday and Muybridge."Throughout September, a selection of Clark's paintings are being shown as part of the Configured exhibition at London'sSignal Gallery. I was interested in how Clark's work in the games industry had influenced his painting, and how his background in fine art had prepared him for creating space marines and alien monsters for PlayStation titles. He provided some fascinating insights into the structural design and 'look' of game environments, and how games can never convey a whole world...How useful was your fine art degree as a preparation for working in games?A solid grounding in the history and traditions of painting was an invaluable support when attempting to construct the sort of visuals that games feed off. So too were the more obviously useful skills in drawing and painting picked up over many hours spent grafting in the life room or studio.It was useful for example to frame the visual imagery we were making at Sony in a tradition of painting against which even the imagined excesses of game art seem tame. Gentileschi, Goya, Grunwald and more recently Gollub, perhaps Koons, and certainly the Chapman brothers have produced work that is in many ways far more shocking than the imagery found in modern games. And while context is everything – another message that art schools tend to ram home – bringing this perspective to bare in design discussions was at least occasionally calming!But an art school background allowed me to contribute in more practical ways as well. I've already mentioned drawing but it's worth emphasising how important it is as a way of establishing visual priorities in games; if it teaches you anything it's that you can't, in a single image, tell the whole truth however much you might wish to. The attempt to do so is not only futile but probably counterproductive, resulting, in all likelihood, in a horrible mess. That's a very useful lesson in the face of technologies as powerful as those available to developers these days, which suggest it might actually be possible to encapsulate the world and everything in it in one game.Do you think your decision to go with narrative paintings was driven by your experiences with video games, which use art in a narrative context?I think it was probably the other way around; I got into games because I was interested in the narrative, particularly the non-linear narratives of gaming to which I thought I might be able to contribute something as well as learn from.The modular way in which a performance is constructed and delivered in a game is fascinating. Hundreds of discrete animations that blend together according to player input makes you think about movement in very different ways; about where it comes from where it goes… and I was often surprised by the amount a single discrete action could convey. Indeed, much of my current work grew out of a set of drawings I began which focused explicitly on the bread and butter clips of game animation: the 'get hits' and the falls but also the walks and the turns.'Power lunch'Was your interest in narrative painting out of step with the art world at that time?When I decided to get a job in games there was precious little interest shown by the art world in narrative painting and not even that much shown in figurative work generally.  It was a bit of a dead area and, aside from people like Paula Rego and Pete Howson, it operated very much in the shadow of the, admittedly exciting, work of neo conceptualist or video artists. Games on the other hand were busy grappling with issues that played directly to my interest in the figure and the stories it could tell.But this sounds a little too determined. It might be closer to the truth to say that I got into games simply because of the opportunity it provided to draw the figure, lots of figures that became characters that would take part in dramas. The work I was making at the time  – minimal sculptures that drew heavily from Donald Judd – had little use for drawing of that sort and I think I was missing it. So games accommodated a set of interests that the art scene couldn't.You have an interesting way of thinking about games – that the figures on screen are only a part of the animation: the rest is in the control pad, the gamer…Game animation is an endlessly fascinating discipline. Unlike their counterparts in film, the game animator deals in fragments of motion that will only build into complete performances at the moment the analogue stick is pulled or button pushed. To the animator, the story is always just a potential never fixed as it is in linear animations and the way we interpret the movement is very different as a result.Of course, the animation of NPCs is closer in character to that of standard linear animations, but the animation of the player character is utterly different. It must communicate invisibly to the player and in as much as the player will see the same animations recombined again and again it must communicate intention and personality clearly without being irritating. This is particularly true of walks and runs.One example springs to mind that threw the difference into relief for me: whilst working on a Looney Tunes title, a very talented animator was charged with Daffy Duck's standard walk and over a few days and numerous iterations produced a characterful and funny animation which when looped, seemed to hit all the right notes. It was only when the character was dropped into the game that it quickly became apparent that the walk would drive any player mad! An alternative had to be found very quickly. The result was much quieter but much more effective in the context of a game.'In the club'Have you been in any way disappointed with the artistic development of games over the last decade?The hardware and the software, along with the appetites of audience and developers alike are geared towards the ultra real. It is a tendency that has always been there, but which advancements in graphics technology over the last few years has made very visible.  I often think that in the past the limitations of the hardware produced a much greater variety in the look of games.This is not so surprising really when models were small, textures were effectively mini-paintings that faked all the lighting effects and colour that the rudimentary systems of the day couldn't provide. As a result, they carried with them the stamp of the artists who made them. These days, the look of surfaces is the result of many different overlapping textures and processes in which the old diffuse map plays only a small part, and the bulk will have been generated from photographs. I enjoy the results as much as anyone, but you can't deny the homogeneity that is the result.I think of the difference in architectural terms with older games having the character of cathedrals, the result of a community of workers beavering away, each of whom left their stamp in the form of gargoyles or little unnoticed carvings, while today's products approximate the modern sky rise that has been designed to the nth degree, has nothing out of place and in which the builder's hand is determinedly made invisible.So is the journey toward photo-realism inevitable?It's an arms race of sorts and the public is surprisingly attuned to the details of progress. One example springs to mind: Whilst browsing in Game a few years back I remember being struck by a conversation I overheard between a father and son. It was a very informed consideration of the implementation of normal mapping in the first iteration of Gears of War. What struck me was that while this sort of discussion is actually quite common amongst game buyers I couldn't imagine any similar technical discussion taking place between film goers.At the very least it points to the expectations of the game buying public which the developers are almost duty bound to satisfy even if they would sometimes prefer not. The example of Zelda: The Wind Waker springs to mind – a significant fraction of fans greeted the beautiful styling with groans and complaints, and clearly felt it was a mistake to adopt a non-realistic look for the game.However, in some cases the drive towards the real can be attached to broader cultural characteristics. I have always thought that Killzone's minute attention to detail springs quite naturally from a northern European tradition in picture making that stretches back through Vermeer to Grunwald, in which the very particular materiality of the objects depicted has always been a key concern.But, whether culturally or industry driven, this goal of ultra realism has consequences that amount to obstacles to the realisation of other competing desires of gamers, namely making a good game.'Chorus'But we're never going to achieve the photo-realism we're heading toward in game visuals are we?I think the realism that games aspire to is best understood in terms of simulation rather than representation i.e. the replacement of the real rather than an interpretation of it – and the computer is in the end the ultimate tool for simulation. In this light, game visuals almost inevitably set themselves up for a fall since, as soon as the initial excitement of the improved renderings dissipates, we quickly become aware of the many and varied ways in which they fail to match the reality – the edges are too sharp, pixels too smeary, shapes intersecting… Given the implicit goal, disappointment is almost inevitable. This is particularly true of realistic characters and environments but can apply equally to simulated cartoon styling.Realism in painting operates differently I think, within a tradition of representation whose goal is imaginative interpretation of the real. It is generally judged according to what's included rather than what's been missed. This is a subtle but big difference and I've often thought that a slight conceptual shift or even just a more thorough going discussion of game art in these terms would make a big difference in the way that games are constructed and consequently what they look like.As it is, discussions of style generally take the form of "shall we make it realistic or cartoony" which misses the point I think. In any event, effective simulation is so heavily dependent on hardware that achieving convincing results in real-time seems a vanishingly long way off. The prospects for film aren't much better. And, were it not for a romantic fascination in failure, you'd wonder at the sense of it.Stephen Poole in his book Trigger Happy has some very interesting things to say on this issue. He frames it in terms of a difference between the iconic and the symbolic image. Broadly speaking he identifies the western tradition in game imaging as iconic (where the object is replaced) and eastern gaming as symbolic (where the object is referred to by the image which needn't look anything like it). Language is the archetypal symbolic form – e.g. the word tree looks nothing like a tree whereas most contemporary computer graphics are great examples of an iconic system.Tetsuya Mizuguchi, the developer of Rez, has cited Kandinsky as a massive influence on his work – if you could direct game artists to the work of two or three painters for ideas and influences, who would they be and why?Goya, Daumier and Hopper from the world of fine art. Frazetta and Rockwell from the commercial world. As is probably obvious, all these artists engage with the figure and the stories it can tell. All of them have a developed sense of drama and while attentive to the particulars of the human form are not limited by it, using it instead as a springboard to the expression of ideas. Even Rockwell's figures, often painted in fine detail from photographs, are imaginative transformations of the people depicted. And it is this approach to the representation of character which remains I think a challenge to game developers: How to control shape or at least how to imbue shape with character. Valve took a great step in Team Fortress but I think these artists teach us that strong shape and pose does not always require resort to the caricature.'Professional detachment'You've suggested that the computer is limited by the factors that make it interesting - can you enlarge on that?The limitations of the computer arise ironically perhaps from its flexibility. I wrote an essay about this a while ago that develops this idea more fully but essentially I think the computer is not very stubborn. It does exactly what you tell it, which is great, but it does nothing more, which is not so great. And you have to tell it everything!Working with real materials is a negotiation in which the qualities of the medium play an important part in the result. But the pixel has no innate characteristics, nothing with which to negotiate. It can be coaxed to do pretty much anything, or at least to look like anything. But, significantly, it leaves not even a vestigial trace of its original form because it had none. And that's eventually a problem because it is the sense that one thing has been transformed into another that makes looking at paintings, for example, exciting and it's the resistance of real materials, their inherent characteristics, that provides the creative opportunity.It is also, incidentally, one of the reasons that people still like traditional mediums and the objects it produces; they usually carry with them a history of their making and people tend to enjoy them more if they do. This is importantly a point about what things are and how they are arrived at, rather than what they look like. As I've said, I take it as a given that you can achieve almost any look you want with the computer.As for whether or not this particular issue is surmountable, I'm sure it's not, but that's not to say that it's not possible to make good art with the computer since not all art is importantly about objects or materials and there's a great deal of good work being done with it. Galleries the world over are filled with screen based work that makes copious creative use of the computer and the interactions it offers.How do you hope to see game art developing in the next few years?I'd love to see better deformation, better and more varied shapes. This is most obviously seen in characters that can often, even in a great game like Uncharted, look awkward and often ugly. They display all the limitations of a production pipeline that hasn't really developed since it was first established and which is showing its age badly.Compare the subtlety and range of the drawing in graphic novels like Hellboy, in 2d cartoons like The Triplets of Belleville, and in paintings by, say, Goya, with the comparatively clumsy shapes we drive through games and the problem is made dramatically clear. Indeed comparing final in game characters to the concept work that precedes them makes the point equally well. There is a gulf between them. The same cannot be said when comparing the environments with the concept work from which they've been generated, and it would be great if the industry set about addressing the issue.I'd love to see the whole business of character creation reconceived and the current approach dispensed with entirely if only to give control of shape back to animators. In 3D production, whether real-time or offline, responsibility for silhouette and shape has been orphaned, devolving to a combination of modeller, technical artist and coder. However, given the tools that are now available to artists on the computer (Z-brush, mudbox and the like) it is at least possible to conceive of an alternative approach in which shape plays centre stage.In this, admittedly slightly outlandish production, an army of modellers and animators would model their way through characters motion in every necessary angle a little like happens in 2d cartoons after which sophisticated algorithms would choose the shapes to display according to need. At the very least it would change the flavour of shapes made visible in games. The experiments in 4d capture ( a combination of motion capture and 3d scanning in which full models are captured in motion) suggest to me at least that the means exist to conduct an experiment at least!Your central concept with these works – men jostling for position in the corporate world – would make a great video game! Have you thought about exploring the themes in the interactive medium?I'd never rule out a return to games, indeed bearing in mind the extent to which I draw upon games and their production in my work I wonder whether I've actually left! And while I haven't thought about addressing the themes in my work interactively now that you mention it I think there could be some mileage in it!
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhat Google App Engine price changes say about the future &gt;&gt; High Scalability blog of Web ArchitectureGoogle App Engine has changed its pricing model. "Pay for what you use has changed. From an abstract resource driven model, where pricing is pegged to actual CPU usage, GAE is moving to an instance driven model, in the Amazon style, where pricing is pegged to the fully burdened cost of real physical assets (see the FAQ for details). Estimates range from between 2x to 10+x cost increases for running on GAE with the new pricing scheme."Dead easy has changed. Pricing is just part of the story. GAE still delivers on its zero platform maintenance pledge, but much more pressure is being put on programmers to navigate the new pricing model and recode to a complex moving target in order to minimize costs. It's no longer that simple to use. Work has shifted to clever programming."Smartphones at the dinner table? Smartphone trendspotting down under &gt;&gt; Official Google Australia Blog:"Here's a question for all of you smartphone owners out there: If someone asked you whether you'd rather give up your phone or your TV, what would you say?"Earlier this year, Google teamed up with IPSOS Research to learn the answer to this exact question (and many others) by asking 30,000 people in 30 countries about how they use their smartphones, and where (on the bus? at the office?). It's the first time anyone has asked this many people the same questions, for free: that means we can compare and contrast behaviour and trends across different age groups, different cities, and even countries."So what did we learn about Australia? To start with, those of us at Google Australia were particularly proud to discover that Australia has the second highest smartphone penetration in the world -- ahead of the US, UK, and Japan."BSA secret agenda: open source saves the world &gt;&gt; ZDNet UKRupert Goodwins turns his gimlet eye onto the Business Software Alliance: "The BSA also says that its survey shows that more than 70% of people agree with it about not being naughty, and blames the disparity on lack of education and enforcement. If we all knew it was wrong, and if we all got caught if we copied software, then that $59bn ["lost to piracy] would magically appear in the bank accounts of Microsoft et al, and the world would be a better place."I disagree. Furthermore, I detect a hidden and most praiseworthy agenda behind the BSA's thesis."stephentrainor.com: toolsSure to be someone who'll like this: "Landscape photographers typically wish to plan their shoots around the times of sunrise/sunset or twilight, or alternatively when the moon is in a particular place in a particular phase."While times of sunrise etc. are readily available on various sites on the internet (direction of sunrise etc. less so, but still readily found), there are fewer programs available which combine such information with a topographical map allowing the photographer to match the astronomical to the location."A typical use might be to determine when the sun will set along the axis of a mountain valley, or when a full moon rise will rise across a lake."The application uses Google Maps providing users the ability to select a location and determine the time and azimuth of sunrise or sunset for a given date or dates."5 warning signs to watch for at Apple &gt;&gt; Bob SuttonHard to argue with any of them.LeapFrog releases a PlayBook competitor &gt;&gt; Loop InsightJim Dalrymple: "RIM fans were quite upset when I compared the PlayBook tablet to the iPad. In fairness, it wasn't a good comparison because the iPad is so much better. They were also upset when I compared the PlayBook to the legendary Etch A Sketch (probably because the PlayBook lost)."Now there is a new competitor from LeapFrog. The best part is that you don't need a BlackBerry to use the LeapPad. It's important to note that neither device does email or calendaring."Think the LeapFrog one might be more robust though.How the Guardian's custom CMS &amp; API helped take content strategy to a traditional publisher &gt;&gt; Martin BelamCome and have a look around behind the back of that screen you're looking at.Seventh Circuit awards e360 a whopping $3 in damages against Spamhaus &gt;&gt; Technology and Law BlogWe wrote about this some time back. The law grinds slow but... "The lawsuit between e360 and Spamhaus was a long-running, tortured affair, and it looks like it finally came to a close. With e360 being awarded a whopping $3 in damages against Spamhaus. (Here's alinkto Ars Technica's recap of the oral argument, where Judge Posner blasted e360's counsel: 'This is just totally irresponsible litigation . . . .You can't just come into a court with a fly-by-night, nothing company and say 'I've lost $130 million.')"Yes, three dollars.Farewell Ovi Maps, hello Nokia Maps (on iOS and Android too) &gt;&gt; Gary's Bloggage"In May of this year, Nokia announced the retirement of the Ovi brand and the observant map watchers amongst you may have noticed that pointing your browser of choice at maps.ovi.com now automagically redirects you to the new, shiny maps.nokia.com."What you may not have noticed is that Nokia maps doesn't just work on your desktop or laptop web browser or on Nokia smartphones, as Electric Pig nicely pointed out, Nokia has invaded the iPhone too. Point your iPhone or iPad at the Nokia Maps for Mobile Web at m.maps.nokia.com and you'll see something like this ... a fully featured version of Nokia Maps that does search, satellite views, GPS and location fixes, navigation, even public transport and, of course... places. And it's not just iOS devices that the new Mobile Web maps supports, Android users can have this too as can Blackberry users."10 reasons why iPhone 5 doesn't stand a chance against Motorola Droid Bionic &gt;&gt; International Business TimesFor example, because: "The Droid Bionic offers TI OMAP4430 chipset clocking at 1 GHz which uses dual-core ARM Cortex-A9 with a PowerVR SGX540 integrated 3D graphics accelerator that runs at a clock frequency of 304 MHz. And it comes with ARM-Cortex A9s with ARMs SIMD engine (Media Processing Engine, aka NEON) which may have a significant performance advantage in some cases over Nvidia Tegra 2s Cortex-A9s with non-vector floating point units. And there is a dual-channel LPDDR2 memory controller compared to Nvidia Tegra 2s single-channel memory controller..."Apple's A5 processor, which will be featured on iPhone 5, has a dual-core ARM Cortex-A9 CPU with NEON SIMD accelerator and a dual core PowerVR SGX543MP2 GPU. Apple lists the A5 to be clocked at 1 GHz on the iPad 2's technical specifications page, though it can dynamically adjust its frequency to save battery life."Convinced now?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious• This article was amended on 22 September 2011 to correct the picture caption. The original placed Taipei in China.
Yeah, it's Friday! What games can you buy today? Well, you could go for: Zombie holiday shocker, Dead Island; '50s sci-fi invasion sequel, Resistance 3; intergalactic romp, Space Marine; or rejuvenated Nintendo classic, Star Fox 64 3D!
Carol Bartz may not have known how to save the troubled internet group she once ran, but she certainly knew how to put the yahoo in Yahoo."These people fucked me over," Bartz told Fortune magazine in her first interview since she was fired by phone on Tuesday. The ousted Yahoo chief executive blasted the board in a foul-mouthed tirade."The board was so spooked by being cast as the worst board in the country. Now they're trying to show that they're not the doofuses that they are," she said.Bartz told the magazine that Roy Bostock, Yahoo's chairman, called her and read her a lawyer's prepared statement to dismiss her. Bartz said: "I said, 'Roy, I think that's a script. Why don't you have the balls to tell me yourself?'"Yahoo issued a statement on Tuesday saying that Bartz had been "removed" from her post and would be replaced by chief financial officer Timothy Morse on an interim basis.Once the biggest name on the web, Yahoo remains a huge draw for advertisers and audience. But the company has fallen behind Google and Facebook, which are still growing while Yahoo appears to be fading.Bartz slashed costs and cut staff but was unable to revive revenues. Yahoo has now appointed a panel to review the company's options.The combative Bartz is no stranger to salty language. In a 2010 discussion with analysts, she expressed her dissatisfaction with the company's management structure thus: "We had a lot of people running around and telling people what to do, but nobody was fucking doing anything."She promptly apologised for letting the phrase "slip out".In an interview with Reuters in 2010, Bartz said her swearing was "honest" language that she used to make a point. If she were male, no one would pay much attention to it, she said.Asking what she was planning to do next, Fortune's interviewer mentioned her age, 63."Fuck you – yeah," said Bartz, who said she remained on the board of Yahoo as an independent director.
Android smartphone users will download more apps than Apple iPhone owners this year, as sales of devices using the Google operating system surge ahead.Applications, which range from games to alarm clocks and weather information, will jump from a total 7.4bn downloaded in 2010 to 18bn this year, according to a report from telecoms analyst Ovum.For the first time, phones running on Google's Android operating system will download more apps than iPhones, with 8.1bn going to Android phones compared with Apple's 6bn.Last year, Apple and Android reached 1.4bn and 2.7bn respectively.In the second quarter of the year, Android accounted for 46% of smartphones sold, while Apple was the second highest seller at 20%.Ovum says Android will reinforce its lead, and by 2016 there will have almost twice the number of downloads as the iPhone – 21.8bn compared with 11.6bn.By 2015, the prediction is that Windows Phone, currently undergoing a facelift, will gain ground and overtake BlackBerry for third place in both total number of downloads and revenues by 2015.However, iPhone is expected to retain its lead in generating the most paid for downloads, with $2.86bn (£1.78m) in 2016, compared with $1.5bn of revenue from Android devices.Ovum analyst Eden Zoller said: "Charging top-end premiums for smartphone apps is becoming increasingly difficult. The majority of paid-for apps are in a commodity pricing zone and those capable of pushing above $5 mark are in the minority."Zoller said must-have apps vary by demographic, but the most popular are those that increase productivity or are considered cool, fashionable or fun, such as blockbuster games.The top-selling paid-for applications on Apple's iTunes are dominated by games, in particular Angry Birds, while note-taking programme Noteshelf is currently the fifth best selling.The report claims that by 2016, there will 45bn downloads a year. Revenues for paid-for mobile applications will hit $3.7bn this year, up 92% from $1.95bn in 2010. In five years, the market will be worth $7.7bn.
The era of the simple "feature phone" that cannot connect to the internet is over in western Europe. Smartphone shipments exceeded those of "feature phones" for the first time in the region over the most recent three months and accounted for 52% of the 42m units sold.New data released by research company IDC show smartphone shipments up 48% compared to the same period in 2010, reaching nearly 22m, as Samsung, Apple, HTC and BlackBerry maker RIM dominated the market and Finland's Nokia saw its previous dominance wiped out. Last year smartphones made up just over a third of mobile phone sales in the region.The shift to smartphones came as a new report indicated that Android smartphone users will download more apps than Apple iPhone owners this year, as sales of devices using the Google operating system surge ahead.The number of apps downloaded – from games to alarm clocks and weather information – will jump from 7.4bn in 2010 to 18bn this year, says the report by telecoms analyst Ovum Applications. The report claims that by 2016, there will 45bn downloads a year. Phones running on Google's Android operating system will download 8.1bn apps this year compared with Apple's 6bn.Ovum predicts that Android will reinforce its lead, and by 2016 will have almost twice the number of downloads as the iPhone – 21.8bn compared to 11.6bn.By 2015, the prediction is that Microsoft's Windows Phone operating system, currently undergoing a facelift, will gain ground and overtake BlackBerry for third place in both total number of downloads and revenues by 2015.Ovum analyst Eden Zoller said that "must-have" apps vary by demographic, but the most popular are those which increase productivity or are considered cool, fashionable or fun, such as the most popular games. The list of top-selling paid-for applications on Apple's iTunes is dominated by games, in particular Angry Birds, while note-taking programme Noteshelf is currently the fifth-best seller.Overall, however, the IDC report shows the mobile phone market in Europe shrank by 3% compared to 2010, as economic and other factors affected growth. Francisco Jeronimo, IDC's European research manager for mobile devices, said: "The economic environment in the eurozone is deteriorating, with a direct impact on consumer demand."Nokia's decline – with total mobile phone sales down from more than 16m to 9m, and smartphone sales down from 5.8m to 2.3m – was not offset by other manufacturers, which may suggest that some customers are waiting to replace their existing Nokia smartphones with new versions due later this year which use the Windows Phone system.Operators also focused on getting rid of older stock as they await new devices in the coming weeks, including Apple's much-anticipated iPhone 5 and new models from HTC, said Jeronimo.The first cameraphones appeared in 2002 and began gaining popularity in Europe in 2003, by which time they were already outselling digital cameras worldwide. By 2006, half of all mobile phones sold had a camera. The expectation is that smartphones will be in use by half of the European and US population by the middle of 2012 at the current rate of sales growth, which is roughly 50% per quarter compared to the previous year.
Twitterhas celebrated reaching 100 million global active users with a flurry of fresh statistics, from which we learn that the service averages 230m tweets a day and that half the active user base accesses Twitter daily.Statistics are a rare thing for the commitment-shy Twitter, which now assures us that these figures include Twitter.com, Twitter's official apps and third-party apps themselves.Twitter's website alone records 400 million monthly unique browsers, up 70% from the start of 2011, while 55% of active users are on mobile. In contrast with Facebook, growth is increasing this year compared with last, Twitter claims, with a further 26 million users likely to join by January. That's more than 2006-09 combined.Why is Twitter ready to share impressive growth with us? Because it also wants to prove that its advertising systems can exploit that audience and start making some real money on the eyewatering$760minvested so far.As far as the UK goes, Twitter has a core team of 20 staff including theTweetdeck client it acquiredin May and some sales and commercial partnership staff. But though that office has been open for at least three months, things have been rather quiet. So what's brewing? Take three ingredients...Photo byeldhon Flickr.Some rights reservedAdvertisers' toolsTwitter's chief executive Dick Costolo explained promoted tweets in more detail at a briefing that, unfortunately, UK journalists weren't invited to. He explained that users will see promoted tweets from companies they don't follow, which is a step further than its previous promoted tweets strategy. He added that Twitter is looking to share revenue from promoted tweets with third-party developers, notedVentureBeat."Right now, when you log in, you'll see accounts to follow or similar content  in the right column," said Costolo. "Promoted tweets will work the same way. It will be based on the interest graph of the accounts you follow. So you should be seeing the kind of content you're already interested in."AdvertisersA trickle of rather vaguestoriessuggest excitement is brewing among UK advertisers ahead of a UK launch, though deals are far from confirmed. Promoted tweets, promoted trends and promoted accounts will reportedly be opened to UK advertisers then – a full 18 months after they first rolled out in the US. O2, Vodafone, Sony and Sky are allreportedto have been approached. One agency contact tells us Twitter is being frustratingly cautious, but that it wants to get the service right.PartnersAnother project in the works is Twitter UK's partnership with the British Fashion Council to create a Twitter "experience" for London Fashion Week, which starts on 16 September. Twitter has reached something of a critical mass with this particular audience, Twitter's UK spokeswoman Rachel Bremer said today, but she added that the big news stories this year have added to public awareness about the service.Twitter worked with theLondon 2012 Olympicsand is working with other companies behind the scenes on these kind of partnerships; in the case ofLondon Fashion Weekthis adds Twitter to the LFW home page, offers readersextensive curated listsof designers, brands, press and sponsors and shares images from backstage. There's also a "warm sign-up", so new Twitter users who click through from the LFW site are offered suggested fashion-related accounts to follow.And so?We know how important the UK is to Twitter for both its high penetration of users and for the advanced e-commerce and online advertising market. It seems fitting that Twitter would take its time, as it has always done where commercial development is concerned, to get these services right.But given all this, it seems likely that London's big reveal will be a Facebook-esque event where advertisers, big content partners and third-party developers will combine to announce the potential of Twitter for the commercial world.If you're thinking there doesn't seem to have been much coverage of Twitter's UK operations, you might also suspect Twitter was keeping its powder dry for some time in October – presumably on a date that doesn't clash with the iPhone 5 launch. So we'll see if Twitter is able to keep some surprises back for then.
Google has gone into the restaurant business, buying Zagat Survey, the venerable review and ratings service and publisher of restaurant and shopping guides guides.Founded 30 years ago by Tim and Nina Zagatas as a two-page typed list of New York restaurants, the company now offers a range of guides covering subjects including golf courses and hotels, as well as shopping and restaurants in over 100 countries.The service, which offers both printed and online reviews and ratings, uses handpicked panels of reviewers to offer an unbiased opinion of a business and rates them on a 30-point scale.The move gives Google one of the best known names in local reviews. Zagat sells more than 5m guides a year but has increasingly been pushing its services online in recent years, offering mobile apps and charging for its content online. The company has a deal with Google that means its reviews come up when people search for local services on Google Maps.The terms of Google's purchase were not disclosed.The Zagats put their company up for sale in 2008, engaging Goldman Sachs to sound out potential buyers. But as the recession bit, Zagat failed to find a buyer. The pair said they intend to stay on at the company, and will use Google's resources and expertise to expand the business.In a blogpost, Google's Marissa Mayer, vice-president of local, maps and location services, said Zagat would be "a cornerstone of our local offering - delighting people with their impressive array of reviews, ratings and insights, while enabling people everywhere to find extraordinary (and ordinary) experiences around the corner and around the world."Mayer said Zagat "may be one of the earliest forms of UGC [user-generated content]" and said that their "iconic pocket-sized guides with paragraphs summarising and 'snippeting' sentiment were 'mobile' before 'mobile' involved electronics."She said: "Did you know there's aplace in Menlo Parknear the Safeway that has a 27 food rating? One of my friends asked me that about two years ago, and I was struck because I immediately knew what it meant."Food rating … 30 point scale … Zagat. And the place had to be good. With no other context, I instantly recognised and trusted Zagat's review and recommendation."Mayer ran Google's signature search engine for 11 years, but last year took over the firm's local services, a fast-growing area for customers and advertisers.
Carol Bartz didn't waste any time getting the stress of her Yahoo firing off her chest. With characteristic gusto, Bartzspoke to Fortunebarely 24 hours after that phone call from chairman Roy Bostock."These people fucked me over," she told Patricia Sellers, explaining how she called Bostock for a scheduled chat on Tuesday evening when he started reading a lawyer's prepared statement. "I said 'Roy – I think that's a script. Why haven't you got the balls to tell me yourself? I thought you were classier.'"Bostock told her she had two hours to decide whether to resign or be fired, and that Yahoo's lawyers were en route to her hotel with the paperwork. She promptly moved hotels.Photo byMôsieur J. [version 5.9a]on Flickr.Some rights reservedBartz defended her record by saying the board was told Yahoo would not see revenue growth until 2012. The deal she negotiated with Microsoft that saw Yahoo pay 12% of its search revenue to have Bing search results across the site – widely reported as unsuccessful for both sides – Bartz claims would help Yahoo in the long term.She then dismissed the board as "doofuses" who were still spooked by the fallout from the bungled Microsoft acquisition attempt, but said she planned to remain on Yahoo's board."I want to make sure that the employees don't believe that I've abandoned them. I would never abandon them. Besides, I have way too many purple clothes."What will she do next? Sounds like she's still too stuck in a Yahoo brain space to think about that. And when the reporter pointed out that she's 63?"Fuck you, yeah."Which will probably be a suitably apt final salvo from her.
We're doing a load of work on the house and that gives me the opportunity to install an electronic infrastructure. The question is: should we install Ethernet and co-axial cabling, or just Ethernet? Inputs to the house will be FM, DAB, two satellite dishes, and broadband via BT landline.I'm installing Cat6 Ethernet network cable with a network switch in the cellar and sockets in every room where we could have TV and audio equipment. I'm installing the network (and the BT incoming cable) in 20mm flexible tubing so that the cabling can be upgraded at a later date (eg to fibre) if required. I'm also taking the co-ax feeds from the FM and DAB aerials, and from the two satellite dishes to the cellar, but I'm not sure what to do with these signals.Do I need to run co-ax to every place where I could have TV and audio equipment or will I be able to deliver the signals coming from co-ax sources to the TV and audio locations via the Ethernet network?Chris WilsonIn the old days, you'd have installed a co-axial cable to distribute the audio and video signals to each room. At some time in the future, you might have an IP (Internet Protocol) network server that will distribute TV over Cat5e or Cat6 Ethernet cable to internet-capable smart TV sets. (Internet radio already offers far more choice and often better sound quality than the UK's antique DAB.)But at the moment, I think that either the future either doesn't work well enough, or costs too much, or both. I would therefore install at least two co-ax cables along with twoCat5e or Cat6cables to each room where you want both TV and internet access (bearing in mind that, technically, FM/DAB should be should be 75 Ohm co-ax). As it happens, there is a relatively painless way to do multi-format wiring…."Structured cabling"seems to be growing in popularity, particularly in the US. The basic idea is that you lay a single cable that contains multiple cables: typically two co-ax and two Cat5e cables. This makes the installation simpler and helps people not to worry about whether they have picked the right mix. Adding one or two of these "siamese cables" to your planned Cat6 cable would give you more capacity and more flexibility at (I hope) an affordable cost.There area number of options available in the US, such asWest Penn Wire HN5262. I had some trouble finding this kind of thing locally, but Ireland's Digital Plumbers offersMediaFlexcable (2 x Cat5e and 2 x CX100 Foam Filled Cable), andCave Productsoffers what seems to be the same thing. Neither company quotes prices on the web. However, the best choice might beStructured Cable Products' HNC9, an American cable sold in the UK byHabitech.The market is confusing because the UK is different from the US, and because people don't always distinguish between the cable and the signal.Co-axial cables were installed in many US homes to carry cable TV and satellite signals, and both the Ethernet and Token-Ring business computer networks were originally designed to run over co-ax as well. That changed with the arrival of the 10BaseT standard, which enabled Ethernet to run over the much cheaper four-wire Cat cables that became ubiquitous in the 1990s. Most of us now call them "Ethernet cables".More recently, as the cost of copper has increased,good co-ax cables have become more expensive. However, some users (particularly in the CCTV industry) have found that they can use cheaper screened Cat5e cable to carry video instead, by soldering three RCA plugs to each end, and sometimes by addingBaluns. Meanwhile, Americans who had already installed co-ax cables found they could convert a TV port into an internet port by using a network bridge such as theNetgear MCAB1001 MoCA Coax-Ethernet Adapter Kit(contains "two MoCA Coax-Ethernet Adapters, two RG-6 Coax cables, two Ethernet cables, two power adapters, installation guide, and setup CD").In sum, you can run Ethernet over co-axial cable and you can run video over Cat5e, but the signals are still different. People who are "running video over Ethernet" are usually running video over Cat5e cable, which isn't the same thing.If you decide to runvideo over Cat5e or Cat6, you can buy a distribution hub that looks like an Ethernet router. You will still have two separate networks, but they'll be using the same type of Cat5e cabling. This leads to the idea of installing lots of Cat5e (or Cat6) and deciding how to use it later.I don't really disagree with Vint Cerf's oft-quoted slogan for the internet: "Everything over IP, IP over everything." I also appreciate that there are plenty of point-to-point (or even multi-point) solutions that range from the old Windows Media Extenders and things like Slingbox through to network media servers. However, the simplest way to connect a video source to a TV set is to use a co-axial cable, and if they are in different rooms, to use a long cable.One day, this assertion may well be wrong, but I remain to be convinced that it's wrong today.
Last year, Tim Kring, the creator of Heroes, teamed up with Nokia to launch Conspiracy For Good, an ambitious alternative reality game with web, mobile and live action elements, in which players got the chance to shape the storyanddonate money to third-world literacy charities in the process.Now, the production company that helped produce Kring's project,Tea4Twohas got together with Heroes writer Jim Martin and visual arts companyFurnace Fighter Mediato create a new transmedia series,The Karada. It's billed as, 'a supernatural thriller about a young woman, Emma Gossett, who struggles to save the multiverse as realities collapse around her'. Which sounds quite stressful. "We like to say that the story feels a bit like Inception meets Sliding Doors with a dash of demonic possession," explains producer Tom Liljeholm. "We take with us the good parts from Truth about Marika and Conspiracy For Good, but try to work hard at making it accessible and comprehensive."As well as web episodes, the story will be viewable on mobile devices, and there will be digital comics and live events. As in Conspiracy For Good, participants will have an impact on the narrative. "Community contributions will be taken seriously and matter," assures Liljeholm. "For example, participants will be called upon to write in the details of Emma's alternate realities, the basis of which will be produced into a digital comic series. Further, as our heroine in the dramatic series crosses paths with these alternative lives, participants will feel the true impact of their contributions on the storyline."It all sounds really bizarre, but I'm fascinated by these pioneering attempts to redefine the concept of the alternative reality game, augmenting the idea with mobile integration and 'participatory drama' elements. Liljeholm says that the web series will start off in late winter, depending on some last-minute license deals. "We will however start rolling out snippets of content – be it audio recordings or short videos – as teasers, starting in a few weeks," he says.Naturally, there's aTwitter feedand aFacebook page. But you'll need to head over tothe official websiteto find out more and to get involved. If you have experience of preventing women from slipping between the reality gaps in a collapsing metaverse, you'll surely come in handy.
The Resistance series has always done certain things supremely well – great weapons, impressively varied enemies and a storyline that never puts shock value over gritty realism. In this third instalment, developer Insomniac has not changed too much, picking up the story as the Chimera invasion heads for the US to take out the last remaining 10% of the human population.The action focuses on Joe Capelli, pariah killer of the franchise's first hero, now set the task of a hazardous exodus from Oklahoma to New York where the enemy's terraforming operation is based. Most of the weapons are carried over from the prequel, complete with secondary firing modes and automatic usage upgrades.So my personal favourite, the Auger, still has the ability to deploy pop-up shields and shoot through walls along with new additions such as shrapnel grenades, the Deadeye sniper rifle and Mutator, whose explosive mist adds a cunning twist to Multiplayer skirmishes. Best of all, you can carry as many as you like – unrealistic of course, but enormous fun given the scarcity of health and ammo packs.Speaking of Multiplayer, there are five modes supporting up to 16 players and a co-op version of the single player campaign. The usual Deathmatch and Capture the Flag options are there, but only Chain Reaction and Breach offer any real surprises.Meanwhile, two of the prequel's most innovative features – those frantic 60-player Deathmatches and the 8-player co-op campaign – have simply disappeared. However, there's a good assortment of maps, many not featured in the main game, offering a wide mix of terrains and challenges – from the choke-points of a Bogata trainyard to the wider expanses of, believe it or not, the Glamorgan coast. And once you start levelling up, the beefier weapons and abilities are unlocked, making for some unusual and exciting squad tactics.Being critical, the linear gameplay feels more constrictive this time round and the shortish single-player campaign does lose momentum, particularly towards the end. Given that, graphically Resistance 3 occasionally reaches the impressive scale and detail of Far Cry, it's a pity the same freedom of movement has not found its way into the mix.It's a shame, too, that when allies are present, they still charge around like super soldiers – far less satisfying than, say, Killzone 3, where protecting or reviving teammates added an extra tactical dimension. However, enemy AI is strong, leading to lengthy battles where every angle must be covered to avoid being outflanked and outgunned by the huge variety of Chimera breeds.Resistance 3 is fast, furious and entertaining throughout but lacks the uniqueness that would boost it to the very top of the FPS ladder. Treat it like a tasty snack before Rage and Gears of War 3 show up in a few weeks, hopefully with a whole new menu.• Game reviewed on PS3
Myth and legend have been grist for the creative mill of games developers for decades now, but El Shaddai: Ascension of the Metatron has to be the first time the Book of Enoch was tapped up for source material. Loosely based on this excised Biblical text, it puts players in the shoes of Adam's great grandson, Enoch, who is tasked by God with hunting down some rebellious angels. The result is an ambitious, beautiful and unique offering that falls short of greatness due to some puzzling inconsistencies. Every strong feature in the game is accompanied by an aspect that deflates the overall experience.This is even true of its visuals, which not to put too fine a point on it, are easily among the best in the medium. The environments in El Shaddai are nothing short of breathtaking, and their beauty is only matched by the amount of variation. In its representation of the dimensions between heaven and earth, Ignition seem content to apply any aesthetic style they please, and they run the gamut from ethereal line drawings to anime, to psychedelic swirls, to children's cartoons.One moment, the player is guiding Enoch along shiny, jet-black discs above a singing crowd of worshippers as fireworks illuminate the sky around a gigantic tower in the distance. The next, he's trundling through a Day-Glo level filled with playful blob-like Nephilim, who are pushing beachballs along the ground and whirling candy-striped hula-hoops around their waists.This variety in the world of El Shaddai unfortunately doesn't extend to the characters that populate it. In the beginning, enemies look interesting in their design, but as the game progresses, it starts recycling them; players will encounter the same templates, with only new colour schemes or different weapons to differentiate them from earlier versions. The game's bosses, The Watchers, all have different faces, but in battle they all wear the same armour and the same pyramid shaped helmet with an eye in the centre of it.Every so often a save point pops up in the form of Satan – here called Lucifel – who appears as a bloke in a pin-stripe suit, nattering to God on a mobile phone. If that sounds strange, then bear in mind that Enoch is presented as an angular blonde who wears nothing other than some white armour plating and a pair of jeans. The two of them are certainly interesting representations of the Biblical characters they're based on, but really, they aren't a million miles away from the androgynous anime staples used in tons of other Japanese-made games.The combat system is a bit up and down too, being, as it is simplistic yet deep at the same time. Aside from Enoch's fists, players have a choice of only three weapons they can use to dispatch any opponents they encounter. The Arch is a light melee weapon that looks like a cross between a scythe and a bow, and which allows for quick-paced and fluid attacks. The Veil is a heavy set of gauntlets that combine to form a shield, which make Enoch sluggish in his attacks, but make up for this by doling out heavy damage. Finally, there's the game's projectile weapon, the Gale, which is represented by a series of hovering darts that Enoch can hurl one at a time to cause light damage or all at once for a heavier impact.All of the Enoch's attacks are mapped to just one button on the control pad, but don't let this fool you into thinking El Shaddai is a game that can be beaten through button-bashing. Players will need to use a combination of precise timing, with a willingness to mix up basic attacks with aerial moves, blocks and Enoch's ability to steal his opponents' weapons. They'll also need to keep an eye on their weapon's purity; hammering the forces of darkness causes Enoch's weapons to become corrupted over time, causing, the damage of his attacks to drop to almost nothing. When this happens players will have to "purify" whatever weapon they're using and they'll need to take care when they do this, as it leaves Enoch vulnerable to attack for a couple of seconds.So, in spite of its paucity of weapons and its one-button attack system, El Shaddai's combat isn't as shallow as one might first think. However, it's not exactly satisfying throughout, due to thegame's enemies who become repetitive both in their appearance and in the types of attacks they deploy. Then there are the boss battles against the different Watchers, which come across as just weird; when the player loses one of these contests, half the time the game will restart the fight and the other half, it'll just continue the story as though nothing happened. Players can also avoid dying by rapidly tapping some of the face and shoulder buttons when Enoch is near death.So as you've probably gathered by this point, El Shaddai is a game with more than its fair share of peccadilloes and it's easy to see how they could repel gamers unwilling to ignore them. However, it's also clear that those who are prepared to forgive El Shaddai its eccentricities will truly adore it. This game is capable of garnering cult-like worship, which in a way is fitting, given its source material.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
As a private company, but one with arguably an unprecedented influence and commercial impact, Facebook's revenues have always been closely followed. On its scale, it epitomises the challenge of next generation social sites who now need to prove that there is real money behind the social media phenomenon. The latest reported figures look extremely good.Ahead of an expected IPO early next year, it's more than a little convenient that some very healthy revenue numbers have "leaked" to Reuters. Scepticism aside, how do they look?According to one source,Reutersreports, revenues reached $1.6bn for the first half of 2011, with net income at $500m. There's no breakdown of how much of that is made up of advertising and how much comes from revenue sharing on virtual goods in games and apps.In the documents Goldman Sachs used to hawk its secondary market investment deal to potential investors, the firm claimed Facebook's revenues totalled $1.2bn for the first three quarters of2010, with net income of $355m. That was roughly in line with some rather woolly media reports that ranged from$1.2bnto$2bnfor the full year. That means Facebook's revenues have roughly doubled year on year.Photo byGOIABA (Goiabarea)on Flickr.Some rights reservedIts implied valuation, meanwhile, on the slightly inflated secondary markets, has reached $80bn.VentureBeatsays the latest figures show something like a 30% profit margin. Given that profit is an important factor in working out a company's value for an IPO, this looks very healthy. Public companies Microsoft and Google have profit margins over 30% while newly-public LinkedIn is at just 4.43%.But VentureBeat also suggests the convenient timing of these figures, quoting the chief of research firmPrivCowho points to Facebook's vulnerability of users. "Facebook's revenue is heavily tied to participation. Once that drops, its revenue is going to decline," said Sam Hamadeh, pointing tofalling growth in unique user figures in peak marketsincluding the US and UK in May last year.PrivCo puts Facebook's revenue from virtual goods at $670m for 2011, and advertising at $2.475bn for the year. Total revenues for 2011 it estimates at $3.145bn.While Facebook will be happy for growing revenues to be leaked to firm up its financial credibility ahead of its IPO, it has already made moves to address the issue of saturating user numbers. Founder Mark Zuckerberg sketched out this "strategy" during theSkype partnership announcement; that unique user numbers are no longer the default traffic measurement, he decreed. Instead, it's about the volume of sharing which, he said, is a better representation of activity. Conveniently.
