Ofcom, the telecoms watchdog, wants BT to share its network of telegraph poles and underground ducts with rival providers such as Virgin Media, to accelerate the rollout of "superfast broadband".Ofcom also set out for the first time yesterday what it regards as the lowest speed that would merit the name. Ed Richards, the chief executive, said: "Any connection speed above 24 megabits per second means that there is fibre in the access network, and that's what we would class as 'superfast'."The average broadband-connected UK household gets 4Mbps, though conventional systems can manage up to 8Mbps – and BT is rolling out services able to provide speeds of up to 24Mbps using the existing copper lines. However, large numbers of homes and businesses are in locations which cannot get any sort of broadband, either because they are too far from an exchange or because the lines are of poor quality. Ofcom hopes the measures on sharing access will protect households against uncompetitive pricing, after finding that about 14% of UK premises were serviced only by BT copper networks.Competition in the superfast broadband market in the UK has intensified in recent months as BT launched a high-speed product, BT Infinity, offering 40Mbps speeds, which aims to reach 40% of UK homes by 2012. BT's main rival, Virgin Media, announced the introduction of a 100Mbps service.Richards said that BT would also be required to give rivals "virtual unbundled local access" to its network, in effect letting them use the optical fibre it has already laid to offer services.High-speed broadband access has become a hot political topic, with the Tories setting out a "technology manifesto"that also suggested opening up ducts without subsidy. Gordon Brown on Monday implied that a future Labour government would subsidise the building of fibre optic cable in remote areas.But Richards said: "Our focus is on encouraging more competition."We would like to see superfast broadband widely deployed. It's good for the UK and the communications sector and businesses and consumers across the UK."Industry commentators broadly welcomed the proposals.BT said: "Duct access is unlikely to be the 'silver bullet' to get fibre to the countryside, but all options should be explored." BT has until 1 June to respond.Mike Wilson, broadband manager at moneysupermarket.com, said: "Ofcom's announcement seems like a step in the right direction to ensure effective competition, but Ofcom and the government must ensure this remains the case."Telecoms analyst Morten Singleton at City broker Collins Stewart said: "We believe the approach looks logical, allowing regulatory freedom where BT is active and intending to limit the potential for market abuse where BT faces little or no competition – a net neutral for BT."Ofcom found that up to 40% or 50% of BT's underground duct network had room for new cables, while there was also the potential for wires to be added to its telegraph poles in some areas.The Tories' technology manifesto can be read at http://bit.ly/cFIQis.
When vicious inter-ethnic violence broke out in Urumqi last year, Chinese authorities flooded the city with security forces. But next came an unexpected step: they cut off internet access across the vast north-western region of Xinjiang. Controlling the information flow was as crucial as controlling the streets, it seemed.Eight months on, the net remains largely inaccessible in Xinjiang, though officials claim it will soon be restored. The small number of sites that were recently unblocked are heavily censored; only a severely restricted email service is available.The internet blackout is partly an anomaly, made possible by the region's poverty and remoteness. It is hard to imagine the authorities gambling with Shanghai or Beijing's internationalised economies.But it also reflects the government's wider approach to the internet: real fear at the speed with which information or rumours can spread and people can organise. And an absolute determination to tame it. The cut-off lies at the extreme end of a spectrum of controls that experts say constitute the world's most sophisticated and extensive censorship system – and one that is growing.Google's decision to shut its mainland search service rather than continue to self-censor has highlighted a crackdown that has closed thousands of domestic websites over the last year and blocked many hosted outside. Casualties included Yeeyan, a community translation website that was running a collaborative experiment with the Guardian, publishing stories in Chinese. Though it was later allowed to reopen, it no longer translates foreign news media. Other measures have included attempts to introduce real name registration and install controls on individual devices via the controversial Green Dam software – though the latter has been seen off by users, at least for now."A lot of people are very optimistic that the web will bring us 'glasnost for China', but the determination to control it is stronger than ever," said David Bandurski of the China Media Project at the University of Hong Kong. Few, even those who deal with it regularly, can explain exactly how the censorship system works.Chinese officials say that most countries control the internet and that Beijing does so according to law. The state proscribes up to 11 kinds of content, which range from spreading obscenity to "disrupting national policies on religion, propagating evil cults and feudal superstitions".The difference is not only that China outlaws far more content than other countries, but it does not state clearly what is off limits, why, and who made the decision."The special nature of Chinese censorship is that it has no transparency and is very random," said Wen Yunchao, an outspoken  Guangzhou-based blogger better known as Beifeng (North Wind). "When my blog has been closed or deleted or blocked, I have had no notice. After I find out there is no way to petition for its return. No netizens know which department made the decision; no one knows how the system works. We only see the results."The first element is the so-called Great Firewall. Internet police bar access to services hosted overseas by blocking URLs and IP addresses and through keyword filteringhttp://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/mar/23/google-china-firewall-censorship-internet. Although many internet users find ways to scale the firewall – such as proxies and virtual private networks – most either do not know how or cannot be bothered.Butthe second element is just as crucial: domestic censorship. And here the authorities do not rely on controlling companies – but on making sure that they control themselves. In evidence to a US House of Representatives hearing this month, Rebecca MacKinnon, a fellow at Princeton's Center for Information Technology Policy, wrote: "Much of the censorship and surveillance work in China is delegated and outsourced to the private sector – who, if they fail to censor and monitor to the government's satisfaction, will lose their business licence."Punishments can also include fines – or having sites closed, without warning. The decentralisation of censorship means that it is highly uneven. The transparency of filtering, content censored and methods used all vary. When MacKinnon tried to post 108 pieces of content on 15 different blog hosts, the most vigilant censored 60 posts; the least, only one.That is one reason why the system is hard to understand. Another is that it is deliberately opaque; at least one journalist, Shi Tao, is in jail for disclosing a propaganda directive. It is unsurprising that so few people want to discuss the system. But conversations with bloggers, industry sources and experts allow one to build up a portrait of it.Most sites depend on both mechanised and human observation. Filtering software rejects posts outright or flags them up for further attention, but humans are essential to catch veiled references and check photographs, for example. Sources suggest a huge portal – such as Sina, which runs not only news, but a microblog service and discussion forums – could employ anywhere between 20 and 100 censors.These people take orders from a complex apparatus that briefs them about what is permitted, orders changes or deletions to content, and punishes them.At the top are the party's propaganda office and the information office of the state council, China's cabinet. These deal with the biggest issues and set out a general approach; and they are replicated downwards through the levels of the bureaucracy.They have their own monitors who usually work as a single, city-level team . They focus primarily on news-related websites, though this may include blog platforms, for instance. They shape content as well as removing it.Separately, there are internet police, dealing primarily with security and crime-related issues – though in China these are interpreted very broadly. Usually they order deletion or site closures, rather than issuing directives in advance. It is thought they focus on social websites, such as bulletin boards; and their work veers towards information that may have offline repercussions for police – perhaps complaints that could lead to unrest – and investigations.These three groups form the bulk of the official censors. Within their ranks dedicated teams watch major sites such as NetEase or Sohu. Like the firms' own monitors, they work round the clock. Others will run searches on keywords, or check out tips from the public. Increasingly, they are investing in technology such as text mining software.But there are numerous other entities overseeing parts of the internet – the broadcasting administration deals with videos, for instance. Although they coordinate and cooperate, responsibilities overlap and turf wars can result.Additionally, each government department or agency keeps an eye on its own patch, with education officials monitoring student discussion forums. Usually these bodies will act via police or information and propaganda officials; sometimes, they call websites directly. It is not clear if they have the right to order deletion of content, but companies usually comply rather than take the risk. "Literally, pretty much every government office – national, provincial, city level – will try to contact you if they have your number," complained an industry figure, joking that senior staff hate to give out business cards as a result.Depending on the sensitivity of content and where it appears, orders arrive in different ways. Censors may tell a site to delete content, or tell an ISP to pull the plug. Sometimes a data centre informs a company they have been told to shut a site; sometimes they act without warning or explanation.Almost always, the information is delivered informally. Authorities will call major players to meetings to brief them; otherwise, they will ring up, send a text message or use online chat services. In a normal week, a major site can expect to receive at least tens of instructions. Smaller sites often rely on word of mouth. But companies usually maintain logs to keep track of these unwritten injunctions  and occasionally these leak, offering a rare glimpse into the complex and sometimes baffling decisions of the censors.One, said to have belonged to Chinese search giant Baidu, included banned sites, off-limits topics and sensitive words or phrases including Aids, migrant workers, reactionary and even Communist party; not problematic in themselves, but in certain combinations.The censors' decisions can be baffling – allowing tales of official abuse to remain while apparently innocuous subjects are erased; one list translated by the New York Times this week included an order to delete references to a rare flower. According to Buddhist folklore, it blooms only once every 3,000 years; someone feared it would encourage superstition. "The rest of us have to guess their likes and dislikes," complained one of those struggling to keep up. Officials do not only prohibit content. They dictate how stories are reported; or  if reader comments should be allowed; or set a ratio of "positive" news on sites."In the past it was about deleting. Now they do much more[proactively] – saying what we should put on the headlines," added the industry source. "They are smarter. People open the home page and see tabloid-style or party news and lose interest. They don't bother to scroll down to the interesting stuff."There is one more port of call for Chinese authorities: the individual."They don't haul in everyone," said Phelim Kine, Asia researcher at Human Rights Watch. But "discussion of the Chinese government's monopoly on power; the need to examine 1989; calls for open elections – those are red flag issues and can get people a knock on the door from the public security bureau".Then there are the "grey lines"; topics and discussions acceptable today but perhaps not tomorrow. A summons to an intimidatory chat with police; detention; or even jail could be the result. Amnesty International calculated last year about 30 journalists and 50 others were in prison "for posting their views on the internet" – often, because officials suspected they were seeking to organise others.But the deletion of content, the closure of sites and the jailing of individuals have a chilling effect that goes far beyond those immediately affected."Because people don't know what they are not allowed to say, they kind of guess and take down or stop saying whatever might possibly not be permissible," said Wen Yunchao. The system's effectiveness can be judged not by the number of censors, the sophistication of its technology or the information suppressed – but by what it has not done and does not need to do. Li Yonggang, a professor of internet politics at Nanjing university, wrote recently: "In fact, the Great Firewall is rooted in our hearts."
Strain: Strategy in China has caused a rift between Google's top trio, say insidersGoogle executives are calculating the next step in their escalating conflict with Beijing, after the Chinese government's fierce response to the censorship battle took the company by surprise.Faced withGoogle's decisionto push Chinese search engine users to its uncensored Hong Kong website, government officials yesterday issued astrong statementcalling the Californian internet giant "totally wrong" and suggesting it had "violated its written promise" with the authorities.While Google executives were aware that a reaction from the authorities was a possibility, insiders say that the severity of the response has shocked senior figures at the Californian internet giant - particularly since they believed the move to Hong Kong was part of an unofficial deal that had been brokered with the Chinese government.That belief, the Guardian understands, came after two months of intense negotiations which started when Googlethreatened to lift the censorship of its search enginein protest at a hacking attack traced back to China. While the government denied culpability and both sides tookstrong positionsin public, intermediaries spent several weeks working behind the scenes to secure an agreement.The end result, put into action on Monday, was to redirect users of the self-censored google.cn service to Google's uncensored Hong Kong search engine.Despite the fact that Hong Kong remains under the overall control of Beijing, however, Google searches are still effectively censored because the site is subject to China's so-called "Great Firewall" - the system for blocking and filtering websites that the authorities deem dangerous or offensive.The resulting situation has left Google in a difficult position.In its statement on Monday, the company said it believed the change complied with Chinese law - and hinted that it had already discussed the switch with the authorities."It's entirely legal and will meaningfully increase access to information for people in China,"said the company's chief legal officer, David Drummond. "We very much hope that the Chinese government respects our decision, though we are well aware that it could at any time block access to our services."But Google co-founder Sergey Brin has since admitted that did not get official permission to make the change, and that the company's position in China is still uncertain."There's a lot of lack of clarity," hetold the New York Times. "Our hope is that the newly begun Hong Kong service was the right step."The situation leaves Google's other businesses in mainland China under threat, despite claims that it would stick by its research facilities, phone manufacturing and sales operations in the country.A number of businesses are said to be considering their links with the company, including those run by Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-Shing, who owns Britain's mobile phone network 3 and runsTom Online, one of China's most popular web portals.Faced with events yesterday, Tom has dropped Google as a partner and instead switched to Chinese rival Baidu - which self-censors - in order to provide its users with search results.Other companies could follow suit, and it has been previously reported that popular sites includingSina.comandGanji.comhave been pressured to end their relationship with the internet's most powerful company.Experts suggest the move could cost the Californian company as much as $4bn over the next five years, and the affair will leave the Californian technology giant - which currently commands around 30% of the search engine market in China - without much to offer customers."Google's value proposition to advertisers in China will have been diminished," Steven Chang, who runs the Chinese arm of advertising company Zenith Optimedia,told BusinessWeek.Whatever steps Google decides to take next, it will provide a significant insight into the battle raging behind the scenes at the company's Silicon Valley headquarters.The issue of censorship in China is believed to have opened a significant rift between the company's founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, and its chief executive, Eric Schmidt.Brin has been a vocal advocate for freedom of speech and lobbied against authoritarian regimes, and is believed to have opposed the company's initial decision to launch a self-censored search engine in 2006.With Page also pushing hard for the company to pull out of China, Schmidt - who has consistently argued the value of doing business in China - has become increasingly isolated.Despite increasing strain, however, it is not clear how the potential backfiring of the company's Chinese plans will swing arguments inside the company's base in Mountain View, California.
The Obama administration matched the Chinese government today in its determination to prevent the Google row from damaging bilateral ties.In contrast totough comments by the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, in January condemning internet censorship, the response of the White House and the state department to the latest row was about as muted as possible.Relations between Washington and Beijing have been strained over the last few months, with Chinese protests over Barack Obama meeting the Dalai Lama at the White House and over US arms sales to Taiwan, and on the other side Congress near incandescent with rage over the Sino-US trade imbalance, blaming it on currency manipulation by Beijing. Now Google has been added to the list.The Obama administration could have picked it up as an issue with which to beat China – the row offers a vivid example of the kind of internet censorship Clinton has been campaigning against.But the White House opted instead to play down the row. Mike Hammer, Obama's National Security Council spokesman, expressed disappointment that Google and the Chinese government had been unable to reach a deal. He said the White House remained committed to internet freedom but did not see it damaging relations."The US-China relationship is mature enough to sustain differences, and while we seek to expand co-operation on issues of mutual interest with China, we will candidly and frankly address areas of disagreement," he said.Google had worked closely with the Obama administration, which it informed in advance of its decision to switch its China operations to Hong Kong.The Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Qin Gang, said yesterday  that he did not see the Google row as having an impact on Sino-US ties "unless someone wants to politicise this". There was no such desire in Washington today.Douglas Paal, one of the leading China specialists in Washington, said: "Officials are trying to keep the relationship on an even keel and isolate confrontation."He added that some in the US media had presented a narrative that Obama had offered China a hand of friendship last year and Beijing had rejected it. Paal said it was not a narrative that he recognised: "I do not see the relationship as having worsened in recent months."Paal, vice-president of theCarnegie Endowment for International Peaceand a senior adviser on Asian affairs in the Reagan and George Bush senior's administrations, said: "I do not think the relationship is bad and the Chinese and their US counterparts are doing their best to contain public opinion."Other Washington-based analysts, concurring with Paal, said the top priority for the Obama administration was not Google, the Dalai Lama or arms sales to Taiwan but getting Chinese backing for UN sanctions against Iran over its alleged nuclear weapons programme. Securing Chinese support is difficult but US officials hope they will at least be able to persuade Beijing not to use its security council veto and instead abstain, allowing sanctions to go ahead.Another priority for Washington is China's positive role in trying to persuade North Korea to renounce nuclear weapons.While Beijing denounced the visit of the Dalai Lama and the arms sales to Taiwan, it did not retaliate. Significantly, it allowed a visit by a US warship to Hong Kong to go ahead as planned, as well as a series of high-profile bilateral meetings.The US Treasury announced yesterday that one of the most significant of these meetings – the US-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue meeting – is to be held in Beijing in May, with Clinton and the Treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner.There are potential flashpoints ahead, however. The Obama administration is under pressure from Congress to formally label China a currency manipulator when the Treasury releases its annual report on 15 April. China might offer a concession ahead of that date to avoid such a fate.There are other irritants ahead, including a Pentagon report that will single out China and its growing military strength. The Chinese are likely to object.
If you haven't seen it yet, this painful discussion on The Alan Titchmarsh Show on the perils of playing violent video games is worth a watch. The baying audience and ignorance of the panellists makes for pretty grim viewing.Thankfully, CVG editor Tim Ingham acquits himself very well in the face of some bizarre accusations from former Sun editor Kelvin MacKenzie and actress/sex expert Julie Peasgood. It's worth bearing in mind, whilst watching the 'discussion',that Peasgood has herself done voice work in a violent video game.Perhaps we shouldn't be too surprised if you think about the show's target audience, but in 2010 it's pretty disappointing that such ill-informed views and discussion can occur on a mainstream television programme.I'll let Charlie Brooker have the final word, this from Twitter last night: "Which is less civilised? Some gunplay in pixel-land, or an unfair one-sided censorship debate before a mooing audience in reality?"
Greatly improving on the original, Just Cause 2 is a top example of how a sandbox game should be. A third-person action experience, your playground is the South East Asian island of Panau, an impressive 1,000sq km in size. Throwing yourself from your helicopter into a politically unstable land, you're searching for your old boss and mentor who's suspected of going rogue.Using your gun-toting skills you befriend the local factions in order to gain intel that will help you hunt him down. Fighting against an oppressive dictator, they're happy to take on your services as Scorpio the mercenary, and so the missions begin. The key currency in this game is chaos, which you can cause through taking on a variety of missions or simply causing destruction as you freely explore the settings. These are impossibly varied as Panau is home to a rainforest, desert, and even a snow-covered mountain range.Although in some ways far from realistic, it's graphically the opposite, with impressive sights that'll make you want to sit back and be enveloped by the on-screen imagery. Detailed textures make every setting vivid, and effects, especially water, really excel. However, perfection is thwarted by the occasional pop-up during twilight hours.As for the gameplay, you're spoilt for choice. Choose from exploration, action, missions or races, and use your two tools – the grapple and parachute – in any way you choose. The experiences are endless, as you can use them alone or together to fight enemies, slingshot through the sky, destroy military assets, the list goes on. Each player is likely to take advantage of different abilities and play the game in an original way. If you choose to you can charge through the story by completing missions, or simply explore your sandbox, base jumping from towering casinos, searching out rare sights or hunting out all the collectibles in the 200+ areas.Its freedom is also its downside, as Just Cause 2 can feel overwhelmingly vast. Travel takes time, becoming tedious, and you're likely to be constantly sidetracked. Its difficulty levels can be challenging, and the plethora of controls can also feel too much. Controlling the variety of vehicles from motorbikes to jumbo jets can also be tough to master, but if you're willing to put in the time you're rewarded with an exciting and varied gameplay environment that will offer you the same kind of game time you'd expect from an RPG.
Labour has announced its technology intentions for the next five years if re-elected in May.  Gordon Brown unveiled the plans in a speech titled Building Britain's Digital Future, which decribes new public policy initiatives, a new web science institute and a promise of faster broadband. The Tech Weekly team dissect the details, while taking a look at the latest juicy details to fall out of the Viacom v YouTube court case, and some of the highlights from this year's South By Southwest interactive festival.We also hear from Ken Banks of Frontline SMS, which has developed a text messaging application that allows non-governmental organisations to communicate with groups of people and recieve replies in areas where internet access is poor – such as the developing world.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
The majority of open-world games generally consist of driving and shooting. And sometimes, by happy chance, what really, really hits the spot is just driving things and shooting things. Which is exactly the playground Just Cause 2 offers – with over-the-top action-movie flair. It's set on an absolutely huge island, full of planes to fly (and parachute from), cars to hijack (or stage preposterous gunfights on top of), buildings to climb (grappling-hooks!) and enemy soldiers and bases to explode as creatively as possible...The story is little more than a sequence of explosions told by characters with accents that veer wildly from sentence to sentence: the Asians sometimes sound British, sometimes Chinese, and even the Americans can't decide whether they're from Texas or New York. It's dreadful but irrelevant, because the game's best moments are the ones you create yourself – attaching a bus to a helicopter and launching it at an enemy base, or baling from a motorbike in time to watch it career into some explosive barrels.The fundamentals – controls and combat – can be awkward, and the missions and chaotic atmosphere become repetitive quickly, but Just Cause 2 never pretends to be anything other than a silly, explosive, action blockbuster: expect nothing more and it won't disappoint.
In a brief anouncement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Nintendo has confirmed that it is developing a 3D-capable successor to the Nintendo DS. The handheld console is expected to arrive before the end of the fiscal year in March 2011.A Christmas 2010 release is likely, at least in Japan, putting it into direct competition with the launch of Sony's PlayStation Move and Microsoft's Natal devices. Backwards compatibility fans will be pleased to note that it will run all previous DS releases.The company has not revealed which specific 3D technology it will be utilising, though apparently special glasses will not be required to appreciate the effect. A mobile phone with a 3D display designed by telecoms technology companyKDDI, was released by Hitachi last year – the device uses twin LCDs to give the impression of a three-dimensional display.Although Nintendo president Satoru Iwata has consistentlyplayed downsuggestions that the iPhone and other powerful smartphone devices represent a threat to the dedicated handheld games console, this is clearly an attempt to further distinguish the DS brand from non-dedicated gaming platforms. And with the current worldwide interest in 3D technology, thanks to the enormous success of Avatar and the launch of several 3D-capable TV sets, this puts Nintendo right at the top of the technological agenda once again.The venture is not without risks. The company has only just launched the Nintendo DSi XL, an enlarged version of its standard handheld – its fanbase may well balk at the announcement of yet another update. And this won't be the company's first foray into alternative display technologies – released in 1995, the Nintendo Virtual Boy sought to provide a virtual reality-style 3D experience using an immersive headset device that projected basic red and black visuals. Over-priced and tending to induce migraines in users, it was a massive flop.However, time and technology have moved on and gamers will no doubt relish the opportunity to experience classic DS brands like Zelda, Mario &amp; Luigi and Mario Kart in multicolour 3D – especially as this is likely to be the cheapest way to experience the technology at home.What do you think? Are you itching to pre-order, or is this a DS too far this time?
Whether you love it or loathe it, there is one certainty about Heavy Rain - if you're a gamer, you have an opinion on it. Quantic Dreams' incredible thriller, with its mannered game mechanic and tight focus on characterisation and emotion, seems to have opened a new chapter in the story of video games as a mass entertainment medium.Last week, we spoke to David Cage about both the critical reaction to the game, and his own thoughts on its strengths and weaknesses. We covered everything from his personal favourite moments in the story to the performance of the voice actors - and where will this genre go next...[Please note: this interview contains frequent references to story elements within Heavy Rain. Proceed with caution if you have yet to finish the game]Heavy Rain has caused a huge amount of debate among game writers; it's really got peoplethinkingabout games again. Have you been surprised by the reaction?I never doubted that there was an audience for more mature content, but I feared that few people would give the game a chance. We spent two years before release talking about the game, evangelising, explaining why it was a unique experience, and it seems that this work generated enough attention to generate strong sales. Few people (including me) would have predicted that the game would be number one on all platforms both in Europe and in the US, knowing it was a new franchise based on a new genre.I was also expecting more polarised reactions to the game. Heavy Rain breaks with most of the rules used by video games for 20 years, and I thought that there would be a lot of resistance against that. In fact, reviews have been extremely positive in a consistent way worldwide with scores of 90% in average.More surprisingly, the feedback from the mainstream press has been equally positive, if not even better. Some media used to talk about video games only to say how violent or addictive they could be. With Heavy Rain, they talked about the story of the game and the emotions they felt while playing.Did any reaction really stand out for you?It is really difficult to pick one specific review as there were so many great ones. One of my favorite was written in an American video game magazine. The journalist just wrote about what he felt playing the game, his emotions, his thoughts. He never mentions the technology, the graphics or the interface that are usually the main points of focus for a game. This article was really in synch with my personal approach: the only thing that really matters is what the player feels as he plays. Technology and graphics are just tools to create emotions, nothing more. Some games sometimes seem to believe the tool is more important than the content.I am really glad of the overall response. I always said that the success or failure of Heavy Rain would send a strong message to the game industry: if the game faced disappointing reviews and sales, it would mean that gamers are not interested in exploring different ways of interacting based on emotions and targeting an adult audience. As Heavy Rain is very positively received, I believe it clearly states that gamers are eager to play different types of games and that publishers should dare to take more risks and give more importance to creativity. I strongly believe that interactivity has the potential to become an art, it is just a matter of time.What most people are saying is that it's created a whole new platform of entertainment between games and cinema – it's not an "interactive movie" but it's not a game in the purest sense. Was this always your intention?I often said during the development that we were not working on a video game anymore. Most video games are based on mechanics, repetitive patterns usually based on violence or some kind of physical action, that the player repeats through different levels. There are some established paradigms, like having enemies, puzzles, increasing difficulty, game over situations, that everybody respects without always daring to challenge them and wonder if there is no other option.Some of the most recent games available today have reached a fantastic level of implementation with those paradigms. Their technology is amazing, rules are followed by the book and there is hardly anything anyone could do better. And still, most of these games still feel empty, meaningless, making the player feel nothing more than stress, fear and tension. What it means to me is that in order to go beyond this emotional wall, we must challenge these established rules, dare to break them and invent new ones to see if it is possible to trigger more complex, subtle and deeper emotions.This is what I tried to achieve with Heavy Rain. The game is entirely based on interactive storytelling and emotions, not on physical actions or violence. It is about a journey, not about challenges, it is about contextual actions, not about patterns, it is about real characters in real life, not about super heroes saving the world.For all these reasons, I don't think that Heavy Rain is a video game anymore, although it is a fully interactive experience. In order to create emotion, I borrowed elements from movies, TV series, theatre, mixing them with other influences and with all the things that make our media unique: interactivity, immersion, choices and consequences.Photography was inspired by painting, cinema by theatre and photography, I don't believe that any new art form was ever created from scratch. Getting inspiration from movies was not an issue for me but rather a way to learn from other media. But I believe that Heavy Rain also has something unique as it allows players to become the co-writer of the story, to own it in a very unique way, like no other media than interactivity can do it today.It's interesting you should say that because a lot of the more superficial actions that the characters can take part in, simply strolling up and down a room for example, start to feel like performing. When I was in the psychiatrist's office for example, I found that I was making Ethan sit down and stand up and fiddle with objects, because it accentuated the sense of desperation and fear – I was effectively creating a film for myself …Part of the concept of the game was based on role play, putting the player in the shoes of his character, and asking him to act, think, move, like the character would in the context. My original design was based on this idea that some actions may not have massive consequences but sometimes just affect the perception of the character, his mood, the image the player has of him.Very simple actions were parts of this role play idea. Deciding to sit near a character during a dialogue or to look through the window as he speaks does not have dramatic consequences, but it certainly affects the characterisation and the meaning of the dialogue, changing the player's perception in a deeper way than one would have thought. It's just one of the discoveries we made.Have there been any surprising or unexpected reactions to the game? Have you learned anything from unexpected responses?An analyst wrote that no matter how good Heavy Rain would be, it would not sell because gamers do not want to think when they play. I was really shocked by this idea, as if gamers were all stupid teenagers only interested in killing zombies in corridors.The commercial success of the game shows one thing: gamers are not who we thought they are. They are older, eager for something new, ready for more sophistication than what most games have to offer. The limits come from ourselves, game creators and publishers, but the market is now ready to see video games evolve to a more mature and meaningful media. As an industry, we should better understand that quickly and move accordingly if we want to continue to grow and expand our core audience.Most people have really bought into the everyday activities – changing the nappy, making an omelet, etc – were these the elements you were most concerned about?My favorite scene in my previous game, Fahrenheit, was one where a character wakes up in the morning, has a shower, takes his clothes, drinks coffee and chats with his wife before going to work. I had real doubts writing this scene and I thought it would be incredibly boring. But when we played it, it felt immediately right, there was nothing spectacular, but only a strange feeling of sharing the intimacy of the character, of being a part of his own life.Working on Heavy Rain, I knew these moments could work. They would tell so much about the characters, contribute to the role play, triggering empathy and identification – I could not imaginenothaving these moments. Our media has often defined "interacting" as "killing someone" or "destroying something". I think that there are other forms of interactions that can be much more meaningful, including trying to act with your character and doing things he would do in the context.Heavy Rain also often dares to be slow paced, taking time to build things, to create emotional moments. There are many moments like this in the game that really contribute to players' attachment to the characters by asking him to invest emotionally in the experience. When the story becomes dramatic, the player feels emotionally engaged with the characters, he really cares for what they feel and what happens to them. This is how Heavy Rain creates emotion through empathy, something films and literature know forever but that the game industry is discovering.Can you tell me which scenes were the most challenging to get right and why?Honestly, every single scene in the game was a challenge to put together. There is no recurrent mechanic in Heavy Rain, unlike most other video games, which means that in every scene the player does something different. Every scene required specific attention, specific tuning and balancing, dedicated art direction, etc.The scene I am certainly the most proud of is one of the first ones in the game called "Father&amp;Son". In this scene, Ethan and Shaun have difficulties communicating because something terrible happened in their family. Rain is falling outside, the kid is watching TV and night is falling in real time (the house slowly gets darker and darker). As the player, you can decide to take care of your son by asking him to do his homework, preparing diner, putting him to bed on time …Or you can decide to be focused on yourself, feeling guilt and pain, letting your son take care of himself, find something to eat in the kitchen and fall asleep watching television. The scene really puts in the shoes of this father and you can decide, in a dramatic context, what kind of father you want to be, which really participates to the experience by making you the co-actor and co-writer of it.This scene was particularly a challenge because this is pretty much an "anti-video game" moment. There is no explosion, no weapon, no one to kill, no puzzle to solve, just characters, story, emotions, and this strong feeling of sadness, which is an emotion rarely used in video games. It was also a challenge in matter of writing to anticipate all possible developments of the scene and making them sound real and consistent. I was really impatient to see how gamers would respond to this type of scenes and I felt really glad people enjoyed it and felt the emotions we tried to put in there. 7. Some have questioned the love scene between Ethan and Madison – would a father desperate to save his child really find time for a spot of romance? A few critics have wondered if it's there simply because some gamers would want to see it, even if it doesn't 'honor' Ethan's story. What is your answer to this?I answer that this is players' choice! If they don't believe Ethan would do it, they can just play it accordingly and the script will continue with their decision. You cannot become the co-writer of the experience and complain about the choices you made ;-)More seriously, I disagree with this statement that Ethan would not make love to Madison in the context. My opinion is that Ethan is on his own since the beginning of this journey with absolutely no one he can trust, he is accused of the abduction of his child, he was confronted with pain, he had to kill a man, he is completely lost. He could be desperate for a moment to catch his breath (which will unfortunately lead him to realize Madison lied to him too…). This is probably something he regrets just after, but a moment of rest is maybe something he needed just to be able to cope with what happens to him. This is just my take, but it is really up to the player to decide if he agrees with this characterization or if he prefers Ethan to push Madison back.On a side note, I never write anything to "please" gamers. This is not how I envisage my work. I try to trigger emotions through interactive storytelling and this is my only goal. Trying to give people what we imagine they expect is the best way to fail.There have been some concerns about the voice acting in a few scenes. What were the key challenges with this element? Are you happy with the overall quality of the acting? What could be improved?The emotional impact of Heavy Rain is recognised by most critics and gamers playing the game, and the main vehicle of emotions is actors. The cast has done in my opinion a fantastic job at making these characters exist, by giving them not only their voice, but also their face, their movements, their soul. Technology to create this type of experience remains a burden for actors (check Avatar's  making of and you will know what I am talking about…) and it can certainly affect the performance sometimes, but overall if gamers felt strong emotions in Heavy Rain, it is mainly thanks to actors and their talent.Now we work on simplifying the technology around actors to allow them to focus only on delivering the best performance. I am confident we are going to solve this situation in a near future, especially now that the industry starts to see the benefit of emotions in games.What are your favourite scenes as director? I loved the really awkward first meeting between Shelby and Lauren, but also the great action sequence where Shelby bursts into the mansion at the end and spectacularly kills everyone. Did you prefer the really personal sequences of the set pieces? Any particular favourites?My favorite scenes are the more intimate and personal ones, although I really enjoyed the spectacular action scenes. I believe that the enjoyment of Heavy Rain comes also from the way the game moves from a very intimate or emotional scene to a big action scene. Surprising the player, never let him know what to expect next was one of my priorities.My favorite scene in the game is probably Father&amp;Son for the reasons I explained above. The scene where Ethan has to cut his finger to save his son is also one I really like (maybe also because this scene relates directly to my personal experience, as I had my fingers cut in an accident when I was a kid…) and I know many people react very strongly to it.I see Heavy Rain like a journey where the traveler goes through different emotions, some pleasant, some unpleasant. All I hope is that it is an experience that will leave an imprint in players' minds, like the best novels we read or the best movies we watched. They left something in us, they form a part of our culture, of our minds, sometimes slightly changing who we are. With Heavy Rain, I hope the game shows that interactive experiences now have the potential to become something more meaningful.You've released The Taxidermist as a prequel DLC - can we expect more of these - and will anyfollowthe events of Heavy Rain (a difficult proposition, I suppose, as there are so many different endings).More DLC is currently something we discuss with Sony. There is a strong interest to develop more content for Heavy Rain on both sides, we just work on finding a way to make it in the best possible way. I would probably more consider prequels than sequels, but I cannot really say more.You've talked about adopting some PlayStation Move functionality – could you tell us how?The initial game design of Heavy Rain was based on motion control, a device that did not exist at the time on PlayStation 3. We redesigned the interface to work with the standard controllers, although the final design certainly keeps traces of this initial intention but being entirely centered on movement.Quantic Dream certainly has interest in Playstation Move. This type of device has been used in the past for casual or family entertainment mainly, I would certainly be curious to see if a more adult experience could also benefit from it. Now I don't believe that every single game is going to be based on motion devices in the future, but I think it is an interesting option for some types of experiences.Looking back on Heavy Rain, and forward to your next project, how do you think you will evolve this genre that you've created? What elements need iteration?There are many, many points that we want to improve based on what we learnt on Heavy Rain. Interactive animations is certainly going to be a priority for us, we experimented some new ideas but we believe we will need another game to get them to maturation. The management of non playing characters is another topic, and there are many others. Online is also something we currently consider, knowing that it would be a massive but also fascinating challenge. There is no shortage of challenges here, we just scratched the surface of something incredibly exciting with Heavy Rain. We don't see the game as an achievement, but as the first step in a new direction with much more to discover.Heavy Rain has easily been the most emotional and troubling video game experience I've had in a decade. It's the first game I've ever felt compelled to tell my wife about. And as a parent, it's incredibly resonant. Why don't videogames do this more?!Good question! There are many reasons to this: 1) because no one thought it was possible. When you believe games can only be toys for kids and that you are successful at doing this, why would you look further and take risks exploring new directions? 2) because it is challenging! The amount of difficulties to create this type of experience is really significant, from the volume of script you need to write to the mass of Motion Capture and facial animations and graphics you need to produce, not mentioning the need for a new approach to interface.Bringing meaning to this media is for me the biggest challenge: you don't only need programmers with some cool lines of code anymore, but you also need talented authors having something to tell. The first movies were made by technicians building their own cameras. Movies became an art when technicians worked on the technique and artists took care of the content. I hope this is going to happen in a near future in the game industry. We have incredibly talented people that just need time, some space and trust to invent experiences no one has imagined before. It is just a matter of time.
A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWant to submit a link? Tag it with "guardianista" ondelicious.comand we'll have a look.Google China: Inside the firewall, information is in short supply &gt;&gt; The Guardian"using google.com.hk from the mainland last night, searches for "Tiananmen student movement" in Chinese and "89 student movement" in English brought no results – just a message that is all too familiar to internet users in China: "The connection was reset.""A new approach to China - an update at the Offical Google Blog"Users visiting Google.cn are now being redirected to Google.com.hk, where we are offering uncensored search in simplified Chinese, specifically designed for users in mainland China and delivered via our servers in Hong Kong," says Google.CashGordon.com is hacked by Labour stooges &gt;&gt; Telegraph BlogsDepending on how loose your definition of "hacked" and "Labour" and "stooges" is, as the commenters robustly point out: "This is a disingenuous attempt to dupe your non-techie readers into believing that evil "hackers" brought down a noble Tory initiative when the reality is that this disaster of a campaign self-imploded due to sheer incompetency."&#10;&#10;Actually, it was going so well until "incompetency".A quick timeline on the collapse of Cash Gordon &gt;&gt; FluffyKittensFirst they find the unmoderated hashtag, then the image include code, then Javascript injection, then redirects...Bing Maps announces new World Wide Telescope Integration - Microsoft Channel 9 videoMicrosoft shows how the WorldWide Telescope application (Silverlight client) provides real-time information in Bing Maps.Microsoft's browser loses market share in Europe - Reuters"According to web statistics firm Statcounter, Internet Explorer's share of all Web surfing has in March dropped in France by 2.5 percentage points from February, in Britain by 1 percentage point and in Italy by 1.3 points," says Reuters.German Government: Don't use FirefoxGraham Cluley from Sophos on the security hole that made the German government follow up its earlier advice, Don't use IE. (Also, don't cross the road: people get killed every day.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Google shut down its search service on the Chinese mainland last night after a two-month standoff with Beijing over online freedom and an alleged intrusion by hackers.Chinese authorities attacked the internet giant as "totally wrong" for its decision to shift the Chinese-language site to Hong Kong.The move allowed the US firm to stop self-censoring the service, although the government's filtering system would still prevent mainland users from seeing the results of many sensitive searches.Google shocked the industry when it announced in January that it would end four years of self-censorship in China, acknowledging it might mean withdrawal.Supporters left flowers, chocolate and other gifts outside the firm's Beijing headquarters this morning. But while the company can boast a devoted following, it has only around one-third of the market by revenue, and a lower ratio of users.The furore highlighted the challenges of doing business in China for western companies and drew a line under the era of unfettered optimism about the internet's ability to change the country.The company now believes it has found a legal way out, and said it intended to maintain its research, development and advertising sales business in China – which has the world's largest internet population, of almost 400 million. But it acknowledged that authorities could block the Chinese search service.In an unusually swift response, an unnamed official at the state council information office – one of the bodies overseeing internet controls – said Google was "totally wrong" and had "violated its written promise", in remarks carried by the official news agency, Xinhua.Google.cn now redirects visitors to google.com.hk – where they are greeted by a message reading: "Welcome to Google search in China's new home."The Chinese government's internet filtering system, "the great firewall", prevented results being returned when searches were conducted using sensitive words and phrases such as "Tiananmen Square 1989" on google.com.hk; the internet connection was reset.Although Hong Kong is part of China, the "one country, two systems" framework means it operates under different laws. Google already had a search service there using the territory's traditional characters, but has added a simplified Chinese service for mainland users."We believe this new approach of providing uncensored search in simplified Chinese from Google.com.hk is a sensible solution to the challenges we've faced," said the company's chief legal officer, David Drummond. "We hope the Chinese government respects our decision, though we are aware that it could at any time block access."Acknowledging concerns about the repercussions of angering authorities, Drummond said the decisions had been "driven and implemented by our executives in the United States, and ... none of our employees in China can, or should, be held responsible for them."Isaac Mao, a well-known blogger, said he believed more information would be available via google.com.hk than on google.cn even given the government's filtering.Michael Anti, another prominent blogger, argued: "The biggest difference is that netizens will notice the existence of censorship. Because it was self-censorship before, they weren't aware of it. But now it is the great firewall, people can see what has happened."He said Google's move showed that the Chinese were not second-class internet users, adding: "Like all, we deserve an uncensored internet."But Xiao Qiang, director of the China Internet Project, at the University of California, Berkeley, predicted that Google would find it hard to continue doing business in China.Google said in January that its decision to stop censoring followed a cyber attack, originating from China, that it believed was aimed at gathering information on Chinese human rights activists as well as intellectual property. Its statement also cited growing internet censorship.Beijing argues that most countries control internet content and has denied any connection to cyber attacks.Sergey Brin, Google's co-founder, told the New York Times that he believed efforts by governments such as China to control online speech were likely to fail, adding: "I think that in the long term, they are going to have to open."
&bull; Hard to miss the big story overnight:Google's decision to stop censoring its Chinese search engine and send the traffic to its uncensored Hong Kong site instead. Right now that means that Google is once againsubject to the Great Firewall- and whilehuman rights groups are happyand Beijing hasreacted severely. You can follow how it happened on ourliveblogor read my thoughts onhow the situation developed.&bull; Google wasn't the only game in town, however. Plenty ofApplenews, with the US release of the iPad just a few days away. It seems the company hasconvinced more publishers to join its ranks, while a survey of customers saysawareness is pretty high. Meanwhile, the New Yorker's James Surowiecki takesan erudite look at Apple's chance of successand points out that at the very least the company is continuing its plan to avoid the "soft middle" of consumers.&bull; And if all that is a little too heavy for you, let's try something a little lighter.New York's Museum of Modern Art has bought the "@" symbol... sort of. In fact, it has acquired the "design act" as a way of representing the fact that this previously little-known piece of typography has become incredibly important in the information age. Let's see where this goes.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed..
I remember spending *hours* on the originalSplinter Cellgame. For a start it looked absolutely fabulous - one of the first really "wow" titles on the original Xbox - but it played well too. The stealthy violence was satisfyingly different for a console title. It was tough though. I persevered at the time - albeit with the occasional chunky Xbox control thrown at the wall - but when the sequels arrived I was less motivated. Yes, they all improved on the original game but to me playing Splinter Cell seemed increasingly like a chore rather than a challenge. So I can see where Splinter Cell Conviction director Max Belandis coming fromwhen he says that Conviction - the upcoming new SC game - will be easier than older games.The more we were talking to gamers and the more we were talking to the internal Ubisoft people, what came out was the fantasy of playing Splinter Cell, the fantasy of light and shadows, the fantasy of gadgets and Sam Fisher, the elite stealth agent. People want to be that guy. But what was coming up all the time was, 'Man, that game's hard. I played the first map and I stopped. It was too difficult.' So we had a clear player fantasy that we wanted to continue to deliver, but it was clear that we weren't delivering it properly or well enough since people were not sticking to it. They were not finishing the games we were making and the sales were stagnating. If you look at the sales of Splinter Cell 1 versus Splinter Cell 4, they go a little bit down. So, our fantasy was good but we needed to approach it differently. What we decided to do was change how we thought about the stealth genre in general.Beland then discusses what this may mean in terms of gameplay.So instead of making the stealth genre something that's slower... very hit or miss and learn by your mistakes, we decided to turn that inside out. If you're the best elite agent in the world, if you're Sam Fisher, why do you have to hang off a ledge and move at one centimeter per minute? Why are we doing that? So we started asking ourselves all these [sorts of] questions, and we decided that we're going to make you the ultimate predator. Instead of forcing the stealth on the player, where you're seen and the alarm rings and you need to re-try, we're going to do the opposite. We're going to make stealth something you want to use. We want you to be a predator, not a grandmother. Being a grandmother before kind of forced you to be stealth. You need to hide in the shadows because if you're seen, they shoot you and you're dead. But what if we make the shadows something that's interesting and makes you powerful and you use as a tactical tool against your enemies? So that's how we're able to approach our franchise differently while staying true to the values.What do you think then? I'm undecided to be honest. Yes, the stealthy stuff was challenging and frustrating but does that mean the game should be made easier? Are we in danger of "dumbing down" the difficulty level of games too much? Personally, with the amount of must-play games around at the moment I'm happier if Splinter Cell: Conviction is more accessible but what about you? Should games be pitched at an easier skill level? Or do you miss the challenge seen in older games?
It is a cliche that things happen faster on the internet, but even that fails to explain the rapid collapse of relations between Google and the Chinese government.The entire affair seems to have unfolded in just a few weeks, beginning in January and ending on Monday with the California internet giant's decision to redirect its Chinese web visitors to its Hong Kong site instead.The conflict began when an unidentified computer hacker tried to break into Google's servers before Christmas. At that point, few could have predicted that events would quickly evolve into an open battle between one of the world's most powerful companies and a political superpower. After all, the internet attacks – known to security experts as Operation Aurora – targeted dozens of American companies, not just Google, and for large hi-tech businesses, the threat of cyber-espionage has become part of everyday life.But when Google went public about the attacks in January – and hinted that they could have been prevented by the Chinese government – it was not only a swipe at Beijing, but also the culmination of several years of behind-the-scenes infighting at Google. After years of tension, a situation that had been heating up suddenly hit boiling point.Google's forays into China began in 2006, when it surprised the world by announcing that it would launch a censored version of its popular search engine, specifically aimed at Chinese users.While the business decisions behind the move were obvious – western companies had been eyeing the rapidly growing Chinese market for some time – the decision seemed at odds with Google's dedication to free information and its "don't be evil" mantra.Indeed, an agonised internal debate at the company's Silicon Valley headquarters had preceded the move. Google co-founder Sergey Brin, who was born in Moscow, but left Russia before the collapse of communism, was a well-known advocate for free speech. Despite support from his fellow co-founder, Larry Page, however, he was eventually voted down by Google's chief executive, Eric Schmidt, a man who proved more pragmatic than idealistic.Once the decision to enter the Chinese market had been made, the company's senior figures batted away suggestions that they were leaving themselves vulnerable to the whims of an authoritarian government. They argued that, even when censored, Google gave Chinese customers access to more information than before."Chinese users will ultimately receive a search service that is fast, always accessible, and helps them find information both in China and from around the world," the company said. "While removing search results is inconsistent with Google's mission, providing no information,  or a heavily degraded user experience that amounts to no information, is more inconsistent with our mission."It did not take long, however, for Google to start regretting its actions. Its vast array of websites and services, including household names such as YouTube, Blogger and Gmail, were hit by regular blockades from China's "great firewall", and the flak from activists began to chip away at the company's previously friendly image.Within months, Google was admitting that involvement with the Chinese government was more troubling that it had expected. In 2006, Brin said that "perhaps now the principled approach makes more sense", and a few months later he told the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, that "on a business level, that decision to censor was a net negative".With the situation becoming more difficult and less profitable than advocates had anticipated, support grew for Brin and Page's position. Once the details of the hacking attempts became public – including attempts to steal secret code from Google's servers – the rift between senior management grew even more stark.Schmidt failed to persuade others to take a gentle approach towards Beijing. That internal split echoes tensions also felt in Washington, where Barack Obama has pushed for quiet, diplomatic solutions to tension with the Chinese, while his secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, has wanted a robust response.What may have encouraged Google to take drastic action is that there is little for it to lose financially. Despite the vast sums it has sunk into its Chinese operation, the amount of money it makes in the country is still relatively small. Around much of the world, Google dominates the internet search and advertising market – taking around a 90% share in Britain, for example. But in China, it runs in second place to the homegrown challenger, Baidu, meaning Google has just 30% of the market.With revenues from China currently estimated at around $250m each year and growing, the short-term damage may not be as great as some expected. According to sSome estimates say Google could stand to lose as much as $4bn in revenue over the next five years – a fraction of its overall income.That does not mean that China would always be a tough market, however, suggests a note from New York-based analysts Jefferies &amp; Company. "China is not material to Google revenues," it said. "But losing the world's largest web user base is a long-term negative. China today has the world's largest internet user base and one of the fastest growing ecommerce markets. Shutting down google.cn would be a strategic loss for the company."While the opportunity for future growth was one consideration, throwing away Google's censored search engine was vital, experts said, to avoid endangering its Chinese staff and its other businesses, which include research and development, and the manufacturing of mobile phones using the company's Android software.In the run-up to its decision to move its search engine to Hong Kong on Monday, the company had believed it had developed a compromise with communist leaders."There are much bigger stakes for Google in China than closing Google.cn and losing the associated search advertising," said Alice Enders and Ian Maude, of the London-based research group Enders Analysis. "Google cannot risk becoming persona non grata in China. These stakes require Google to manage the situation carefully and with diplomacy."Google's precarious negotiations with Beijing are part of a long catalogue of struggles between the Chinese leadership and western companies – particularly internet and technology corporations – who have been battling for years.Even after more than a decade, somebody as powerful as Microsoft's Bill Gates still avoids the direct suggestion that Chinese censorship is wrong, choosing merely to suggest that it is not relevant."Chinese efforts to censor the internet have been very limited," Gates said earlier this year. "It's easy to go around it, so I think keeping the internet thriving there is very important."
Google's decision to stop censoring its search results in China was applauded by human rights and anti-censorship activists long critical of the internet giant's decision to accede to Beijing's demands.The move threw down the gauntlet to other companies operating under strict Chinese conditions, they said.Index on Censorship, which campaigns for freedom of expression, hailed it as "a pretty brave, principled move"."Obviously, dealing with regimes like this is neither desirable for Google, nor profitable in the broader terms of dealing with censored material," said a spokesman. "It is not how the internet works." "Google have obviously looked at the long game and realised that they have to stick to their guns. And, hopefully, it will send a message to other regimes, and indeed other companies, that this kind of approach to the internet won't work."China is a very desirable market for anybody and Google has been growing there for the past couple of years, even though it is still well behind Baidu on usage. They could very easily have taken the short-term view and said 'we'll play the regime's game'. But they have decided not to and they should be congratulated on that."Amnesty International, which has been vocal in its disappointment over Google's acquiescence to the Chinese government's demands, also welcomed the decision."Amnesty has consistently called on companies operating in China to stop collaborating with the Chinese authorities' censorship requirements, and to respect the right to freedom of expression for web users in China," said its UK director Kate Allen. "We have repeatedly urged Google and other companies to abide by their own stated principles and provide unbiased, accurate and free access to information ."It's very welcome news that Google appears to be moving back towards these principles. This now lays down the gauntlet to other internet companies operating in China: to be transparent about what filtering and censorship the government requires them to do and to stand up for free speech where they can, using legal appeals and other judicial measures".The Committee to Protect Journalists, an independent body which protects press freedom, hoped it could see a marked change in China's attitude towards the internet."We welcome this stand against censorship and hope that all internet companies operating in China take a similar principled position," said its deputy director Robert Mahoney. "Many of the web sites censored by the Chinese government are news and social networking websites, with a wide range of topics blocked from general discussion. Google's decision to stop censoring search results will put Google on the wrong side of the Great Firewall."In the long run, however, we hope that it ramps up pressure on the Chinese government to allow its citizens to access the news and information they need to be informed and engaged citizens."The Washington-based Centre for Democracy and Technology, which campaigns for an open internet, said Google should be applauded for "following through on its commitment to protect human rights", and for "its continued effort to enable China's people with unfiltered access to robust sources of information, from all over the world".The group's president, Leslie Harris, added: "Whether the Chinese people will be able to take advantage of Google search now rests squarely with the Chinese government. If China allows access to unfiltered search, it will be a substantial win for global internet freedom. If China blocks access, it will make clear who is pulling the levers of censorship in the country."Consumer Watchdog, the Californian consumer, education and advocacy organisation agreed: "Google should be commended for its action. The internet giant should never have censored results in the first place, but the action is a strong move towards supporting freedom of speech on the internet," said consumer advocate John Simpson.
Google shut down its search service in the Chinese mainland last night after a two-month standoff with Beijing over online freedom and an alleged intrusion by hackers.But Chinese authorities attacked the internet giant as "totally wrong" for its decision to shift its Chinese-language offering to Hong Kong.The move allowed the firm to stop self-censoring the service, although the government's filtering system would still prevent mainland users from seeing the results of many sensitive searches.Google shocked the industry when it announced in January that it would end four years of self-censorship in China, acknowledging it might mean withdrawal.The furore highlighted the challenges of doing business in China for western companies and drew a line under the era of unfettered optimism about the internet's ability to change the country.The company now believes it has found a legal way out, and said it intended to maintain its research, development and advertising sales business in China - which has the world's largest internet population, of almost 400 million.But it acknowledged that authorities could block the Chinese search service.An unnamed official at the State Council Information Office – one of the bodies overseeing internet controls – said Google was "totally wrong" and had "violated its written promise" in remarks carried by the official news agency Xinhua. The swift response was highly unusual given that news of the decision broke in the middle of the night in China.Google.cn now redirects visitors to google.com.hk – where they are greeted by a message reading: "Welcome to Google search in China's new home."But the Chinese government's internet filtering system, "the Great Firewall", prevented results being returned when searches were conducted using sensitive words and phrases such as "Tiananmen Square 1989" on google.com.hk. The internet connection was reset.Although Hong Kong is part of China, the "one country, two systems" framework means it operates under different laws. Google already had a search service there using the territory's traditional characters, but has added a simplified Chinese service for mainland users."We believe this new approach of providing uncensored search in simplified Chinese from Google.com.hk is a sensible solution to the challenges we've faced," said the company's chief legal officer, David Drummond."We hope the Chinese government respects our decision, though we are aware that it could at any time block access."Acknowledging concerns about the repercussions of angering authorities, Drummond added that all the decisions had been "driven and implemented by our executives in the United States, and...none of our employees in China can, or should, be held responsible for them."Rebecca MacKinnon, visiting fellow at Princeton's Centre for Information Technology Policy, said: "It appears they are not doing anything that violates Chinese law … What they are doing in Hong Kong is in bounds of the law there."But Xiao Qiang, director of the China Internet Project at the University of California, Berkeley predicted that Google would find it hard to continue doing business in China.On Twitter, prominent blogger Michael Anti described Google's move as a wake-up call for Chinese internet users, adding: "We are not 2nd class. Like all, we deserve an uncensored Internet."Google said in January that its decision to stop censoring followed a cyber-attack, originating from China, that it believed was aimed at gathering information on Chinese human rights activists as well as intellectual property. Its statement also cited growing internet censorship.Sergey Brin, Google's co-founder, told the New York Times that he believed efforts by governments such as China to control online speech were likely to fail, adding: "I think that in the long term, they are going to have to open."
Block 1It's more than two months since Googlefirst threatened to lift the veil of censorship from its Chinese search engineafter it came under attack from hackers. But after weeks ofprotracted negotiationswith the government in Beijing, it now it appears that the internet's most powerful company is taking its first concrete steps to withdraw from China.Just a few minutes ago, Google's Chinese search engine -Google.cn- startedredirecting to the company's service Hong Kong, in what seems to be the first major signal of a pullout.What does that mean? How does it affect the millions of Chinese citizens who use the web on a regular basis? What are people saying on all sides?Those are the big questions in this developing story, and we'll be documenting what it means, how people are reacting - and whether the change is working - here.Block 27.24pm:The first indications that the change was happening came inreports overnight, and a statement from US state department official who suggested that Washington was "aware that there are strong indications of an announcement by Google this afternoon".In fact, Google started making the changes a short while ago: now the companyhas now published a lengthy statement on the issue.Block 37.28pm:InGoogle's statement, the company said it is now sending Chinese users to the Hong Kong service - which, thanks to its unique cultural and political history - is not censored by the government for political content."Earlier today we stopped censoring our search services—Google Search, Google News, and Google Images—on Google.cn. Users visiting Google.cn are now being redirected to Google.com.hk, where we are offering uncensored search in simplified Chinese, specifically designed for users in mainland China and delivered via our servers in Hong Kong. Users in Hong Kong will continue to receive their existing uncensored, traditional Chinese service, also from Google.com.hk."Block 47.30pm:What does that actually mean for users in China? Well, for starters the Hong Kong service seems totally uncensored. I've just gone togoogle.com.hkand looked up 六四事件 - June 4th incident, as the Tiananmen Square massacre is referred to. The first result isthis Wikipedia entry, which prominently features a picture of the famous"tank man"confronting a column of soldiers holding only a bag of shopping.Not much in the way of punches being pulled there.The question is how the Chinese government reacts. Will Chinese users outside Hong Kong be able to see these results?Block 57.39pm:Google's statement says it has "been hard" working out how to stop censoring search."We want as many people in the world as possible to have access to our services, including users in mainland China, yet the Chinese government has been crystal clear throughout our discussions that self-censorship is a non-negotiable legal requirement," it says.It says the result is "entirely legal" and that company officials "very much hope that the Chinese government respects our decision".It also points out that Google has no intention of dropping its research and development operations in China and will maintain a sales team in the country - though it admits that the size of that team depends on whether Chinese citizens can access google.com.hk."Finally, we would like to make clear that all these decisions have been driven and implemented by our executives in the United States, and that none of our employees in China can, or should, be held responsible for them. Despite all the uncertainty and difficulties they have faced since we made our announcement in January, they have continued to focus on serving our Chinese users and customers. We are immensely proud of them."Block 67.42pm:Google's move comes just hours after a group of angry Chinese citizenswrote an open letteraddressed to the government and to Google asking them to reconcile their differences so that ordinary web users are not blocked from accessing useful online services."If Google.cn were to no longer exist, or if China were to further block other Google services, has the Chinese government considered how their blocking of foreign websites and censorship of domestic websites violates Chinese citizens' right to scientific, educational, environmental, clean energy and other information?" it says.The letter also asks for greater transparency to help the public and businesses operating in China to understand the rules of censorship."We support necessary censorship of internet content and communications, whether it is on Google or any other foreign or domestic company," it said.But, it adds, understanding exactly what it is that the government wants is the only sensible way to allow companies to comply.A translated version of the letter is here.Block 77.48pm:As Caroline Davies reports,the change could affect up to 340m Chinese citizens, the world's largest single population of web users.What impact will this have on Google's business? Unlike the rest of the world, where it is the dominant force in web search, the Californian company can only boast around a third of the Chinese market (it falls behindBaidu. My feeling is that we're going to see a lot of speculation as to whether this hinders Google's long-term success.Block 87.52pm:In the comments, user Shanghainese - presumably in Shanghai -says the Hong Kong Google site is blocked."Are you writing this from within China? I'm guessing not. I just tried the same search for the certain incident you mention on the hk site and got an error page. Google won't load at all for me now."As pointed out, I am writing this from San Francisco (see my name at the top of the article) but our correspondent in Beijing is trying to find out what is and isn't filtered for her. The government's application of internet filtering is notoriously spotty, often left to local law enforcement agents so that blocks vary wildly from city to city.Block 98.04pm:I've just been talking with our Beijing office, who say that the veil of censorship has not disappeared - even though there is some access to the Hong Kong service.Dan Chung, the Guardian photographer who works out of China, says that "some searches are blocked, as you would expect".Block 108.09pm:Reaction so far is a little muted - not least because it's still unclear what this movemeans- but the general consensus seems to be that Google is doing the right thing by following through on its threat.In the comments,Madridophilesays "it seems like this was absolutely the right thing to do, at least for now", whilejhb15captures quite a lot of public sentiment by saying that "I didn't think they were serious when it was in the news before".Over on Twitter, it's much the same. "Good for them," says@RiskMgmt. "Dignity &gt; profits".@Spencerstweetscalls it "bold", but@JussiAhlrothis sceptical: "Don't be silly and think this is about ethics".Block 118.15pm:So how much is this move going to cost Google exactly? Nobody is sure,According to Enders Analysis, Google.cn takes about 20% of the money from paid search advertising in China, which is a little bit lower than its market share. That might not seem like a vast amount, but when you're talking about a business as large as online advertising it's hardly pocket change."We estimate the revenue foregone over 2010-15 from closing Google.cn to be between $2-4bn," say Alice Enders and Ian Maude in a note that arrived by email.While two billion dollars is nothing to be sneezed at, it's not a great deal of money for Google - which is making money hand over fist at the moment. Basically, it puts the five-year cost of dropping out of China somewhere between 8.5% and 17% of the money it made last year alone.Perhaps the biggest cost could be in the lost opportunity, or the amount of money the company has sunk into establishing itself in China, says Enders.Block 128.25pm:Not in China but want to know what it's like to surf the web there?ChinaChannel, a plug-in for the Firefox web browser, lets you see.On the other hand,Google also runs a status board for its various services- right now, it says that YouTube and Blogger are entirely blocked in China, while photo application Picasa and document-sharing service Google Docs have some problems.Block 138.40pm:Looks like those reports that the Chinese government is still blocking are accurate. Tania Branigan, our China correspondent in Beijing, has the following to say:"Initial tests suggested that the Chinese government's own filtering system will stop mainland users from seeing the results of many sensitive searches in any case.""And while google.cn now redirects visitors to google.com.hk, the Chinese government's own internet filtering system – "the Great Firewall" – prevented results from being returned when searches were conducted using sensitive words and phrases.""The use of English and Chinese phrases such as "Tiananmen Square 1989" on google.com.hk  resulted in the internet connection being reset.Block 148.46pm:Considered reactions are starting to come in.TheCenter for Democracy and Technology, a non-profit group based in Washington that pushes for an open internet,said that Google was doing the right thing."CDT applauds Google for following through on its commitment to protect human rights and for its continued effort to enable China's people with unfiltered access to robust sources of information from all over the world," said Leslie Harris, the group's president and CEO."Whether the Chinese people will be able to take advantage of Google search now rests squarely with the Chinese government.  If China allows access to unfiltered search, it will be a substantial win for global Internet freedom and for the Chinese people.  If China blocks access, it will finally make clear to the Chinese people who is pulling the levers of censorship in the country."Block 158.52pm:Meanwhile, the Committee to Protect Journalists, which has lobbied for greater access to information in China, said it was a useful step for pushing Beijing in the right direction."We welcome this stand against censorship and hope that all Internet companies operating in China take a similar principled position," said CPJ Deputy Director Robert Mahoney."Google's decision to stop censoring search results will put Google on the wrong side of the Great Firewall. In the long run, however, we hope that it ramps up pressure on the Chinese government to allow its citizens to access the news and information they need to be informed and engaged citizens."Block 169.03pm:Some more sceptical messages coming through, as people wonder whether Google is trying to make the best situation out of a decision to pull out of a market that it was getting beaten in.Well, here's some more on the business side of things: American financial analysts Jeffries &amp; Company says that while the move may not cost it a huge amount in the first instance, it is almost certain to be a long-term negative:"China today has the world's largest internet user base and one of the fastest-growing commerce markets. We believe that Google captures around 30% of China's traffic, making China the second-largest traffic-generating country for Google behind the US. Shutting down Google.cn, which we estimate generates 80% of the total China traffic, would be a strategic loss for the company."Google's dominant position elsewhere in the world could buy it some breathing room, however:"That said, exiting China would not be too damaging for Google, since the company is the market share leader in most non-domestic markets, where search usage and monetisation opportunities still abound."Block 179.15pm:More noises from the human rights community, this time fromIndex on Censorship, who asked Google's UK spokesman,Peter Barron, what was going on. His succinct response:"It was clear that if we stopped censorship on Google.cn we wouldn't be operating within Chinese law — so we redirected to our Hong Kong servers which are not subject to Chinese censorship law."As mentioned previously, that's very different from lifting the censorship altogether: Google is hoping that it can still serve from inside the Chinese state - albeit a corner that has previously had more lax censorship.But to all intents and purposes, Beijing treats Hong Kong as a foreign outpost. And if a Chinese surfer tries to visit a controversial site in Britain or the US, they are blocked. Is it any different when the internet routes through Hong Kong?Block 189.34pm:I spoke briefly to somebody at Google who pointed out that the company runs a number of other web services in the country beyond search. Most of those are still in operation, despite this tangle with Beijing, and it's unclear how these are affected in the longer term.Will the Chinese government block them, too?Block 199.46pm:Now Chinese officials are starting to react.In an article from Xinhua, the state media service, a senior official lets rip, calling out Google for breaking the rules."Google has violated its written promise it made when entering the Chinese market by stopping filtering its searching service and blaming China in insinuation for alleged hacker attacks," Xinhua quotes the official as saying."This is totally wrong. We're uncompromisingly opposed to the politicization of commercial issues, and express our discontent and indignation to Google for its unreasonable accusations and conducts."Block 209.53pm:Here's a video report from our team in Beijing.Block 2110.16pm:Inour report from Tania in Beijing, she points out that the timing of the news seems timed to catch Chinese officials on the hop."The announcement came at 3am in China, meaning that there has been no response from officials as yet. Rebecca MacKinnon, visiting fellow at Princeton's Centre for Information Technology Policy, said: "It appears they are not doing anything that violates Chinese law – google.cn has ceased to exist. What they are doing in Hong Kong is in bounds of the law there.""Block 2210.57pm:Sorry for the radio silence: I was writing a piece that we'll publish shortly about some of the internal conflict at Google ahead of this decision.I'm not the only one who's been bashing his keyboard into oblivion: search blogger Danny Sullivan - one of the most respected names in the Google-watching business - hasposted his thoughts on what this means.He calls Google's shuffle an attempt to perform an "end run" on the Chinese government, and isn't sure that it would succeed."By moving to a Hong Kong domain — which is run under Hong Kong law — Google seems to believe that it can do an end-run around Chinese censorship requirements. Google has run a Chinese-aimed uncensored search service on that domain for several years without being blocked. Now it believes it can send everyone in China to that domain and meet Chinese law."Block 2311.22pm:In a brief interview with the New York Times, Google co-founder Sergey Brinexplains a little bit about the move.Most intriguingly he says that the switch to Hong Kong - which I've been told was a compromise agreement negotiated between the two sides as a way to avoid the internet equivalent of nuclear warfare - was never actually given the go-ahead by Beijing.The shift of its Chinese service to Hong Kong, Mr. Brin said, was not given a clear-cut stamp of approval by Beijing. But he said there was a "back and forth" with the Chinese government on what to do. "There was a sense that Hong Kong was the right step," Mr. Brin said."Block 2411.30pm:It's still only 7.30am in Beijing, so Chinese web users are only just starting to wake up to the situation. The press there is unlikely to give Google much love, however: the past few days has seen the intensity of media attacks on the company increase.This Reuters reportdetails some of the allegations: that Google is a foreign company interfering in Chinese business, exporting its values unfairly and undermining the authority of the government. It'susing political tricks, according to China Daily.Whatever the case, it's as much a hot topic there as it is elsewhere and should generate plenty of interest as the day goes on. To keep you going in the meantime, here's a picture of a Google China security guard trying to hold a small gaggle of journalists at bay.Block 2511.42pm:Time for some context. I'll start by showing you through a number of articles we've published - you can always find more at ourGoogle+Chinapage.The first news came in the middle of January,when Google revealed it had been attacked. It soon turned out that plenty of other companies were victims too, and the hunt was on.Early indicationspointed to origins inside China, but the government saidit had nothing to do with them.Still, Hillary Clinton went on the warpath andlashed out at Chinese censorship online, a stance which officials saidcould damage diplomatic relations. Meanwhile, at the end of January,Bill Gates stirred the potby suggesting that censorship efforts there were "very limited".In February, Googlelinked up with the US National Security Agency, one of its old foes, to look further into the origins. But when the New York Times reported that the attackscould be traced to two Chinese schools, a source from one of those accused told us that it was unlikely.Shortly afterwards, a report in the FTsuggested the author of the code was working for the Chinese government- something thatChina, again, denied.Block 2612.01am:For a sense of severe China's feelings towards Google are at the moment, it's worth taking a look atthis piece from AFP, which points out the suggestion that Google is linked to the US intelligence services.There is of course, a long history of mistrust between all sides here - going back centuries.Indeed, writing on Salon, Andrew Leonard makes the point thatmoving to Hong Kong taps into a deep vein dislikethat goes back to the opium wars:"If Google wanted purposefully to adopt the mantle of the Britain's most notorious symbol of colonially arrogant capitalism, it could have done no better than to announce it was setting up shop in Hong Kong, there to broadcast its search results to all and sundry."Meanwhile Tom Foremski at Silicon Valley Watch makes a similar point, before suggesting that"I like Google's stand against internet censorship but its dealings with China have become very messy".Block 2712.10am:Rebecca Mackinnonsums up the situation as it stands- though, as she points out, it is only the insomniacs who were active during the night in China."The ball is now in the Chinese government's court in two ways," she says. "Whether they will block all of google.com.hk, which until now has not been blocked [and] whether they allow Google to retain its ad sales and R&amp;D businesses in China".Index on Censorship has also published an interview she conducted with Google's legal chief, David Drummondseveral months ago that is worth reading.Block 2812.23am:So here's where things currently stand:Google has redirected its google.cn search engine to theuncensored equivalent in Hong Kong. That site, which like all sites in Hong Kong is basically considered to be foreign, is subject to the usual filtering by the Great Firewall. This means that Chinese surfersmaysee controversial listings in their results - but they can't actually see the blocked pages themselves.Googleseems to suggestthat it has discussed this solution with China, andhopes that it works- but the Chinesedo not seem pleased with this answer. In the meantime, however, this effectively puts Google back to where it was in 2006, before it launched a censored version of the search index.Except now the internet's most powerful company has upset Beijing, angered millions of people and taken four years to decide that censoring search contravenes its "don't be evil" policy.I'm signing off for a little bit. We'll be back when there's more response to add.Block 295.10am:It's now early morning in Britain, lunchtime in China and the night is drawing to a close here in San Francisco - so just time for a few updates before I sign off.First of all,here's my background piece on how this all blew up- looking at how Google got to this point, and how the internal politics at the company has left it on the brink with the Chinese government.Important things to note:&bull; There is a rift inside Google about how to deal with this issue that has been around for a long time, and Eric Schmidt - the chief executive - seems to have been on the losing side.&bull; Google went ahead with this plan because it let them try and win without giving up on its ideals entirely. Except, asSergey Brin has admitted, it did not know exactly how the Chinese government would respond.&bull; And it turns out Beijing hasstrongly condemned this move. Ouch.The ripples are starting to spread.Block 305.21am:What seems to be developing is a basic split between the story as it appears inside and outside Chinese borders. Inside China, the entire situation is being played down. Looking at the front page of the news sites, this story isn't even mentioned. But outside China, everyone is lining up to pat Google on the back.That includes scads of human rights groups, such as Amnesty, whose director, Kate Allen, said: "Amnesty has consistently called on companies operating in China to stop collaborating with the Chinese authorities' censorship requirements, and to respect the right to freedom of expression for web users in China. It's very welcome news that Google appears to be moving back towards these principles. This now lays down the gauntlet to other internet companies operating in China."Block 315.32am:There's some interesting discussion going on in the comments: feel free to chip in if you've got something to add. So far reaction seems divided between those who think Google's doing the right thing (a majority) and those who think it's serving itself and is making a business decision.One point I wanted to pick up, from userttengthat relates to the split between the company's founders and the chief executive that I mentioned earlier."Google's charter guarantees that its co-founders will never be removed of their positions by its board, thus Mr Brin can afford to make decision based on his belief, not necessarily on company's bottom line."That's true. Ttseng goes on:"As happened, Google has already been punished by the US stock-market after its January statement. In this instance, Google is making a moral choice at the expense of its stock holders."That's not quite true. While Google did experience a drop in its share price on the news about China in January (and is down around 0.5% today), it is very hard to argue that it is being punished by the market. Here's a graph of Google's stock price over the past five years:Google stock prices from 2005-2010As you can see, it's taken a bit of a dip since it reached a high in October 2008. But it's recent travails have had a pretty minimal impact on the share price.Block 325.36am:As mentioned earlier, not every Google service has closed in mainland China. It's largely hitting web search and news (which covers the vast majority of Google's traffic). However, the block doesn't seem to cover everything:SF Weekly reports that uncensored results are available on Google's mobile site.That's an indication that the Great Firewall isn't blanketing everything - though, of course, this is subject to change.Block 335.40am:The AFP is now reporting thatWashington officials are "disappointed" that Google did not come to an agreement with China, in what sounds a little like a step back from the strong rhetoric of recent months."We are disappointed that Google and the Chinese government were unable to reach an agreement that would allow Google to continue operating its search services in China on its Google.cn website," the story quotes National Security Council spokesman Mike Hammer as saying.Hammer added that relations between the two countries were "mature enough to sustain differences."(compare that to the speech given byHillary Clinton in January)Block 345.47am:China Daily - which isreporting Xinhua's lineon the government's response - is alsodredging up the details of a copyright spatwith Chinese authors.Meanwhile Li Ka-Shing, the Hong Kong billionaire who owns one of China's most important websites, Tom, hascancelled a deal for Google to supply web search, according to BusinessWeek. No surprise really - after all, if the government is blocking search results, Tom is only get a part of the service. But it's a blow nonetheless.Block 355.50am:I'm signing off now, but I'll give the last word toforeign relations expert Minxin Pei, who argues that Google has simply run into the enormous machinery of the Chinese state and had the misfortune to have "committed a double offense" along the way."Its search technology poses a clear and present threat to the party's regime security, while its capacity to dominate the Internet search business would deprive China of its own national champion, Baidu (which, although a private business, is easier to control).""Google's senior management may have learned a thing or two about dealing with a one-party regime through its unhappy foray into China. It's unclear, though, whether other Western firms have learned anything at all at Google's expense."
A MyGov dashboard that allows every citizen to personalise the explosive growth of government services on the web was proposed today by Gordon Brown.The prime minister suggested a new wave of web technology will open up policy-making, ending the current paternalistic Whitehall monopoly.In a wide-ranging speech on the impact of the web on the government, he said the MyGov dashboard will make citizen interaction with government as easy as internet banking or online shopping.Instead of civil servants or politicians being the sole authors of government information, he claimed that open source information will allow citizens to shape information for their own needs.Brown said MyGov, which will eventually replace DirectGov, will end the current frustration of web users needing to identify themselves separately for different public services. He also said the dashboard will allow the citizen to manage their pensions, tax credits and child benefits, as well as pay council tax, fix doctors or hospital appointments, apply for schools of their choice and communicate with children's teachers.Brown, who was once described as an analogue politician in an internet age, praised the development of anAsborometerby software developer Jeff Gilfelt. The iPhone app allows users to locate the level of antisocial behaviour in a borough, including the number of crack houses closed, asbo statistics and area league tables.Brown promised that all public service contracts worth more than £20,000 will be provided on a free online database. In addition to this, Martha Lane Fox, the co-founder oflastminute.com, will extend her brief from championing digital inclusion, to overseeing the spread of government data to citizens.Brown said that by the autumn, the government will publish all non-personal datasets held by departments and quangos, forming an electronic doomsday book for the 21st century. He said the book will allow for the first time, the public to access in one place information in each set of data, including its size, source, format, content, timeliness, cost and quality. He said any business or developer will be free to develop the information as they please. Brown also promised £30m worth of funding to create an Institute of Web Science, which will work on the economic and social benefits of the web.Likening the second wave of superfast broadband to the advent of electricity, Brown insisted that unlike the Conservatives, Labour were investing in digital infrastructure to ensure it was available to 90% of the public. He did not set a date, but has previously said a 50Mbps network will be available by 2017, partly paid for by the new 50p tax on phonelines.The Tories would use a combination of deregulation and a portion of the BBC licence fee to create a 100Mbps network.
It was meant to embarrass Gordon Brown: a website, cash-gordon.com, that would point to the prime minister's links to the Unite union and be one of the first shots in the "digital election".But instead it rapidly turned to embarrassment for the Tory party after it was revealed that the site's template came from a rightwing American group that opposes President Barack Obama's cap-and-trade system – and then became the target of a mass Twitter hack that led to it showing pornography, swearwords, Rick Astley videos, malware links, and redirecting visitors to the Labour party site.Launched at the weekend on Facebook and Twitter, the site – claimed to have cost $15,000 – was intended to engage voters who could earn "points" for reading a speech by Michael Gove, the shadow education minister, or bombarding Charlie Whelan, the ex-Labour spin doctor now working for Unite, with hectoring tweets.It worked, up to a point: it certainly engaged voters.Unfortunately, many of them weren't Conservative voters.And it seems that the team behind the Tories' site hadn't learned the lesson of the Daily Telegraph, which last April saw its sitepeppered with swearing and insults aimed at its owners, the Barclay Brothers, when it automatically republished any tweet containing the text "#budget". ("Telegraph wankers #budget Didn't work" being one of the more polite.) So history repeated itself – for a change, both times as farce – after Twitter users quickly spotted that any tweet containing "#cashgordon" would be reused immediately on the site, regardless of whether it agreed with the Conservative view or not.Within hours they had also discovered that lines of computer code could also be included – and used those to link to pictures (including pornographic ones), YouTube videos, malware and, finally, to redirect visitors to the Labour site. At which point the site was taken offline and visitors redirected to a page on the Conservative party site about Whelan. Crucially, that doesn't include Twitter feeds, thus saving the party's blushes.Sam Coates, one of the Tory organisers, said in ablogpost on the Tory site on Sundaythat the online campaign "makes it easy for people to spread the word out to their non-political friends, thereby bringing a new wave of pressure to bear on this unhealthy meshing of interests".Coates was insisting yesterday at 1pm that the campaign had been successful: "Sitting back and marvelling at #CashGordon - we had an open hashtag policy, and have not changed that today, for a reason!," hetweeted. However, minutes later programmers on Twitter discovered that they could embed images; then programs; then automatic redirection to other sites. At 14:03 anyone viewing the site would be sent to the Labour party; a minute later, to a Rick Astley video. "Cash Gordon" had been rickrolled.At which point Coates tweeted "So it looks like some people took the fun a bit too far and hacked #CashGordon. Full service will resume very shortly ... "Fortunately, just as it seemed that the debacle would become the leading online story about the Conservatives, it was announced that Samantha Cameron was pregnant – leading quickly to attempts to coin new slogans. "It's not going to be Dave-cam, it's going to be Sam Cam Pram Cam", offered one tweeter.The Tories' experience with the Cash-Gordon site echoes another one, with "Mydavidcameron" , an independent site that took the Tory posters with David Cameron's picture and a Conservative election slogan and tweaked them to send up the party message: "I've never studied economics before, but Dave said I need to sort out the economy", reads one, over a picture of the shadow chancellor, George Osborne.Still, one element of the party struggle remains intact in the online world: the tit-for-tat between the two sides over which has lost the most face from the stunt and its fallout. A spokesman for the Conservative party said: "There was an attempt made to redirect #CashGordon users to other websites. We've made the necessary adjustments to the site and the #CashGordon campaign has now led to many thousands people hearing about Unite's funding stranglehold over the Labour party." For the Labour party, Mark Hanson, a new media strategist, replied: "It's just not realistic to say this has directed attention towards the Whelan campaign. It has been a load of noise about a slip-up the Tories have made on the web".
Get a politician to make a speech about technology and plans in front of a roomful of geeks, and you can see them thinking as he lists the things he's going to do: "Nah, that won't work. Nope, that's going to be buggy as hell. Uh-uh, can't be done with the present framework."That's because programmers are a class who are perhaps the most acutely aware of how badly wrong things can go, and how having expansive hopes about a project can founder on the rocks of implementation.So when Gordon Brown had a load of the people who are programming big chunks of the modern British web in the room - as happened this morning at the Hub in York Way, London - hisspeech about the benefitsof high-speed broadband for all, of opening up non-personal public data, creating "personal web pages" for individuals' interactions with central (and perhaps local) government met a lot of pursed lips. You could almost see the lines of code running through peoples' heads as they considered whether the APIs were there and what the JSON feed would look like and whether it would parse.Certainly I don't recall broadband being an election (or even divisive) issue before, which just shows how things have changed since 2005, when fewer than half of UK homes had broadband. In 2009, the number was63% of all households; as 70% of households had internet access, that means 90% of connections were broadband. But it's that missing 30% which is the tough one. They might not have the money for internet connectivity - or a computer. Or the inclination to get it.Though Brown was trying to set out a political divide by making the point - not explicitly, the election starting gun hasn't been fired yet - that Labour would subsidise the building of fibre-optic broadband more than the Tories (which, when you think about it, is intriguing, because that's appealing to Tory core voters, who are in rural constituences more than Labour core voters in urban ones), what the people in the room really wanted to hear about was-1: how is this magical broadband going to be encouraged to be built?-2: how and by whom will these magical personalised government web pages be built?-3: what new government datasets are going to be made available for people to build commercial services on?-4: is the government going to retreat on its proposals to cut off people and businesses accused of illicit filesharing?What they got was-no answer, apart from using the top-slicing of the BBC licence fee (from the "digital switchover surplus") and the landline tax. The unanswered question is whether it would go from "outside-in" (remote areas towards urban ones) or "inside-out" (from the limits of the present reach towards the most remote places). There's apublic consultationon that;-errr, really don't know on that. Brown wouldn't commit to cancelling the NHS IT computerisation project; instead he lauded its Choose and Book system (probably because he's never used it; I have, and it's daft) and the Electronic Prescription service (order/re-order your prescription online; a challenge that might be a first-year computer science undergraduate homework exercise);-quite a lot: as theDatablog points out, there's a big opening up of transport data (want to know where all the train and bus stops and airline terminuses and ferry terminals are?Here you go) plus, by autumn, the government will publish online an inventory of all non-personal datasets held by departments and arms-length bodies - a "Domesday book" for the 21st century.On the latter, one minister who was at the launch pointed that even if the Tories were to win the upcoming election, it's hardly likely that they'd try to throw initiatives like the Domesday book into reverse. So take that as read.On 4, the file-sharing thing, it's less clear. Brown pushed the question over to Stephen Timms, whosaid things about "appeals", but the Open Rights Group says that won't deal with the question of companies and organisations that run free or paid-for Wi-Fi and which fear getting fined or cut off. Geeks, though, sweat the details. This minor (to politicians) detail is seen as a fearsome bug in Gov 2.0;won't compile.Overall, this was long on promises, but really, really short on the implementation detail. For a brief moment it felt like those awful election setups that you see when the ministers go to a primary school (for why? None of the kids can vote) and get down wid da kidz and say vague handwave-y things about what they will do. The kids look at them in a puzzled fashion, and everyone forgets about it in a day or two.But geeks don't forget. They file. We'll come back to it.The most concrete, proximate, useful result? The reiterated promise that a substantial set of Ordnance Survey data will be made free for commercial reuse. Here it is:"I can confirm that from 1st April, we will be making a substantial package of information held by ordnance survey freely available to the public, without restrictions on re-use. Further details on the package and government's response to the consultation will be published by the end of March."Basically, that's a big win for the Free Our Data campaign; as are all the other non-personal datasets being released. It's a huge, huge win for the campaign.Yet for all the marvels that data.gov.uk has wreaked, it turns out that a lot of the data on there is still pretty rubbish, according tothis analysis:"here are the aggregate results of the data.gov.uk format verification exercise: HTML - 252; XML - 5; Word - 4; RTF - 1; OpenOffice - 1; Something odd - 85; JSON - 9; Nothing there! - 190; CSV - 12; Multiple formats - 1211; PDF - 468; RDF - 10; Excel - 408. TOTAL: 2656"Sadly, this is over-optimistic. I've manually checked some of the data that has been categorised as JSON and RDF. Most of it is not actually correctly categorised - either people clicked, say, 'RDF' when they meant to click 'PDF', or they have seen an RSS or Atom feed and categorised it as RDF."What this admittedly imperfect dataset is basically saying is that the vast majority of the 'data' on data.gov.uk is not actually machine-readable data but human-readable documents."Ah well. Bugs. They're everywhere. Especially in the government machine.
Puzzle Quest started the trend for mixing Bejewelled-style casual gaming with role-playing game (RPG) complexity. The key was adding context and strategy to the simple jewel matching.So in Puzzle Quest you were still matching three coloured items,  but this time you were doing it to vanquish Gorgoroth the Fallen at the battle of Mount Blade, or something. More importantly, Puzzle Quest offered a stack of depth to its simple premise. Might &amp; Magic: Clash of Heroes takes this all to the next level. The basic premise is simple. The enemy units are shown on the top screen and look down on the player's charges below. By matching up three of your units you can send them flying up the screen to inflict damage on your opponent. Units can also be combined to form defensive walls to protect against enemy attacks.As you would expect though things get a lot more complex although – crucially – the game eases you in so smoothly that the learning curve is rarely an issue. The action soon becomes almost chess-like, with elite units, links and fusions demanding players to think ahead for two or three moves. Strategy is key to success, but the RPG elements are appealing too. Players can improve their unit's capabilities and explore a Zelda-style fantasy world.The cutesy yet detailed 2D visuals are lovely homage to the early 90s Super Nintendo era. The nostalgia is further bolstered by an increasingly tough challenge that requires you to "grind" for points on occasion before you are strong enough to continue on with the main adventure.Gamers who have experienced the tedium of more recent Might &amp; Magic games should not be put off – Clash of Heroes has little do with that ageing brand. The action here is always engrossing and it is easy to miss your bus stop when playing on the go. Another big plus point is the ability to play without the stylus. Yes, you can drag units around the screen but it is often quicker to use the old fashioned D-pad controls.The slightly childish visual design may put some off, but Might &amp; Magic: Clash of Heroes is brain training for gamers and comes highly recommended.
In the current games business, where everything has to be super-intuitive and accessible, where motion control promises (threatens?) to do away with the very notion of the games controller, it is astonishing that anything likeMonster Hunterexists. The creature battling RPG has been a phenomenon on PSP, especially in Japan, where groups of gamers regularly meet up in city parks and squares to partake in co-operative multiplayer sessions.Now it is on Wii, where you would think the plan might be to tone down the game's incredible complexity. But this is absolutely not the case: Monster Hunter is as far from Wii Play as you could conceivably wander. Which looks like the right decision for Capcom. Since its release in Japan, Monster Hunter Tri has shifted over a million copies, making it the biggest selling third-party Wii title in the country. It also attracted a score of 40/40 from Famitsu, Japan's most influential games magazine.I'd managed to avoid the series until late last week when me and Greg were invited to a special preview event in London for the European release of Tri. Six hours of intense gaming later, I feel I have scratched the thin veneer of the surface of the game. Just. And from this fleeting experience one thing has become abundantly obvious to me: this is not an RPG - it is in fact, an in-depth economic simulation studying a fictionalised regulated market economy. But with really big swords.If you're a newcomer to monster hunting, here's how it works. You play a sort of animal-slaughtering mercenary operating in a fantasy world in which small villages are terrorised by various giant beasties. Throughout the game, villagers, and later a central guild of monster hunting, provide you with specific quests – anything from catching some golden fish, to killing a selection of carnivorous behemoths. When you carry these out successfully, you're rewarded with items and cash to spend on other goods and services. I.e. even bigger swords.But that is only a fraction of what's going on in this rich rurally-tied financial infrastructure.Everywhere you go in Monster Hunter you can explore the surroundings for useful flora and fauna. Everything from mushrooms to honey to medicinal herbs can be collected and squirreled away. You can also slaughter beasts, then recover useful organic matter, such as meat, hides, bones and offal, all of which have various uses in the game. When you go back to a village hub, you can trade in these artifacts for cash or utilise them to construct your own items. It's all about resources and commodities, and your strategy within the market place: should you mine iron ore, then commission a blacksmith to craft you a sword, or just buy a convenient ready-made item?It's even possible to employ farm labourers to grow and harvest valuable herbs and mushrooms for you. If you provide them with organic fertilisers (monster dung is an effective and abundant option) your crop will be ready faster. It's also about time management and, well, fun – maybe you enjoy loafing about in fields picking wild fungi, maybe you think that this time would be better served on a lucrative quest. Monster Hunter supports you with either.Added to this is a massive, massive, MASSIVE selection of weapons and armour-types. None of this will be surprising to Monster Hunter regulars, but RPG lightweights - those of us who stick mostly to the action RPG sub-genre - will be staggered by the sheer range of combat options. There are swords, hammers, lances, bowguns, bombs and traps, there is armour of leather, chain mail, and metal. You can buy as many as you want, then chop and change between variations for specific quests (there's a handy feature that works like Modern Warfare's Custom Class option, allowing you to create a range of different outfit/weapon combos for different situations). You'll spend hours tweaking all this - it is, to continue the whole economic allegory - the combat equivalent of a closely managed investment portfolio.Everywhere in Monster Hunter there are menus, and sub-menus, and lists and notes. You can buy books that explain how to combine natural resources in order to create more powerful items – in this game even instruction manuals are a commodity. Cooking is an important skill too. Wherever you go you can take a BBQ with you. When you run out of stamina (a long yellow gauge running across the top of the screen) you simply kill a passing monster, hack off a hunk of meat and cook it over your fire. Some character types prefer their stake rare, some love it burnt – get it right and your stamina bar gains another section, allowing you to run for longer.So this game looks and sounds like a glorified Pokemon variant, but it is just so much more involving. You can live as a self-sufficient herbalist, picking wild flowers, catching bugs to use as fishing bait, and mining your own raw materials. Or you can be a hunter/consumer, fighting for the big rewards to splash out on ready-to-wield hardware, barely engaging with your environment at all. Or you can exist somewhere in-between, plowing your own furrow through the complexities of life as an economic migrant amid an alien financial system.So what's it like to play? From the hours I spent with the game, it's engrossing stuff – though not without flaws. The graphics are adequate, but raw – seemingly barely upgraded from PSP. While hacking away at monsters, your warrior continually disappears within the polygonal mass of the beast, while the various landscapes are drawn from a hugely limited palette of washily coloured building blocks. There is the occasional lovely vista, when you climb to the top of a ridge and see the island landscape rolling out into the distance. But there's nothing gasp-inducing. (Although, no one comes to Wii for gasp-incuding 3D visuals...)Controls are awkward too, especially when wielding larger swords, or attempting to play with the Wii Remote and nunchuck option, in which only vague nods are made toward the supposed intuivity of the set up. There are lots of annoying little anachronisms – like having to use the Wii Remote to physically point and click at felled monsters so that they can be added to your crucial 'Hunter's Notes' book (a record of all the beasts you've slain); this should of course be done automatically by the game whenever you slaughter anything. Having to drag and drop the data yourself is a needless layer of complexity. Things get even more complex in the underwater areas where you use the D-Pad to swim up or down in combination with the directional controls. For the first hour, it's a real struggle to start going in anything like the direction you want, let alone hunting animals. Harpooning fish is hard enough, but you'll need the aquatic grace of Mark Phelps if you want to take on one of the gigantic sea monsters.There are, apparently, around 40 species of standard monsters in the game, as well as 17 mega-monsters, some of which take almost an hour to slaughter. Aggravatingly, there's no monster health gauge, so you just have to keep plugging away. There are physical signs that your foe is flagging: some start spitting out fire or electricity or giant rocks, others become faster and more erratic in their movements – but most players would prefer a bar that says, okay, it's half dead, keep smashing away. Once again, however, this is symptomatic of the game's complete refusal to compromise for weedy newcomers.Greg and I also tried out the much-anticipated online multiplayer co-op mode, which is free, and escapes Nintendo's usual Friend Code system, allowing you to play easily with mates and strangers alike. It's a stripped down take on the core battle sequences, pitching four players against a range of larger monsters from the single-player campaign. You can bring your own character in, or choose from an archetypal selection, then you all just leg it around a series of environments stabbing and slashing at your giant enemy. It's diverting, although – at first - tactically rather shallow: basically, you'll want a couple of melee warriors and one or two chaps hanging back with gunbows. Later, when you get better, you can liven things up by planting bombs and trying to tempt your enemy to walk on top of them – it's at this stage you'll really need to start strategising via the Wii Speak support. But you'll need to be with a group of veterans to get the most out of it. Otherwise it's a bunch of people shouting, "Smack it! Smack it again! Argh, it's knocked me out!"So, judging by the demo, Monster Hunter Tri, is not some RPG-lite for people who want to clamber off Wii Fit for five minutes. It's a massively deep and engaging experience with hundreds of hours of gameplay. They won't be the most visually amazing hours of your life, and you'll often look up blinking and wondering how you've just spent three hours merely collecting various herbs before taking on a minor quest. Meanwhile, with the static non-player characters, text-based dialogue and synthesised soundtrack, RPG veterans will find themselves wistfully recalling the pre-FFVII days of the genre.But that's the bizarre and beautiful thing about this bizarre and beautiful series. It's a mass of contradictions, an inconceivable construct of data and detail, almost impossible to accurately describe or fully understand – another reason why it feels like the best economic simulation ever made.Monster Hunter Tri is out in the UK on April 23. It'll be available alone or in a bundle pack with the Wii Speak headset.
A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team.First 2 Words: A Signal for the Scanning Eye &gt;&gt; Jakob Nielsen's AlertboxHow long should the wordsthat you linkbe? And how many should you link?Space Shuttle Destruct Switch &gt;&gt; Popular Mechanics"If the spaceship were to veer off course and endanger a populated area, [the] range safety officer would bear the terrible responsibility of flipping a pair of switches under a stenciled panel reading "Flight Termination." Gulp.Digital economy bill: what you need to know &gt;&gt; Guardian MediaOur handy print-out-and-keep guide to what's probably going to happen if the Digital Economy bill becomes an Act.My Lords, you can't please the entertainment industry and sustain privacy &gt;&gt; Guardian TechnologyWorth reading again in the light of the government's not-quite-a-promise to shift the burden of proof away from the accused in file-sharing rows.Apple Bans Game, Days After Developer Publicly Trashes App Store &gt;&gt; kotaku.comWas it because he trashed the store, or kept upping the price of his "zits and pimples" game... most recently to $400?IE9, standards, and why Acid3 isn't the priority - Ars TechnicaIE9 will deliver support for every single JavaScript and DOM API used by the top 7,000 websites, rather than the arbitrary Acid3 testGoogle Wave Rival Novell Pulse Launching to Preview March 21 &gt;&gt; eWeekBuilt on the Google Wave open (source) collaboration platform. Sure to be as successful as Wave.Vodafone Spain admits 3,000 smartphones shipped with Mariposa &gt;&gt; The Register"The Panda worker at the centre of the outbreak told El Reg that Vodafone is replacing 3,000 HTC Magic smartphone microSD cards because it reckons they are infected, not as a precaution."&#10;&#10;We always used to be warned about viruses on mobile phones, but not in this way - as a means to infect PCs they connect toDesign by Community | Nokia Conversations &gt;&gt; The official Nokia BlogThis reminds us of the time that 'Daedalus', the New Scientist's mad scientist, designed a bus that was communally steered - everyone had a steering wheel and the bus's direction was the average of their desired direction.&#10;&#10;It didn't go well.Palm's Loss Widened in Quarter &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comFor the quarter ended Feb. 26, Palm on Thursday reported a loss of $22 million. Excluding some share-related effects (due to the drop in its share price),the loss was $102.8 million. In the same period a year ago Palm lost $98 million.&#10;Revenue was $350 million. The result was above Palm's own forecast, issued less than a month ago, for $285 million to $310 million. &#10;Basically, it could be better. And probably needs to be, quite soon.Hysterical Amazon exec calls 911, says accelerator is stuck and he can't keep from running over publishers &gt;&gt; MOBYLIVESAmazon is strongarming book publishers who aren't already signed up Apple's e-publishing scheme."No Dashes Or Spaces" Hall of Shame &gt;&gt; unixwiz.netI've observed one technique that has been nearly universal: the practice of refusing to allow spaces or dashes in credit card number entry fields... The consensus among those that I've spoken to is that it's nothing but lazy, sloppy programming. I completely agree.&#10;&#10;It turns out that sometimes one can clean up the spaces and dashes in the same amount of code as the instruction not to.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Gordon Brown sought to make the provision of "superfast" broadband into an election issue in a speech on Monday, saying it would save government billions of pounds and revolutionise how people access public services.The prime minister said that the two alternatives for providing high-speed internet connectivity of 100 megabits per second or more, rather than the 4Mbps average in the UK, were between a market-driven process which would "create two nations: one digitally privileged, one digitally deprived" and the Labour approach, using money from a landline tax and surplus cash from the BBC licence fee to assure universal coverage.Brown did not directly refer to the Conservatives' plans, which wouldencourage phone companies to build 100Mbps systems through competition. Independent analysis suggests that the Conservative plans would mean thattheir core vote in rural constituencies would be the last to benefit from such systems– if they reach them at all.In hisspeech, Brown said the choice of how to fund the building of high-speed broadband, which requires the installation of fibre-optic cable over large distances, was clear: "We can allow unbridled market forces to provide a solution on its own terms and according to its own timetable as others would do. The result would be superfast broadband coverage determined not even by need or social justice, or by the national interest but by profitability alone. This would open a lasting, pervasive and damaging new digital divide." Instead, he said, the £6-a-year landline tax – which the Tories have said they would abolish – would help fund installation. "We say that Britain's digital future must be a future for all, not just for some. But if every household is to benefit, then it is fair that every household contributes to meeting this goal.""Superfast broadband is the electricity of the digital age. And I believe it must be for all – not just for some," Brown said, arguing that it goes far beyond the convenience of online shopping.Relying on the market to roll out superfast broadband "would allow the country to become split between a fast track and a slow track to the future", and "betrays a total failure to grasp the scale of the educational, economic and social opportunities that it brings". The digital economy could create 250,000 skilled jobs by 2020, he said."Faster broadband speeds will bring new, cheaper, more personalised and more effective public services to people; it will bring games and entertainment options with new levels of sophistication; it will make accessing goods and services immeasurably easier," he said. "In short, the world available to those with superfast broadband will be unimaginably richer than to those without."Brown also set out a raft of measures to create personalised web pages for everyone to interact with government services, saying that the potential savings of moving to paper-free systems ran to £20bn, and that the chancellor, Alistair Darling, will set out how that would be achieved in the budget on Wednesday.But he refused to suggest the cancellation of the NHS's IT modernisation project, which is now expected to cost £12bn rather than the initial estimate of £1bn, and be delivered in 2015 rather than 2006.Unions have complained that thousands of public sector workers would be made jobless, and that personal data would put at risk given the state's poor security record in recent years.Brown argued that the digital revolution will be especially vital in jobcentres, schools, hospital records and to ensure that when people move home they need only inform one website rather than a plethora of government agencies.Council tax, rubbish collection and parking permits, as well as finding a new doctor and dentist, would automatically appear when someone logs on to their government account to change their address.The developments should also allow the sidelining of Whitehall planning, because it will be far easier to predict the services the public needs and wants.In an indication of the scale of savings available to Whitehall, the work and pensions secretary, Yvette Cooper, will publish findings showing her department has already saved more than £1bn, largely because of services going online.Cooper's report says the government can save more than £100m a year by helping people claim their pension and Jobseeker's Allowance online, £40m by reducing office space, over £110m by getting more value out of contracts and £200m by benefit delivery changes.Brown did not specify how the government would stimulate the provision of superfast broadband: it ispresently considering responses to the two models– one which would encourage provision from the most remote areas towards urban centres, and the other starting at outlying areas and building towards the most remote ones.Ministers have been looking at delivering some benefits entirely online, but are wary because 4 million people who have never used the internet are also among the heaviest users of central and local government services.The next benefits to be put on line are likely to be full jobseeker's allowance, followed by child benefit and tax credits. Jim Knight, the work and pensions minister, said: "People will be able to look up jobs, have new jobs in their areas pushed to them, and manage their benefits claim." The JobCentre database will be opened up via an application program interface to third-party developers so that they could develop new uses for the information.A key part of achieving those savings will be getting more people online, and Brown said that he has asked Martha Lane-Fox, the digital entrepreneur who is already the government's "digital champion", to extend her role and become the head of a new "digital public services unit" within the cabinet office. By autumn the government will also set out a "Domesday book" of all the available non-personal datasets held in central government, which anybody would be able to use commercially."I want Britain to be the world leader in the digital economy," said Brown, who said that superfast broadband can "give voice and choice to citizens, parents, patients and consumers".The speech is a clear sign of the parties' maneouvring ahead of the election, expected to be called on 6 April to be held on 6 May. In the past month the Tories and Labour have been jockeying for position over their commitment to creating more accessible online government services, broadband and also public access to non-personal government data, with the Tories saying they would introduce a "right to public data" bill to let people request and receive public datasets, publishing details of government contracts worth more than £25,000 online, encouraging use of free open-source software in government development, and encouraging telecoms companies to offer superfast broadband. Labour has pointed to the creation of the data.gov.uk website, which holds non-personal datasets from a growing number of central government departments, its latest announcement on superfast broadband, and the plan announced in November – and reiterated by Brown today – to make a wide range of Ordnance Survey mapping data free for commercial reuse from 1 April. Brown also pledged to make other data, such as bus timetables, available for commercial reuse by others in future franchises.Brown insisted that the threats of the digital economy bill – which is being rushed through parliament, and could become law ahead of the election – to "temporarily suspend" internet accounts of people accused of copyright infringement online would be resolved.£30m will be allocated to create an Institute of Web Science, headed by internet inventor Sir Tim Berners Lee and leading scientist Professor Nigel Shadbolt. It is intended to be an academic base to enable research into the semantic web and other emerging web and internet technologies, and ensure that government is taking the right funding decisions to position the UK as a world leader. "We will invite universities and private sector web developers and companies to join this collaborative project," said Brown.
This year's strikingly regular supply of PlayStation 3 exclusives continues with perhaps the most hotly anticipated one yet: God Of War III – and, given that it looked a bit dodgy when previewed, it massively exceeds expectations.It is emphatically the last game of a trilogy. Spartan warrior Kratos, having been made God Of War then demoted, is mad as hell and swears to kill Zeus. Along the way, he bloodily despatches pretty much everybody he meets (apart from Aphrodite, who has sex with him). The game has barely started by the time he consigns Poseidon to a watery grave, and the list of mighty Olympians he viciously obliterates includes Hades, Helios, Hercules, Hermes, Hera, Cronos the Titan and, even though they helped him, Gaia and Hephaestus. Safe to say, then, that there won't be a God Of War IV.Which is an almighty shame, since the first next-generation version of the franchise is utterly brilliant. As before, its main gameplay dynamic is (very sophisticated) hacking and slashing – Kratos makes full use of weapons he rips from his defeated foes, such as Hercules' giant Nemean Cestus gauntlets, and all his weapons can be upgraded by collecting red orbs from chests and by killing enemies with more violence than is strictly necessary. There are also plenty of puzzles to solve, which are commendably varied – getting to the Flame of Olympus, for example, involves playing a rhythm-action game, reaching the climactic Labyrinth requires him to use Hera's broken body as a counterweight, and Helios's decapitated head operates as a handy torch which can also temporarily blind opponents and reveal hidden paths.Astonishingly epic boss-battles abound – always concluded by God Of War's signature timed button-pressing. Indeed, the sense of scale the game communicates is one of its most impressive aspects – the bravura opening sees Kratos attempting to scale Olympus in cahoots with the skyscraper-sized Gaia, while simultaneously fighting off Poseidon. This time around, there's more platform-style climbing, jumping and swinging to negotiate, too.A churl would point out that it's not the longest of games, that the voice-acting can occasionally lurch into territory which is uncomfortably Charlton Heston, and that there are a couple of moments when the camera doesn't exactly help your endeavours. And it isn't afraid to play fast and loose with Greek mythology – one wonders what Robert Graves would make of Hermes' incredibly annoying portrayal (his demise, with legs hacked off and bone-stumps left protruding, is particularly satisfying), Aphrodite's ridiculous lasciviousness or Hera's manifestation as a wine-addled crone. But at least it's never less than hugely entertaining and, as we've finally come to expect on the PS3, visually glorious.If this really is the last we'll see of Kratos, it's a sad day indeed. But at least he's leaving PS3 owners with enormous grins on their faces.
The government will allow people and companies accused of illicit filesharing to appeal before they are disconnected, undernewmeasures to be introduced in thedigital economy bill, said Stephen Timms, the financial secretary to the Treasury, today.Update:the Department for Business points out that the billalready includes provision for subscriber appeals.(I misinterpreted Timm's use of the phrase "there will be appeals available..." to mean that this was to be introduced. - Charles Arthur)A new clause to be introduced into the bill in the next two weeks will mean"There will be an appeals procedure available which people will be able to pursue", Timms said as the prime minister Gordon Brown launched his vision of a digital Britain in whichsuperfast broadband would be as essential as electricity.The bill hascome under fire from campaigning groupsanddigital chiefswho say that as presently constituted it would mean summary disconnection from the internet for people who are accused of repeated online copyright infringement, and that businesses which provide internet connections to customers – such as the British Library or hundreds of hotels and cafés – would shut down the connections rather than risk being sued or put out of business because of the actions of users.But Timms said that "there will be no disconnection before the appeal" and added "I hope that we will not get into technical measures" – the phrase the bill uses to describe the action to be taken against individuals or businesses with internet access accused multiple times of copyright theft. He added that "we need to be able to protect the UK creative industries which produce so much value for the UK".Rights groups said that this response does not deal with the threat that they perceive to such organisations from the bill.The bill is controversial because it isbeing rushed through parliamentso that it can become law before the general election. It has already passed through the House of Lords and had the first of its three readings in the Commons. But it looks increasingly likely that it will go into the "wash-up" – in which bills are nodded through in hours by agreement between party whips if they have had a second reading.It is expected that the bill will receive a second reading on or before 6 April, in time to go into the "wash-up" if the election is called, as expected, for 6 May. Any bill still in process that does not go into the "wash-up" will not become law.Timms acknowledged that it was "likely" that the bill will go into the "wash-up". He added: "I am confident we can address the concerns that have been raised. Essentially, we will require consultation before any technical measures are taken."Brown blamed the problems on amendments introduced by the Tories and Liberal Democrats in the Lords – though online rights groups had criticised the bill before then.But that has not allayed the concerns of campaigners. Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, which campaigns for online rights of citizens, said: "Online government is a great idea, but Labour cannot say that people will depend on online government, and simultaneously plan to disconnect families after allegations of minor copyright offences. Labour must drop clauses 11-18 of the digital economy bill, which would allow thousands of families to be cut off the internet."More than 11,000 people have emailed their MPs to ask for more debate of the clauses in parliament.
Another weekend gone but how was the gaming for you? The big release was the gorgeous if familiar God of War III for PS3. Did you play it? What do you think so far? Was it worth the wait? God of War feels like the end of the 2010 winter gaming rush and there is now time to take stock and catch up on what has been the busiest and most rewarding 3 months of gaming releases ever. Actually having said that,Just Cause 2is out next week and is yet another above average release that is well worth a look if you have time. But generally it feels like the time to finish some of those games that have been released since the start of the year.I've been spending some - belated - time withMight and Magic: Clash of Heroeson the DS. Review will be live later this week but so far the Puzzle Quest style action is going down very well.  Similarly enjoyable - probably because it brings back happy memories of Diddy Kong Racing on the N64 - isSonic and Sega All-Stars Racing. Ok, it's basically a reskin of Mario Kart but those blue skies are so pretty in HD.But what did you play this weekend? Straight into God of War III? Or are you still ploughing through Final Fantasy XIII, Battlefield, Heavy Rain, Mass Effect 2 and the rest?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Not content to watch the Tories woo the electorate withpromises of 100Mbps broadband, the BBC saysGordon Brownis stepping into the fray tooffer up the delivery of super-fast connections by 2020. The difference between the two deals? Labour suggests it would be based on user need, not market power or profitability. Good news for thoserural voters left in the lurch by the Tory plans, perhaps. It's not clear, though, how this jibes with the controversial digital economy bill -which drew more criticism on Fridayover claims that it was being rushed through parliament.&bull; Skype's founders have had an up and down few months -winning their battle with eBay, but losing out when theirvideo site Joost shut down. Now, however, Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis are trying to bounce back witha new $165m investment fund for disruptive European startups, according to the FT. The money will run throughAtomico Ventures, the duo's investment vehicle.&bull; There's been plenty of talk about the social games industry, which is currently by San Francisco'sZyngaand their immenseFarmville, but few commentaries go beyond the level of "wow" or "yuck". So it's refreshing to read something likethis piece by Soren Johnson, who worked on Civilization, Spore and other games. I'm not going to give you much more to go on - just go andread itYou can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed..
If you are a young adult or teenager, you can't live  without Facebook. It's the first site I go to when I turn on my  computer. I have even checked it on my mobile on planes and in toilets. Which should go some way toward explaining why Facebook topped Google as America's most visited site a fortnight ago.Forget dates in the diary –  Facebook is a one-stop events calendar. A friend once sent out beautiful hand-made invitations to her birthday party. "It's so quaint!" she cooed. Four days later the invites had been lost and no one could remember if the party was happening a week on Saturday or a month on Sunday.Facebook has changed the way we approach relationships. You don't meet somebody at a party and hope you run into them again five months later. You add them to your "friends" list on the social networking site. A couple of years ago, I might have known about 30 people at university and had five close friends. Now I can keep in touch with hundreds.The downside is that you have  infinite access to the private lives of your friends. It's  weird when you begin a story, only to have someone say, "I know, I saw the Facebook pictures." And it can lead to less-than-pleasant  revelations about people you thought you knew. A close friend once offered to house-sit when my mother was out of town.  Two weeks later, a photo album called "London FUNTIMES"  appeared on the friend's profile. House-sitting now apparently includes inviting 10 people round to smoke a huge shisha pipe.  Which explained the charred  crater in the middle of my mum's cream carpet.Even worse is the Facebook photobomb – when you turn up in the background of somebody else's photo doing something you shouldn't. A few years ago, you might have been an amusing but  anonymous backdrop in a picture hidden in a photo album.  Now, your friends immediately tag you as the girl pictured throwing up in the pint glass.But it's not all bad news. You can at least vet new acquaintances to avoid those who join Facebook groups with "hilarious" titles such as "WTF is Alice doing in Wonderland? How did she get out of the kitchen?".So if you're surprised that  Facebook could get even more hits than Google, you clearly haven't been using it right.  Either that, or you're still on Friends Reunited.
When 17-year-old Jo Parsons blagged her way into a local nightclub for an evening out, she was flattered when a man she'd never met came over and offered to buy her a drink. But pleasure soon turned to anxiety. He refused to stop talking and she gradually realised that he knew much too much about her: what her friends were called, where she lived, her birthday, even her favourite music. He had been stalking her online. In fact, it was still going on: one of his mates was reading her social networking pages and send him phone updates about interests he could pretend to share with her. Furious, she threw her drink in his face and stormed off.This isn't a true story: it's fiction. But it's part of a fiction that has been experienced more than 260,000 times by online users – mostly teenagers – over the past six months. That's because this scenario is one of 13 that together compriseSmokescreen, a free-to-play "alternate reality game" commissioned byChannel 4 Educationthat is intended to give teenage players a personal encounter with everything from identity theft to cyber stalking.In recent weeks, moral panic over the safety of social networks has been everywhere in the media, sparked by the Daily Mail's account of a man posing as a girl of 14 on a "well known social networking site" and being approached by sexually interested males within minutes. Smokescreen is a far cry from that kind of frenzy. Yet what it represents might just be a lot more significant; both in terms of understanding young people's behaviour online and – most importantly – changing it.This month, Smokescreen won the best game award at the US conference South by Southwest, one of the biggest annual events in the global gaming industry. Its success – not to mention the experiences and reactions of its tens of thousands of players – paints a rather different picture of the realm of online social networking than is usually seen in the mainstream media. Smokescreen's website simulates the experience of being out in the web at large: players navigate their way through fake sites with names such as "Gaggle," "Tweetr" and (my favourite) "Fakebook," viewing the personal pages of a cast of five core characters, watching them swap information and instant messages, and even getting "phonecalls": messages playing over their computer's speakers, with the player selecting from a variety of responses to move the story forward."Almost every teen we've talked to feels that they know everything about issues like online privacy, identity and security," explains Adrian Hon, co-founder and chief creative officer at the British company that created Smokescreen,Six to Start,"and the fact that most adults they've heard from insist on scaremongering about paedophiles means they're no longer interested in what adults have to say." But there's a lot, he adds, that teens don't know they don't know. And this is usually where the real dangers lie: not in up-front sexual approaches, but in the mire of privacy settings, tagged photographs, mobile phone numbers and dates of birth.In Smokescreen, you live these intricacies from the inside. In the mission where Jo Parsons faces her cyber stalker at the club, it's you who takes on the role of his mate on the phone; it's you looking through Jo's Fakebook page and Tweetr feed, choosing what information to send. Just as intended, it makes you think twice about the public information on your own page in real life. Helen Farrall, Smokescreen's creator and co-writer, talked me through her experiences writing that particular mission. "We did a lot of research, and I was incredibly surprised by how lax people are with information. I started looking on my friends' pages online and seeing what they put out there; we went into schools and spoke to our target audience about what they did, and none of them had really thought about putting their emails and phone numbers on sites. It never crossed their minds that anyone would do anything nasty to them."Another mission, also involving the character of Jo, shows the dangers of photo-tagging online: an image of her bunking off school is tagged with her name by a friend, and suddenly starts appearing in search results before she has a chance to take it down. The lesson, and the remedy, seem simple enough – de-tag the image in question – until you realise that, with the image out in the public domain on pages that you don't control, you've suddenly lost the ability to stop people sharing and labelling a personal picture. Playing this mission was enough to make me check my own privacy settings – and to realise that I needed to change who I permit to view images with me in them.As Hon explains, what his company's research has shown is that kids are willing and even passionately interested in learning more about the dangers of the digital world: the problem is that the way these discussions are usually delivered to them are "just not credible". Sex claims the headlines – and becomes a running joke in classrooms – while less sensational concerns go unaddressed: about bullying online, teenagers' place in the social order and "a hard-to-articulate unease about what other people might know about them online". This is partly because such issues are genuinely tricky: "Many social networks' privacy settings seem to change every few months," Hon notes. "It was hard even for our company to figure out what they all meant. So it's not going to be easy for teens. And the issue is that they feel they can't talk to their parents and teachers about this stuff."It's a situation that Alice Taylor, commissioning editor for education at Channel 4, hopes to change. "Originally," she explains, "we were looking to commission a project about traditional privacy – CCTV, government ID plans, that sort of thing – to coincide with the 25th year since 1984, the totem year representing privacy issues. But as we looked around, stories of teen behaviour on social networks stood out as an immediately visible form of loss of privacy: some young people learning the hardest way that posting pictures of drunken behaviour or body parts is a really, permanently bad idea." So, in late 2007, she started talking to Six to Start about something that would "show, not tell" its way through these issues: getting people to "play through such behaviours, learning as they go about things like what happens when you post public details of your house party online." The result, Smokescreen shows, can be pretty chaotic. In mission seven, 9,821 people sign up for an 18th birthday that someone has decided to advertise online as a free music festival – and it becomes your job to handle the fallout. It's enough to make you think twice about getting involved in something similar yourself.For Taylor, Smokescreen is just the beginning: her future lineup includes a game about civil liberties and citizenship (The Curfew), and a game about self-esteem and media literacy (Cover Girl). Still, for many observers, the word "game" can seem like an increasingly misleading one when it comes to such projects. Adrian Hon isn't too bothered by splitting this particular hair. "Young people," he argues, "don't make the same distinctions between different media and devices that older users do. They play games, watch videos and surf the web on every device they can get their hands on. But they are also comfortable with entertainment that doesn't fit into easy categories." He's happy for people to think of Smokescreen as a highly interactive multimedia story – or as a lightly interactive game with a great story. Either way, it represents an important shift in the ground on which educators are attempting to engage with teens and students: and a recognition that new media can best be debated from the inside, through engagement rather than demonisation. Fire can be fought with fire: if it's fun and engaging, so much the better.David Smith, director of ICT at the private sector St Paul's school in London, is one of a number of teachers whose pupils took part in testing Smokescreen before its public release – and a man with strong feelings about the best way of dealing with these issues in schools. "I think what Smokescreen was doing was really interesting," he told me, "but I think schools should be dealing with social software anyway. It shouldn't be banned. It's just another part of what we use to communicate and live by, and it's very important that we learn how to use it well." If the experience of Smokescreen tells us anything, it's that this means meeting teens on a common ground – and listening to, as well as telling, stories about the digital world as they are living it.Tom Chatfield is the author of "Fun Inc" (Virgin) and a senior editor at Prospect magazine
I can deal with hardship but only as part of a backstory – there's something just too impoverished and grinding about constraints during actual game-play.Metro 2033is a game that glories in, fetishises even, its misery and privations.Based faithfully on the online series/novel/interactive experiment by Dmitry Glukhovsky,Metro 2033makes you Artyom, born and raised underground in the Moscow metro following the nuclear holocaust of 2013.Blimey, but life is hard. Perpetual torch-punctured darkness, a punishing journey to be undertaken to save your home "station" from destruction, ravening hordes of irradiated mutants threatening (and delivering) extravagant violence. It's the micro-management that makes the game into an everyday hell. Air is often unfit to breathe, and your gas mask goes through filters like nobody's business. Ammunition is super-scarce, and easily squandered through ham-fisted gunplay controls.This is a splendid story and a nicely rendered, playable first-person-shooter, but ultimately this is Kafka with none of the laughs.
And so, after 15 years of scrapping between the Global Defence Initiative (the goodies) and Brotherhood of Nod (baddies), it's time to bid farewell to a veritable hall-of-famer, withTiberian Twilightpromised to be theCommand &amp; Conquerseries swansong. Certainly the slickest in look and feel, as befits a final incarnation,C&amp;C4is, sadly, a little short on innovation and seems almost primitive compared with superb RTS games such asWorld in Conflict, released in 2007.Nonetheless, the video cut scenes are indisputably cool and the action beautifully animated, while the always gentleC&amp;Clearning curve has become even more user-friendly, with each faction split into three "classes": offence, defence and support. It's quick to get to grips with and works particularly well in multi-player mode. Fans of the franchise won't be disappointed but will have to hope that this is only the end of the chapter, not the book.
My mother used to say that television had killed the art of conversation. One wonders what she would have made ofChatroulette, the current sensation du jour. It's the implementation of a stunningly simple idea: live online chats with randomly chosen, complete strangers.After logging in two frames appear on the left-hand side of the screen. The lower one shows you (or what your webcam is pointing at). The other is labelled "Partner". Click "New Game" and you're off. An image of someone or something appears in the upper frame."Connected," says the status bar, "Feel free to talk now." If you don't like what you see, click the "Next" button and you're instantly connected to someone else. And so it goes.To anyone unused to raw, unmediated Net culture, Chatroulette will come as a shock. Most of those who've appeared on my screen seem to be young men. Some are engaged in various kinds of sexual exhibitionism, much of it explicit. A few look wistful or puzzled, but I've found it impossible to divine what's actually going on in their heads, because they invariably click "Next" when they see me.This is understandable, given that the "partners" with whom they wish to chat are probably young, female and scantily clad. My experience, though, resonates with those of other observers.Comscore statisticssuggest that Chatroulette is dominated by college-aged males and that males make up 72% of the site's users, and 45% of all users (male and female) are aged 18-24. The New York film-maker Casey Neistatreportedthat among the 90 people he clicked through one Thursday afternoon he found "71% men, 15% women and 14% perverts". While 95% "nexted" Neistat, his female friend was clicked away by only 5%.Chatroulette has enjoyed vertiginous growth since its launch last November. It has alsoprovoked a good deal of moral panicof the "how would you like it if your children saw this?" variety.But it has also given rise to a modicum of thoughtful reflection – for example by the anthropologist danah boyd (and, yes, she wants her name in lower case) who works for Microsoft Research and probably knows more about social networking than anyone on the planet. "I find it difficult to respond to the fears," she wrote in herblog, "because I find it endearing. Chatroulette reminds me a lot of the quirkiness of the internet that I grew up with. Like when I was a teen trolling through chatrooms, Chatroulette is filled with all sorts of weird people. And most users ignore most other users until they find someone they find interesting or compelling. While the site was designed by a teen, minors do not dominate there (although there are plenty of young adults there). And, not surprisingly, teens on the site have ZERO interest in talking to older folks – even old folks like me. It's the strangest pairing dynamic… You can click Next and they can click Next until something gels."She's right. In its unruly, randomised, disturbing way, Chatroulette forces us to reflect on some truths that we are in danger of forgetting. First of all, the internet is, at its heart, a giant Connection Machine – not just a system for delivering "content" (or goods and services) to customers. What was so liberating about the network when it first appeared in the 1980s was the way it enabled people to connect with people they would never have encountered in real life. Over the decades, the net has morphed into something rather different – a system for interacting with those whom you already know. That, after all, is the essence of Facebook, LinkedIn and co. Chatroulette shatters that model – which is why it suddenly seems so outrageous.Second, if Chatroulette users – or internet users generally – are apparently so obsessed with sex, then surely that tells us more about human nature than it does about technology? Sure, the net made pornography more accessible. But there wouldn't have been such an abundance of supply if there wasn't a demand. And is that demand a symptom not just of the evolutionary power of the reproductive urge, but of a widespread failure in human relationships? If you want an insight into that, just go to Google, type "How can I get my wife..." and see what the most common queries beginning with those words are.It's not the images of the flashers on Chatroulette that haunt me, but those of the users who looked wistful. Are they just hoping to connect with someone who might listen – and respond?
Don't act too surprised if, some time in the next year, you meet someone who explains that their business card isn't just a card; it's an augmented reality business card. You cansee a collectionand, atvisualcard.me, you can even design your own, by adding a special marker to your card, which, once put in front of a webcam linked to the internet, will show not only your contact details but also a video or sound clip. Or pretty much anything you want.It's not just business cards. London Fashion Week has tried them out too: little symbols that look like barcodes printed onto shirts, which, when viewed through a webcam, come to life. Benetton is using augmented reality for acampaignthat kicked off last month, in which it is trying to find models from among the general population.Augmented reality – AR, as it has quickly become known – has only recently become a phrase that trips easily off technologists' lips; yet we've been seeing versions of it for quite some time. The idea is straightforward enough: take a real-life scene, or (better) a video of a scene, and add some sort of explanatory data to it so that you can better understand what's going on, or who the people in the scene are, or how to get to where you want to go.Sports coverage on TV has been doing it for years: slow-motion could be described as a form of augmented reality, since it gives you the chance to examine what happened in a situation more carefully. More recently cricket, tennis, rugby, football and golf have all started to overlay analytic information on top of standard-speed replays – would that ball have hit the stumps, the progress of a rally, the movement of the backs or wingers, the relative flights of shots – to tell you more about what's going on. Probably the most common use is in American football where the "first down" line – the distance the team has to cover to continue its offence – is superimposed on the picture for viewers.But those required huge systems. AR took its first lumbering steps into the public arena eight years ago: all that you needed to do was strap on 10kg of computing power – laptop, camera, vision processor – and you could get an idea of what was feasible. The AmericanPopular Sciencemagazinewrote about the idea in 2002– but the idea of being permanently connected to the internet hadn't quite jelled at that point."AR has been around for ages," says Andy Cameron, executive director of Fabrica, an interactive design studio which works with Benetton, "maybe going back as far as the 1970s and art installations that overlaid real spaces with something virtual." He mentions in particular the work of pioneering computer artist Myron Krueger.What's changed in the past year is that AR has come within reach of all sorts of developers – and the technology powerful enough to make use of it is owned by millions of people, often in the palms of their hands.The arrival of powerful smartphones and computers with built-in video capabilities means that you don't have to wait for the AR effects as you do with TV. They can simply be overlaid onto real life. Step forward Apple's iPhone, and phones using Google's Android operating system, both of which are capable of overlaying information on top of a picture or video.Within the small world of AR, one of the best-known apps is that built byLayar, which – given a location, and using the iPhone 3GS's inbuilt compass to work out the direction you're pointing the phone – can give you a "radar map" of details such as Wikipedia information, Flickr photos, Google searches and YouTube videos superimposed onto a picture you've taken of the scene. For Americans, it will also pull in details from the government's economicRecovery Act– so that if you're on Wall Street and want to see how many billions went into which building, it will show you.Or, more usefully,Yelpoffers an augmented reality application that will show you ratings and reviews for a restaurant before you walk in – the sort of thing that could make restaurants quiver with delight, or shudder in horror.Or maybe it wouldn't need to know where it is; only who it's looking at. A prototype application demonstrated at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona in February took things a little further again. Point the phone at a person and if it can find their details, it will pull them off the web and attach details – their Twitter username, Facebook page and other facts – and stick them, rather weirdly, into the air around their head (viewed through your phone, of course). "It's taking social networking to the next level," says Dan Gärdenfors, head of user experience research atThe Astonishing Tribe, a Swedish mobile software company.And there are fabulously useful applications: at Columbia University, computer science professor Steve Feiner and PhD candidate Steve Henderson have created theirAugmented Reality for Maintenance and Repair (Armar) project. It combines sensors, head-up displays, and instructions to tackle the military's maintenance needs: start working on a piece of kit, and thedetails about it pop up in front of you. Imagine if you could put on a pair of special goggles when you needed to investigate your car's engine, or a computer's innards, and the detail would pop up. That's the sort of idea that Armar is trying to implement, though for the military at first..Yet it's fashion which seems to have leapt quickest into this technology. The T-shirt with AR in London Fashion Week was developed by Cassette Playa, a label that has been worn by Lily Allen, Rihanna and Kanye West. Carri Munden, who designed it with the Fashion Digital Studio at the London College of Fashion, described it as "mixing reality and fantasy". Adidas, too, has launched trainers with AR symbols in the tongues: hold them to a webcam and you are taken to interactive games on the Adidas site.The process by which the strange symbols get translated into images is simple enough: the website takes the feed from your webcam (you have to explicitly allow it to do so, so there are no security worries) and analyses it for the particular set of symbols that the program is looking for. (Some easy calculations mean the symbols can be detected whichever way up you hold the item.) Videos and pictures are then sent back to you.Andy Cameron says that the arrival of an open-source, hence free, AR tool kit has let companies build their own AR applications, using Flash – the pervasive animation and video technology used for many online ads and YouTube's videos – "which immediately meant you had huge penetration, because Flash is everywhere". (Something like 98% of all computers are reckoned to have Adobe's Flash Player installed.)"If you build your AR application with Flash, then you can get it out to everybody in the world with a computer with a webcam," says Cameron.Benetton is using AR in its latest campaign, called "It's My Time" which aims to get members of the public to put themselves forward as potential models, and uses AR to show more details about existing models. But its first most visible use of AR was last year in issue 76 of Benetton'sColorsmagazine, a quarterly fashion product. Dozens of pages have AR symbols: hold the page up to a webcam, and you see film and more photos of the person on the page. "TheColorseditor and the creative director of Fabrica got very excited about it," says Cameron.Cameron can see huge potential which could even revive the fortunes of print advertising. "Think of a commercial page, an advert, in a fashion magazine. It's pretty expensive. With this – and this is the way that the more hard-nosed people in Benetton saw the advantage – it means that you can get more products on the page." Print an AR code, get people to come to the site, and you can show them so much more, while measuring the return from your effort.The technical cost is a tiny part of the overall effort. "The printing and photography cost [of the advert] is the same. And the development cost is pretty small."And of course where advertisers go, the publications that house them are sure to go as well.Esquiremagazine in the US andWallpaper*in Europe have done "augmented reality" editions, with Robert Downey Jr coming to life on the cover of the former, and AR text providing videos and animation in the latter. But there are more possibilities for journalism using AR: for example if you "geotag" newspaper articles (so that you say that an item relates to a particular place) then someone visiting a site could learn about events relevant to the area via their smartphone.Book publishers too are leaping in: Carlton Publishing will release an AR book in May, featuring dinosaurs that pop out of the pages when viewed, yes, through a webcam. Future releases include war, sport and arts titles which will also have extra AR elements.Yet in media it's the advertisers who are most excited. The possibilities of geotagged, targeted adverts – which in effect hang in the air until someone comes along to find them with a smartphone – or of AR adverts which open up a whole new world of opportunities (and perhaps discounts or loyalty bonuses) when you follow them through – are yet another glimpse of the holy grail ofads that know exactly who and where you are.Is there a risk that we'll all become AR'd out – that it will become boring as advert after advert invites us to hold it up to a webcam? "What's hot today is ancient history tomorrow," says Cameron. "There have been a lot of bad uses of this technology with a rush to use it. We have had the chance to reflect on what it means and how to use it. The key is that it should be an enhancement of the stuff on the printed page."Even so we're still in the early stages, he argues. "It's very primitive – having to use a webcam, holding a magazine up to it. Obviously we're really interested in the opportunities with handheld devices. It's very frustrating that the iPhone doesn't allow access to the live video stream." (Nor does it run Flash, another problem for would-be AR designers.) "People in design are very annoyed with Steve Jobs," he observes. "We don't really understand why Apple won't allow that."Given that access, he says, "you could hold your iPhone up to a billboard and get something amazing right there". What about the alternative, such as Google's Android-based Nexus phone? "It looks like you could do it on that," he says. But of course the iPhone is a target market. "Maybe Apple wants to keep that for itself," Cameron says. "Maybe they're lodging patents. Or maybe the processor on the iPhone isn't fast enough."Yet there are some who think that AR has already had its brief time in the sun. At the Like Minds conference in Exeter at the beginning of March, Joanne Jacobs, a social media consultant, described an AR application that demanded you buy a T-shirt and then go and sit in front of your webcam – so you could play Rock, Paper, Scissors. By yourself."It's hopeless," Jacobs said.Cameron admits to some uncertainty about AR's measurable impact. "I don't know if it sells more things, but it seems clearly a good thing if we can get people who may be customers to participate in the adverts." But, he adds: "If people start to play with the adverts in a way that exposes them to more products, that's got to help bring a commercial return."
Close your eyes for a moment and think of Volvo. What's the first image that floats into your mind? Is it a slab-sided, square-shouldered estate? Can you see the driver? He's probably a grey-haired pensioner heading to the golf club for an 11 o'clock sherry. It's probably an old 240 he's driving – as indestructible as a tank and about as much fun to drive. And for some owners, those old Volvos – lumbering titans of the tarmac – are exactly what a car should be. But unfortunately those are not the cars that Volvo now builds.Ten years ago Ford bought the Swedish company for $6.45bn (though design and production remained in Gothenburg), and for the last few months there have been rumours that the Chinese motor manufacturer Geely will buy Volvo from Ford for an as yet undisclosed sum. Geely, of course, is not being tempted by a bunch of hulking estates. It's interested in the ground-breaking technology that Volvo has developed over the past years which makes its cars among the safest and most environmentally friendly vehicles on the road. There is its pedestrian detection system, its collision warning system, the multiple driver alerts, the city safe features and its eco DRIVe enhancements. There's also the fact that – and this really does stick in the throat – Volvos now look cool.To prove the point, the latest model, the redesigned C30 Sports Coupe, is being revealed to the press not, as is normal, in a sweaty conference hall heaving with curious journalists but in a garage-sized  igloo halfway up a mountain in the Austrian Alps. And it's not so much cool as freezing – it's expected to hit -30C by the weekend.In the middle of the igloo, sitting on a bed of ice like a monstrous lobster, is the brand-new "Flame Orange" C30. The colour scheme alone means the car will no longer feel comfortable in the carpark at Wentworth. Flame Orange with Blackcurrant trim. Lime Grass with Java trim. Flamenco Red with Espresso and Blond seats. There are more than 30 colour/trim combinations in all. In keeping with its new street-savvy persona, the C30 has been given attitude and presence –its "face" now seems to scowl at passersby. The headlamps have been fitted with of-the-moment LED stripes which curl around the front corners, framing the outsize honeycomb grille. The line of bulbs glow like drops of dew. The chin valance has been lowered to give the impression that the C30 hugs the ground. It makes it look more athletic and purposeful. The company's product manager sums up the change in direction: "The previous model looked like it had pulled its knickers up too high…" They're lower now!The C30 is a four-seat, two-door hatchback. Its clean lines lead your eye round to its neat duck-tailed rear end. The back seats are a little cramped, but the fact that the hatch is made of glass means it feels airy. Five engine sizes are offered, but the DRIVe version delivers an astonishing 74.30 miles per gallon.So… safe, sexy and possibly even Chinese. The Volvo of today is a real eye opener.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?My Apple laptop has definitely transformed my life because I can do so many things on it – I don't understand how I got by without it.When was the last time you used it,  and what for?I send emails all the time, and I love email because you don't have to talk to people. Yesterday I did a really useful thing. My dad lives on his own in Dorset and has a bad back, so I went online and did his shopping and had it delivered to his house. How useful is that?What additional features would you add if you could?I'd really like some sort of filtration method, that I don't have, for all the crap that comes my way. And I would like to take revenge on a few spam senders.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I'm sure it'll be obsolete in about six months,  and I'll have to buy another one.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I recently got a BlackBerry, and I can't get on with it – I can't see the screen properly, for a start. And I haven't sat down and learned how to use it properly, and I find that frustrating as well.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I'm not one for computer games, but I was given one of those brain training things and I found it mildly offensive.If you had one tip about getting the  best out of new technology, what  would it be?Keep it at arm's length, and don't take any of it with you on holiday.Do you consider yourself to be a  luddite or a nerd?A luddite, definitely.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?It's my laptop.Mac or PC, and why?Mac, just because I always have. It somehow feels more artistic – I don't know why, it just does.Do you still buy CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do still buy CDs – I like to have something in my hand, and like to take them in the car. I don't do all that iPod business. I think with all that downloading business, somebody is getting shafted – and it might be me. I recently bought the soundtrack toFantastic Mr Fox, which is fantastic. I've watched the film about 37 times – my daughter is obsessed with it.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I've got somewhere in the cupboard a Rumba – a robot vacuum cleaner. It's absolutely hilarious, but now that I have kids, I can't use it any more – there are too many things lying around, such as Lego bricks. But robot butlers? No, they're a terrible idea.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'd like a lawnmower. If I had a lawnmower, it would mean I had a lawn, which would mean I had a garden – which would be quite nice.Emily Watson stars in "Cold Souls", which is out now on DVD
Jeff BridgesWhat with winning an Oscar for his latest film, Crazy Heart, and an upcoming starring role in Tron Legacy, these are sweet times for Jeff Bridges. Talking to the press at the Academy Awards, the veteran actor admitted that he was still "digging the Dude", the White Russian-sipping hippy he played in the Coen brothers' The Big Lebowski. One trip to his official site will tell you why: it's because Bridges basicallyisThe Dude. Instead of type, the site is hung together with drawings and doodles and scrawled handwriting. While there are no photographs of Bridges himself, several can be seen of a catfish with a basketball stuck in its mouth. There's space for his own strung-out music, while the links to some of his favourite web places range from a panda golf game to a conspiracy theory about restaurants spreading germs via lemon slices.Bad Stock ArtBad Stock Art for "broken".A good deal of media images are provided by stock agencies – the people who offer photographs of two-stone denim-wearing models with a beaming child to represent the average British family or a mangled Amex card to illustrate the credit crunch. Within their bottomless library lurk plenty of bizarre, strange and seemingly inappropriate pictures. This site is dedicated to innocent image searches that have turned up deranged photos – such as a the top choice for the word "broken" being a shot of a woman eating shards of glass, and the results for "barbie" including a close-up of a hairy mole. Meanwhile, you might expect a search using the word "crazy" to locate something mad, but a deer in a rollneck drinking coffee?Blog roll: ListsListiclesSuper skinny buildings, not sad missing dog signs, and stinky celebrity fragrance names.OMG ListsCross-dressing disguises that should have fooled no one, plus seriously sad cartoon deaths.Rock ListBest of readers polls, UK music press lists dating back to the 50s, and every John Peel's Festive 50.Mental FlossQuestionable cigarette ads, Latin phrases we pretend to understand and how we woke before alarm clocks.Look At This …Horrifying things found in the homes of hoarders, plus bingo heist failures.OddeePhotoshop mistakes, beer can sculptures and hilarious tombstones.ListverseUnsolved murders, fake memoirs and fame tips.What we learned on the web this weekLook into my eyesHow womencan get men to look them in the eyesOh my Gods.The Galactica Beastie Boys mash-up is awesomeA criticalsurvey of plumbing in moviesThe London Eyeis 10 years oldHow Facebookwas foundedTwitter: The MovieWe secondthat emoticonDon and Bettyare thenew Ken and BarbieWhat wouldhappen to a lava lamp on JupiterThe storiesbehind the greatest magazine covers of the 60sThe witand wisdom of Andrey Arshavin
God Of War III, PlayStation 3You're Kratos, on a mission to climb Mount Olympus and kill Zeus, taking out every other deity stupid enough to stand in your way. Fights involve stringing together series of nimble flurries with your blades while parrying enemy blows and undertaking the franchise's memorably gore-soaked trademark finishing moves. God Of War III doesn't so much give a nod to Greek mythology, as pound it repeatedly about the head and body with an axe, rip its big, bloodshot eyeball out and strangle it with its own optic nerve. Featuring elegantly constructed, often hall-sized physical puzzles, which Kratos has to climb around and manipulate to get to his goal, often releasing flocks of mythical beasts along the way, the battles never feel as uncompromising as they did in previous outings, making this a far more accessible welcome to God-bothering of an altogether more terminal kind.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, £49.99Ragdoll Blaster 2, iPhoneRagdoll Blaster 2.The Ragdoll Blaster mantra is easy to remember: shoot rag dolls out of a cannon at a target. What the fevered imaginations at Backflip Studios then do with them forms a wonderful stream of surprises as the game merrily plays with gravity, teleport gates, buttons and objects that interpose themselves between cannon and target. Skydive, go over a ski jump and spring numerous physics-based traps; its cleverness is in letting you do these things using as many rag dolls as you like. At the end of each section you're given a score in dolls, where the fewer you use, the better, but if you've hurled hundreds to their doom, there's no penalty, meaning all but the most hapless will get to witness the inventiveness crank up in later levels. With most puzzles taking at most a minute or two first to figure out, then to muster the dexterity to complete, this is superb pint-sized entertainment.Backflip Studios, £1.19Games newsPS Move.Sony has announced that its launch of 3D TVs this summer will be accompanied by PlayStation 3 games to make the most of your emerging 3D set-up. The titles confirmed for the depth perception treatment are WipEout HD, Super Stardust and MotorStorm: Pacific Rift; a mildly uninspiring threesome suggesting corporate box-ticking exercise rather than the expectation of a consumer revolution, acknowledging that they may not be expecting to ship too many of the first batch of 3D TVs. Sony's other news this week was the unveiling of PS Move, a wand-like remote for PlayStation 3 that senses your motion, translating it to movement onscreen. Early reports are that the hardware works nicely, although cynical observers may notice a marked similarity to the Wii's control set-up and mechanics. Is that the pungent whiff of too little, too late from the Sony camp?
It might be a whilebefore Britain gets to see the iPad, but it's just weeks away from launch in the United States - and Apple is beginning to crank up the gears.The latest move?The company is now accepting submissions for iPad applications to be released on April 3, the date when the gadget starts shipping. If developers submit their wares in the next week (the deadline is actually Saturday 27th of March), they'll get told whether they pass Apple's approval process - with an eye to being available through iTunes to iPad owners on day one.There are a few interesting aspects here, not least the fact that the rather arbitrary approvals process used by the iTunes store has come in forplentyofcriticismrecently.But there's more potential trouble on the horizon, too. With more than 100,000 iPhone apps, and many developers working on new iPad versions, the company could easily be inundated with programs to approve. Is Apple suggesting it will screen them all before launch?Even then, that's not all that's going on in Cupertino at the moment.We know Apple's an incredibly secretive company, but asBusinessWeek reports, those who actuallyhaveaccess to an iPad (not simply to the emulator software that many developers are using) are forced to sign a series of demanding agreements and implement extremely particular security arrangements before Apple will play ball.Would-be testers of the tablet-style computer, due to be released Apr. 3, must promise to keep it isolated in a room with blacked-out windows, according to four people familiar with the more than 10-page pact that bars partners from disclosing information about the iPad.To ensure that it can't be removed, the iPad must also remain tethered to a fixed object, said the people, who asked not to be named because their plans for the iPad have not been made public. Apple (AAPL) won't send out an iPad until potential partners send photographic evidence that they've complied.Will this stop more information leaking out ahead of the launch? Will Apple manage to control iPad apps without incident? I have a feeling we'll be coming back to this in the next couple of weeks.
A group of senior public figures have called on the government to abandon its plan to push through controversial digital economy bill before the election, amid claims that the move could "sidestep" the democratic process.Earlier this week the government revealed that it wants to force the digital economy bill - which includes thecontroversial "three strikes" ruleto cut off the internet connections of those accused of illegal file sharing - into the statute books in the next few weeks.While it usually takes far longer to create an act of parliament, thanks to the public debates held by MPs, the secretary of state for business, Lord Mandelson, plans speed up the process by making use of a controversial parliamentary technique known as the "wash-up".Under those rules, party whips bypass the usual debating process and make a series of horse trades in order to get proposals into law before parliament dissolves ahead of a general election.That proposal hasalready caused concern, but today a coalition including a cross-party group of MPs and peers - as well as figures from the business world and entertainment industry - said that short circuiting the democratic process could have disastrous side effects.In an open letter the group suggests that the controversial nature of the legislation - which it says "threatens to severely infringe fundamental human rights" and could introduce "website blocking" measure that impede free speech - must face the full scrutiny of parliament before it becomes law.Among the signatories are musician Billy Bragg, human rights activist Peter Tatchell and writer Graham Linehan, who helped create comedy series including Father Ted and The IT Crowd. They are joined by a number of activists and campaigners, as well as politicians drawn from Labour, the Liberal Democrats and the Green Party."Our worry today is that none of this will be properly debated by parliament," says the letter. "Last week Harriet Harman failed to give the Commons any reassurances that this important, complex and controversial bill will be properly scrutinised by our elected MPs.""Democracy and accountability will be sidestepped if this bill is rushed through and amended without debate during the so-called 'wash-up' process. The thousands of people we know to be contacting their MPs with concerns will find their faith in politicians even further undermined."The plans,which first became public last autumn, have caused controversy at almost every turn.As well as the three strikes rule and measures to take down websites accused of infringing copyright -which could potentially result in the closure of major web destinations such as YouTube- Lord Mandelson has also sought the power to alter copyright law without the assent of parliament.In addition, it has also been suggested that the bill's measures to prosecute the owners of internet connections used for illegal file sharingcould hit anybody who provides web access- such as universities, libraries and cafes, as well as those individuals who leave their home Wi-Fi connections open.While the made it through three readings in the House of Lords, it was not without serious objections. Lord Puttnam, the film producer, said he had faced"an extraordinary degree of lobbying"over the proposals, while others questioned the revelation that an amendment used language British music industry body the BPI.Earlier this week BPI chief Geoff Taylor said that it was imperative that the legislation is passed before the election."It is vital for the future of the UK's creative sector that the digital economy bill becomes law before the dissolution of parliament," he said.However, the open letter suggests that the bill's most controversial elements must receive proper debate or be removed from the bill entirely and left until after the forthcoming election.
Block 18.14pm:Tonight, the Park Lane Hilton sees the great and good from the UK gaming industry - and Shigeru 'God' Miyamoto - celebrate the past year in gaming.I've been on the red carpet for about two hours where I've managed to briefly chat to a pretty random selection of vaguely video game-related celebrities. I'm now in a media suite eating complimentary peanuts and M&amp;S sandwiches waiting for kick-off. It's basically exactly what I imagine the Oscars to be like. Tune in from 8.45 for live updates.If you're lucky, I may even tell you what Edith Bowman's favourite game is.Block 28.25pm:There are thirteen categories tonight spanning all the genres of gaming, including an overall best game field which will doubtless draw the most attention. It's worth checking outBafta's official websitefor more info, but here are the nominees for this main category:Assassin's Creed 2Batman: Arkham AsylumModern Warfare 2Fifa 10Left 4 Dead 2Uncharted 2I spoke to Ray Maguire, chair of the Academy video games commitee about how they were judging the categories tonight. Use of innovation was something he mentioned a few times as being an important criterion, and he also assured me that the industry expert judging panel had played each game through to the finish. My money's on Uncharted 2.Block 38.49pm:It's about to start. Pleasantries from David Parfitt, chairman of the academy, and the sponsor, both of whom promise and 'inspiring' and 'very special' night. They must have found the M&amp;S buffet too.Block 48.54pm:Host tonight is Dara O'Briain. I will misspell his name at least three times tonight. First up isBest Action game, presented by ex-Bionic Woman Michelle Ryan. She told me her favourite game ever was Assassin's Creed 2 on the red carpet but I'm not sure I believed her ...Winner is ...Uncharted 2Block 59.00pm:Best Family and Social gameis presented by someone who looks like Moby and a woman none of us reporters on the red carpet recognised. I'm sure they're both very nice though.I reckon Beatles Rock Band will win but it's ...Wii Sports Resort! That one's for you, ShigeruBlock 69.03pm:A guy from the I.T. Crowd (Chris O'Dowd I think) comes out to present theBest use of Onlinegong. He tells a joke which falls rather flat (leave the comedy to Dara, mate). The winner is ...Fifa 2010. It was a tough category, up against LittleBigPlanet and, er, Singstar Take That, but you can't quibble with that too much. EA deserve credit for the way they continue to improve and advance the series.Block 79.07pm:George Lamb presents Best Use of Audio. He has grey hair.Uncharted 2wins it's second award of the night. I haven't mentioned the acceptance speeches so far as I've been multitasking somewhat, sorry. I'm alsohereandhereif you're a Tweeterer.Block 89.12pm:Thinking man's totty Suzi Perry steps up to presentBest Handheld. I'm not going to make any crude jokes. She told me on the red carpet that her favourite game ever was Little Big Planet - incisive journalism, I think you'll agree.And the winner is ...Little Big Planet. Have I unearthed a grand conspiracy? No probably not.Block 99.19pm:Interesting one now,Best Game by public vote(people voted in Game shops apparently, though no-one told me about it). Olly Murs from X Factor and a woman who either works for, or owns Game present it.Bizarrely Olly Murs is a huge vintage games fan. He spends his X Factor bucks on MegaDrive games on eBay. His favourite ever is Ghouls and Ghosts. And to think, I thought he wasn't worth talking to!Back to the vote, we get some VTs of non famous people, members of the public and that talking for a bit. And then the winner is announced and it's ...Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2No surprises there. It's sold quite well, after allBlock 109.22pm:Dom Joly's here to presentBest Strategy Game. He told me earlier he plays Modern Warfare 2 constantly, and has unlocked the '10 days of gaming time' achievement. Impressive, though I guess he doesn't have much else to do what with Trigger Happy TV being on about 10 years ago.Empire: Total Warwins. I have never played it so ... um ...Block 119.27pm:What wonBest Original Score, Edith Bowman?It'sUncharted 2again.Block 129.29pm:Best Multiplayeris presented by ... an MP? An MP with funky glasses. I've forgotten his name but we looked him up on Wikipedia earlier and he's notable for trying to ban sales of Gary Glitter records a while ago. So ...(I've just been told he's called Tom Watson. Maybe one of you can Google him and tell me why he's here)Winner isLeft 4 Dead 2. I'm a bit surprised by that actually. Thought Modern Warfare would get it.Block 139.35pm:Alex Zane makes a joke about his Master System being shit. It goes down ok. He's presentingBest Gameplay, bit of an odd category. How can a game have better gameplay than the game that wins Best Game? If you see what I mean.Batman: Arkham Asylumgets it. Deserves some kudos simply for being a really good superhero game. But is hitting punch a lot the best gameplay of the year? Well?Block 149.39pm:Ralf Little from the Royle Family presentsBest Sport game. He's a keen gamer apparently, and plays a lot of Halo with his brother (incisive journalism again, I think you'll agree).Fifa 2010wins. I was playing with Hereford in Manager Mode only this morning. True story.Block 159.43pm:No one knows who the guy presentingBest Storyis. Let's assume he's in Hollyoaks.Uncharted 2wins. I'm losing count now, they're clearing up. It's getting silly.Big shout-out to Fred Dutton for Official Nintendo Magazine by the way. I've asked him about every 90 seconds what's going on, and he hasn't hit me. Yet.Block 169.46pm:A man who needs no introduction, David Braben (?), presents theOne to Watchaward (it's a best newcomer sort of thing)I ask who he is to the journo huddle. Someone shouts 'Frontier Studios'. Thanks.It's won byShrunk. They're all in kilts. Probably Scottish.Block 179.52pm:Best Artistic Achievement. Now. Missed who presented it as I've FOUND A PLUG POINT! HURRAH!It's won byFlower.Block 189.53pm:It's the big one. Charlie Brooker's here to presentBest Game(as voted by judges). Didn't get a chance earlier to ask why he never comes to the Guardian Christmas party (probably to avoid speaking to people like me) but I DID find out his favourite game. Which is Burnout.The winner is ...(drum roll please)Batman: Arkham Asylum. Huh. Everyone's a bit shocked. We all though Uncharted 2 had it sewn up - but they've had their fair share tonight I suppose. It wasn't my favourite game of 2009 but what do I know. It was very good.Block 1910.00pm:So, now that's all over we've got Shigeru Miyamoto here to receive a fellowship (lifetime achievement award sort of thing). You don't need me to tell you what a legend he is.Hopefully I might have some audio to put up tomorrow but I did get a (longer than I thought) chance to speak to him earlier. Seemed very humble, especially in comparison with some of the 'celebrities' on offer. And he gave me more of his time than Michelle Ryan did.Block 2010.13pm:His acceptance speech is long. And I can't hear what he's saying over the din in the press room. I'm going to get another sandwich.Block 2110.17pm:Dara O'Bahrain wraps things up. Well, as usually happens when I do these things it's gone incredibly quickly. Thanks for following it, if you've been following it. If you haven't been following it then you have to ask yourself how you're reading this, really.Cheerio
A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPandora accounts for 44% of US internet radio royalties &gt;&gt; Musically""We're about 44% of internet radio," founder Tim Westergren tells Digital Music News. He goes on to say that Pandora paid SoundExchange $28 million in royalties alone last year – a figure that doesn't include publishing." Wow.Amazon brings Kindle app to the Mac &gt;&gt;  MacworldBut it's not very Mac-like. Also, why would you read ebooks on a computer? Perhaps it's just us, but it doesn't seem to embody the "light, free, carefree" element one associates with ebooks.NComputing's Numo chip could drive desktop computer costs to zero - VentureBeatYet another go at using a standard PC as a minicomputer, with 20 or 30 people sharing the system. It could appeal in places such as India, and it certainly reduces energy costs.Apple's Working on a New Social Location App Called iGroups &gt;&gt; Nextweb"Another gem from the United States Patent and Trademark Office has been uncovered by the team atPatently Apple. This time it appears Apple is working on a social networking app called iGroups.&#10;"The app is likely to tie in with your iPhone and MobileMe and will make it possible for groups of users to share information around events. Events could include concerts, tradeshows, conferences, business meetings, weddings etc.."John Battelle On The Future Of Search - Search Engine LandA guest post by Gord Hotchkiss provides food for thought on search engines and search applications, with particular relevance to Bing, iPhone/iPad Apps and Google AndroidComing Soon: Steve Jobs, the Sitcom - Cult of MacFake Steve Jobs's creator Dan Lyons is working on a half-hour series called iCon. "billed by the presser as 'a savage satire centering on a fictional Silicon Valley CEO whose ego is a study in power and greed'," reports Cult of Mac.Microsoft removes VM hardware requirements, improves XP modeWindows 7's XP Mode only used to work on processors that supported either Intel's VT or AMD's AMD-V. Install an update and that will no longer be the caseEmployers: Look to gaming to motivate staffLee Sheldon of the Indiana University has replaced grades with Experience Points, as in World of Warcraft, and believes managers may have to rethink how they engage the next generation entering the mainstream workforce.Daring Fireball: Colophon"If Daring Fireball looks goofy in your browser, you're likely using a shitty browser that doesn't support web standards. Internet Explorer, I'm looking in your direction. If you complain about this, I will laugh at you, because I do not care."&#10;&#10;Actually, we were wondering what a colophon was.Oh.Is Twitter losing its tweet-factor? &gt;&gt; GDS PublishingInfographic of the recent Barracude Networks study into Twitter.More Data Breaches Reported at Hotels &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Hackers are now stealing credit-card data from hotels more often than any other industry, according to data-security companies... Once an attack occurred, it took an average of 156 days for the business to realize it, according to the report."How to Stop Worrying and Learn to Love the Internet &gt;&gt; Douglas Adams11 years after this was written, we're starting to understand what Adams meant. It's indicative of how farsighted he was - and how much his early death cost us.Windows Phone 7 Series will have copy &amp; paste, eventually ...Long Zheng says: "As it turns out, the development team actually knows exactly how they will be implementing copy &amp; paste in WP7S but did not believe it could be implemented without affecting the release schedule they've committed too and therefore will be including it in an update down the road. I'm sure they can deliver it sooner than Apple did it (2 years)."HTC Disagrees with Apple's Actions - HTC press releaseHTC boss Peter Chou points out that the company has been shipping touch-screen smartphones since 2002 (O2 XDA) but not much elseYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
First it's telling us howFacebook has (briefly?) overtaken Google in the US, and now Hitwise, the web metrics company, is telling us about another Google property - Google Wave - fading into, well, near-obscurity.You'll recall the splash that Google Wave made when it launched last May, and the interest when it wentwider in October. Everyone wanted to try it... and then everyone tried it and couldn't figure out what to do with it, and how to keep spammers out, and how to find other people who were using it.Result: nobody goes there any more. Perhaps this should be renamed Google Tumbleweed - to go along with Google Nostalgia (aka StreetView, which shows you all those pictures of the now-defunct Woolworths stores) and Google Bzzzt.. although Buzz does seem to be picking up a little interest. Even so, this isn't how you would expect a prime collaboration tool to be going.Or is Wave being unfairly dismissed? Are you all finding fabulous uses for it? (Because I have to admit that we aren't.) Tell all. Please.
I spent part of yesterday attending a business meeting in Japan. I didn't understand a word of what was said, yet a message of sorts was coming across about where the internet is going. I stumbled upon the meeting by chance as I was playing around withUstream.tv, a service that enables you to create or participate in live video streams anywhere in the world.On this occasion, someone was filming the entire meeting on their iPhone and broadcasting it to as many people in the world that cared to listen (in this case 24, including me). There was an instant message text box by the side of the video and when I asked in English what they were talking about someone answered: "We're discussing how to build a company while we're university students." I then noticed there was a link to a map showing exactly where their brainstorming was taking place – at Tokyo Metropolis Shibuya Ward.The internet is, of course, drowning in video and you could be forgiven for wondering whether it needs any more. US internet users alone watched – wait for it – 32.4bn videos in January 2010, according to comScore Video Metrix service. But the revolution is only just beginning and is already changing direction as it becomes more immediate and communitarian. Web sites such as Seesmic.com have for some time enabled live interactive video and the likes of qik and kyte enable you to stream or upload near-live videos from your mobile phones to your own global TV channel. I have qik on my new Google Nexus One phone and it is unbelievably easy to use.Two new sites that have caught my eye arevPype.comandCreate.tv, which are taking video towards what vPype describes as "a place for authentic real-time conversations to happen in a trusted community". Interestingly, vPype – a US company based in California – chose to launch in London this week because it believes Europe, the birthplace of internet telephony company Skype, is much more attuned to using live video in a conversational way than the US. vPype claims it is different because it streams from "the cloud" (remote servers) giving a more seamless experience and is being launched as a Facebook app giving it access to a live interactive network of more than 400 million people.Arnold Waldstein, chief marketing officer of the company, told the socialmedia world forum in London this week that vPype is filling a gap caused by "video being used everywhere but not socially". Who could he be thinking about? Ustream also connects to Facebook and, like vPype, has a freemium model whereby a basic version is free and a more sophisticated one costs extra.If video is entering a period of live interactivity then it may need new tools to rise above the blandness of most of the YouTube archive (though other places such asMetacafeandVimeohave more sophisticated filtering systems). Enter sites likeWreckamovieand Create.tv which enable online video editing. Create.tv, which hasn't officially been launched yet (but is available to play around with) enables people around the world to cooperate not just in editing online, but also doing storyboarding and all the other things involved in making a film. It is not as sophisticated as stand-alone editing suites, but it is a big step forward for global collaboration. Editing can be done for public or private consumption and it has online mentors to help solve problems and to help the site to spread the word. Create.tv was involved in doinga collaborative film for Oxfamfor its climate change initiative, The Wave.The way things are going it won't be long before practically everyone has a mobile phone capable of streaming whatever is happening around them for as long as they like. We could all have tiny cameras on our spectacles or belts to do just that – streaming our lives to an archive in the cloud.The controversial website ChatRoulette, which links you randomly to anyone else sitting in front of a web cam (as long as they have given permission), is but a taste of the future when everyone will have instantaneous access to almost anyone else. The main limitation at the moment is battery life which some people are solving by linking phones and cameras to a reserve power supply in their backpacks.There are pluses and minuses to all of this. An archive in the cloud would be amazing tool not only to jog ones memory about what happened years ago (if there is a search engine that can do it), but an historic gift to posterity – if anyone ever has the time to go through it. It could reduce crime, since so many crimes, including personal attacks, would be on video, but at the expense of a huge and unprecedented invasion of our privacy. Indeed, if people accepted all this as they have done for CCTV cameras, we would have to redefine what the word privacy means. Whatever our fears about governments collecting data about ourselves, we seem to be two steps ahead of them in revealing it all ourselves voluntarily.twitter.com/vickeegan
Dungeon crawlergames have fallen way out of fashion in the last 10-15 years, so the genuine excitement shown by the developers of new titleHunted: The Demon's Forgeat the recent press launch was understandable. Clearly the standard marketing and focus group considerations would have been taking into consideration when green lighting the game but you definitely got the feeling that Hunted is a labour of love for the team. Not surprising, perhaps, when you consider that the project lead isBard's Taleveteran Brian Fargo.Hunted is a third-person, co-op based, action RPG with a standard fantasy setting that felt very familiar.  The decent enough visuals won't win any awards either, but this doesn't look like a game where you'll be gawping at the scenery. The demo showed a lot of hack and slash action and even more of the female protagonist – yes, this isn't a good example to use in any "games have grown up, honest!" style argument – but it does look like it could be fun to play, especially in co-op.The dynamic between the male melee character and the female archer was an obvious co-op design decision and the demo showed what could be a common sight – the archer picking off enemies from range while the melee character hacks away up close.  This all sounds very MMO-like but while customisation is available you will not be able to create your own character from scratch.  I spoke to game director Maxx Kaufman about design, influences and how co-op will work.What is the background to the game?Being huge fans of fantasy and Dungeon &amp; Dragons, we were inspired to create a game that would allow us to get lost in a dungeon, fight AND explore a really cool fantasy world. As a kid I always dreamed of fighting monsters with a sword and a bow as well as exploring for magic and treasure.  Now in Hunted I can do that.  It is an exhilarating experience to see this world come to life.Why is now the time to relaunch the dungeon crawler genre?In the past these games have always been very successful but I think that they've gotten lost with the MMO craze.  We really felt that it was time to bring the dungeon crawl back – but in a way that made sense to today's gamer.Hunted is a cover action game at its core but it also allows the player the opportunity to explore the game's vast environments.  At certain times in the game the player will be fighting waves of enemies while at other times they'll be searching through dark, eerie dungeons.Do you think the linear dungeon crawl experience will appeal to gamers used to the wide open worlds of Fallout and World of Warcraft?The world in which Hunted takes place is really rich and exciting. We like to think of it as getting on a roller coaster whether you are alone or with a friend – it's just a really engaging experience either way. Players will be on an adventure that takes them through numerous locales – they'll go deep into underground dungeons, make their way through really awe-inspiring outdoor environments and wind their way through these old towns.   Our goal is to create a compelling experience that gives players the sensation of being in a Lord of the Rings-esque movie.How important is the co-op to the game?Co-op is vital to our game. It was planned from the very beginning that this would be a co-op game and our design and story is based around that.  In the past co-op games have had a tendency to tether players together. We have implemented the opposite philosophy that we call co-op at a distance.  We encourage the players to separate and support one another from a distance.All of our spells and skills are based around the idea of players being apart but able to help each other.  For example you can heal a downed player by throwing a re-gen vial at a distance.  This avoids the tedious task of running to your partner and slapping them back to life.  Ice arrows will allow Elara, our ranged character, to shoot and freeze enemies from a distance.  Caddoc will then simply smash them into pieces.  Caddoc has a levitation skill that will allow him to create a radius of levitation around his sword that will cause enemies in the area to float harmlessly around him.  Elara is then able to shoot them from a distance.Co-op at a distance is threaded through every aspect of Hunted's design, from enemies to spells, and in the level design.  It even carries over to the single-player mode.  A player can play the game with an AI partner and still get a similar experience.How important is the story to the game?For us, the story sets the mood and it gives us an important frame work from which to create the game.For players, as with most games, the story unfolds as they make their way through the game. Those who want to delve deeper in the story can find clues and information to the game's 500 year plus lore.  Alternatively, if you are the type of player who is only interested in action, you can play through the game and still have a rich experience.How does online play work - do you get XP etc in someone else's game?Players that play online will gain crystals, which are the currency used to gain spells and skills.  For example, if you play online and you are further ahead in the game than I am, I can play with you, and the crystals I gain can be transferred back to my single player campaign.What customization options are available?There are various weapons and items the player can pick up that will boost certain abilities, but the real customization comes in with our skills and spells system. The players trade in crystals they find throughout the world for various skills. Because the characters have unique abilities there is a lot of variation in the types of customization that can be achieved.E'lara will gain spells and skills that are related to her bow while Caddoc's skills are based around his melee combat.  Some of these skills are common to both characters, but there are many skills that are unique to each character based on their strengths, such as Levitation for Caddoc and Ice Arrow for E'lara.  Ultimately playing Hunted will be a very different experience based on the customizations you choose.Do you think co-op is more important than competitive play in online gaming generally?It's not a case of one being more important than the other. In the case of Hunted, it was about what made the most sense and what people would want, and that's to experience this alongside a friend or someone else, not fighting head-to-head.Can you explain how the levelling up and RPG elements work?The leveling occurs when you meet up with an ethereal spirit named Seraphine.  She tasks the player with collecting crystals and in return she will grant you spells and skills.  By finding better weapons that are throughout the world, players can also upgrade their weapons.  If you are the type of player that enjoys exploration we have tons of secrets. The more challenging secrets will yield better items and loot.What sort of audience do you think Hunted will attract?Because fantasy games have such a large fan base I think Hunted has broad appeal.  We are melding two popular game genres – fantasy and action - into one game which makes its appeal even wider.While the MMO fans will enjoy the ability to just pick up and play, they will also be taken on a cinematic adventure in the genre they love.The metal soundtrack and scantily clad ladies suggest a traditional gamer but do you think a wider audience may be interested?We're going for a soundtrack similar to the movie "300".  And who doesn't like scantily clad ladies? Both of these elements will appeal to a large audience and fit within the context on the game.Is Hunted a reaction to more complex RPGs that have sprung up over the last 10 years?Hunted is a reimagining of the forgotten dungeon crawl category using today's technology and gameplay styles, for today's gamer.•Hunted: Demon's Forge is released on PC, 360 and PS3 later this year
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
