War – asFallout'scatchphrase has it – never changes, and the majority of current shooters do seem to reinforce this sentiment. On the surface,Spec Ops: The Lineis no different to its rivals. Rugged US soldiers shoot various ne'er-do-wells in the Middle East. Beneath its shifting sands, however, something more interesting awaits.Captain Walker leads a special forces team through Dubai in pursuit of the US 33rd battalion, which had entered the capital city to rescue the survivors of a series of devastating sandstorms before vanishing. The 33rd's Colonel Konrad is Walker's idol, and he must quickly grapple with his fear that Konrad is responsible for a string of atrocities that are soon uncovered in the ruined metropolis.The weaving narrative that follows is handled with great skill; its explorations of false heroism and the realities of war wouldn't look out of place in aTerrence Malickfilm.Unfortunately, the game's haphazard controls and unsuitably rigid level design significantly spoil the suspension of disbelief. This is a shame, as even a bog-standard choice system and slightly improved control response would have elevatedThe Lineto greatness.As it is, anyone looking for an  above-average gunplay romp with interesting ideas could do a lot worse.
This week's alien invasion comes courtesy of the Lutadores, a barbaric horde with advanced weaponry and gravity-warping technology seemingly beyond their own control. Playing as generic hero-cop Davis Russel and his partner Leo Delgado, you'll battle your way from being prisoners of war to freedom fighters, turning the Lutadores' own arsenal against them.Inversion'smain trick is to turn gravity on its head: the "Gravlink" weapon creates pockets of higher or lower gravity. While credit is due to Namco for at least trying to create something new for the somewhat worn cover-based third-person shooter genre, its implementation leaves a lot to be desired. Floating enemies bob in the air, awkward to shoot, while using de-gravitised chunks of rock as missiles is so inaccurate as to be mostly useless.Instead, you will fall back on old habits, diving for cover and taking turns with enemies to shoot at each other. Later sections, where the player is placed on a different axis to the alien threat, show off more of the game's potential, but the distant and indistinct enemies make it frustrating rather than exciting. Unfortunately, thatInversion'sfew innovations are so easy to ignore – and outright desirably so in places – makes its otherwise generic nature all the more disappointing.
I'm going for a spin with my friends Richard and Jane. I&nbsp;say friends, but I've never met them before. I'd mentioned in another piece that there was a Bentley coming and Richard tweeted to ask if he could come for a ride. He's brought Jane mainly, I think, because her surname is Bentley. This could add a new dimension to famous motoring journalism – taking people out in cars with which they share names. Must mention to Anna Ford, Chevy Chase, etc.For now, though, I've got Richard in the back and Jane in the front, a&nbsp;couple of hitchhikers from the side of the information superhighway. I&nbsp;stopped and let them into my car, which incidentally is worth more than £150,000. There's no such thing as a free ride, though. I've given Richard a notebook and a&nbsp;ballpoint pen (careful it doesn't leak on the champagne-coloured leather upholstery), and at the end I collect their feedback. It's mainly very positive. The walnut dash, the clock, the seats all get big thumbs up. Richard grumbles a bit about the lack of legroom, but calms down when I&nbsp;tell him the Continental is the baby Bentley. You want space, you've got to spend an extra 100 grand and get the Mulsanne. Anyway, Richard, who works for the Citizens Advice bureau, doesn't get many clients showing up in even a baby Bentley.Jane's happy in the front. She enjoys the throaty roar of the six-litre engine and the feeling of being kicked back into her (very comfy) seat by 567 horses. Richard writes down a quote from her. "A hint of Bond," it says – about the car, about the driver, who knows? (The driver loves the car, too, but what does he matter? He's just the driver.)Jane is impressed by the way the music fades out when the satnav has something to say, and even by the way the satnav speaks: less robot-like than many and with something called "modulated diction" (Jane's a&nbsp;speech therapist).They both think the cup-holder holds a McDonald's cup very reassuringly, too. Yes, I want to thank them for their input by taking them out to a little drive-thru I know just off the North Circular. Obviously I should just throw fistfuls of notes through the window and demand the chef's very finest hamburgers. But I've only got a quid on me, so&nbsp;we&nbsp;end up sharing a Coke.One tiny moan – from Richard, from Jane, and from the driver. No&nbsp;one bats an eyelid – at Maccy Ds, or anywhere. That's because they're two a penny, these Continentals. Well, two a 150 grand. But if I spent that kind of money on a car, I'd want at least to be noticed. Richard says he gets more looks in his VW combi... Yeah, all right, enough. Here's a tube station. Out. Both of you.Bentley Continental GTPrice as tested£151,515Top speed198mphAcceleration0-60mph in 4.4 secondsCombined fuel consumption17.1 mpgCO2 emissions384g/kmGreen rating1/10Cool rating7/10
When the iPad first came out, with its 4:3 aspect ratio and 9.7in screen, lots of people were quick to call it a "just a large iPod Touch" - even though the aspect ratio alone indicated that it wasn't, and the performance and interaction quickly reinforced that.Well, those people don't have to worry any more. Here's Google's Nexus 7 "tablet", with a 16:9 aspect ratio and 7in screen (measured, as they all are, on the diagonal). And we can happily say that thisisa "large" Android smartphone. Except it only comes in a Wi-Fi version.Asus built this tablet to Google's recipe, apparently after Google decided that Amazon's Kindle Fire (which uses a forked version of Android that doesn't use Google's services) had found a profitable niche, while all the 10in Android tablets have been getting whomped by the iPad, which still has something like 60% of the entire tablet market.So here are the topics.Turn, turn… don't turn thenHardwareScreen and cameraBattery: call that a life?SoftwareConsumer or creator?Media: get thee to the cloudCompared (inevitably) to the iPadConclusionOther reviewsComments: responsesThe strange thing about the Nexus 7 is that it thinks that it's a phone. The first indication you get of this is when you turn it on and set it up (I've already got a Google account with various Google Play apps, so this took no time - although I didn't get the automatic download of apps I was expecting). Hold the Nexus 7 in portrait mode, press the (virtual) home key, and you're presented with a bright home screen.Ah, but this is a tablet. So let's turn it on its side, because one tends to think of tablets as landscape-viewing objects, right?I spin you round, round, Nexus, right roundI turned the device to landscape orientation. The home screen stayed in portrait. I turned it upside down. The home screen stayed.This is not an accident, nor me overlooking a setting. This is intentional, according to Google's Dianne Hackborn, whoposted an explanation(on Google+, natch). "Some people have commented that the UI on the Nexus 7 isn't a scaled down version of the 10" UI," Hackborn wrote.  "This is somewhat true. It is also not just the phone UI shown on a larger display. Various parts of the system and applications will use one or the other UI (or even a mix) depending on what works best."The trouble is that Google - for reasons best known to itself - has chosen to go with the phone UI not the (rotatable) tablet UI for this. It means that you can hold the phone - er, tablet - on its side or even upside-down (that is, with the headphone jack at the top) and the home screen won't rotate.This leads to some strange transitions. Many apps understand that they may be used on a tablet (Hackborntellsdevelopers to expect that, and to let Jelly Bean handle the transition and consequent resizing), and so orient themselves when you hold them in landscape. But hit the home button to go back and - bam! - you're forced back to portrait mode. This is jarring. OK, so if you use the fast app-switching shortcut, you can avoid that (the shortcut, showing the list of last-used applications and screens, orients itself correctly), but there will always come times when you go back to the home screen, and some of them will be landscape mode. This will, I think, always be a tiny prod at the device's failings - unless you eitherroot it and fix it, or Google updates the software. There's simply no chance that the mass market will do the former.Google Nexus 7 on the left, the RIM PlayBook on the right. The PlayBook does rotate its home screen. Photograph: Charles Arthur/guardian.co.ukAnd just to point how absurd this is: the picture shows the Nexus 7 beside the much-taunted RIM PlayBook. Both are showing their home screens. Guess which one rotates the screen automatically depending on position?Hardware impressionsIt's small, light, the back is nicely contoured, and the front has no physical buttons. It's actually quite difficult to work out which is the top side (unless you have the home screen visible..); the headphone jack, it turns out, is on the bottom (so the headphone cable wouldn't dangle over the screen, as it otherwise might if it were on the top, says Asus) and the power button and volume rocker controls on the top right.It's light enough, and slips - just about - into an inside jacket pocket. (Or, at a guess, a handbag.) If it had phone capabilities, and voice control, you could almost imagine this as a future of communication - big enough to watch videos on, but capable enough too to make phone calls. But VOIP aside, this is a Wi-Fi only device. Google doesn't see it as a smartphone rival.It's all-plastic, and one consequence of the small screen size is that the non touch-sensitive bezel feels as though it takes a much larger proportion of the screen compared to the iPad. But overall, nothing to object to; the build quality is good, and I found no flexing or other defects. Weight at 340g is such that you'll barely notice it in a pocket.Screen and cameraIs 1280x800 (that's a non-retina 216 pixels per inch). There's only a front-facing camera, for all those VOIP video calls you're going to make.Battery lifeWorth mentioning high up. Asus (which made the gadget) claims 9.5 hours. I charged it on a Wednesday, streamed about 10 minutes of a movie (Transformers: Dark of the Moon - my brain couldn't bear watching any longer than that) on Thursday, and by Friday morning with no extra interaction it was dead. This wasn't a one-off - the battery simply didn't seem to hold charge. It's quite possible (probably even) that this was due to some peculiarity such as pre-production firmware, since the test device came from Google.But if you haven't bought or ordered one of these yet, I would watch to see what early adopters say about its endurance.SoftwareNon-rotating Home screen apart, you're dying to know what Android 4.1 - aka Jelly Bean - is like, aren't you? Well, I can report: it's very much like Honeycomb, except it's more like Ice Cream Sandwich (ICS). Actually, itisICS, but tweaked and twingled in ways too small to be very obvious. (Plus it was hard sometimes to know whether a difference was due to the sort-of-tabletness, or the new OS.)Despite the efforts of Hugo Barra and team, there are still inconsistencies throughout Android - such as where the "contextual menu" button (a stack of short lines) is: sometimes it's at the top right of the screen, but sometimes it's at the bottom right.If you haven't used ICS, it has a new method of switching between apps, as mentioned above, which shows the recently-used apps with a thumbnail. Since I had the PlayBook out, I compared its UI; and found I preferred it. Swipe up from below to get to the running apps display, swipe left and right to move among them, swipe an app in that display up to kill it. Neat.Android still has (and I noticed it a surprising amount on this) the sporadic "Sorry, X has stopped working" where X is an app you were using - and where the notice may or may not mean that the app has died. A question: do you need to be told if an app has died? On the iPhone and iPad, where it happens just as often, you are simply dumped back in the home screen, so you have to infer that something's happened. Not user-informative, but error messages are inherently geeky, and can make people feel they've done something wrong - which of course they generally haven't.One new annoyance (and it is): Android's openness means that if you have multiple programs that can do something (eg open a PDF) then you're presented with a choice of which one to perform it with. So, are you opening that PDF with Amazon Kindle, or the Adobe Reader? You prod "Reader". Nothing happens. You press again, Still nothing. Then you notice that the bottom dialog box also has "Always" and "Just once". Before anything can happen, you have to press one of those. They're so understated, though, that you can easily miss them.On PDFs, by the way, the Kindle performs miles better than Adobe Reader - which, despite having a quad-core CPU behind it, struggles to render pages in a timely fashion. When that option box comes up, press "Kindle" and "Always", or regret it.The range of software is growing, gradually, but the Nexus 7's insistence that it's sort of a phone means that often you'll want to hold it in portrait. And that's when it will feel most like a large phone - except of course that itisn't a phonebecause it won't text, or make calls. And comparable apps on Android still often feel like the clunky sibling compared to iOS ones.Consumer or creator?You know that argument about whether the iPad is a content consumption or creation device? The Nexus 7 is a content consumption device for the large part. Twitter and Facebook might be fine, but you're not going to be editing spreadsheets or documents in a hurry.Media: get thee to the cloudThe Nexus 7 comes with 8GB or 16GB of onboard storage. You can't add any more to the device itself. No USB ports for Flash drives; no SD card slots; no HDMI out. What is Google playing at?Asus has indicated to me that this was Google's idea; that what it wants is for everyone to use its services in the cloud. This would be great, and clever, if everyone was guaranteed excellent high-speed broadband connectivity everywhere. Sadly, we're not all on Google's work buses, so broadband isn't necessarily fast, or reliable.Furthermore, 8GB - 8 gigabytes! - really isn't very much even for music, and once you add a few apps, and some documents in Dropbox, and perhaps a film, the idea of carrying this around and listening to music on the train (you'd use it on the train, right?) suddenly recedes. Google hasn't got any music deals lined up in the UK, which rules out streaming from Google Music (remember howGoogle Music was going to challenge iTunes? Happy times) and makes this less useful again. Of course, there is Spotify, but when you're on the train you're either going to have to use your phone as a Wi-Fi hotspot (which will chew up your monthly data allowance) or get a Spotify subscription for offline listening.In fact, the problem with Google's approach was said far more eloquently by a commenter, Nawoa Lanor, in the Dianne Hackborn G+ thread, so here it is:- Many places/plans have limited transfer caps. Canada's infamous for very high prices and very low transfer caps since our internet companies bought our media companies and now it's the only way they can stay solvent with Netflix (etc) on the market- Your cloud [music and picture] services aren't even available outside the US.- You only offer cloud storage for music and pictures, not video, and video's the thing that takes the most storage.- Your cloud services are AFAIK locked down tight from any third parties.  If I want to play my Google Play music in a music player I like better such as PowerAmp, too bad.  Even if you offered cloud video storage and transfer caps weren't a concern, I wouldn't want to be limited to your video app.  MX Player is leaps and bounds ahead in features and functionality.It's my opinion that Google intentionally crippled the Nexus 7 in this single but important way in order to avoid pissing off their OEM partners too much by making a tablet that has all the features people want and is sold at a loss.  Yes, at a loss - that $25 Google Play bonus counts.When it comes to film, the Google Play store in the UK has a decent selection - there are hundreds of films available to rent, for £3.49 (the same price as the iTunes Store). You don't however get the option of buying, or the HD version; this is where Google is struggling. (Of course, with no HDMI out the lack of an HD buy/rent version is less troubling.)Films show up fine, although once again there's the little prod of the static home screen. Start there, choose Google Play; it's in portrait. Choose a film; the initial display is in portrait, but thenas soon as you start playing the film, you're forced to turn to landscape.Now, I've never greatly loved the 16:9 aspect ratio used by Android tablets; compared to the 4:3 ratio favoured by Apple with the iPad, the 16:9 seems to give you the option of "too narrow" if you're typing in portrait, or "too wide" in landscape. At least with the smaller screen, either way up is fine for typing.Google Nexus 7 showing the letterbox effect when watching a film. A lot of horizontal screen is unused. Photograph: Charles Arthur/guardian.co.ukHowever when watching a film (the execrable Transformers, formerly mentioned - it came free), something weird happens. The screen is already set up for letterbox format. But the picture is then letterboxed again - so it becomes even wider, and wastes huge chunks of the screen. The playback is perfectly good (and bright and detailed). But it felt odd to have so much screen real estate going to waste when it already wasn't that big.Compared to an iPad...Google Nexus 7 next to an Apple iPad. Photograph: Charles Arthur/guardian.co.ukThis photo shows how big the Nexus 7 isn't compared to an iPad. Of course, you'd also want to compare the prices - the iPad starts at £329 (2011 model,32GB16GB, Wi-Fi) while the Nexus 7 costs £159 (8GB) or £199 (16GB version). That's a serious difference - the gulf between affordability and not for many.ConclusionLet's just do this simply:Those in favour:price makes it very affordable; weight and size make it easily portable; good build quality; uses Android, which is familiar even if you haven't used it; good-enough initlal selection of films to rent.Those against:niggles in software which you'll encounter repeatedly; doubts about battery life (though may be pre-production problem); limited storage; no expandable storage; no HDMI out; apps may treat it as a phone; "letterbox of letterbox" view of films; no 3G option.So it will suit those with wide (if not deep) pockets who want some Android games, or a bit of music on the go (but more likely streaming video somewhere static).Overall, I'm more of a stickler about UI things than other people. Personally, I'd give this 7/10 - but the affordability edges it up to four stars rather than down to three on our blunt out-of-five system.Other reviewsArs Technica Nexus 7 reviewJoshua Topolsky: Nexus 7 reviewComments: responsesMy, my, so many comments. And with such feeling. Let me deal with the factual ones.•iPad 2 capacity was wrong. Yes, it was - apologies. It has 16Gb, not 32Gb.•It's a Kindle Fire competitor!The Kindle Fire is not on sale in the UK, so that's not a comparison I can make directly. I've never laid eyes or hands on a Kindle Fire.•Being asked which app should open has been in Android for ages!Yes, and I've used Android for ages. This behaviour is different. In versions up to 4.1, you would be presented with a list of apps, and the option to make the one you chose a default. But you could ignore the option and just press one app in the list, and it would open the file.Now, you have to both press the app and the "open once" button; or else choose the "always open" button (so fixing you to that file/app association). I'm really, really used to the "just press one from a list and it opens" behaviour. This adds another step where you have to confirm that you just want to open that app just that once. Query: why not keep the old behaviour, where you just open the app? It seems to me to be bad UI design. And, I repeat,it is different from Froyo, Gingerbread and Ice Cream Sandwich, all of which I've used for so long that this change in behaviour caught me out.•Other reviews are positive! You've been totally subjective!I intentionally didn't read any other reviews before this one; I want to form my own impressions of the device. Of course I was subjective. It's a review, not a recantation of the spec list.•Home screen rotation? Nobody cares!Perhaps I laboured this point, but apparently enough people at XDA Developers (see link in article) care so that someone hacked a version to make the screen rotate. I think it matters. I certainly found it surprising. (The Kindle Fire home screen rotates, the web seems to suggest.)•Of course apps should tell you when they crash!Generally I agree, actually, but I was raising the question. I don't think it's necessarily right to tell the user, because I had occasions with the Nexus 7 where the OS reported that an app had crashed - and then I could go straight back to it. The iOS tactic of just returning to the home screen is really annoying, actually. But equally, not everyone who might be in line to buy a tablet wants to feel that they have to be a sysadmin - does your granny/other aged relative really want to understand what "Force quit" means?•8GB of storage is plenty! You can use USB On The Go!You can discuss whether 8Gb is enough. But USB On The Go (plug a USB stick into the micro-USB port) isnot supported. Oh, unless you root it. If a majority of its users root this item, it has not become mass-market; conversely, if it becomes mass-market, the majority of its users will not root it.•Letterbox? Films are made in widescreen.OK: my expertise on the precise aspect ratios of Hollywood blockbusters is limited. I felt there was a lot of wasted space watching a film. If you're fine with that, that's good. I'm better informed now, so thank you all.•You said it didn't have a retina display but neither does the iPad 2!I was pointing out that this isn't a super-HD display; on occasion you will see pixels. Same as on the iPad 2.•How could you give this 4/5 when you were so rude about it!?For the reasons I gave near the end.Finally:comment deletions. I'm not a moderator; I don't delete comments. The moderators operate according to thecommunity standards. Please read them. Polite, factual discourse is really helpful and leads to us all being better informed.
Huw Beynon is a very serious man. All of his responses are carefully measured, punctuated with a series of pauses that makes dictaphone recordings of them refreshingly easy to type up.It's rare you'll see him smile, which is understandable given how stressful his job must be. The one picture I could find of him online is scarily accurate, given that this is the expression he wears much of the time.As the developers of Metro 2033 and Metro Last Light, the upcoming sequel, are based in the Ukraine, they have a whole wealth of problems with language, logistics and visas when it comes to showing their games outside of the country – so Beynon is their point man in the wider world.The relationship with this scrappy studio (that boasts 80 employees, now, which is still small compared to the teams of hundreds that work on most AAA titles) has led to him getting more and more involved with the project. He's certainly quick to correct me when I say the first game wasn't as popular as it should have been."Through word of mouth it's passed a million sales on PC alone, and looking at the Xbox Live reports we're close to around a million unique players on there, too," Beynon says. "Two million would be a good number for any game, and that'd typically be released on PS3 as well."I think, by THQ's own admission, they did a miserable job of promoting it and marketing it the first time around. That was more to do with the fact that, at the time, they were going through some re-organisation and all eyes were on their internal studios with games like Red Faction Guerrilla and the first UFC title coming up. This, in their minds, looked like a niche Eastern European title with limited appeal."It's the end of the world, but not as we know itA quick reading of the synopsis suggests such an outlook wasn't entirely unexpected. The games are set in a post-apocalyptic Russia, and follow lead character Artyom's struggles to survive against radical military groups and roving supernatural terrors in the aftermath of a nuclear war.Play takes place in cramped, bunker-strength Metro tunnels or across a blasted, irradiated surface world – resources are scarce and fighting for replacement air canisters to let you carry on breathing is the sort of desperate measure the game has you taking on a regular basis."They realised too late in the day what an unpolished gem they had, waiting to be discovered," Beynon says. "As a result it was released with very little fanfare from THQ for what is, actually, an extremely high-quality game with a few flaws that kept it in that cult classic status, rather than an outright classic."The success of the first title – even though it took a while – is admirable, considering where the studio had come from and how little attention the game received from the publishers.The gaming culture in Eastern Europe doesn't have the benefit of the four decades of gaming history that the West has gone through. Studios are formed not of lifelong game-makers, but people who had other (fairly serious) jobs before they took up the mantle of game designer – among 4A's staff are ex-theoretical mathematicians, fine artists, and pure scientists. The head of creative was, back in the day, a mechanical engineer."All of those Eastern European sensibilities and aesthetic tones and qualities are being brought to bear in some really interesting ways on it," Beynon says. "It lends them a different perspective, and a different process. I think you see that reflected in the game."They seem to be under much less pressure to conform to trends that get established by some of the flagship studios; they're obviously cognisant and aware of those developments and you can see elements of Western games coming into titles like Metro, but they're drawing from a very different set of influences, both cultural and historical, and I think it guides their game development from a very different perspective."E3 2011 proved to be a stern lesson in not conforming to trends. In an effort to show off the shooting and stealth elements of the new title on the show floor, the studio put together a 12-minute patchwork sequence of different moments throughout the game, many of them involving blazing away at waves of enemies with fully-automatic weaponry.While it overlooked a lot of the traditional elements of stealth, deprivation and exploration associated with the shooter – and replaced them with a minecart section – it did its job. The trailer stood out, but perhaps a little too much. Fans were disappointed.Headshots and handclaps"We'd received comments about shooting and stealth, so we showed you all 12 minutes of lots of the stuff – and, of course, after that, the people who really liked Metro said they were worried that we'd turned the game into a Big Shooty Thing," Beynon says. "Even after we expressly asked you to write that we hadn't done that."The E3 show floor is, it seems, a harsh mistress. In the heady wash of lights, sound and colour it's easy for slower-paced games like Metro to get overlooked in favour of louder titles if it stays true to its roots – and easy for it to come across badly, if it doesn't."We were on the show floor on E3 [last year], and you're showing to an assortment of retailers and all sorts of people who everyone says have a five-minute attention span, but I don't think that's right," Beynon says."I think their attention spans are actually a lot longer. I think we do people a disservice sometimes, but there we are."This year, we showed in the much more refined environment upstairs, in nice quiet theatres where people had plenty of time to hear a preamble beforehand to put them in the mood."It's actually about eight or nine minutes before you pull the trigger and fire a shot [in the demo shown], and while there's a lot of other stuff happening on-screen, for a first-person shooter it doesn't necessarily revolve around shooting people endlessly and repeatedly in the head. Which is refreshing."It's preferable for a lot of the media to come to a well-lit, quiet room so they're not struggling over the noise of Just Dance 3 blaring through in an environment where everyone habitually turns up the volume until all you can hear is headshots and handclaps."A return to prior formWith that, we roll the demo – shown behind closed doors at E3, and now doing the rounds on the UK PR circuit. Artyom (the hero from the first game) returns, and he and a friend brave the radioactive surface world on their way to a friendly station.A stopwatch shows your remaining oxygen, and although it's possible to pick up replacement canisters from unlucky corpses along the way, survival in the toxic atmosphere isn't guaranteed. There are more pressing issues than the environment to worry about, though.Firstly, madness – or psychic messages from supernatural creatures, it's unclear. The effects remain the same, though. On exploring an office block, Artyom hears inexplicable voices ringing from long-dead telephone receivers.In the wreckage of a crashed passenger jet, he's treated to a series of flashback hallucinations as he progresses through the cabin, culminating in a genuinely moving sequence where missiles streak off into the sky, a mushroom cloud blots out the sun, and the plane makes its final catastrophic landing slap-bang over the entrance of the underground station you're trying to get to.Secondly, mutants. Everywhere. Leathery-winged demons flap through the sky. Packs of Watchers – horrendous rat/wolf hybrids with patchy hair and a mean attitude – migrate across the landscape as you move throughout the world, and swarm you in huge numbers at the end of the level.First, you're forced out of your defended position as they pour through gaps in the walls, then after a running battle, they stalk you down a broken escalator to your eventual location.Holding them off with molotov cocktails is the order of the day, but survival seems a fairly close-run thing as they leap out of the way of the flames and edge down narrow shelves and handrails.This is survival horror, rather than the all-guns-blazing montage of last year's experience, and it's good to see. At one points Artyom's torch runs out of power, and must be laboriously recharged by hand-pumping a dynamo.Flies, spiders and spilt blood all land on the plastic visor of his gasmask and must be wiped off by hand. Monsters are big, scary and dangerous and it seems that often the best route to success is not knowing when to shoot, but knowing when to run and hide.But even with all that, it seems a little easy. Ammunition seems too plentiful, and the stopwatch never runs below two minutes of remaining oxygen."Seeing as this is for demonstration," Beynon says, "we've put a lot of resources out in the open. Once the game's released, players will most likely find themselves – like in the last game – forced to explore and go off the beaten track to get what they need to survive."But Metro is fundamentally a linear game, and we don't think there's any shame in that."The Metro series remains a little difficult to comprehend – it offers a mix of directed first-person action, survival horror and resource management, detailed weapon upgrades and merchant systems, and emergent stealth gameplay which sees you unscrewing lightbulbs and dousing cooking fires to stay in the darkness.But whatever 4A comes out with, the combination of different game styles and the unique lineage are sure to result in something worth playing."Our goal isn't to try and reach a mythical 'mass audience' for a game like this because it's a more cerebral, sophisticated shooter," Beynon says."I think there's a much bigger audience clamouring for a game that breaks the mould from the corridor whack-a-mole that most single-player experiences have descended to these days, and is actively looking for another Half-Life or a Bioshock or looking forward, like I am, to Dishonoured or Bioshock Infinite."It's good to see there are a few other studios out there as well trying to do something a bit different."• Metro Last Light is due out on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 in 2013
It's hard to explain the allure of Borderlands to anyone who hasn't played it, but I think it's all tied up in the loot drops. Sure, Gearbox's shooter boasts insane weaponry, twisted characters, an appealing space western aesthetic and surprisingly deep yet streamlined skill trees. But none of these features were the reason I sank about four weeks' worth of my life into Borderlands.It was the loot drops. It was the guns, the ammo, the cash, the weapon-mods that fell from the belly or the back of every single living thing I shot a bullet into. In Borderlands, a shiny new item was always just the next kill away. Indeed, items were dropped with such regularity, one eventually became discerning in what one bothered to pick up (cash being the obvious exception).But the promise of the new became a driving force that kept me up until the wee hours of the morning. With Borderlands, Gearbox took the frag-and-reward essence that powers the most addictive genres in gaming – the MMO and the RPG – and retooled it for the FPS audience. It was, and it remains, genius.So how do you improve on genius? Well, if you're Gearbox, you go widescreen as the quick pitch for Borderlands 2 is essentially: "Borderlands, except on steroids." Players who ventured to Pandora in the first game will find themselves in comfortingly familiar surroundings here, but they'll also note that everything about the first game has been beefed up and filled out.The four character classes, for example, feel like enhanced riffs on those contained in the first game. Instead of Brick – who was basically a walking tank – we have Salvador, a Gunzerker. He's a small, compact mound of muscle and aggression – another walking tank – who is able to wield two weapons at the same time.Maya, a sultry femme fatale who can encase enemies in a forcefield and lift them into the air, has replaced Lilith, the Siren who could phase and turn invisible in the first game. Axton, a commando, steps in for Roland, the soldier; at low levels he's basically the same character, but he can deploy a turret whose head can swivel in a full 360-degree arch. Finally, there's Zer0, who trades roles with Mordecai the sniper; he can deploy decoys to perplex opponents as he sneaks up on them and sinks a large katana into them.Their talent trees are also filled out. Zer0, for example, can gain the ability to note critical spots on enemies and hit them to cause oodles of damage. Axton, for his part, augments his turret to make it a formidable force on the battlefield.Salvador's top tier talents allow him to reload weapons simply by switching between them. Since he's able to dual-wield everything from bolt-action rifles to chain guns to rocket launchers, he's capable at high levels of becoming a world of hurt for his opponents.Maya works best in co-op; not only does her forcefield power make easy targets out of enemies for her allies, at higher levels she's able to heal friends by firing bullets at them.There is, unfortunately, no way to port a character from Borderlands into Gearbox's new game, but if you did sink a lot of time into the first iteration, you're able to access a couple of cosmetic tweaks for your new character. Roland, Mordecai, Lilith and Brick do make an appearance in Borderlands 2, however, as they're quest-givers and part of a new rebel movement that dovetails into the plot of the game.Borderlands 2 is set a few years after the events of the first game and it sees Pandora in the grip of a scrappy war. A nefarious conglomerate called the Hyperion Corporation has landed on the planet and seems intent on securing all of Pandora's best assets for itself. To that end it has deployed a charming sociopath called Handsome Jack to drive off the players – now known collectively as Vault Hunters. In the build I played, the characters from the original Borderlands are spearheading the Vault Hunters' efforts against Hyperion.Just how these efforts involve a mission where the player is tasked with hunting down a couple of stuffed toys and kidnapping a masked psychopath at the behest of an insane explosives expert is anyone's guess. But this is the task that was set before me during my hands-on time with the game. Roland needed an item to power a generator. Said item was being held by a pixie-like psycho in a quarry who would only hand it over if I rounded up guests for her tea party. So off I went.As I trundled around a snow-capped wasteland dotted with mining equipment and shantytowns I encountered some new adversaries as well as some familiar ones. Yes, there were a ton of blokes wearing hockey masks who wanted to do me in, but there were also some new breeds of bugs, some enemies flying about in ramshackle aircraft and large, oversized brutes who had the unnerving ability to grow a second head on an elongated neck if I happened to shoot their face off.Then, of course, there was the reason I was playing the game in the first place, the loot drops, which have been streamlined to a degree. Players no longer need to target money or ammunition; these items simply fly into their hands if they stand near them. The only items that require a targeted grab are the guns and the mods, and it pays to be rather discerning because the ordnance players select will define how they play Borderlands 2 almost as much as the character class they choose right at the beginning of the game.And what a selection of guns awaits them; sniper-scoped flintlocks, electric-bolt-slinging rocket launchers, sniper rifles that dump three-round bursts into enemies with each trigger pull and shotguns that, when emptied, transform into grenades. These are just a few of the weapons I picked up in the brief time I spent at the controls of Borderlands 2. Well, I say "brief". I played the game for five hours, but as anyone who has ever played Borderlands knows, five hours barely scratches the surface of this game.That's the proverbial cherry on the top of the cake that is Borderlands 2: depth. In an industry where every second shooter uses a multiplayer mode to justify its slim single-player campaign, Gearbox's shooter is something of a rarity in that it offers single-player and (co-op) multiplayer experiences that are as deep as each other.Twisted, zany and with a diseased creativity at its core, Borderlands 2 boasts enough content to keep shooter fans glued to it for weeks on end.So if you're a shooter fan feeling the pinch of the austere times we live in, rejoice. Gearbox has a remedy for your plight, as Borderlands 2 may well be the only game you need to buy all year.• Borderlands 2 will be released for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 on 21 September
A 55-year-old man has been arrested in Cardiff by police from Scotland Yard's Operation Tuleta investigation into computer hacking.The man was arrested at his home on Friday morning on suspicion of offences under the Computer Misuse Act 1990 and the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa) 2000.He was later bailed to return to a south London police station in October 2012.The Metropolitan police said the arrest was not directly linked to any news organisation or the activities of journalists.The man is the sixth person to be arrested under Operation Tuleta, whichwas launched in July last yearas a splinter investigation to Scotland Yard's Operation Weeting probe into phone hacking.The Met police said the man is in custody at a police station in the Cardiff area.Operation Tuleta is investigating the use of so-called "trojan" emails which allow a hacker to take over a target's computer.The team reports to the deputy assistant commissioner, Sue Akers, who will shortly retire as head of the related phone-hacking investigations.The first arrest under Operation Tuleta was a52-year-old man in Milton Keynesin November 2011.To date, Operation Tuleta detectives have made six arrests, while 24 people have been held under Operation Weeting and 41 people have been arrested by Operation Elveden officers investigating inappropriate payments by journalists to police and public officials.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
A selection of 19 new and notable apps for you today:BBC OlympicsThere will soon be more Olympic Games apps than there are athletes competing. The BBC's looks set to be popular in the UK though: available for Android and iPhone, it will stream live video and catch-up highlights, while also providing news, schedules and results.Android / iPhoneBarclays Mobile BankingWhat's this: some good news for Barclays? The bank, which has been under fire in recent weeks, has launched an iPhone and Android app for its banking customers, enabling them to check balances and transactions, transfer funds and make payments.Android / iPhoneRecce – London3D mapping is all the rage following Google and Apple's recent announcements. Recce is an independent iOS app that riffs off the same ideas: a 3D map of London, pinpointing key landmarks while serving up transport route recommendations and info on the tube and BorisBikes.iPhone / iPadNBC OlympicsandNBC Olympics Live ExtraTwo more broadcaster-Olympics apps here, from NBC in the US (and thus restricted to that country). NBC Olympics provides news, real-time results and information on athletes, as well as Twitter features. NBC Olympics Live Extra adds live streaming video from the Games.iPhone / iPadTwitter for Nokia (Series 40)Nokia has launched a new version of its Twitter app for Series 40 phones, promising "most of the features you'd expect to see from a Twitter client on a smartphone to hundreds of millions of feature phones around the world". It's downloadable today, but will be preloaded on future handsets.NokiaBrewsteriPhone app Brewster is getting a bit of buzz Stateside, promising to be a "personalised address book". That means aggregating contacts from Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Gmail, Foursquare and the iPhone itself, then presenting them in thumbnail-image form.iPhoneAuryn HD - Where Do Balloons Go?Jamie Lee Curtis wrote the Where Do Balloons Go? children's book, and now she's providing voice narration for its iPad app. The tale of a lost balloon includes plenty of interactivity, from creating animated movies and virtual balloon animals through to sending e-postcards.iPadBambi: Disney ClassicsDisney has been turning a succession of its famous animated films into book-apps, with Bambi the latest. The story of a young deer (there's a 'no iDeer' joke to be made here by someone funnier than me) is complemented by narration, digital colouring, music and a matching mini-game.iPhone / iPadOfficial London 2012 Results AppIt's already out for iOS and Android, but just in time for the actual Olympics, the official results app is live for BlackBerry and Windows Phone too. Expect results, obviously, as well as news, schedules and medal tables. The link above is for BlackBerry, buthere's the Windows Phone version.BlackBerry / Windows PhoneNASA Be A MartianNASA's latest app promises to let users "experience Mars as if you were there", with the latest mission images from spacecraft, news and videos from NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.iPhoneSpacecraft 3DMore NASA appage here, with an augmented reality app for iOS that shows various spacecraft. It involves pointing the device's camera at a printed target to pop up the animated robotic explorers.iPhone / iPadFunimal PairsDeveloper School of Happy made the excellent Funimal Phonics app, and now there's a sequel focusing on matching pairs of virtual cards. Aimed at children from 18 months upwards, it gets them to match animals and letters, with animation and sound.iPhone / iPadmarantz Remote AppMarantz is the latest high-end hi-fi firm to launch a remote control smartphone app. Well, it's been out for a little while on iPhone, but has now made the leap to Android with customisable home-screen and multi-room features intact.AndroidBusiness Card Reader HDShape Services, which is behind the popular IM+ messaging app, has released a new iPad app that scans business cards, then imports the contacts – while also integrating LinkedIn.iPadGalaxy Life: Pocket AdventuresSocial/mobile games publisher Digital Chocolate's latest iOS game partly falls into the town-building resource-management bucket, as you build a community on an alien planet. Then it throws battles into the mix, as you fight other players around the world.iPhone / iPadI Am SerjSystem of a Down's Serj Tankian has carved out his own solo career, and now he's got an iOS app for fans to remix songs from his three albums. It involve tapping gems to trigger loops while altering volume, tempo and pitch.iPhone / iPadFishing Joy IIFishing games seem to have established a niche on iPhone, with PunchBox's Fishing Joy – more than 70m users apparently – now spawning a sequel. Catch fish and sea-creatures, earn coins, and buy upgrades to improve your chances.iPhoneThe House That Went On StrikeAnother storybook-app here from Jumping Pages, which aims to teach children "respect for the house". It taps into Yogiplay, which is a platform for kids' apps that tells parents how their children are getting on, and recommends other apps they may like.iPad
Whoops, it's Friday – where did that come from?
Digg, the "social news" site which was once the poster child for Web 2.0 and valued at up to $175m, has been sold to New York technology development company Betaworks for just $500,000 (£324,000) in cash plus equity.The sale of the seven-year-old site, founded a few months after Facebook, marks a colossal loss for its former venture capital backers, who put in a total of $45m during its life as an independent.Digg reportedly still gets more than 16 million monthly unique visitors – but it has lost its ability to drive the direction of the net's interest as it once did.Having once looked as though it could be the biggest driver of such social news, the site stumbled multiple times in trying to remake the way that users could vote stories up or down its front page – and lost its advantage over rivals sites such as Slashdot and Reddit.In astatement on its site, Betaworks said: "Digg is one of the great internet brands, and it has meant a great deal to millions of users over the years. It was a pioneer in community-driven news."We are turning Digg back into a startup. Low budget, small team, fast cycles. How? We have spent the last 18 months building News.me as a mobile-first social news experience. The News.me team will take Digg back to its essence: the best place to find, read and share the stories the internet is talking about. Right now."In August 2006, Kevin Rose, Digg's founder, appeared on the cover of BusinessWeek and ina feature inside it.At the time the site was described as the 24th-most popular website in the US, "nipping at the The New York Times' (No. 19) and easily beating Fox News (No. 62)", according to industry tracker Alexa.com.The site's value was estimated then at $60m – and it was mentioned in the same breath as the then-fast-growing Myspace.An important misstep came in May 2007 when some posters used Digg to post a "crack" for the encryption used on HD DVD discs, andRose began deleting them– which caused a user revolt. The founders then said they would stop the deletions.But doubts had begun to surface earlier that year about the site's robustness against "sock puppets" who could create multiple accounts in order to vote up their content in order to drive valuable traffic to outside sites.Wired magazine's Annalee Newitz said she hadpushed a useless blog to Digg's front page.Although by mid-2008 the rumours were growing that it was so big that Google might buy it (a rumour that never came close to fruition; Digg remained independent until this takeover), the seeds of problems had been sown.Despite afunding round in 2008which effectively valued the whole company at $175m, the troubles were growing. The final straw for a significant number of users came as Digg tried to redesign itself in order to prevent Wired-style gaming in mid-2010.First came adramatic drop in users in spring 2010, as measured by Compete.com, compared to Reddit and a new web service called Twitter.Some thought that was due to tweaks in Google's algorithm which meant that people weren't driven to the site in the same way.It seems early 2010 marked Digg's high water mark, with between 37 million and 44 million unique users a month.But even then,webmagazine reckoned that it was on a slope that only headed in one direction: down."In the soon-to-be end, Digg will become known as the first network to die from social fatigue," wrote Mike Phillips in June 2010. "Facebook and Twitter are booming, LinkedIn is holding steady and even Myspace seems to have settled into a niche. But Digg is in a deadly, unrecoverable tail spin."The fact is, people – real people – are beginning to tire. Submit this, upload that, vote on this, 'like' that, be my 'friend', check in here, suggest this, retweet that ... there's already so much to do. The only thing left to 'Digg' is a grave."
A quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIntel mulls SSD price cuts &gt;&gt; VR-Zone.comThe OEM price (in multi-unit quantity) of the SSD 320 300 GB is slated to go down from US $499 to $444, a 11% cut. The retail package (off-shelf) of the drive is expected to go down from $519 to $464. The SSD 320 600 GB, on the other hand, will see its OEM price drop from $1,039 to $859; and retail price from $1,059 down to $879.Is good news.Will EU force BT to light up dark fibre? &gt;&gt; PC ProRegulators will be asked to turn up the heat on national telecoms companies that they feel are not giving open network access to rival providers."I am planning a recommendation on non-discrimination," said Neelie Kroes, head of the EU's Digital Agenda programme. "This would underline that equivalence of inputs is the best guarantee of non-discrimination, to ensure equivalence of access."Smartphone three-year market share &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansIdle observation: Nokia's share was sliding 2 years before the Burning Platform memo: at that point it had already lost half its market share.Market share can be obscured if you're in a growing market.Yahoo breach: Swiped passwords by the numbers &gt;&gt; CNET NewsCNET's Declan McCullagh wrote a program to analyze the most frequently used passwords and e-mail domains that surfaced in the breach. The following tidbits are culled from his effort:o 2,295: The number of times a sequential list of numbers was used, with "123456" by far being the most popular password. There were several other instances where the numbers were reversed, or a few letters were added in a token effort to mix things up.o 160: The number of times "111111" is used as a password, which is only marginally better than a sequential list of numbers. The similarly creative "000000" is used 71 times.But in a month's time they were going to change it to 000001, right?O2's Twitter team demonstrate their social media moves on angry tweeters &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukA couple of quick examples of how to respond to angry customers on social media.Mall's 'magic' response draws flak &gt;&gt; Free Malaysia TodayOn Monday, Paradigm Mall patron Su Yuen Hsiang posted on the mall's Facebook page that the lifts were problematic.Paradigm Mall responded six hours later, saying that its staff were looking into the matter. In a swipe at the mall's services, another Facebook user Freddie Toh said: "Again Looking..."This comment presumably irked Paradigm Mall, who sarcastically replied: "Yes, Freddie, Paradigm Mall does not know magic. Cannot snap fingers and make changes. You can? Then we want to hire you!!"Note: this is the wrong way to do customer service on social media.Waiting for Godot &gt;&gt; asymcoIf we are to believe the analyst community reflects consensus, the industry, in the aggregate, continues to treat the potential for disruption from devices as unlikely. There always seems to be a wrinkle, a quirk, or an exceptional circumstance that is to blame. I won't get into all the excuses given by analysts for the slowing of PC sales but will point out that there's been a series of initiatives put forward by the industry to act as "catalysts" for growth.The graphs that go with this are amazing.Disable Windows Sidebar and Gadgets NOW on Vista and Windows 7: Microsoft warns of security risk &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityAsecurity advisoryissued by Microsoft's security team advises that vulnerabilities exist that could allow malicious code to be executed via the Windows Sidebar when running insecure Gadgets.The warning comes ahead of a talk scheduled for Black Hat later this month by Mickey Shkatov and Toby Kohlenberg. Shkatov and Kohlenberg's talk, entitled "We have you by the gadgets", threatens to expose various attack vectors against gadgets, how malicious gadgets can be created, and the flaws they have found in published gadgets.Samsung Galaxy S3 loses Local Search in the US to appease Apple &gt;&gt; RecombuAndroid updates, especially major releases like the recently announced Android 4.1 Jelly Bean are sought after in the mobile world, particularly from power users, those who want the latest and greatest as soon as possible, but the latest update for the US Samsung Galaxy S3 might not be one worth downloading.It looks as though this latest OTA boobytrap, which for Sprint S3 owners will remove the device's local search functionality and for AT&amp;T S3 owners, also dumbs down the search bar accuracy. Why, you ask? In the pursuit of avoiding Apple's big legal stick.Minor point, but don't you either pursue something, or avoid it?Invest One Million? Entrepreneurs seek backers for mystery startup project &gt;&gt; VenturevillageOliver has dark hair. Mark smiles often. The pair often finish each others' sentences - both claim backgrounds in the internet sector and joke that Mark used to be a firefighter. Those are not their real names and, by their accents, they're not originally from Berlin.Without revealing much more than that, Mark and Oliver want to find someone - or several people - to invest one million in a mystery startup project.And their backer, if they find him or her, has very much more money than sense."Tight-fitting dresses and data-viz": Anna Powell-Smith at Hacks/Hackers London &gt;&gt; Martin BelamSee, got you with the title. Some ethics for those doing data visualisations. Also includes the confession:"my first ever paid job was as a cloth-cutter in a skirt factory for BHS, and I suspect some of the vagueness in women's clothes sizes also comes from having untrained idiots like me measuring the fabric".Important Notice: Security Breach &gt;&gt; Android ForumsYesterday I was informed by our sever/developer team that the server hosting androidforums.com was compromised and the website's database was accessed.Change your password, and if you use the same one elsewhere, change that too.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
O2 has been forced to apologise to almost 8 million customers after an "embarassing" network failure led to a 24-hour blackout across the UK and Ireland.Its chief executive,Ronan Dunne,  admitted the massive outage was humiliating for the company.The UK's second largest mobile network is now facing an investigation by telecoms regulator Ofcom into what caused the downtime and is likely to have to pay compensation  to customers affected by the blackout.O2 customers first found they were unable to receive calls or text messages at lunchtime on Wednesday. The outage spread overnight, even as O2 deployed hundreds of engineers to solve the problem, before the network eventually came back online on Thursday afternoon.One operator told the Guardian it saw roughly 200,000 failed call attempts from its customers to O2 numbers every half an hour on Wednesday evening.A source at another operator said it saw phone calls and text messages to O2 customers drop by about a third during the 24-hour outage.The network meltdown – which follows similar IT failures at Natwest and RBS – is understood to have been caused by a faulty upgrade in preparation for the London Olympics.The outage comes at an inconvenient time for O2, whose corporate motto is "We're better connected", as mobile networks scrabble to attract new customers to the booming smartphone market.O2 has 23 million customers in the UK and deals with 125m phone calls a day."The first thing I'd like to do is apologise [to] our customers who have been disrupted by the lack of service," Dunne said in an interview with Sky News. "We reckon that about a third of our customers were potentially impacted and as a service provider we absolutely want to make up for the service they didn't get."Asked by the Sky News presenter Kay Burley whether he was embarassed by the failure, Dunne said: "Yes, I am. I am a customer myself."Dunne added that O2 will offer some form of compensation to the approximately 7.6 million customers affected by the outage, but did not say what it would be.France Telecom's Orange offered 26 million of its customers a free day of communication and cinema tickets, with those on unlimited contracts offered extra download capacity, when its network collapsed for nine hours last week.A spokesman for Ofcom said the regulator was investigating the matter. He added: "We have been in contact with O2 throughout the outage and we will be discussing it further to fully understand what happened."Rival mobile networks said privately they saw a huge rise in dropped phone calls and failed text messsages to O2 customers at the height of the blackout.It is understood that the blackout was caused by a faulty software upgrade to one of O2's core systems, meaning that it was unable to correctly register handsets to some customers over the 24-hour period. The problem is believed to have centred in O2's so-called home location register, which is a database of customers linked to their telephone numbers on the network.That explains why the outage was not confined to a small geographic area, as it would have been if the problem affected critical hardware such as a telephone mast. The IT failure is also unlikely to have been affected by any "offshoring" of jobs – an accusation that has beendenied by other companiesafter suffering similar outages – because core network issues tend to be dealt with in-house.
A selection of 17 new and notable apps for you today:Tiny Wings HDThis is slightly complicated. There is a sequel to iPhone hit game Tiny Wings, but on iPhone it's been released as a free update to the original – something for which developer Andreas Illiger deserves every ounce of praise he's currently receiving online. But this also means a brand new iPad version of Tiny Wings, complete with the ability to play against friends on a single device.iPadAmazing AlexRovio's first post-Angry Birds game is Amazing Alex, a rebranded version of existing game Casey's Contraptions (which in turn was inspired by an older game, The Incredible Machine). Expect 100 levels of physics-puzzling, with an editor to create and share your own levels. For more on Amazing Alex, see thisseparate story.Android / iPhone / iPadLittle DigitsUK studio Cowly Owl has come up with a wonderfully creative iPad app for children learning their first numbers. It counts from 0 to 10 depending on how many fingers and thumbs are placed on the screen, with colourful number characters and simple maths mini-games. Educational, yes, but also really playful and fun.iPadViA - By Braille InstituteThis is a very good idea: an app to recommend other apps that are suitable for blind and visually-impaired iPhone and iPad users. Launched by the Braille Institute, it sorts apps by category, price and star rating, with a forum for people to swap tips on their favourites.iPhone / iPadTap Tap Revenge TourMusic game Tap Tap Revenge was a huge iOS hit from the early days of the App Store (and, indeed, before when it was available for jailbroken devices). With its developer Tapulous now part of Disney, it's got a new version promising more than 300 tracks to tap along to from famous names.iPhoneOfficial Scrabble Words: Collins Scrabble Checker and SolverDispel those destructive rows over the Scrabble board with this app from HarperCollins, which presents the official list of eligible words for the famous board game. There's also a personal trainer mode to improve your skills by playing against the clock.iPhoneStarbucksStarbucks has added its mobile payment features to the UK version of its Android app, enabling people to pay for their skinny latte drinks from their smartphones.AndroidMixcloudOn-demand radio service Mixcloud has been available on iPhone for a while, but now Android users can join in the fun. And it is fun: offering DJ sets, podcasts and radio shows on a streaming basis, with the ability to set favourites to never miss a new show.AndroidJay &amp; Silent Bob in LET US DANCE!Pop culture heroes Jay and Silent Bob have popped up on iOS with a "breakdance party time" game. It's a music rhythm game, Parappa the Rapper style (sort of) made by Ice Cap Games.iPhone / iPadMichael Johnson's Fun RunHere's a possible antidote if you're unhappy at McDonald's sponsoring the Olympic Games. Sprinter-turned-pundit Michael Johnson has put his name to an iOS game whose aim is "reinforcing the message that burgers and milkshakes slow you down whilst healthy alternatives put you on the right track". He's probably now banned from Stratford for the next month.iPhone / iPadTuenti Social MessengerSpanish social network Tuenti is majority-owned by operator group Telefonica, and is hoping to find an audience globally with its messaging app.AndroidReuters Olympics London 2012The trickle of Olympic Games apps is turning into a flood, with Reuters latest to dive in. Its app will focus on photography during the Games: "The best live Olympics photos &amp; moments captured by Reuters award-winning photographers."iPhone / iPadThe Expendables 2 Infinite TrailerHollywood studio Lions Gate has released a promotional app for upcoming film The Expendables 2 that tries to get fans in on the action. "Upload a short video and improve it with cinematic special effects. You can add yourself to the Expendables 2 movie trailer and share it with your friends..."iPhone / iPadBo's DinnertimeI've noticed a definite uptick in the number of actually-good children's apps being released for Android. Bo's Dinnertime is one of them, coming from developer Heppi. It's all about a cartoon giraffe cooking in the kitchen.AndroidJay &amp; Silent Bob in: Too Fat To FlyYou wait ages for a Jay and Silent Bob game, then... Here's the second today, a "challenge-based physics game" that involves shooting Bob through the air from a catapult in a series of locations.iPhone / iPadKnights of the Round CableMore physics-puzzling in Chillingo's latest game, albeit with more of an action focus as you swing knights through levels on grappling hooks, gathering treasure, dodging enemies and rescuing princesses along the way.iPhone / iPadMetal Slug 3Selling old Neo Geo games for £4.99 in 2012? A brave strategy. That's what SNK Playmore is doing though with Metal Slug 3, which is out for iPhone and iPad. It's a port of the original game with a new Mission Mode, and Bluetooth co-op play.iPhone / iPad
O2 was having a nightmare of an evening, and morning, after the failure of its service over Wednesday night affected huge numbers of customers.And in the front line were the in-house "social media team" in charge of the "@O2 in the UK" account on Twitter, who had to deal with the ire of the company's many customers.But by demonstrating a lightness of touch at their angrier respondents, the team rapidly gained the admiration of the watching hordes.Graham Cummings – who gives his location as Stirling – was among those to receive the ju-jitsu methods employed by the team.@O2FUCK YOU! SUCK DICK IN HELL. &mdash; Graham Cummings (@grahamcummings7)July 12, 2012Which earned the response:@grahamcummings7Maybe later, got tweets to send right now. &mdash; O2 in the UK (@O2)July 12, 2012Another was Ashley Roberts, who was hardly enamoured of O2's attempts to get on customers' good side – but discovered the team wasn't treating the offer as rhetorical:@AshleyRoberts61She says no thanks.&mdash; O2 in the UK (@O2)July 12, 2012An O2 spokesperson said that the team hadn't had any particular instructions on how to respond to people. "Clearly we're not happy that we've disappointed our customers over the last 24 hours, but it's good to hear that some have enjoyed our tweets," they said.
I'm a software developer and photographer looking for a new laptop, as my existing machine – a three-year-old Dell Studio XPS16 – is now creaking along with its maximum of 4GB RAM. My criteria are: 15.6in high-res screen (1080p or thereabouts), 750GB hard drive, Intel Core i7 and at least 8GB RAM but upgradable to 16GB, all on a budget of £1,000 or less. I'm a long-time happy Dell customer and the Inspiron 15R SE comes very close, but all their laptops are limited to 8GB RAM, apart from the budget-busting Precision range. Is there a better option for me out there somewhere? I'd really appreciate any tips you can come back with.MarkYou're a bit early into this market, because 4GB is still standard for mainstream laptops. Machines with 8GB or 16GB tend to be aimed at the multimedia/entertainment market, or at gaming. The entertainment laptops often have 17.3in screens and Blu-ray drives, while the games machines have fast graphics cards and other high-end components. In both cases, the extras can push the prices over £1,000, and often over £2,000.Also, Microsoft hasn't been pushing for more memory for Windows. It's seven years since Vista was launched, and neither Windows 7 nor Windows 8 needs more memory. In fact, they both run at least as well in 4GB as Windows XP SP3. Given Moore's Law, you'd expect memory use to increase in dramatically in a decade, but it isn't happening. PCs have become cheaper instead.However, PC manufacturers should now find it easier to support larger memories because the Intel Core iX chips have the memory controller on the processor. Although 8GB is still common, many mobile Core chips now support 16GB, according to Intel's Ark spec sheets. These include the Core i3 2350M, 2367M, and 2370M; the Core i5 2410M, 2430M, 2435M, and 2450M; and the Core i7 2670QM, 2675QM, 2710QE, 2720QM, 2760QM, 2820QM and 2860QM.PC manufacturers usually say that their laptops will support 4GB memory modules, so if the laptop has two memory slots, then the maximum supported memory will be 8GB. However, laptops with quad-core instead of dual-core processors sometimes have four memory slots, which will definitely allow you to expand the memory to 16GB. This is the safest option.To provide some concrete examples, the Asus N53SV is available with either a dual-core processor and two memory slots or a quad-core processor (eg, Core i7-2670QM) with four memory slots, so only 8GB is supported on one version while 16GB is supported on the other. The Lenovo W510 also comes in dual/8GB and quad/16GB configurations, and no doubt there are many other examples. How the average consumer is supposed to tell the difference remains a mystery.The fact that the PC manufacturer says it onlysupports8GB of memory doesn't mean the laptop can't run itunsupported. Search the web for a particular model of laptop and you may well find that someone has tried swapping the two 4GB memory sticks for 8GB versions and reported that they work. The proviso, of course, is that the Core iX processor must support 16GB (see above), and not all of them do. Obviously, this is a much riskier approach than buying a laptop with four memory slots.The safest approach of all is to buy a laptop that already had 16GB installed, but in most cases, this will probably take you over your budget.The cheapest option I've found is the Asus N55SL-S2019V, which has a quad-core i7-2670QM processor, 6GB of memory, 15.6-in non-glossy 1600 x 900-pixel widescreen, Nvidia GeForce GT-635 graphics card with 2GB of memory, 750GB hard drive, Blu-ray drive, and 64-bit Windows 7 Home Premium for £763.20 atasuslaptop.co.uk. This machine only has two memory slots but you can buy it upgraded to 8GB for an extra £46.80, or to 16GB for £106.80. You could therefore get your 16GB system for £870 (plus any delivery charges that may apply).The screen is less than full HD, but 1600 x 900 is better than the usual 1366 x 768 that is common on Windows laptops, and is what you'd get with the Dell Inspiron 15R.For a 1920 x 1080 Full HD 15.6in screen, the Lenovo ThinkPad W520 is a nicer alternative with a Core i7-2760QM processor, Nvidia Quadro 1000M graphics card with 2GB of memory, 500GB hard drive and 8GB or 16GB of RAM, but it busts your budget.KL Computers, which offers the 16GB upgrade on the Asus N55SL, offers the same deal on some of the Samsung laptops at its companion Samsunglaptop.co.uk site, if you are willing to drop down to a Core i5 instead of a Core i7. TheSamsung NP700Z5A-A01UK, for example, has a Core i5-2450M processor, 6GB of memory, 1TB hard drive, and DVD drive in a thinner, lighter case. The screen is 1600 x 900 "non gloss". The RAM upgrades are the same price as for the Asus N55SL, so the total price comes to £853.20.What's the difference between a Core i7-2670QM and a Core i5-2450M? TheNotebook Checkwebsite lets you compare benchmarks. In this case, comparing a quad-core with a dual-core chip, the difference is substantial.It's not always so clear cut. In particular, Core iX mobile processors that are designed to provide longer battery life run cooler and slower than mainstream mobile versions (which in their turn run much slower than desktop versions). For example, the old Core i3-380M (35Watts) is slightly quicker than the newer Core i7-2637M (17Watts).You could also consider choosing a third generation Ivy Bridge processor rather than last year's Sandy Bridge, but you might have to wait a while for prices to come down. All the Ivy Bridge chips – and so far there are51 examples– have a greater memory bandwidth, which enables them to support faster DDR3-1600 modules, as well as the usual DDR3-1333. All of them support 32GB of RAM instead of 8GB or 16GB.For example, you could just about afford a Lenovo ThinkPad T430 model 2344 with a Core i5-3210M Ivy Bridge processor, 4GB of memory,  500GB hard drive, DVD and 64-bit Windows 7 Professional for £922.40 fromDabs.comor a similar supplier. This has lots of compromises on your spec, especially the 1366 x 768-pixel screen, but at least the processor supports 32GB.The Lenovo ThinkPad W530, which has a 1600 x 900-pixel 15.6in widescreen, is even further out of range, at about £1,500 for a model with a quad-core i7-3610QM.Dell seems to have been a bit slow off the mark in offering larger memory sizes on mainstream laptops, which suggests there's not a huge demand. It's not that it can't: Dell does offer 32GB to professionals buying from its "budget-busting Precision range", and it offers gamers up to 16GB on the Alienware M14x and up to 32GB on the Alienware M17x and M18x. Of course, if you're happy to pay an extra £890 for a Core Extreme i7-2960XM plus an extra £500 for the 32GB memory upgrade then a hot games machine is a spectacular way to bust your budget.I expect Dell will start to offer bigger memories in its Inspiron and XPS ranges as Ivy Bridge processors (which, as mentioned, support 32GB) become the norm. For example, the new Inspiron 15R Special Edition, which you mention, includes quad-core Ivy Bridge Core i7 processors with 6GB or 8GB of memory. However, it remains to be seen whether Dell will offer user-selectable memory upgrades, since these might involve manual labour. I won't be surprised if we see more 16GB and 32GB laptops advertised on the basis that the retailer includes the extra chips and you install them yourself.I'm sorry I haven't quite been able to meet your spec for the budget, but I hope the pointers are useful. Whether you will be able to get what you want in another three or four months remains to be seen. Windows 8 will no doubt encourage the trend towards thinner machines with UEFI, the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface, replacing BIOS chips, but I expect Windows 7 laptops will still be popular for some time.
O2 has said its mobile network is now fully restored aftera 24-hour blackoutleft hundreds of thousands of its customers unable to receive calls or text messages.The company apologised for the outage, which affected customers across the UK, and said its 2G and 3G networks for mobile data were back online.O2 said in a statement: "Following previous updates, our tests now show that all our 2G and 3G services have been fully restored for affected customers."If any customers are still having problems we recommend they turn their phone off and on again. Once again, we are sorry."O2 said on Thursday morning that customers affected should be able to begin making calls and sending text messages if they turned off their 3G mobile data.However, many users told the Guardian that they were still unable to connect to the network.O2 is still unable to say when its network will be fully restored after disruption hit hundreds of thousands of its 23 million UK customers on Wednesday afternoon and overnight.But the company said on Thursday morning that users should soon be able to receive full service, including 3G data.The mobile network said in a statement: "We can confirm that our 2G network service has now been restored. Customers who were affected should now be able to make and receive calls. Our 3G service is starting to restore and customers should expect to see a gradual return of data services as the day progresses."Customers affected may wish to try switching their mobile phones off and on as service returns. We are sorry again for the inconvenience this has caused and can provide reassurance that we continue to deploy all possible resources and will do so until full service is restored."O2 customers found they were unable to make calls or send and receive text messages from about mid-afternoon on Wednesday. The disruption continued throughout the night and into Thursday morning.Some O2 customers who were not affected yesterday also claimed to have been disrupted on Thursday, in a sign that the network outage spread further overnight.O2 is the UK's second-biggest mobile network and provides services to customers ofTesco Mobileandgiffgaff, who were also affected by the prolonged disruption.The network was unable to confirm on Thursday whether it would offer compensation to customers who were unable to use fully use their phones for several hours.The company is likely to come under pressure to offer a full explanation to its customers. Rival operatorsVodafoneandT-Mobilewere both in the most-discussed topics on Twitter in the UK on Thursday morning, as people boasted about receiving full network coverage.Last week, France Telecom's Orange network offered to compensate its 26 millions users who were hit bya massive nine-hour blackout in the country.A spokesman for O2 said that the disruption was caused by a fault in one of its systems which meant that some mobile phone numbers did not register correctly on its network.TheO2 websitecrashed intermittently throughout the period as customers sought updates about when the service would return.O2 was the least complained-about mobile network between January and March this year, according to complaints data compiled by the telecoms regulator Ofcom.The regulator received most complaints about 3UK in the period, ahead of T-Mobile, Vodafone and Virgin Mobile.Several customers told the Guardian they were still unable to send or receive calls about 9am on Thursday.Twitter user@UrbanManc said: "That's a lie , I can't make or receive calls and texts," whileRonnie Simon complained: "Still not able to make calls. Thanks a bunch O2."One customer, Jo Phipps, posted on Facebook: "My o2 phone been down for 6 hours ... whats going on?"Twitter userBethany Kempsaid: "It's ridiculous, haven't had a signal since 1pm. O2 you are going to have to do some apologising if you don't want to lose customers."Another user, Gaz, had a more humorous view of the disruption, tweeting: "What did one O2 customer say to the other? Nothing."BBC television presenterHuw Edwardstweeted: "6 hours of non-service and counting, simply not good enough, O2."O2 is urging customers to check their Twitter and Facebook feeds for updates, but the company's webpage – which displays live information about network coverage – has crashed.
Angry Birds made Rovio's name in the mobile games industry, but the Finnish publisher is hoping that its new gameAmazing Alexwill prove that there is more than one string to its bow.It has been released for iPhone, iPad and Android devices, although the game itself is not new. Rovio acquired it from independent developers Noel Llopis and Mystery Coconut in May 2012, when it was known as Casey's Contraptions.The game was removed from sale, rebranded and now relaunched. It is a physics puzzle game that sees the hero, Alex, creating chain reactions with objects placed around his house. The game has 100 levels, and an editor for people to create their own and share them with friends and other players.Watch out for anyone suggesting Amazing Alex is Rovio's first non-Angry Birds game. It's not: Rovio famously made51 gamesbefore striking gold with the original Angry Birds.That said, claims that all those previous games were flops are wide of the mark: a number were work-for-hire projects, including Burnout and Need For Speed: Carbon for Electronic Arts, which sold well.Things have changed since those pre-App Store days, though: Amazing Alex's release is a key moment for Rovio, as it aims to prove that it can turn the900m-plus downloads of Angry Birdsinto a platform to launch new, original IP in the mobile games market.And beyond, of course. If Amazing Alex takes off as a mobile game, Rovio will likely take the character elsewhere: animation and merchandise, for example. As a character, Alex – who looks like he's already sprung from an American cartoon series for kids – has plenty of potential.Rovioreported revenues of €75.4m(£60.8m) for 2011, with 30% of those sales coming from its consumer products business, including merchandising and licensing income. The success of Angry Birds saw the company grow from 28 staff at the beginning of 2011 to 224 by the end of that year.Interestingly, the main rival to Amazing Alex in its week of launch – on Apple's App Store, at least – is another bird-related game. Independent hitTiny Wingshas a sequel this week, although developer Andreas Illiger chose to release it as a free upgrade to the original version, rather than a new game."I worked on the 2.0 version for the last 12 months and everyone told me I should make a separate app out of it and sell it again," Illiger told gaming siteTouchArcadeahead of its release. "I decided to give it away for free as a big 'thank you' to all my fans for changing my life."
Boris Johnson's popular fleet of rental bikes have become an unexpected victim of O2's nationwide outage, as more than 100 bike stations across London were hit bythe network blackout.Some Londoners wanting to cycle to work on Thursday morning found they could not operate the Barclays Cycle Hire machines, with almost one in five of the capital's bike terminals out of commission. But most commuters would not have expected the disruption to have been caused by O2.The bicycle hire machines were affected by the blackout because they use the O2 network to process card payments from customers.Hundreds of thousands of people across the UK have been affected bythe blackout, which began at 1.30pm on Wednesday and left customers unable to make calls, send or receive text messages or use mobile data for around 24 hours.O2 said at 11am on Thursday that customers should be able to make and receive calls and that its 2G service was back online. The company said its 3G service, for higher speed mobile internet connections, was restoring gradually.The blackout, which appears to have impacted a small proportion of O2's 23 million customers across the UK, has had a significant knock-on effect as it provides services to other companies.Customers of Tesco Mobile and giffgaff, two smaller mobile operators, were unable to connect fully as those services are based on O2's network.Transport for London, which operates the Barclays Cycle Hire scheme, said its bike terminals use O2's 2G network to process debit and credit card payments from the terminals. Only casual users, those who are after a one-off ride on a pay-as-you-go basis, are thought to have been affected by the Boris bikes blackout.The disruption hit more than 100 terminals across London on Thursday morning, but they slowly came back online as O2 fixed its 2G bug. There are more than 8,000 of the bikes and 570 terminals in the capital.O2 is yet to explain in detail what caused the disruption, other than saying that a network error affected the way mobile phone numbers connect to the system. It follows a number of other high-profile technical failures by vital services, notably themassive failed software update last month by NatWest.A spokesman for O2, which is the UK's second-biggest mobile network and is owned by Telefonica, was unable to say on Thursday morning whether it would offer compensation to the hundreds of thousands of customers affected.
The "ultrabook" lightweight laptop concept is showing no sign of reviving PC sales, with figures from the research companies Gartner and IDC suggesting that total PC shipments declined overall by 0.1% year-on-year in the April-June period.Gartner put the worldwide figure for shipments for the second quarter of this year at87.5m units, whileIDC put it at 86.7m.Quarterly worldwide shipments for PCs (blue) v smartphones (red), in millions, 1999-Q2 2012. Smartphone sales figures for Q2 are not yet available. Source: Gartner, IDCPC shipments appear to have hit a historical peak at about 93m worldwide in the fourth quarter of 2010 - the same quarter when they were first outstripped by shipments of smartphones, a pattern that has continued ever since. However, both Gartner and IDC are still forecasting overall growth for the sector onceMicrosoft's Windows 8 software goes on general release in October.However the "ultrabook" segment - defined by Intel as computers with rapid sleep, some solid state drive (SSD) storage and maximum thickness and weight - has not so far proven a hit with consumers, who buy around half of all PCs, Gartner principal analyst Mikako Kitigawa said."Consumers are less interested in spending on PCs, as there are other technology product and services, such as the latest smartphones and media tablets that they are purchasing," Kitigawa said. "This is more of a trend in the mature market as PCs are highly saturated in these markets."She noted that despite the huge R&amp;D spending, as well as the$300m of funding announced last August by Intelto invest in companies building ultrabooks, they have had little impact. "Though 'ultrabook' was at first introduced in the market in 2011, the major promotion kicked off toward the end of 2Q12 with the IvyBridge [processor]-based Ultrabook release," Kitagawa noted. "This segment is still in an early adopter's stage."For IDC, Jay Chou, senior research analyst, suggested that consumers are holding off purchases as they wait for better products to appear nearer the end of the year incorporating Windows 8.However economic factors are the more likely cause, alongside saturation in the developed world. For a year ahead of the retail release of Windows 7 in November 2009, PC sales dipped to negative growth or barely grew. But that is likely to have been due to macroeconomic effects from the2008 Lehman Brothers crash.By contrast, for two quarters ahead of, and for the four quarters including and after the release of Windows Vista in the fourth quarter of 2007, shipments saw double-digit growth as the world economy boomed. The three quarters before Windows XP's release in autumn 2001 saw negative shipment growth due to economic factors.The US PC market, where the economy is still struggling continued its long-term shrinkage, with IDC and Gartner both seeing a decline - though IDC put it at 10.6%, while Gartner put the fall at just 5.7%. IDC reckoned that Lenovo was one of the top five vendors in the US - while Gartner didn't place it. And the two companies diverged noticeably on their estimates for Apple's shipments, with IDC reckoning that they fell 1.1% (in effect growing Apple's share of the shrinking market) to 1.81m, while Gartner reckoned that they rose by 4.3% to 1.91m while all the other major vendors, including HP and Dell, saw a fall.The US makes up about half of Apple's PC business, so that a fall there could indicate that its "long boom" - where its computer sales have grown faster than the Windows PC market for more than five years - stopped in the second quarter. That will only become clear when the company publishes its own financial figures near the end of July.
More than 450,000 usernames and unencrypted passwords appear to have been stolen from Yahoo Voice, a user-contribution services on Yahoo's network, and posted online.Similar attacks have been reported separately against other online services, includingAndroid ForumsandFormspring, where users are being encouraged to change their passwords immediately, and to check whether they used the same password on other services.It is not known whether the attacks are linked. Both Formspring and Android Forums encrypted the passwords that they stored, although that is not a guarantee that they cannot be cracked.However the Yahoo attack is potentially the most serious.Yahoo bought Associated Contentfor $100m (£64.5m) in May 2010, and then set it up asYahoo Voices, allowing user-generated content to be posted online.Yahoo claims to have more than 600,000 contributors – which would include many of the data dump if it is verified. The Guardian could not verify whether any of the accounts were still active.The last entries in the data dump appear to be linked to IDs which were created in 2006 – which could mean that the listing discovered by the hacker, or hackers, is an old one that is no longer in use.Security experts said that the most worrying aspect of the attack was that the passwords for the accounts were not encrypted – meaning that any hacker could scoop up the emails and immediately start using them against other services, including Yahoo Mail.That potentially puts far more at risk than just the Yahoo Voices accounts if they are still active.Writing at the Trusted Security site, David Kennedynotedthat: "The passwords [were linked to] a wide variety of email addresses including those from yahoo.com, gmail.com, [and] aol.com," and that they seem to have been extracted using an SQL injection attack – an increasingly common form of hacking attack in which flaws in the database and web software are exploited to get administrator-level access to the contents and structure of a database.The page containing the Yahoo Voice addresses has all the details of the structure of the database that holds the details, as well as the usernames and passwords.The Yahoo Voice hack has been claimed by a group or individual calling themselves "the D33Ds Company".
Thursday - the last day of the Develop conference in Brighton. What are you up to?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSupply chain players deny rumors about delayed 13-inch MacBook Pro with Retina display &gt;&gt; DigitimesRumors are that several notebook brand vendors have delayed or decreased their shipments with Apple also being named as having postponed mass shipments of a planned 13-inch MacBook Pro with Retina display; however, sources from upstream suppliers of Apple have refuted the rumors saying their supply status is stable.The usual Digitimes klaxon. However, bear this in mind as you read on...Google's Nexus 7 costs $152 to make, IHS iSuppli teardown finds &gt;&gt; AllThingsDThey took a Nexus 7 apart in order to see what components are inside, and to estimate what each of them costs. The early verdict, shared exclusively with AllThingsD, is that the low-end eight gigabyte model of the Nexus 7, which sells for $199, costs $151.75 to build.The higher-end 16GB model, which sells for $249, costs $159.25, the difference being the cost of the memory chips inside.Andrew Rassweiler, who leads the teardown team at IHS iSuppli, reckons that Google will break even on the 8GB model, and will turn a tidy profit on the 16GB model. "Like Apple, Google realizes it can boost its profit margin by offering more memory at a stair-step price point. It's getting $50 more at retail for only $7.50 more in hardware cost, which sends $42.50 per unit straight to the bottom line."Think of that.RadAngel(TM) launched &gt;&gt; RadAngelIt's the first time that a personal radiation detector can distinguish between naturally occurring radiation in the environment and man-made radiation sources.Today, (5 July 2012), in Tokyo, Kromek, a UK based platform technology company, is launching RadAngel(TM), a new high performance but simple to use personal portable radiation detector.RadAngel(TM) uses the most advanced semiconductor detector technology (previously only available to government agencies) to provide accurate radiation readings and, crucially, for the first time, distinguish between man-made hazardous radiation sources in the environment (such as those from the Fukushima disaster) and typical background radiation.Tokyo, Chernobyl, Sellafield.. er.. Cornwall*? Not quite sure where you'd want to use this. (* Don't worry, it's natural.)Apple responds to EPEAT concerns &gt;&gt; Loop Insight"Apple takes a comprehensive approach to measuring our environmental impact and all of our products meet the strictest energy efficiency standards backed by the US government, Energy Star 5.2," Apple representative Kristin Huguet, told The Loop. "We also lead the industry by reporting each product's greenhouse gas emissions on our website, and Apple products are superior in other important environmental areas not measured by EPEAT, such as removal of toxic materials."As John Gruber says, Apple should have issued this statement before or at the same time as it withdrew from EPEAT. If it thought nobody would notice, that's absurd.Netflix's lost year: The inside story of the price-hike train wreck &gt;&gt; CNET NewsOne year ago tomorrow, CEO Reed Hastings took the first of a series of missteps that angered customers and nearly derailed his company. Current and former employees disclose what went wrong.Inside a management screwup.New Dropbox Pro plans! &gt;&gt; The Dropbox BlogToday we're happy to announce that our upgrades are getting a huge upgrade! Dropbox Pro now comes in flavors of 100 and 200 GB, but at the price of the original 50 and 100 GB plans. For those of you who need even more space, a brand new 500 GB plan is also joining the posse! If you're already a Dropbox Pro subscriber, just take a seat and enjoy the fireworks -- your Dropbox will supersize itself automatically tonight.Should we take bets on whether Dropbox will reduce the size of free accounts, rather as Spotify did with music streaming? (Of course, a key difference is that it doesn't have to pay a per-use tariff on storage as Spotify does with song plays.)New MacBook Pro 13in Retina Display benchmarks revealed &gt;&gt; Macworld UKBenchmark service Geekbench has reported somebody testing out a new type of MacBook Pro with a smaller 13in Retina Display screen.The new device is identifed as a MacBook Pro 10,2 and its benchmark results show a device somewhere between a the current 13in MacBook Pro model and the recently released 15in MacBook Pro with Retina Display.Makes sense that Apple would let eager buyers grab the 15in version first, and then go for the lower reaches of the space, rather than offering the cheaper version alongside the pricier one - keeps the delta in value bigger compared to existing 15in MacBook Pros.Samsung Galaxy S III knockoff unveiled with 720p display and Android 4.0 (w/ videos) &gt;&gt; M.I.C. GadgetSamsung Galaxy S III is without a doubt the most hyped Android device out there. So, what about its clone? Here are some of the remarkable features: it comes fully loaded with Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich, a 4.8 inch 1280×720 multi-touch screen, dual-SIM card slots and a 2500mAh battery.Dual SIM slots? This thing has a better spec than the original.The poetry of Steve Ballmer &gt;&gt; asymcoWe hope that Richard Dreyfuss can be persuaded to read this, as he did the iTunes EULA.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
A competition launched in London aims to create a cross between X Factor and Dragon's Den by offering £1m to a startup business.TheMillion Pound Startupcompetition went live on Wednesday night in what Kam Star, one of its architects and prime movers, says is intended to spark competition and ideas from would-be and existing entrepreneurs.Entry is open to any business around the world as long as they have not yet had an annual turnover of more than £1m – and if they promise to relocate to London if they win.The competition is open to entries until 1 May 2013, and will be judged at the Digital Shoreditch event later that month.Star, the "chief play officer" at London-based games company Playgen and a founder of Digital Shoreditch, hopes that the lure of the X Factor-sized prize, which is being provided by private equity rather than government, will inspire people who otherwise might not have been willing to risk following an idea to push into the entrepreneurial space."This is the X Factor approach – just as they see that £1m record contract being dangled by Simon Cowell and get inspired by that, we want people to get something on paper and move forward."Smaller prizes, such as five-figure offers of venture capital or angel funding, might not be enough to motivate people who have good ideas, he suggested."A reason why it's global is to shine a light and to say that in Britain we're brave enough to compete on a world stage, and very serious about startups."In a statement, Digital Shoreditch said: "The Million Pound Startup came about with the belief that great ideas deserve the chance to be realised.  It's no secret that today's startups will be tomorrow's leaders – just look at Google, Apple, or Facebook."Digital Shoreditch are providing a very special opportunity to encourage, enable, and strengthen those visionaries that have big ideas and even bigger potential."It comes more than 10 years after Channel 4 ran a series called The E-Millionaire Show, which aimed to find two candidates for £1m of funding each supplied by private equity – which was eventuallyawarded to Joe Rajko, the entrepreneur behindYoureable.com, an online community of and for disabled people. The site is still active. The other winner, Colin Robinson, apparently failed to get his Schoolsforschools.com business off the ground.The timing of the series was unfortunate, coming just as the dot-com boom was turning to bust.The rules of the new competition are simple, the site says:The Million Pound Startup is a global competition for one startup to win £1,000,000 in investment.With the aim to propel the wining start-up to a £100,000,000 company (that's right, a 100 million pound company).The competition is open to anyone over the age of 18 from anywhere in the world and has a few rules :1. The idea / product / startup has to be less than 10 years old.2. It should not have turned over the equivalant of £1,000,000 (i.e. it has never made £1m in revenue)3. The winner is willing to relocate the startup's HQ to London.London's Shoreditch area – known colloquially as Silicon Roundabout – has become the centre of a thriving group of technology startups. A recent report by anindependent think tankpointed to the strengths of its organic growth, and warned the government against trying to push its own agenda of effectively shifting new businesses over towards the Olympic park in Stratford once the Games have finished.Entry is open to all sorts of startups, not just in technology. The precise criteria and method for the judging will be announced nearer to the judging point, but the web page for the competition is already taking entries.Star also thinks that as with the X Factor, some of those who don't succeed may be swept up by private investors looking to make further investments – rather as occurs with Dragon's Den competitors.
I'm what you might call an early adopter. Shiny new technology to play with makes me happy. So I've been running theWindows 8 Release Preview(that's a fancy term for public beta) on two of my PCs for a while now. I even put it on a very elderly Compaq laptop before I risked it on computers I actually use, and it worked fine.There's much to like about Windows 8, not least its super-speedy install (about 10 minutes on an SSD), and the fact that it runs OK on ancient hardware (unlike iOS).But there's one thing I absolutely hate: there's no Start orb.It started out as a Start button, and first appeared on Windows PCs back in 1995 as part of, um, Windows 95. Microsoft was jolly proud of it, even roping in the Rolling Stones' classic track Start Me Up as part of themarketing campaign.The Start button made lifesomuch easier: it was a quick way to launch programs. As it matured through Windows XP, Vista and Windows 7, it got a lot better: it became a nifty way to find stuff on your PC. You just clicked, started typing the first couple of letters of what you were looking for – a document, an email, whatever – and the box was populated with offerings. Usually, what you were looking for was right there.It got prettier, too. In Windows 95, it was arather ugly button. In the XP default theme, it looked like a green headache tablet, though if that gave you a headache, you could chooseother themes, or even, if you preferred the vintage Windows 95 look, choose that.By the time we got to Windows Vista in January 2007, the Start button had morphed into aglowing orb, from which you could launch programs, search for stuff, access the control panel and shut down your computer. Or put it to sleep. Or log off from the network. Or switch user. Or hibernate. Yes,all of those.By Windows 7, the Start orb was a fixture in our lives. It sat there, unobtrusive, in the bottom left-hand corner of your screen, and glowed gently when you moused over it. Like the best technology, it didn't impinge on your consciousness. It just worked.Who moved my orb?Until it vanished. When you install Windows 8, you're first of all presented with the Metro UI, which is quite a surprise if you haven't dealt with it before. I think it will work well on touch devices, but on my desktop, I click straight through to the desktop, which reassuringly looks like Windows 7.Except for the lack of the Start button. Drop your eye down to the bottom left-hand corner and – it's gone. If you mouse over the hot corner, a thumbnail of the Metro start screen floats into view, which you can click on, and which takes you to the Metro start screen. (Duh.) Or you can mouse into the top right hand corner and the Charms bar floats into view. Click on either Start or Search, and you'll be taken to the Metro screen for those tasks. Or you can hit either Windows + w for the Metro search screen, or Windows + q for the Metro Start screen.I absolutelyhatethis. Instead of one quick click, it means faffing about with the mouse to find the hot corner, or remembering which combination of keystrokes brings up the dialog you want.Microsoft says that the "telemetry" from the user data returned to it by the Customer Experience Improvement Program suggested that people don't use the Start orb much. And sure, there are easier ways to launch programs in Windows 7 than by invoking them via Start: you can drag a shortcut on to the desktop, or pin a shortcut to the taskbar.I think it's more nuanced than that. Yes, I pinned my most-used applications to the taskbar in Windows 7. But the absence of the Start orb in Windows 8 is driving me crazy; I hadn't realised how much I used it to search for stuff.Microsoft has a lot riding on the launch of Windows 8 – it's a next-generation OS for touchscreen devices. But I suspect that if the Start orb doesn't make into the final version of Windows 8, then once punters start using their new PCs there will be a lot of grumbling about its absence, because while it might not make much sense in a touch environment, it makes loads of sense on a desktop.However, there is an answer. You can do aregistry hack to return the Start orb; and there various bits of software that resurrect it too, including one fromStardock.But here's hoping Microsoft sees sense and restores the Start orb in the final version of Windows 8. Please, Microsoft?
Since it made the leap in 2008 from developer to international publisher, Bethesda Softworks has cultivated an enviable reputation. After a growing-pains blip in 2009 – when it published the rather substandard efforts Wet and Rogue Warrior – it has stuck to a policy of emphasising quality over quantity, reinforced by the acquisition of id Software, the legendary outfit which, throughWolfenstein 3D, invented the first-person shooter and brought usDoomand Quake. As ever, Bethesda didn't disappoint at E3, showingDishonored– a definite game-of-the-show contender –Elder Scrolls OnlineandDawnguard, a vampire-themed add-on for Skyrim.DishonoredDishonored has been seen at shows in the past, but at this year's E3 it looked strikingly coherent and polished – as you would expect it to, since it is scheduled for release on 12 October. The co-designers,Harvey Smith and Raphael Colantonio, talked us through a substantial live demo, with Colantonio explaining: "We love first-person action games that mix story and stealth. We wanted playing Dishonored to feel like you've designed your own experience. So you have supernatural powers that you can combine however you please, such as teleportation, possession and bending time."Smith and Colantonio proceeded to show precisely how you can take the approach of your choice, by running through the same mission twice in wildly varying manners. First time out, stealth was the watchword. The mission took place inthe Golden Cat– essentially a high-class brothel – and involved assassinating thePendleton twins,CustisandMorgan, who are corrupt MPs who own a slave-mine (their baroque names give a flavour of Dishonored's deliciously florid, Victoriana-meets-steampunk ambience).The first play-through was a stealthy one, bringing to mind the originalDeus Ex(on which Smith worked). Smith and Colantonio were keen to point out that, rather than relying on scripting, the supernatural powers could be combined to unpredictable effect. We sawCorvo, the character you play, possessing a fish as a way to achieve stealthy entry via a drainage tunnel; Smith explained that you will only be able to possess humans when you acquire the highest level of the possession power. We also saw Corvo jumping from a great height but surviving, thanks to possessing a bystander below just before hitting the ground.The second play-through took more of a first-person shooter approach, with no concessions whatsoever to stealth. Even so, proceedings were far more imaginative than the average corridor-shooter: Corvo took people out with a crossbow, sticky grenades, a drop-assassination and even a plague of rats which left its victim's bones picked clean. Even with the weapons-based approach, at no point did we see a hail of bullets – ammo is clearly in short supply, so multiple enemies had to be taken out with a carefully assembled chain of attacks.Finally, another mission in which Corvo was pursued byTallboys– spindly 20-foot-high mechs, each controlled by a human – showed off other areas ofDunwall, the whale oil-powered city, based on Victorian London, in which Dishonored takes place. Dunwall looks spectacular – its art-direction is clearly at least as good as that of the originalBioShock. Clued-up, discerning gamers are already working themselves up into a state of excitement about Dishonored, and it made most people's lists of the best games on show at E3.The Elder Scrolls OnlineThe prospect of anMMOset in the world ofTamriel– familiar to anyone who has played one of the five Elder Scrolls RPGs, which is an awful lot of gamers – is mouth-watering indeed. Unless, perhaps, you work for Blizzard – The Elder Scrolls Online clearly has ambitions to usurp World of Warcraft's crown. On the evidence of the game's first showing, it has a good chance of becoming the MMO of choice.After the Bethesda vice-presidentPete Hinesrevealed the company has already been working on The Elder Scrolls Online for five years, Matt Firor, the head of Bethesda's sister company Zenimax Online, launched into a demo. He said: "It's the perfect IP for an MMO – it has dungeons, combat and will provide the opportunity to meet people and help them. It has a real-time combat system and a quest system, so you can go through the world at your own pace. And there's a PvP system, which can support hundreds of players on-screen at the same time."Firor took us for a quick tour around the MMO version of Tamriel, and it looked pretty familiar. Not that the landscape was quite as lush and detailed as that ofSkyrim, but that was only to be expected – MMOs have to take into account the demands of being played on PCs and Macs of varying specifications. But we saw a desert area and a jungle with Mayan-style architecture.He explained the basic plot: "The Elder Scrolls Online is set in Tamriel 1,000 years before the events in Skyrim – right before the rise ofTiber Septim, the first emperor." The backstory dictates that three alliances have emerged –the Ebonheart Pact,the Aldmeri Dominionandthe Daggerfall Covenant– and your choice of race will determine which of those you join (dark elves, for example, form part of the Ebonheart Pact).Firor hinted there will be political tensions between the alliances, adding: "Cyrodiil is broken and destroyed – its history states that it made a pact to raise the undead to help defend against the other alliances, so there is also an undead threat, which is different in different systems." And the game has a common enemy: Molag Bal, the Daedric Prince, and his necromancer, Mannimarco.DungeonsAn MMO wouldn't be worthy of the name without a healthy complement of dungeons, and The Elder Scrolls Online sounds well endowed in that area. Firor said: "There are several different dungeon types. Including public ones – since dungeons are more challenging than most places above ground, they are good places for you to meet players in the game. You can go raiding, negotiating traps and puzzles."CombatZenimax Online clearly hopes that one area in which The Elder Scrolls Online will have the edge over rival MMOs (even including recent efforts such as Star Wars: The Old Republic) is its combat system. Firor described it thus: "We wanted to have an action-oriented combat system. Every character can block, sneak and sprint." What we saw looked – unsurprisingly – less responsive than Skyrim or Oblivion's combat systems, but similar in terms of the way it worked (with control over each of your character's hands, for example).Other elements of the game that Firor let slip include the presence of a crafting system, and the concept of ultimate skills – skills are familiar to Skyrim players, but it seems they will only be able to call on ultimate skills very occasionally. Bethesda said  The Elder Scrolls Online will launch in 2013 (it refused to be more specific), for PC and Mac, and that it will be "laptop-friendly". If it manages to capture the spirit of its offline siblings – which it should, since it takes place in familiar settings including Skyrim, Morrowind and Daggerfall – it could well enjoy full-blown "gaming phenomenon" status.
US startup Ouya has attracted $2.3m (£1.47m) of pledges for its Android-based games console, less than 24 hours afterlaunching its campaignon crowdfunding website Kickstarter.Nearly 19,000 people havebacked the projectat the time of writing, and with 28 days still to go, it has a shot at rivalling the Pebble smart-watch, which attracted $10.3m of Kickstarter pledges earlier in 2012.Chief executive Julie Uhrman had told the Guardian that venture capital firms had been skittish about the prospects for the Ouya console, leading the company to raise its seed funding from family and friends, before turning to Kickstarter to get feedback from consumers and developers to help them take it all the way.The console will cost less than $100 and is due to go on sale in the first quarter of 2013. Every unit will ship with a software development kit (SDK), and already has a number of prominent developers expressing their support for its open, hacker-friendly ethos.Ouya has already sold out  a number of its reward tiers on Kickstarter, including 500 people pledging $225 or more to reserve a console and two controllers with their username etched into them, and 200 pledging $699 or more for the "Developer Special", which includes a rooted version of the console, early SDK access and a year's promotion for their game.Reaching the funding goal so quickly is early vindication for Ouya, but it will also bring additional pressures as the company aims to meet the expectations of its early adopters, while also positioning its console for mainstream success. Here are some of the key challenges:How open is open?This is a key point: What's got a lot of developers excited about Ouya is its promise of being fully open and hackable. By making its device easy to root – a process that won't void the warranty – using standard screws and including a USB port, Ouya is making the right moves on the hardware front.Claims of openness can lead to a fall, though: developers will be scrutinising Ouya's terms and practises, and will make their views known if the company falls short of their expectations.One important aspect: Ouya won't just be selling a console: it will be running an app store. While any developer will be able to make an Android game (or, indeed, a non-game app) for Ouya, the company will be in charge of promotion, curation and general store management – not to mention moderation.How will it decide which games to promote to Ouya owners? What will its policy be in legal disputes, such as trademark infringement or game cloning? How will it keep its store easily navigable as more and more games come out? Which payment options will it support?There are plenty of lessons to learn from Apple, Google and Microsoft – the treatment of indie games on the latter's Xbox Live store included. Ouya will be thinking hard about how to balance its openness with some of the decisions required to be an effective store-owner.Good games, good games...Ouya is a games console: the games have to be good. A honkingly obvious statement, but one that can't be forgotten. What games will be available when Ouya launches, and will they be any good?The company's strategy thus far is sensible on this score. It's absolutely right that there are lots of developers either in or coming out of the console market and setting up their own studios, and that there are lots of mobile and/or social games developers who'd love to take their games to televisions. There's a lot of talent to be tapped.One risk: developers focusing on simply porting their existing Android mobile games to Ouya as a way of testing the waters, leading to a rash of launch titles originally designed for phones rather than TV screens. Another risk: studios with console backgrounds simply apeing popular genres on PS3 and Xbox 360, but scaled down for Ouya's hardware capabilities.At least there's an obvious solution presenting itself here. Ouya has more-than doubled its initial funding target in its first day on Kickstarter, and may add several million dollars more over the next 28 days.Setting aside a decent chunk of that money to commission original and innovative games for launch would be a sensible strategy. Get developers thinking about how to make best use of Ouya's touchpad'n'buttons controller, while reducing the financial risks that might lead them down the pure-port route.Who is Ouya for?An open, hackable games console running Android where every unit ships with an SDK? No wonder geeks like me are excited about Ouya. But a $100 games console that can also run apps (specifically TV-focused apps like Netflix) with a sleek design? This could be bigger than that.Ouya's challenge over the coming months is to figure out its target audiences, and based on that, its distribution and marketing strategy to make this a console for everyone, not just for people who know about Android development and Kickstarter crowdfunding.Which is not to say it doesn't make sense to focus on developers first – the priority was hitting that first funding target and getting game-makers excited about the company's plans.It's just that if Ouya is really going to disrupt the established console manufacturers as Uhrman hopes, the company needs a nailed-down strategy for getting beyond those early adopters as quickly as possible next year, to raise awareness before Sony and Microsoft unveil their new consoles as anticipated.Above all: ExecutionOuya has smart people on board already, and its crowdfunding campaign should give it the resources to hire a few more. That's good, because above all, the key challenge now is execution. Those first 19,000 backers are pledging based on some slinky product shots, specs and a well-argued pitch for how Ouya plans to go about its business.The real work is delivering on that, as with any Kickstarter campaign. Expectations are high, but that means further to fall if Ouya messes up. If the console is buggy when it goes on sale, or if the store doesn't work properly, or if a game gets onto the store that scams players, or...The amount of funding that Ouya has attracted on Kickstarter so far is impressive. That's not success, though. Success will come in 2013, if the company uses that funding to deliver a device (and a store, and a developer ecosystem around it) that delivers on its considerable potential.
San Francisco is planning to ban its city officials from buying Apple computers after the technology company, headquartered nearby in Cupertino, dropped out of a green certification scheme.The move, in response toApple pulling out of the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT) last week, is of symbolic rather than financial importance, as the cityreportedly only spent $45,579 on Mac laptops and desktops in 2010. Applereportedprofits of $11.6bn (£7.2bn) in April.Melanie Nutter, director of San Francisco's Department of Environment, said: "We are disappointed that Apple chose to withdraw from EPEAT, and we hope that the city saying it will not buy Apple products will make Apple reconsider its participation."Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman,said: "Apple takes a comprehensive approach to measuring our environmental impact and all of our products meet the strictest energy efficiency standards backed by the US government, energy star 5.2. We also lead the industry by reporting each product's greenhouse gas emissions on our website, and Apple products are superior in other important environmental areas not measured by EPEAT, such as removal of toxic materials."Electronics companiespay to be a member of the EPEAT scheme, which measures products on several criteria including energy efficiency and how easy products are to disassemble for recycling. The scheme does not cover tablets and smartphones, such as the iPad and iPhone.Apple's environmental performance has increasingly come under pressure from campaigners, withthe company recently releasing details of the carbon footprint of the US-based data centrethat powers its iCloud service in response to a critical Greenpeace report.
BlackBerry-maker Research In Motion (RIM) says it may sell one or both of its two corporate jets as part of efforts to transform itself into what chief executive Thorsten Heins calls a "lean, mean hunting machine".The company told the Guardian that it is looking at options relating to its two executive Dassault jets, which can seat nine and 14 people. Initial reports suggested that the company would try to sell the smaller jet, which could fetch between $6m and $7m, while reducing outgoings in maintenance and ground crew. "We're looking at options with both our aircraft costs and finding ways to reduce our travel while still making sure we keep in close contact with our partners around the world," a spokesperson said. "It's all part of the effort to find ways to reduce costs and drive efficiencies that Thorsten Heins has talked about."RIM is trying to save $1bn (£650m) in annual operating costs after two quarters of heavy losses, and with no clear end in sight to its problems. Analysts have questioned whether it can survive in its current state, or whether it could head for the bankruptcy courts or be split, with its security software being purchased by a US company – because the US government relies on BlackBerrys for secure communications – and the handset business being sold to a Chinese company.RIM has owned the jets for at least two years.The news came as Heins faced shareholders in Waterloo, Ontario, for the first time at the company's annual general meeting, following a year in which the company's shares have lost 95% of their value from their peak, and 80% over the past year. Its market capitalisation is now just $3.74bn, of which 85% derives from its patent portfolio covering email security, messaging and handsets, Heins suggested at the weekend.Heins told shareholders he was not satisfied with the company's performance but that he was excited about the prospects of its upcoming BlackBerry 10 software, which he suggested in another interview could appear by January – although officially it is due only by the first quarter of 2013.RIM's stock has since been trading near a nine-year low. Two weeks ago, it announced disappointing quarterly earnings, plans to cut 30% of its workforce and the latest delay in BlackBerry 10.
A selection of 16 new and notable apps for you today:Next IssueThis is US-only for now, but Next Issue Media's app is causing a stir in the magazine industry. The idea: pay $9.99 a month or $14.99 month for unlimited access to collections of magazines – monthly and bi-weekly mags in the former case, plus weekly mags in the latter. Wired, Vanity Fair, Vogue, InStyle, GQ, Elle, Esquire and Better Homes and Gardens are among the initial crop. A similar model is being tried in France and the UK by Lekiosk.Android / iPadGoogle+Google has released its very-impressive new tablet app for Google+ on iPad, following its Android debut. Photos and Hangouts video chatting are the key features, along with a slick design.iPadAA London Map 1891Here's a fun idea: a mapping app that won't help you get around today, but instead provides a view of London's streets in 1891, with the ability to pinpoint your current location and search by postcode, street name and places of interest.iPhoneGun BrosGlu's Gun Bros game has been a hit on iOS and Android, but now it's also on Windows Phone. It's a dual-stick action game that involves, well, shooting lots of people, while possibly spending money on in-app payments to help you shoot even more. Xbox Live is fully integrated now, though.Windows PhoneNotezartNot the first of its kind, but still interesting. Notezart is a "cloud music score book with social elements" for iPad. It aims to get musicians taking photos of their printed scores and uploading them to its service, to view on iPad. More than 190,000 public domain scores are available to download too.iPadBingo Rush by Buffalo StudiosMore than 10m people are playing Bingo Rush on Facebook, but now it's available on iPhone too. It's bingo played against the clock, with credits, coins and power-ups unlocked (or bought) as you play.iPhoneGreenpeace Mobile TacticsGreenpeace USA has launched a (globally-available) app for supporters to photograph products, email companies and share details of their activities on social networks – for example, taking shots of tuna cans and emailing them to the company responsible to demand changes to its fishing practices.iPhoneAudi Mileage TrackerAudi UK has worked with agency Somo on a new app for drivers to keep track of their business journeys, using GPS to log the details, calculating expenses and exporting data as emails, to be used when filing expense claims.iPhoneCro-Mag RallyRemember the earliest days of Apple's App Store, when racing game Cro-Mag Rally was one of the big launch games? It took a while, but the game is finally available on Android devices too, courtesy of a port from developer Citizen12 Studio. As before, stone-age karting action is the focus.AndroidAnatomy &amp; Physiology Revealed: Skeletal &amp; MuscularThis iPad book-app is based on McGraw-Hill's print edition, promising "human cadaver photographs blended together with a state-of-the-art layering technique let you peel away layers of the human body to reveal more than 5,000 anatomical structures." Possibly have your breakfast first.iPadiFit OutsideiFit Outside is the latest fitness app that tracks your runs, rides and hikes as you go, complete with a "CadenceMeter" feature to help pick up the right pace while running. A range of other features, from weight-tracking to competing against your previous performances on the same routes, are included. And it all syncs in with the iFit Cloud service, to access data on other devices.iPhoneSonarflow for SpotifyDeveloper Spectralmind is the latest company looking to build discovery features on top of Spotify's streaming music service. Its app digs into data on subscribers' most listened-to and starred tracks, as well as Spotify's own top tracks list, with the aim of recommending similar artists.iPhone / iPadRebtelRebtel's app competes with Voice-over-IP apps like Skype, but in a slightly different way: using the voice network rather than wireless data. The theory being that it can still save money on calls, but without the risk of them being foiled by a dodgy data connection. It's on other platforms, but is now on Windows Phone too.Windows PhoneTripAdvisor in Augmented RealityAugmented reality firm Wikitude has launched a standalone BlackBerry app devoted to travel site TripAdvisor, layering its data on restaurants, hotels and attractions over the live camera feed.BlackBerryThe Wee Red AppThe Glasgow Evening Times newspaper has turned its Wee Red Book football annual into an iOS app, offering historic records going back to its first edition in 1928, as well as results, tables and fixtures for the upcoming 2012-13 season in Scotland.iPhone / iPadMelod.ioMelod.io is an app for creating "fun, personalised musical voice messages" to send to friends and family, recording your voice over soundtracks including dubstep, reggae, hip hop and, er, the Happy Birthday song.iPhone
Google faces a $22.5m fine (£14.5m) for breaching the privacy of iPhone and iPad users after bypassing cookie rejection settings on the devices, according to reports.If confirmed, the fine would be the largest ever imposed by the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) against a single company – and would be the second time this year that the search giant has fallen foul of regulators in the US.The Wall Street Journalreportsthat the FTC and Google are close to agreeing a settlement over the privacy breach, in which Google circumvented Apple's protections on the iPhone and iPad against the setting of third-party "cookies" – small text files stored on the user's device – for tracking where users went on the web.While the users had to press a link to ask for Google cookies to be set, the circumvention meant that cookies from Google's DoubleClick ad network were also set on the their device – so that they would be tracked without their explicit consent. Apple's browser settings would otherwise reject cookies from third-party sites such as DoubleClick.The discovery of the circumvention, by Jonathan Mayer of Stanford University, was first revealed in February. Millions of users of Apple's iOS software on iPhones and iPads could have been affected, said Mayer. Google declined a request from the Guardian to specify when it began the tracking.Google's likely payout comes amid increasing focus on both sides of the Atlantic on what some see as monopolistic and aggressive behaviour. Although it the penalty would be a tiny part of Google's $40bn annual revenues and $10bn annual profits, it comes as the FTC is also investigating Google over whether it favours its own properties, such as YouTube and its Shopping service, over rivals.However, Google may have escaped further prosecution for breaching anFTC consent decree over privacy that it signed in March 2011because although the breach seems to have started in or before December 2011, the documentation in which Google explained what it would do dates back to 2009, before the decree, which covered privacy breaches caused by the Google Buzz social network, since closed.Whether or not the FCC fines Google over the cookie infraction, it will also publish a report which would detail how it reached the decision, probably with documentation from Google about how many people were affected and for how long.The revelation of the unauthorised cookies led to widespread condemnation of Google's moves in February by groups including the Electronic Privacy Information Center in the US. Cory Doctorow, a columnist for the Guardian, said at the time that he thought pressure being put on staff inside Google to integrated "social" elements into its products was being done "at the expense of the quality of its other services".Googleinsisted at the timethat the ad tracking was inadvertent and that the workaround to plant the Google cookie was feasible within Apple's system. It said then: "The Safari browser contained functionality that then enabled other Google advertising cookies to be set on the browser [by other advertising companies using the DoubleClick network]. We didn't anticipate that this would happen, and we have now started removing these advertising cookies from Safari browsers. It's important to stress that, just as on other browsers, these advertising cookies do not collect personal information."Asked whether a fine was imminent, Google responded: "We cannot comment on any specifics. However we do set the highest standards of privacy and security for our users. The FTC is focused on a 2009 help centre page published more than two years before our consent decree, and a year before Apple changed its cookie-handling policy. We have now changed that page and taken steps to remove the ad cookies, which collected no personal information, from Apple's browsers."Apple said at the time that "We are aware that some third parties are circumventing Safari's privacy features and we are working to put a stop to it."In April theFTC fined Google $25,000for impeding its investigation into whether the company broke the law in grabbing data from open Wi-Fi networks while collecting its Street View data. The FTC's report, published at the same time as the fine was levied, revealed that managers and staff had been told that the Street View system would also collect data from open Wi-Fi networks as it passed.Meanwhile the European Commission is considering a set of proposals from Google over concerns that it is using its monopoly in search – which is far greater in Europe than the US – to edge out rivals in "vertical" search for shopping. Google submitted its suggestions for ameliorating the EC's concerns earlier this month, and the EC is expected to publish them for rivals to comment on if it finds them initially acceptable.The FTC declined to comment ahead of the expected ruling.
Mid-week! I'm at the Develop conference in Brighton again today, hopefully meeting up with Britsoft luminaries David Braben and Ian Livingstone!
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM CEO on What Went Wrong and the Future of BlackBerry &gt;&gt; CIOLong interview. No mention of the jets.Microsoft Surface chassis suffers low yieldsMicrosoft reportedly planned to adopt unibody magnesium-aluminum chassis for its Surface tablet PCs originally, but affected by chassis makers' limited capacity, the company has instead turned to adopt a magnesium chassis and use MegVapor technology for surface treatment to allow the device to feature a similar exterior to traditional metal chassis; however, due to the method having a rather low yield rate, is has greatly affected Microsoft in trying to mass produce its new tablet PCs, according to sources from the upstream supply chain.Microsoft has not confirmed the rumors.Note: Digitimes "reportedly" klaxon. But: of concern if accurate.UK consumers deeply skeptical over data collection &gt;&gt; WSJ Tech EuropeBen Rooney:The British public is deeply skeptical of companies collecting personal data, does not trust companies to safeguard that data, and opponents of data collection overwhelmingly outnumber those who support it, according to a report published Tuesday.Data Nation 2012, published by Deloitte, found that while 82% of the U.K. population are aware their data is collected by organizations, only 29% are confident companies will not sell or share their data with other groups without their knowledge.Sceptical, dammit.Online bank robbers face jail time for e-crimes &gt;&gt; BBC NewsWe missed this last week:Two men who used computer viruses to steal cash from online bank accounts have been jailed. Pavel Cyganok was jailed for five years and Ilja Zakrevski for four years for masterminding the hi-tech crimes.A third man, Aldis Krummins, was jailed for two years for helping launder some of the cash stolen by the pair. UK police were tipped off about the criminals by Estonian police who suspected Zakrevski was using viruses to target Britons.Cyganok and Zakrevski used the SpyEye trojan to steal login details for online bank accounts. Stolen data was uploaded to servers to which the pair had access.The mobile market in Russia (PDF) &gt;&gt; MTGSMSeems that smartphones make 26.7% of sales, but560.9%56.9% by value. Average smartphone prices are falling; Nokia dominates, followed by Samsung. Symbian leads the pack (37.8% of units sold in Q1 2012) over Android (35.1%). The iPhone has about 7% of the market. If you wondered where all the Symbian sales are, here's your answer.Exclusive: Microsoft's Ballmer throws down gauntlet against Apple &gt;&gt; CRN"We are trying to make absolutely clear we are not going to leave any space uncovered to Apple," said an exuberant Ballmer in a 30-minute interview after addressing some 16,000 partners at the company's annual Worldwide Partner Conference in Toronto. "We are not. No space uncovered that is Apple's."We have our advantages in productivity," he said. "We have our advantages in terms of enterprise management, manageability. We have got our advantages in terms of when you plug into server infrastructure in the enterprise."But we are not going to let any piece of this [go uncontested to Apple]," shouted Ballmer. "Not the consumer cloud. Not hardware software innovation. We are not leaving any of that to Apple by itself. Not going to happen. Not on our watch.Some have suggested he implied Microsoft would make a smartphone. In fact, he simply ignored the question and talked about the Surface.Microsoft and Aluratek Inc. sign patent agreement covering Android and Chrome-based devices &gt;&gt; Microsoft.comMicrosoft Corp. and Aluratek, Inc. have signed a patent agreement that provides broad coverage under Microsoft's patent portfolio for Aluratek's eReaders and tablets running the Android or Chrome Platform. Although the contents of the agreement have not been disclosed, the parties indicate that Microsoft will receive royalties from Aluratek under the agreement.Compare this with...Microsoft and Coby Electronics sign patent agreement covering Android and Chrome-based devices &gt;&gt; Microsoft.comMicrosoft Corp. and Coby Electronics Corporation have signed a patent agreement that provides broad coverage under Microsoft's patent portfolio for Coby's products running the Android or Chrome Platform. Although the contents of the agreement have not been disclosed, the parties indicate that Microsoft will receive royalties from Coby under the agreement.Android is Microsoft's best new income stream. Fascinating how Apple isn't taking this tack at all.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
From a semi-rural suburb north of Auckland, Kim Dotcom is mounting an increasingly belligerent counter-offensive against US authorities' efforts to prosecute him over his now defunct Megaupload file storage site.In an interview with the Guardian, Dotcom, who remains on bail in Coatesville, New Zealand, awaiting an extradition hearing, declared himself to be in "fighting mood" and eager to refute a "case built on malicious conduct".The charges against him, he said, were part of a "foul game" on the part of the US government, and that funds permitting, "I am going to war."Dotcom is being sought by the US to face criminal copyright charges related to the MegaUpload file storage site, which at its peak amounted for an estimated 4%  of all internet traffic.Prosecutors allege he and his co-accused associates were complicit in and encouraged the distribution of copyright-protected films, music and other material.The German-born New Zealand resident's remarks, in an email interview with the Guardian, follow Tuesday's announcement that his extradition hearing, scheduled to begin in less than a month, has been put back until April next year.On Wednesday morning Dotcom laid down the gauntlet to the US department of justice, offering to travel to the US under his own steam and faces charges  – with conditions. "Hey DOJ," Dotcom said on his Twitter account, "we will go to the US. No need for extradition. We want bail, funds unfrozen for lawyers and living expenses."He told the Guardian that the offer was genuine but he was not holding his breath. "Considering the way the US government has conducted their case and the way I was treated, I never expect to get a fair trial in the United States," he said."We are not expecting to hear back regarding the offer and I remain committed to fighting extradition in New Zealand."Dotcom has 22 lawyers working on his case in different countries. He says he faces a mounting legal bill, exacerbated by the rescheduled extradition hearing.The delay was made inevitable by the need to first resolve a clutter of outstanding legal disputes. The Auckland high court ruled last month that the January raid on Dotcom's mansion was conducted illegally, that evidence has been wrongly withheld from his legal team, and that theFBI had inappropriately cloned hard drivesand taken them from the country.An earlier district court instruction for the FBI to provide copies of cloned drives to Dotcom's lawyers is expected to be appealed, and other decisions may also be taken to higher courts.Those who interpreted the postponement as a victory for Dotcom were mistaken, he told the Guardian. "People might think it's good news. But it's not. Justice delayed is justice denied. And that's the foul game the US government is playing. They have terminated my business without a trial. They have frozen my assets without a hearing."They are appealing the decision of a New Zealand judge who has ordered the US government to provide evidence before the extradition hearing starts."US authorities had dragged other countries into a vendetta driven by special interests, he said. "They have been misleading the Hong Kong and New Zealand government to destroy a legitimate business and 220 jobs by telling them stories about child pornography and terrorist propaganda on Megaupload," he said."This whole case is built on malicious conduct. It is a stillborn case and everyone can see it. I am in a fighting mood and if I get my assets unlocked or somehow find funding to defend myself I am going to war."The Megaupload founder last week alleged that the pursuit of Dotcom wasdirectly ordered by the US vice-president, Joe Biden, at the behest of Hollywood studio executives– a claim the Motion Picture Association of America has rejected.Next in Dotcom's sights is Biden's boss, in a rather more colourful medium. Dotcom, who has been recording an album with the help of Black Eyed Peas producer Printz Board at studios belonging to Crowded House's Neil Finn, is expected to release a new song and video this week pointing the finger directly at Barack Obama. The song reportedly includes the lyrics ""We must oppose / those who chose / to turn innovation into crime".The track, Dotcom wrote in an email to the Guardian, would mark "the birth of a powerful movement and CHANGE".
It is the US-based crowdfunding website behind dozens of eclectic projects, including a$1m-backed fantasy webcomicand an unlikely brand of"rugged yet refined" men's underwear.Now the site, Kickstarter, is to open in the UK, allowing British startups to solicit donations from the potential buyers among the public that could help get their projects off the ground.Kickstarter has already proved a remarkable success in the US. Since 2009, its users have helped fund more than 60,000 projects with nearly $280m, ranging from digital innovations to campaigns involving movies and photography. The site makes its money by levying a 5% fee on any projects that reach or exceed their funding target.So far seven projects – such as avisual-music projectand acollection of "e-paper" watches called Pebble– have managed to raise more than $1m.Kickstarter confirmed ina tweeton Tuesday that it will be open to UK-based projects this autumn. "People in the UK will be able to launch projects on Kickstarter starting this autumn! More info soon! &lt;3 &lt;3 &lt;3," the sitesaid.Crowdfunding websites have become a popular way to launch projects with backing from digital-savvy users across the world. The number of such sites – which includesCrowdfunderandIndiegogo– have grown rapidly alongside petitioning websites such as38 Degrees. Their principal advantage is that they can be used to fund one-off or proof-of-concept projects which might have been turned down for broader venture capital funding. Some have speculated that they could even disrupt traditional venture capital funding.Equally, some of the most successful projects in fundraising terms have come from fully fledged companies which have already had venture backing.But while Kickstarter has the potential to transform an idea into a product, only 44% of projects actually reach their funding target, according tostatisticsreleased by the company.Kickstarter uses Amazon Payments for users to donate to a project. Anyone with an Amazon Payments account – effectively, anyone who has bought a product from Amazon – can donate to a project, but to date only US-registered businesses have been able to receive the proceeds.Some UK projects have sidestepped Kickstarter's rules by using a US-registered firm, but the full UK launch is expected to vastly increase the number of British businesses using the site.
Instead of prosecuting elite computer hackers, the US government should recruit them to launch cyber-attacks against Islamist terrorists and other foes, according to a leading military thinker and government adviser.The brilliance of hacking experts could be put to use on behalf of the US in the same way as German rocket scientists were enlisted after the second world war, said John Arquilla, a professor of defence analysis at the US Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California, in an interview with the Guardian.He said that the US had fallen behind in the cyber race and needed to set up a "new Bletchley Park" of computer whizzes and codecrackers to detect, track and disrupt enemy networks. "If this was being done, the war on terror would be over," he said.Arquilla, who invented the term cyberwarfare two decades ago, said a few master hackers had already been recruited but more were needed."Let's just say that in some places you find guys with body piercings and non-regulation haircuts. But most of these sorts of guys can't be vetted in the traditional way. We need a new institutional culture that allows us to reach out to them."Many dabbled in illegal or questionable acts but the US, he noted, had turnedWernher von Braun,Hitler's top scientist, into an American hero after putting him to work on US rockets and space programmes.Arquilla lambasted lengthy jail terms for hacking, saying it "poisoned" relations between both sides. "It's very, very troubling." He disagreed with the attempt toextradite Gary McKinnon, a British system administrator who has been accused by one US prosecutor of the "biggest military hack of all time" using the code name Solo."I think it's ridiculous. They're trying to use deterrences that won't work."Arquilla, who advised General Norman Schwarzkopf during the first gulf war and secretary of defence Donald Rumsfeld during the second, estimated there were around 100 master hackers in the world, with many, if not most, in Asia and Russia.He had established contact with several in the US – "they are like shy woodland animals" – and even brought one to meet the CEO of a major company to alert him to his information system's vulnerabilities. The executive, scornful at first, was stunned when the hacker broke into the system with a handheld device in just a few minutes. "All hell broke loose," said Arquilla, who declined to identify the company.The Pentagon and other security agencies must exploit that sort of ability, he said. "This is huge human capital. They are the rangers of the cyber sphere. Most of them are drawn to it for its beauty and complexity." Few had overt political agendas, but they could be turned into patriots. "Most of the hackers I have known would love to destroy al-Qaida."Arquilla has long clashed with sceptics whodownplay cyber warfare as unproven hype. He said felt vindicated last year when the Pentagon unveiled a new strategy for protecting military computer networks from hackers and designated cyberspace an "operational domain".The professor was part of a five-member team which advised the Obama administration last year. "Old Higgs had to wait 50 years," he said, referring to the physicist Peter Higgs, whose proposed Higgs boson particle was recently all but confirmed. "I had to wait only 20 years." Last November he published an article titledFrom Blitzkrieg to Bitskrieg: the military encounter with computers.The Naval Postgraduate School has close links with the special forces and gives masters and PhD courses to officers from across the services. Arquilla, a contributor to Foreign Policy, is a former director of the Pentagon's Information Operations Center for Excellence. He was also a consultant on the 1995 cyber thriller The Net, starring Sandra Bullock.The veteran analyst said al-Qaida's loose, decentralised organisational structure had flummoxed the US a decade ago, and that under strategist Abu Musab al-Suri it would become even flatter and looser, impeding traditional counter-terror efforts. The movement, however, was vulnerable. "This global network simply can't thrive without the world wide web and internet. It can't operate without it, or if it does, at a greatly reduced level."Master hackers, he said, could sabotage their communications. "We must create a newBletchley Park. Detect, track, disrupt, that's the key. Back-hack so they don't know how we're doing it. And even if we can't do certain things, make them think we can."Arquilla scorned the state department's admission in May that it had hacked Yemeni tribal websites to change messages about killing Americans as a feeble shadow of what could be done. "If we take the war to them we can win the network war." TheStuxnetworm which attacked Iran's nuclear programme showed the true potential of what he termed "cybotage".The professor stressed that cyber operations, like air campaigns, could not win wars on their own. Unlike some thinkers he did not fear a major "cyber-Pearl Harbor" attack on the US, saying that the risk was instead small, multiple attacks costing hundreds of billions of dollars.Hacking, he said, was most effective when incorporated into wider military strategy. The Russians, he said, pioneered this during the August 2008 conflict with Georgia when cyber-attacks sliced through US-designed technology "like a knife through butter", disrupting Georgian forces and paving Russia's quick victory.Moscow denied mounting cyber operations, and their provenance was never discovered. But Arquilla said "Russian-aligned interests" successfully attacked Estonia's networks during a diplomatic row in 2007. "It's all veiled, but the real leaders in the field are the Russians." China and North Korea were also highly sophisticated. "They understand the strategic uses."Arquilla compared computer firewalls to the Maginot line – France's failed defence against Germany – and urged US state agencies and companies to use strong encryption and cloud computing to keep data on the move. "The level of insecurity is huge. The average individual is a zombie in some hacker's botnet within half an hour of going online."He accused the Pentagon and its political masters of wasting billions on pointless aircraft carriers, tanks and planes at the expense of nimbler, leaner strategy. "Militaries often take time to adapt. Think world war one and generals using Waterloo tactics."
I can't speak to anyone else's experience of playing Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim (from here on known simply as Skyrim), but I sank a sizable chunk of time into it. I didn't max out my character, and I certainly didn't uncover every map-point the game had to offer, but when I eventually emerged from my Skyrim revelry I checked my stats and noted that I'd managed to lose 120+ hours of my life to the game.The hook was deep, and so it was with some trepidation that I booted up the game again to review its new DLC, Dawnguard. Say whatever you like about Bethesda, but you certainly can't accuse it of skimping on content when it comes to Skyrim.Dawnguard activates when the player's character hits level 10  –although I'd advise players tackle it only after they've shot past level 30 as the DLC contains some powerful foes.The player will start to hear rumours of the Dawnguard and will soon be approached by a member of this vampire-hunting faction who'll offer them the chance to join their ranks. When this happens, a marker will appear on their in-game map, and if the player beats a trail to it, they'll find the Dawnguard's castle.The leader of the Dawnguard, Isran, will then task them with investigating a cavern that vampires have been seen skulking about in.This quest ends with the player releasing a woman called Serana from a tomb and accompanying her back to her home – a dark, Gothic-looking castle right at the opposite end of the map from the Dawnguard's HQ.It turns out Serana is a vampire and upon her return home, her father, Harkon, will offer the player the gift of his vampiric embrace.This is the point at which the player will be forced to pick a side in the secret war between the vampires and Dawnguard, and it's worth saving your game before this happens.Whichever side the player ends up on, the DLC will take around 10 hours to complete and if they want their money's worth from Dawnguard, it's worth making sure they can return to the point where the DLC's narrative forks.It's also worth pointing out that the DLC highly favours the vampire faction, so any players whose instincts tell them to opt for the Dawnguard are advised to make sure they can give the bloodsuckers a go at some point.The missions in the vampire storyline are more interesting than the rather generic narrative tied to the Dawnguard faction. Furthermore, once Harkon embraces the player, they gain access to a rather impressive list of powers.By clicking in the right shoulder button, players can assume the form of a Vampire Lord, a feral beast of the night that's both tougher and more deadly than their human form.The Vampire Lord form allows the player to dish out brutal melee attacks. If they click in the thumbstick, however, the player's character will hover a few centimetres above the ground.This allows them to move faster than most opponents they'll face and they can raise the dead with a left-handed attack while draining life force from attackers with their right. They can also transform into a swarm of bats, which allows them a quick escape if the tide of battle goes against them.The Vampire Lord also has its own perk constellation, which allows players to unlock new abilities through draining the life of opponents. These powers include turning into mist, animating gargoyles as allies and chocking enemies from afar (like Darth Vader).While all of this sounds rather impressive, its implementation is less so. First of all, if the player assumes Vampire Lord form, the game switches to a third-person-perspective, which in tightly enclosed environments can play havoc with the camera.Furthermore, the Vampire Lord's shape and size can restrict the character's movement; you often won't be able to fit through doorways and corridors. In Vampire Lord form players also can't loot bodies, pick up items, open chests, access their inventory or use their map.It also takes 10 or so seconds to switch between forms, so it's unadvisable to do so in the middle of a battle as you're likely to sustain quite a bit of damage from attacking foes.Still, as ropy as the Vampire Lord mechanics are, they're preferable to the new kit you're given if you decide to fight on the side of righteousness.As a Dawnguard soldier, players gain access to a crossbow and some armoured trolls as allies. They get a new shout too (as you do with the vampires) but there's no new perk tree offered unless they're playing a werewolf. In this instance they unlock new powers if they consume freshly killed humans.Whichever side the player lands up on, by the end of the DLC they'll have a new shout, new allies and a castle they can use as a new base of operations. They will also have some new powers and new weapons to aid them in their further explorations of Skyrim if they haven't already exhausted all of the content the main game has to offer.And that's probably Dawnguard's biggest selling point; it's the best excuse – if you needed one – to return to Bethesda's enchanting RPG beast.While the new DLC will take players 10 or so hours per faction to complete if they follow its narrative rigidly, players such as myself who rejoin the game with tons of locations uncovered and a lengthy list of unfinished side quests risk sinking even more time into it.Each time I embarked on a Dawnguard mission, a new location, a new character or a new bauble would catch my eye and send me running off on a tangent that would take hours to complete. It's a testament to the wealth of content Skyrim offers that 120 or so hours of playing time still leaves so much of the game undiscovered.The new DLC contains a couple of mechanical flaws, its story feels undercooked at times and, because this is a Bethesda game, it is by no means bug-free. But if you already own a copy of Skyrim, buying Dawnguard isn't so much a good decision to make as it is a no-brainer.In fact, what are you still reading this for? Go! Shoo! Skyrim is calling to you again, dear reader. Heed her call.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
US startup Ouya has launched a Kickstarter funding campaign for its Android-based games console, which will cost under $100 when it goes on sale in the first quarter of 2013.The console – also called Ouya – has been designed by Yves Béhar, best known for his work on Jawbone's Jambox speaker, and the One Laptop per Child project. The Verge publishedinitial detailsearly in July, but the company has now gone public with its plans.Ouya is aiming toraise $950k on crowdfunding site Kickstarterto complete development on the console, make the first production run and fund the development of some launch games. When it goes on sale, it will ship internationally."We think we're really going to disrupt the console market," says Julie Uhrman, Ouya's chief executive, in an interview with The Guardian. "It's inexpensive, all the games will be free to play, and it's open to any developer that wants to make a game for the TV."The device will run Google's Android 4.0 software, with a customised user interface designed for TVs and its own curated app store.By "free to play", Uhrman means that every game available on Ouya's store will have a free component: either demos where players can then pay to upgrade to the full version, or freemium games that make their money from in-app purchases."We've seen a lot of developers leave triple-A console development shops and do mobile gaming, which is why a lot of the creative and exciting games are going to mobile platforms," says Uhrman."Yet TV is still the best screen: the number one platform if you survey gamers. It's where the majority of gameplay happens and the majority of dollars are spent, and it's the best screen, from its HD quality to surround sound to that lean-back communal experience. We want to bring games back to the television."Ouya will have a Tegra 3 quad-core processor inside, 1GB of RAM and 8GB of flash memory, and a 1080p HDMI connection. It will come with a wireless gaming controller with two analogue sticks, a D-pad, eight buttons and a touchpad.Ouya's controller includes physical buttons and a touchpadUhrman says the controller is key to Ouya: the physical buttons and sticks for twitch games like shoot 'em ups, racing and sports games, with the touchscreen used to play existing Android games designed for smartphones. Over time, she hopes new titles will take advantage of both.Another key feature for Ouya is its openness. The company will actively encourage hackers to tinker with the device. "The console and controller are both openable, with standard screws," she says. Rooting the device won't void its warranty, either."People will be able to lift off the top, boost chips, add features and memory, and there's a USB port to add peripherals too. We'll publish the hardware design if enough people are curious about it."Meanwhile, anyone buying an Ouya will get a software development kit (SDK) thrown in, and every unit is a debug console. "For the same price it costs to become an iOS developer, we'll give you a console and an SDK for free," says Uhrman.Ouya's Kickstarter launch was accompanied by endorsements from several prominent developers, including inXile's Brian Fargo – which recently raised nearly $3m on the site for its Wasteland 2 game – and Canabalt creator Adam Saltsman.Minecraft developer Mojang is also quoted in Ouya's launch materials, although – and it's to the company's credit that this is included – it's a more cautious welcome."If Ouya delivers on the promise of being the first true open gaming platform that gives indie developers access to the living room gaming market, yes that is a great idea. We will follow the development of Ouya and see how it resonates with gamers. I could see all current Mojang games go on the platform if there's a demand for it."Although based on Android 4.0, Ouya will have its own app storeThe first task is to raise that initial $950k on Kickstarter, although other recent crowdfunding examples – inXile but also Double Fine Adventure and the Pebble smart-watch – show it could smash through that target quickly and push on to a much greater amount.Pledges run from $10 to reserve a username through $90 to get a console and controller; $225 for a console plus two controllers with their username etched on; $699 for a "Developer Special" first-run Ouya, early SDK access and a year's promotion of their game; and $1,337 for an "Elite Developer Special" that adds priority email access to the Ouya team, and tickets to its launch event.30 backers who pledge $5k or more get a day hanging out with Behar and his company fuseproject, while 20 who pledge $10k or more get dinner with the team and their username etched into the entire first production run of consoles."VCs are still somewhat skittish when they come to hardware companies," says Uhrman. "They wanted to see more traction, so we raised a round of angel funding from friends and family, but now we've gotten to a point where it's time to get feedback from consumers and developers to help us take it all the way."
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiand Guardian technology editorCharles Arthurwe meet the Oscar-winning documentary makerCharles Ferguson.Ferguson may be a noted author and film-maker (he bagged an Oscar for his documentary Inside Job about the global banking meltdown) but his roots are planted firmly in technology as the founder of one of the first web code companies, Vermeer – snapped up by Microsoft in the 1990s.This experience formed the background to his autobiographical bookHigh Stakes, No Prisoners: A Winner's Tale of Greed and Glory in the Internet Wars. Ferguson discusses his role in the early development of the internet and why big companies start to fail in middle age.Also this week Aleks and Charles discuss a raft of news around Facebook from meetings betweenMark ZuckerbergandRupert Murdoch, the social network's new-found relationship with Yahoo and whyFacebook appeared to censor a Syrian anti-torture campaign.Finally, Charles Arthur discusses the latest malware to be disabled,DNSChangerwhich originated in Estonia and took over browsers around the world.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Codemasters' acquisition of the official licence to make Formula One games always felt right, at least as far as those with petrol in their veins are concerned.It had pinged around various publishers, and felt somewhat neglected, but the Warwickshire company is passionate about racing games – earlier this year, it announced that it will concentrate solely on those – and F1 Online is designed to fulfil a craving that, one suspects, the vast majority of Formula One fans have experienced.It's essentially a Fantasy Formula One game (analogous to the likes of Football Manager, although more overtly massively multiplayer), which is played via your web browser – and, in its base state, is free.Head to the website, set up an account and the game launches instantly, giving you two choices – you can either opt to drive for a real F1 team or to set up your own team. Ignore the former, at least, until you've had some race practice: F1 Online is all about doing your best impression of Martin Whitmarsh, Ross Brawn or Christian Horner. Except that you're starting from a much more lowly point than they did, and you're doing all the driving as well as being team principal.A brief tutorial lets you fiddle around with liveries, team logos, helmet colour-schemes and the like, before introducing you to the game's driving engine.As F1 Online has to exist within the confines of your web browser, that aspect of the game is very different to the likes of F1 2012: it takes a three-quarter top-down view, and uses your mouse (plus a few keys) for control.It's a basic system, but surprisingly effective once you get to grips with it – and it's sufficiently sophisticated to let you operate KERS and the DRS.The next stop is your Race Hub, which lets you customise the livery of your car and, most importantly, dive into Quick Races.At the outset, your best plan is to familiarise yourself with the driving mechanic by participating in as many of those as possible: although your opponents are real people, your objectives start off pretty gently, and the game always ensures that you're racing against people of similar experience and ability.Once you complete a few races, you'll start building up prize money and XP, which is when the fun starts. Now you can begin to build up your Race HQ, which is initially a big building site with room for Research, Production, Commercial and Race buildings.As you accumulate cash, you can spend it on those buildings which in turn bring benefits – Research, for example, lets you acquire blueprints for better parts for your car, and Commercial elevates you to a going concern which isn't solely dependent on prize money.This is proper sim-game territory, offers a plausible facsimile of what constitutes a major racing team and is the most compelling aspect of F1 Online.The RPG-style XP system is also crucial. Every time you level up, you earn Development Points which you can spend on perks (the first one, for example, being Overtime Pizza, which boosts your staffing level by 15 people). Again, the best way to earn XP when you're starting out is via racing, and as most buildings require you to have reached a minimum level before you can construct them, chiselling out the maximum XP is uppermost on your mind.As is typical for a free-to-play game, you can convert real cash to Codemasters Points, which can then be spent on in-game cash, XP and so on. The more impatient among us will be tempted to speed up progress that way, but you can still take a more patient approach and avoid all real-life expenditure.When you start working your way up the formulae towards F1, you're given a lot more options to spend Codemasters Points on unique objects and general embellishments.At any time, you can jump into the F1 part of the game, but it is a much more rigorous test of your driving abilities, as the cars, mirroring the real world, are much more difficult to handle.Initially, at least, you can't just jump into your favourite car at your circuit of choice: you can pick from three teams, and the circuits are set by the game. But that side of the game still earns you cash and XP.F1 Online very quickly becomes extremely addictive, and it will be difficult to imagine the Formula One fan who wouldn't find it thoroughly appealing.As you would expect from Codemasters, it's about as sophisticated as any browser-based, free-to-play game already out there. Currently, it's still at the beta stage, although its official launch is imminent, but even now, it doesn't seem prone to crashing and it's already open to all.If you're a Formula One fanatic with a propensity for games which let you tinker to heart's content and dip into and out of play for short periods, you should find it pretty satisfying.• Game reviewed on PC
Privacy is history. We all know that. From social networks that pry on our personal data to hacked gaming services that let slip our credit card numbers to an underclass of cyber-criminals, everything we do online is potentially available to everyone. We're not individuals any more, we're data nodes in a vast organic system.It was this sort of thinking that inspiredWatch Dogs, the near-future action adventure which dominated much of the chatter on the E3 showfloor in June.Developed at tUbisoft's Montreal studio and kept secret for two years, the game is set in an alternate Chicago in 2013, where all public facilities – including transport, electricity and communications – are controlled by a single computer system. This gigantic mainframe is administered not by the government, but by a cabal of corporations who use it to mine data on the city's inhabitants.Into this world of pervasive data oppression comes Aidan Pearce, a mysterious victim of the system who manages to hack in to the central computer and gain control over any aspect of the city infrastructure. Now it's time for revenge."He's been referred to as a crazy vigilante – I'd say that's definitely accurate," says the game's creative director, Jonathan Morin. "He's definitely not a superhero, in a cape and a mask. He's a regular, believable character – there are shades of grey. He has his own motivations, he's been shaped by violence."People have been hurt because of him in the past; he has become obsessed with protection and surveillance – this is why Watch Dogs became the title of the game. So progressively you realise that even though he's trying to protect those around him, he fails again. Now he has to do everything he can to get the truth out and to fight against the corruption."Doing everything he can, it quickly transpires, means using the city's infrastructure as a weapon. In the early mission shown during E3, Pearce is hunting a target named Joseph DeMarco, a wealthy businessman and arts patron, set to open a trendy new gallery in the city. To get in, Pearce manages to bypass the bouncer on the door by scrambling the phone network, just as the thug is making a call – as he wanders off to get a better signal, Pearce slips in.Players have control over Pearce's smartphone/PDA at all times, able to access data points around the map, as well as target any NPC to access their personal data. Inside the gallery, for example, he highlights a female employee of DeMarco, hacking into her phone conversation to learn that the millionaire philanthropist is driving over.From here, the aim is clearly to take DeMarco down, but there are apparently dozens of different ways to achieve this. For the demo, lead story designer Kevin Short takes Pearce out onto the street, where he hacks into the traffic light system, causing a pile up that halts DeMarco's car.After a brief shoot-out, the businessman is terminated. The demo ends with a police chase through the city as Pearce makes a break for it in a stolen car – as he approaches a drawbridge, he hacks the system, making the platforms ascend. His car leaps over the widening gap, leaving the police stranded.In some ways, this sounds like a fairly typical slice of action adventure hokum, but the hacking element is the key to a more stimulating world. Players can tap into the smartphones of any passing pedestrian, discovering their medical records, employment history and any criminal convictions, all shown onscreen via contextual menus that float above the character. This can apparently lead to any number of emergent side quests, as players pursue their own investigations through the crowded streets.According to Morin this was a key element in getting the game green lit by Ubisoft's creative management team. "We started talking about tapping in to people's privacy," he says. "I sold them the game saying stuff like, you're on the street following a guy who looks normal, he could be your neighbour, but you tap into his phone, profile him, and you discover he is a known paedophile. You have a gun in your hand: what do you do about it? If you shoot him in the head, how do you look to everyone else? You look like a crazy guy shooting people in the head!"That's a bold example – I'm not saying that all paedophiles should be killed, of course. What I'm saying is, when you know the truth about other human beings, it becomes complex. And that alone got the [Ubisoft creative directors] interested. The driving, the shooting, the open-world exploration – all of those things we know how to do at Ubisoft. They were more excited about the premise. Quite frankly, I never had an easier pitch."It's typical Ubisoft really – ambitious to the point of hubris. Several years ago, the company pitched Assassin's Creed with similar promises of omniscient power in crowded city streets; and it will be interesting to see how far these player-generated missions go in the new game. What's clear is that hacking personal data will almost definitely be a smart way of competing the main missions."If you're growing a monitoring system in the city – which is the case in this game – you might want to start searching for certain types of people," says Morin. "If I want to monitor the Bank of Chicago, maybe I should be interested in tracking down people who work for the bank; maybe I should be installing back doors intotheirphones."This is where profiling people is important – sometimes you may see a tag above someone that says 'bank employee', and you may dismiss that person as useless, but they're not. If you think about the possibilities, they become more interesting. You can exploit people like that, or you can see that something terrible is going to happen to them and intervene – there's a whole spectrum."Built into this infrastructure is a companion system of causality and consequence. The player is an agent in this seemingly functional world, and therefore, your actions have rippling ramifications."In most games, if you pressed a button and caused an accident, that would be rewarded," says Morin. "With Burnout for example – which is a great game – the accidents are about the awesome Michael Bay effects. But in our game, there's another aspect - something that games aren't very good at."For us, there's a question afterwards – what happens to the other people involved? We want the human drama behind it. In the demo, we cause an accident to create a trap for DeMarco, but in the process people get killed. The way you act will shape the way people perceive you, they will interpret what you've done."Watch Dog's astonishing visuals also drew plenty of attention at the show. The demo level is set in a bustling downtown area, the streets filled with pedestrians all beautifully modelled and detailed. Rain plummets down and billows across the road surface as steam pours from subway gratings – it's like an interactive Ridley Scott movie.The incredible detail, and the sight of a high-end PC powering everything, has led many to suggest that this will be a next-generation console launch title. Indeed, we heard from one industry source that Watch Dogs won't be released until 2015 – although Ubisoft hasn't confirmed a launch year for the game. The companyismentioning PS3 and Xbox 360 in its plans, however, so its likely a scaled down version will appear on current hardware.And there's another neat talking point. Watch Dogs will ship with an interconnected smartphone and tablet app, which will allow players to access facets of the main game as well as stats, info and a live map of the game's Chicago setting, showing where fiends are in their own campaigns. Furthermore, it seems there will be certain mini-tasks, accessible via mobile devices, which will feed into the main campaign, as well as allowing players to compete against each other.It sounds madly ambitious (again) and the details are far from clear, but this is tantalising stuff. And Morin claims it's been a part of the design vision since day one."When we started talking about Watch Dogs we discussed what the game would become," he says. "I'm a huge fan of mobile games; I have four kids, I don't have time to play a lot of huge games.  But I always felt there was something missing; I felt that a combination of console and mobile game would make my life as a gamer better. It would allow me to continue big games while on the move."We talk about connectivity, we talk about people being able to watch you – we're saying, you have Chicago in the palm of your hand. Well, with the mobile app, that's literal! We also said to ourselves, this thing will be pointless if it's just for stats, it needs to be a real game."It's interesting to unlock stuff and see your friends in the game, but now you can play in real-time against them, whether they're on an Xbox or PC. Now that's exciting! You can hack into their in-game phone and see how they beat you, see their tricks and beat them back – or you can challenge them directly. And that's where it gets really interesting…"And there's a delicious irony to the proposed mobile app – while the game is about the dangers of private information becoming public data, this smartphone offshoot provides access to the data of your friends – in essence, you're able to act out the themes of the game, with your mates becoming agents in your own hyper-connected fiction.It's the mediumandthe message. When I put this to Morin he laughs. "Yeah, that's exactly what we are trying to pull off: the online metaphor is online! We want to talk about the internet and the way it affects our lives and we can do it in a way that no other game can. That's what lead us to the cross-platform aspect. It opens all sorts of really crazy doors for us."From the intriguing central premise, to the superlative visuals and the cross-platform tie-in, Watch Dogs is potentially a new benchmark in game design. Assassin's Creed dialled down some of the ambitions Jade Raymond and Patrice Desilets hinted at during those early press ventures, but the end result was still wonderfully imaginative – the sort of thing you couldn't image from many other mainstream publisher.If Watch Dogs, can live up to its promise, it suggests a new era of narrative gaming, in which truly emergent elements compliment the linear through line, while transmedia interconnectivity extends the experience beyond console and PC in truly meaningful ways.But these are early days, and Morin senses both my interest and my skepticism. Can the game live up to this explosion of hype? "Ubisoft is pushing for new types of experiences," he says. "They have always tried to do that. You could argue that it has not always been successful, but at least they are pushing us to try."
Tuesday morning! Did you manage to get the working week started with some gaming? I'm still working my way gingerly through Dead Space 2, years after everyone else. They like to have things pounce out on you, don't they?
The next version of Apple's desktop operating system, "Mountain Lion" – aka Mac OSX 10.8 – has gone "gold master" and was released to third-party developers on Monday night.The announcement came just hours after Microsoft said that Windows 8, its own next version of its operating system,would be released to manufacturing with PC builders in August, and be generally available by the end of October.The development cycle for Mountain Lion has been rapid, with the first "developer preview" – in effect the first announcement of the product's existence – occurringspecific briefings to some media, only coming in February.Now the product, which will only be available in download form from Apple's Mac App Store has reached the final stage before broad release.The "gold master" status is now virtual; that used to be the designation that the version was ready to burn onto a CD or DVD. The previous version of Mac OS X,Snow LeopardLion, was available as a download or preloaded on a USB stick.The new software continues what some have called the "iPhone-ification" of the desktop product, building Apple's iCloud more tightly into the system for document storage in the cloud – echoing the move Microsoft is making with its Skydrive cloud storage in Windows 8 – and renaming products like the iCal calendar and Address Book contacts system to "Calendar" and "Contacts" to echo iOS nomenclature. It also uses the "Notification Centre" idea found in iOS and applies that across the computer.It also brings voice dictation built into the system, as well as touch sensitivity for systems that can use it – indicating that Apple increasingly sees the keyboard as an alternative input method.Apple showed off some of the features of Mountain Lion at its WWDC event in San Francisco in June, and indicated then that the product would go on sale in July for $20 (£12.90).UK pricing has not yet been set.UK pricing will be £13.99. Systems that cannot run the product will not be able to download it from the store - preventing the problem where people pay for software but then cannot install it. Macs dating back to autumn 2008 should be able to run the software.(Updated post to clarify corrections and add UK price.)
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamJanuary 2007: New touch-sensitive screens could give us a whole new way to work with computers &gt;&gt; The GuardianJanuary 2007:Both [Jeff] Han and [Steve] Jobs were showing off "multitouch" screens. But what makes those two demonstrations, 11 months apart, so remarkable is that they use two different technologies, on two screens of such different sizes, to identically dramatic effect. The upshot: this could be the start of a revolution in how we interact with computers.Five years later...Microsoft acquires multitouch company Perceptive Pixel &gt;&gt; The VergeSteve Ballmer has just announced Microsoft's acquisition of Perceptive Pixel, a company focused on research, development, and production of multitouch interfaces. The company is perhaps best known for the 82-inch multitouch display that Microsoft demoed at MWC. Jeff Han, Perceptive Pixel founder and new Microsoft employee, says the display is the "world's largest true multitouch and stylus display," capable of supporting "hundreds of touch inputs simultaneously."Ballmer calls Perceptive Pixel's portfolio "fairly revolutionary," but acknowledges there's a "lot of work to be done to bring the price down."Jeff Han, who showed off his amazing touchscreen table (not tablet) at TED in 2006.Windows 7 hits 630m licenses sold, now running on 50% of enterprise desktops &gt;&gt; The VergeAs Microsoft looks to Windows 8 for its tablet plans, CEO Steve Ballmer revealed that the upgrade will cap an "epic year" for Microsoft. "Windows 8 is the biggest deal for our company in at least 17 years," he said during a keynote appearance today.In other words, the biggest since Windows 95. Why didn't he just say that?HTC shares drop to two-year low after weak Q2 results &gt;&gt; CNA ENGLISH NEWSCredit Suisse said HTC's launch of the flagship model One series failed to help it regain market share.The rating company estimated HTC to have a 6.4% global smartphone market share in the second quarter of this year, compared with a 6.6% global market share in the fourth quarter of 2011 and an 11.4% share when the company was at its height.Andr... Samsung is winning!Samsung v Apple in UK high court: full ruling &gt;&gt; BailiiThe "iPad is cooler than Galaxy" ruling (sweets and smacks for everyone) in full. To begin:Samsung contends that its tablets do not infringe. It submits that when the registered design is understood in its proper context, bearing in mind the existing design corpus and the degree of freedom of the designer, the overall impression the Apple design produces on the informed user is a different one from that produced by any of the three Samsung tablets.Apple does not agree. It agrees that the registered design must be understood properly bearing in mind the existing design corpus and the degree of freedom of the designer but contends that when that exercise is carried out, the result is that the overall impression produced on the informed user by each Samsung tablet is not a different one from that produced by the registered design.Set some time aside for this one, but the punch is at the end.Chutzpam &gt;&gt; Talking Points Memo Editors BlogJosh Marshal:if you run a website there's the dreaded scourge of 'comment spam'. You've seen it. People who go into comments and post totally off-topic comments with links to this or that commercial site. "So, hey, you're talking about health care reform and mandates, but check out the great Refi i just got at scamrefi.com!!!"Clearly, the folks who do this for a living are shameless and awful. But this morning I learned they're striving for even greater levels of shamelessness and actually achieving it.Today's helping of karma with a side order of belly laughs.There are real achievements at Silicon Roundabout | Monty's OutlookDan Crow, CTO of Songkick:I left the UK in 1996, despairing of finding technologists and business people interested in building world-beating companies.After 13 years in the US, I returned to find that there are real, meaningful companies building great technology right here in London. Perhaps [Telegraph head of blogs Damian] Thompson [who said Tech City is full of handout-seeking inconsequential flops] should look come see what's really happening in Silicon Roundabout? I think he will be surprised.Thompson claims nothing of worth has been produced by Silicon Roundabout, and compares the area unfavorably with Cambridge and the M4 corridor. Of course there are great success stories that have come out of those areas.ARM Holdings, founded in 1990, makes the chip designs at the heart of many mobile devices; Autonomy, founded in 1996, was recently sold to HP for $10bn.Perhaps it is a little unrealistic to expect similar levels of success from a group of companies many of which are less than three years old. But even so, there have been notable successes.An effortless putdown.Orange mobile database flaw affects 26 million in France - ComputerworldUK.comFrance Télécom's French mobile network, Orange, crashed last Friday afternoon, leaving many of its 26 million subscribers unable to make and receive calls until early Saturday morning local time. The company has promised to compensate customers with free calls, text messages or data for a day, and a ticket to the movies.Le ouch. Also a reminder that you do want to have some sort of backup connectivity at times. The fault was due to databases getting out of sync.Thunderbird: Stability and Community Innovation &gt;&gt; Mitchell's BlogMuch of Mozilla's leadership -- including that of the Thunderbird team -- has come to the conclusion that on-going stability is the most important thing, and that continued innovation in Thunderbird is not a priority for Mozilla's product efforts.Translation: Thunderbird is now officially a zombie.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Early Monday morning, at least 40,000 computers infected with the DNSChanger malware lost their connection to the internet after the FBI shut down a temporary safety net for users connected to the infected servers.DNSChanger malware alters the infected computer to prevent it from executing one of the most basic online functions. DNS (domain name system) servers translate an address, such as theguardiannews.com, to a numerical one, simplifying the web browsing process for the average computer user. Once the malware infects the host computer, users are redirected to fraudulent sites.Going into this morning's shutdown, the FBI estimated that nearly 42,000 unique IP addresses in the US were still infected with the virus with an estimated 211,000 IP addresses globally affected. However, IP addresses are not equitable to individual people or computers, so the amount of users infected was likely much higher than those numbers suggest.At the infection's peak, more than 575,000 IP addresses were infected with the DNSChanger malware. Yetcourt documents from Novembershow that more than 4m computers worldwide were infected, at least 500,000 of which were in the US. This makes the number of people affected much more difficult to pin down, especially because they can't share their frustrations on the internet (unless of course they have internet access on their phones or have access to another uninfected machine).Although the amount of infected computers are likely larger than reports suggest, the danger of the outbreak is not as serious as it seems.Brian Krebs, investigative reporter atKrebsonsecurity.com, told the Guardian: "There are numerous similarly large outbreaks of malware and this one is by far the least threatening."In fact, Krebs believes the internet shutdown is one of the best things to happen because it will take the infected computers off the internet, creating a cleaner online environment for everyone else.Initially, the FBI safeguard was supposed to last 120 days, beginning in early November, but a court ordered a 120-day extension allowed the safeguards to remain in place until this morning. During that time, the FBI,Google, Facebook and internet service providers warned users of the impending shut down.Spokespersons from Verizon and Comcast said they contacted infected users through a variety of methods including phone calls, letters and email. Internet service providers were able to find these users by cross-checking their curstomers IP addresses against a list of infected IP addresses provided by the FBI.As of this morning, the outreach seemed to have helped. Charlie Douglas, a Comcast spokesman, told the Guardian: "Going into this, we believe far less than even one tenth of one percent of our remaining infected customers hadn't taken action."The DNSChanger malware spread when a gang of cyberthieves operating under the name Rove Digital engaged in a sophisticated internet fraud scheme. Six members of the groups were arrested in November, one remains at large.Can't get online and want to check if it's because your computer is infected with DNSChanger?CBCNews explainshow to check your IP setting against the rogue IP addresses. If you lost your internet connection, call your internet service provider, who can instruct you in the best way to reconnect to the internet.
Windows 8 will be "released to manufacturing" in the first week of August, and will move to "general availability" for everyone by the end of October, Microsoft  has announced.Speaking at Microsoft's Worldwide Partner Conference in the US, Tami Reller, the vice-president for Windows, gave the dates when the finished software would be sent out to companies so that they can test and include it on PCs – the "release to manufacture", or "RTM" date – and the later date when people will be able to buy and download it directly from Microsoft.Microsoft hasalready announced a schemewhich mean that people who bought a PC running Windows 7 after 2 June will be able to upgrade to Windows 8 for just $15.Windows 8 will automatically be included as the basic system on PCs that go on sale from late October, or possibly before. Microsoft will also offer a free cloud storage account using its SkyDrive system to every Windows 8 buyer.Microsoft is introducing a new system for buying third-party software, called "The Windows Store", with Windows 8. That will only offer approved and checked software for sale.Windows 7 was available in both boxed and download forms, and Windows 8 is expected to follow the same pattern.Windows is a key revenue and profit generator for Microsoft, with about 400m PCs being sold every year around the world, each generating an average about $50 of revenue and $35 of profit per machine; profits from the Windows division makes up more than half of Microsoft's quarterly profits.But recently is has come under assault from the rise in smartphones and sales of tablets, particularly Apple's iPad, while sales of PCs have been showing slowing growth and even reverses. That has led Microsoft to re-magine the interface for Windows, with the "Metro" interface of Windows 8 offering the most radical departure in experience since the introduction of the Start button in Windows 95.
A year on from the first high-profile controversy around children and in-app purchases (IAP) in apps – the Smurfs' Village game on iOS – some elements of the apps industry still haven't learned the lessons.That game's developer has just released a Shrek game thatoffers a £6.99 IAP at the end of its tutorial– within the 15-minute window which, for parents who have not changed their default settings, means children won't have to enter a password in order to buy.Elsewhere, games aresuggesting $99.99 purchasesto help children buy Chickity Puff creatures, and selling gems to cure virtual pets. Meanwhile, despite Apple improving the parental controls in iOS, there are still parents facing unexpected iTunes bills for virtual items bought by their children.Not all IAP is evil in children's apps, but how can shadier practices be stopped? Self-regulation by app publishers doesn't seem to be working, so is it time for stricter rules and punishment from Apple and other app store owners? Or even government regulation?"I think it wil probably get regulated," said games industry consultant Nicholas Lovell, speaking in a panel session on apps at theChildren's Media Conferencein Sheffield.However, Lovell pointed to the recent – non-IAP related – controversy around children's virtual world Habbo Hotel as a sign that individual companies may face censure, rather than the industry as a whole."All the comment went 'a single online game with chat functionality is bad'. It didn't say 'the games industry is evil and everything associated with that is tarred with the same brush'," said Lovell."Instead of politicians saying 'IAP is terrible, we must regulate', individual companies will be seen as terrible. But if too many do it, politicians may regulate."The CMC session featured a punchy presentation by Mark Sorrell, development producer for games and broadcast at Somethin' Else. Titled 'Taking Candy From a Baby', his presentation zeroed in on the way many freemium games use behavioural economics plus game design with the intention of making players spend money."What you are actually doing is manipulation plus manipulation," he said. "Doing that to adults is kinda, I guess, sorta fine. Doing it to kids is perhaps a slightly different matter, and one that needs more consideration… Selling an 80 pound digital item to a five year old is possibly a slightly worrying thing to do."In print, those slightlys and possiblys look strange, but Sorrell's tone and expression made his sarcasm clear: of course this is a worrying thing to do.Lovell is a big supporter of freemium business models, and as a consultant helps publishers refine their strategies to make money from "whales" – big-spending players. Yet he's also the father of young children, and said during the CMC panel that he is concerned about how they might encounter IAP in apps.That said, Lovell also said whales aren't a new phenomenon when it comes to children's entertainment, citing books as an example. "If you're a Lady Bird, you'll have your whales – people who bought 20, 50, 100 books. That's not ethically questionable, but somebody paying the same amount of money on in-app purchases is?"The obvious answer is that the whale in that situation is the parent, not the child – and few children ever bought 100 books on their parent's credit card without their knowledge. Making it harder for children to overspend in apps, and cracking down on publishers who try to encourage it is one thing – but banning IAP in these apps altogether would be another."Targeting whales with kids has questionable ethics," said Lovell. Not everyone on the panel thought government intervention will be required to rein in abuse of IAP systems, though.Jeff Jones, vice president and general manager of digital games, EMEA at Disney Interactive Media Group, pointed to a parallel with premium-rate scams in the UK a few years ago, when people would sign up to get a ringtone for £1.50 and end up paying £5 a month as a subscription.Could the difference now be stronger platform owners like Apple and Google? "For iTunes, and to a certain extent for Android, both partners are pretty responsible around ensuring they are delivering a fair and transparent pricing environment," said Jones."It is being well managed by our partners, and the industry is older and wiser. Nobody wants to cause that sort of damage again: they will get caught quickly. I don't think it will need regulation."Penguin's Anna Rafferty speaks in the Children's Media Conference apps panelPerhaps a combination of self-regulation and market forces will have an impact, though. Lovell suggested that developers with clear, ethical policies not just on IAP, but on advertising and analytics too, will earn the trust of parents – and thus their repeat business."I do think there will be regulation, but there will also be a commercial advantage for being ethical," he said. Sorrell cited Swedish company Toca Boca as a good example of a company building a loyal fanbase of parents in this way."Some app developers are getting together and talking about how we can have a consistent labelling scheme for apps for very young kids, showing if they contain IAP, ads, are sponsored and have certain themes in," said Jason Krogh, of developer Zinc Roe."Let's try to be upfront and just be clear about what we're doing. I don't think you can finesse it too much more than that."The IAP debate is rightly pulling in every company making apps for children, including big brands. What seemed clear at CMC is that these brands aren't shunning IAP entirely, but they are very concerned about using it in the right way."Clearly it's an interesting business model, and one that does work for different companies and IPs, but clearly we also have a duty of care," said Anna Rafferty,managing director of Penguin Digital."You have to think about what your brand is and how it will work. Who are you talking to, is it a child or a parent?"The previous day, Mind Candy chief executive Michael Acton-Smith hadexpressed similar viewsabout his company's plans for Moshi Monsters apps."We are still trying to figure it out," he said. "Some of our future games may have in-app purchase in, but we're only going to do it in a way that doesn't damage trust with parents. We're building this brand for the long term: we don't just want to make a quick buck and annoy people along the way."Big brands realise that IAP controversies have the potential to hurt them commercially – a good stick to have alongside the moral duty-of-care motivation.The question now is how quickly this message will spread widely in the industry, from small studios to big brands. There is no doubt that the bad practices need to be stopped, and while self-regulation would be ideal, if it doesn't come quickly expect the platform owners to take a much-stricter line.
Samsung won a victory over Apple in the UK high court as part of its world-spanning battle over intellectual property and design after a judge ruled the design of its Galaxy Tab isn't cool enough to be confused with an iPad.The ruling, by Judge Colin Birss, means that Apple cannot stop the import or sale of the Galaxy Tab 10 under claims it has made that the designs are too close to those of the iPad.Instead, Judge Birss ruled that Samsung's designs did not have the same understated and extreme simplicity which is possessed by the Apple design: "They are not as cool."He noted distinctions such as the thickness and details on the backs of the devices in his ruling. "The informed user's overall impression of each of the Samsung Galaxy Tablets is the following," he said in his ruling. "From the front they belong to the family which includes the Apple design; but the Samsung products are very thin, almost insubstantial members of that family with unusual details on the back. They do not have the same understated and extreme simplicity which is possessed by the Apple design. They are not as cool. The overall impression produced is different."Apple has been given 21 days to appeal against the decision.In a statement, Samsung said the judgement confirmed its assertion that it did not infringe Apple's design rights."Samsung welcomes today's judgment, which affirms our position that our Galaxy Tab products do not infringe Apple's registered design right," it said. "As the ruling proves, the origins of Apple's registered design features can be found in numerous examples of prior art."Should Apple continue to make excessive legal claims in other countries based on such generic designs, innovation in the industry could be harmed and consumer choice unduly limited."Apple declined to comment specifically on the judgement, but reiterated its earlier position in a statement: "It's no coincidence that Samsung's latest products look a lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to the user interface and even the packaging."This kind of blatant copying is wrong and, as we've said many times before, we need to protect Apple's intellectual property when companies steal our ideas."Applesuffered a similar reverse in the UK courtsafter a judge ruled that a patent covering the "slide to unlock" function on its iPhone could not be enforced against HTC phones.Separately, in the US – where a similar battle is going on between the two companies – Samsung on Friday scored a partial victory against Apple after a US appeals court lifted a ban on sales of the Galaxy Nexus smartphone, although it upheld a lower court's decision to temporarily halt sales of the Galaxy 10.1 tablet that has just been cleared in the UK.At the end of June, a San Jose court hadgranted rare, and temporary, injunctions against the sale of the Galaxy phone and tablet, a brief win for the American consumer electronics giant, which had asked for the bans to stay in force until a full court trial begins on 30 July.Apple has waged an international patent war since 2010 as it seeks to limit the growth of Google's Android system, the world's most-used mobile operating platform. Opponents of Apple say it is using patents too aggressively in a bid to stamp out competition.Samsung's Galaxy touchscreen tablets are considered by many industry experts to be the main rival to the iPad, though they are currently a distant second to Apple's devices.Apple sold 13.6m iPads from January through March to control 63% of the global tablet market, according to research from DisplaySearch. Samsung sold an estimated 1.6m tablets, giving it 7.5% of the market.The US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit said it would temporarily stay the smartphone injunction while it considered Apple's arguments. Apple has until Thursday 12 July to respond.Even so, the injunctions and court battles – and even backhanded remarks from judges – show little sign of depressing the Asian conglomerate's bottom line, as it continues rolling out new versions of tablets and smartphones.On Friday, Samsung announced that soaring sales of its smartphones helped drive a record $5.9bn (£3.8bn) quarterly profit.It is also rumoured to be producing a tablet computer using ARM architecture chips that will run Microsoft's upcoming Windows 8 in autumn – though there is no indication yet on whether Apple will seek to injunct products running Windows rather than Android, which would bring it into conflict with its erstwhile rival.Last week US District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose rejected Samsung's request to lift her 26 June order to halt sales of the tablet. She also slapped a pre-trial ban on sales of Samsung's Galaxy Nexus phone.Apple sued Samsung last year, accusing the South Korean electronics maker of slavishly copying the iPhone and iPad. Samsung denied the claim and countersued over issues relating to the use of various mobile wireless technologies.Apple in May lost an appeal against Samsungin which it had aimed to prevent sales of the Galaxy Tab in the UK under the EU-wide Community Design Regulations.The latest decision is part of a long-running patent and intellectual property battle between the two companies, and more broadly between Apple and a number of other companies using Google's Android software.At the same time, Samsung is one of Apple's biggest suppliers of electronic parts, and Apple is one of Samsung's biggest customers.However, the American company has sought to diverisfy its supply chain away from Samsung as the legal battles have intensified.(Updated to add full statements from Samsung and Apple.)(Updated to add extract from judgement)
A selection of 12 new and notable apps for you today:Jesus Christ SuperstarThis is the latest high-profile second-screen TV app, launching for British broadcaster ITV's Superstar reality show. As Andrew Lloyd-Webber looks for a Jesus for his upcoming musical revival, viewers can see social media feeds, get backstage info, and get links to performance downloads. When the actual musical goes on its arena tour, meanwhile, there'll be features for that too.iPhone / iPadHooters Calendar Girls LiveStay classy, iOS users. This new app based on the Hooters restaurant chain promises the chance to "socialize with the beautiful Hooters Calendar Girls from all over the world". As long as you pay them. Well, there are free images and video, but the promise of "special premium content" in return for credits, plus messaging and live chat features. It's the work of Handmade Mobile Entertainment, which also runs the Flirtomatic and Take Me Out Flirting apps.iPhone / iPadWord LensWord Lens made a big splash on iOS last year with its ability to translate signs, menus and other printed words simply by pointing your device's camera at them. Now it's available on Android too, with language packs for English-Spanish, English-French and English-Italian. One is included for free.AndroidSoulCraftI wrote about SoulCraft when the free-to-play action-RPG was released as an open beta on Androidin March 2012. Now it's available on iOS, with the same angels/demons/humans focus, and new content being added regularly. Interestingly, while the Android version was published by developer MobileBits, larger casual games firm Bigpoint is listed as the publisher on iOS – hinting at a deal between the two companies.iPhone / iPadBlottrCitizen-journalism startup Blottr has released an Android app, following the iPhone version from July 2011. It aims to provide a quick way to capture news stories and upload them to Blottr's website from a smartphone. The company says the iOS version has been downloaded more than 35k times, with mobile now driving 23% of the site's traffic.AndroidKapu ForestHere's a rarity: a beautiful-looking app for kids that's launching (near-enough) simultaneously on iOS and Android. Kapu Forest is aimed at 1-4 year-olds, with a forest full of virtual creatures to play with. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadKeymonk KeyboardIs there room for another big third-party Android keyboard besides SwiftKey and Swype? Golden Keymonk hopes so: its Keymonk Keyboard app promises users can "Sweep words with both fingers twice as fast as Swype or SlideIT" (that being another app). The both-fingers element being the key feature here: the company says it has "multi-sweep patent pending technology".AndroidWrestling Revolution (PPV)It's described as an "ongoing work in progress", so I'm not sure how well Android game Wrestling Revolution plays – although it looks nice judging by theYouTube demo. But here's what grabbed my attention: its claim to be the "world's first 'episodic' wrestling game - featuring weekly storylines and match-ups that you would expect from a TV show." A smart idea.AndroidMoopsThere's definitely a Rayman-esque vibe to Moops, a new iOS game from... Well, from Moops Games. It sees two pest controllers "squishing, catching, trapping and popping" an infestation of critters in their town, over 18 cartoon-3D levels.iPhone / iPadShips N' BattlesBattleships in 3D? Well, that's how it works in the real world with the board game. But in this Android game's case, the 3D refers to the graphics, with a choice of views of what you're blowing up. It joins the existing iOS and Mac versions.AndroidRingtonium ProCreating your own ringtones? It's a bit fiddly in most cases. Ringtonium aims to help, having made its name on iPhone, and now crossing to Android. It promises to be a much-easier way to create, edit and share your own tones.AndroidI Woke UpHere's a fun new weapon in any passive-aggressive parental battles over who's getting up most in the night to attend to a baby. "Are you the one who wakes up every night to take care of your baby? Now you can prove it! Check every time you get up, and show it to your partner when he finally wakes up (after a good night sleep.....)"iPhone
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 7 July 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (36)Wii (17)PS3 (17)32 (4)London 2012: The Official Video Game(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (43)PC (1)23 (2)The Amazing Spider-Man(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (43)Wii (1)3DS (1)24 (3)Spec Ops: The Line(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (39)25 (–)Dead Island GOTY Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (41)PC (2)16 (7)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (28)PC (16)327 (5)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (30)Wii (9)PSP (7)418 (–)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (40)PC (7)Wii (2)339 (6)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (33)PC (5)710 (14)Fifa Street(3+)PS3 (55)Xbox 360 (45)1711 (12)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (63)3DS (37)3212 (13)Sniper Elite V2(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (42)PC (5)1013 (8)Max Payne 3(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (43)PC (5)814 (16)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (42)PC (4)2515 (9)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (35)PC (13)3716 (18)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (42)PC (5)5217 (15)Mass Effect 3(15+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (28)PC (5)1718 (17)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (43)3219 (–)Theatrhythm: Final Fantasy (12+)3DS (100)120 (–)Halo: Combat Evolved Anniversary(16+)Xbox 360 (100)2UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Well, here we are, Monday again. Any gaming over the weekend? Enjoy the tennis? Did you have a bit of a cry with poor old Murray? Let us know!
