It's hard to tell, but strange things have been happening - specifically, exactly the same sets of people proposing a story for Digg's front page.The idea of Digg is very Web 2.0: you see a story or URL and "digg" it - propose it to the site, where it joins a queue of would-be "front page" links. If enough people also propose it (or spot the link in the queue, read it and vote for it), the link hits the front. In theory, it's pure news democracy, though Digg's readership means most stories are very technology-based.But what if people form groups to push a story on to the front page? On April 19, Jacob Gower atForevergeek.comnoticed a couple of stories where the first 16 "people" to vote for a story on Digg were identical - and only two of the first 24 voters varied at all. Ever more oddly, one of the group was Kevin Rose, a Digg co-founder.Gower blogged this; but people who tried to add his blog post to the Digg queue were banned "for accusing members of abusing Digg". Gower himself then saw his Digg account banned; nobody from Forevergeek could submit stories to Digg.Rose responded - sort of - on the Digg blog (atdiggtheblog.blogspot.com) by saying: "Internally, we have several methods for detecting fraud which result in DOZENS of banned accounts per day." That didn't quite answer what was going on with the stories Gower had spotted, though. He wrote a follow-up post (http://tinyurl.com/k9yzz)which, to summarise, said: "Digg got busted" - that is, found out.Storm in techno-teacup? Not quite. The tale shows an emergent battle between social systems and authoritarian ones as methods of highlighting web content.Previously we've had the authoritarian model: Google or Yahoo or Microsoft indexes the web and serve their search results; Slashdot or Google News (or indeed the Guardian and the Technology blog) choose stories, and serve them to you.But "social choice" is increasingly popular. Yahoo is working on a social search system ("Searching for a fresher taste", December 15;http://tinyurl.com/7ccpl)using the recently acquired Flickr and Delicious. The idea is that search would be "personal" - human - rather than impersonal like Google's.But without safeguards, any system that relies on people clicking buttons (on websites, for example) can be subverted by smart programmers writing "scripts". The Tech.memeorandum site was spoofed in a similar way last year (http://tinyurl.com/fc5yh).Social search has an achilles heel: without a Turing Test (to confirm that something comes from a person, not a computer), a well-written computer "script" can very easily mimic a crowd. Too easily, perhaps, in Digg's case.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Senders should pay email costsIt's really not right to say I favour paid-for mail delivery (You've got "paid-for" mail, April 20). I am pro-choice. I think companies such as Goodmail should be allowed to compete and improve, or lose out to competitors. But in the end, I am pro-"recipient" choice ... and I don't feel that nuance got through effectively.In the end, it should be up to recipients whether people pay to send them mail, or get filtered, or whatever. And it should be the senders who pay the costs they impose on the system.Esther DysonEditor, Release 1.0&#183;Would it be possible to filter out paid-for emails? "Goodmail guarantees the delivery of bulk emails for a fee of $2 to $3 per thousand, payable by the organisations sending them" is a fairly good definition of spam.Michael ParkerPortishead&#183;I don't understand the fuss about AOL's proposal to charge for accepting emails. The vast majority of internet users won't stand for it, and will end up having their emails to AOL users blocked. AOL users will get fed up with not receiving emails, and will move to another ISP. The market favours free email delivery, just as it is beginning to favour free operating systems, free web dictionaries and flat-fee bandwidth. AOL would do much better to invest in decent spam filters.Frank JordansLondon&#183;What's the big deal with spam, etc? I get quite a bit of it, but simply ignore it. I never open dodgy-looking attachments, even if from people I know. Wouldn't it be easier to educate people about spam and phishing? Why should we pay for something that has always been basically free just because some people aren't clever enough to sort out their emails?Maximiliano BahnsonPrague, Czech RepublicNo longer fairThe situation regarding "fair use" in Britain is now much more restricted than Danny Bradbury writes (Jockeying for attention, April 20). British law changed in September 2003 with the introduction of the copyright and related rights regulations. There is no longer any fair use if the author is judged to have a commercial purpose. There is no fair use for academics who publish in a paid-for journal, and no fair use for literary reviewers or critics if their periodical is sold. (See my website athttp://alexcox.com/ed_12-04.htmAlex CoxOregon&#183;The assertion that "new digital rights management (DRM) system will bring flexibility to the use of video content" is hogwash (Has Hollywood gone overboard on piracy? April 13). DRM does not add any value to the consumer. As your article points out, the consumer loses value. The unspoken reality is that we can see HD content now, if the industry simply made it available. There has been eight years of bickering on how to implement this anti-consumer technology. Just think, eight years of lost sales!Stephen RynasMorehead City, North CarolinaRight on purposeBravo! A tech writer who actually has tried the device and is intelligent enough to realise its intended purpose (This tablet could be worth taking for now, April 20). Congratulations on an excellent report.Robert NewmanSan Antonio, TexasInteresting satnav pointA solution for anyone not appearing on the GPS systems is to go towww.navteq.comand register yourself as a Point of Interest (Living on the street with no name, April 20). Eventually, you will be added to the database used by most systems.Carl BendelowAppleby, CumbriaTranslating GoogleJack Schofield may find that resetting his language to English (US) in his Gmail settings will magically make the calendar available (An online time and place for everything, April 20).Bruce BalfourHuddersfield[My settings were in US English - JS]
Last week, I was in a meeting about Mobile Gamer, the quarterly supplement I edit for Future Publishing, when the magazine's new account manager told me that "actually, what I want from a mobile game is something I can play while I'm waiting for my wife outside clothes shop changing rooms". Like most men, he finds loitering amid the underwear aisles acutely embarrassing.But while mobile games should be perfect for these brief moments of boredom and self-consciousness, in practice they're useless because they take too long to access. On my Nokia 6600, for example, I have to hit the menu button, scroll past all the main folders to get to the games, then wait for my selection to load. It takes 30-40 seconds. Environmental psychologists reckon most of us now have a patience threshold of about 15 seconds. If we don't get what we want in that time, we either give up or start jabbing at buttons like enraged chimpanzees."You also have to contend with the fact that your operator is likely to screw with your phone to put their own branding, choice of applications and 'useful' tools on there," notes Brian Baglow, a veteran PR manager in the mobile entertainment industry. "Orange is a great example - they always put their active screen thing on their devices, regardless of how good, useful, intuitive or simple the original interface was. And don't go thinking that the 'Games' folder is where you'll find your new downloads. That's just for the games which came with your phone - I've never seen a handset that automatically downloads to there."In the iPod era, fighting to access your entertainment files, then waiting almost a minute for them to load is hopelessly inappropriate. If your MP3 player took 40 seconds to find each song, it would drive you insane.The technical problem may soon be overcome. Chris Wright, head of content development at the mobile games publisher I-play says: "In the future, it will be about faster Ram on the phone and the memory card ... which is needed for video playing, so you will see game download times get quicker. Faster processors in the phone will also help to unpack the games as they load, making the start-up time quicker."But quicker loading times alone won't address the needs of my account manager and the millions like him. Most mobile games are still designed to resemble miniature console titles and demand too much time and attention from users. Publishers should move from creating games to fill "dead minutes" when we're on the bus or in the dentist's waiting room, and start thinking in terms of dead seconds, of men lurking outside changing rooms with mere moments of awkwardness to get through.Imagine you're at a dinner party and you say something ridiculous - wouldn't it be great if you could whip your phone out and spend those obligatory moments of silence playing a brain-training mini-quiz? Billions of pounds await the first publisher to realise that mobile phones are now as much a social crutch as a communications device. And I'll be demanding a share of the royalties.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Linux laptopI have been trying to buy a cheap (under &pound;400) laptop in the Tottenham Court Road area without Windows pre-installed. But the response is that they cannot obtain one from their suppliers.Jon RamsterJack Schofield replies:It is hard to buy a notebook PC without an operating system or with Linux pre-loaded. You can get them by mail order, but even then, they are not necessarily cheaper than Windows machines. Manufacturers generally argue it is expensive to obtain drivers and test Linux systems, relative to the number of sales, and it increases the number of stock-keeping units and other warehousing, distribution and advertising costs. There's also support, which can easily cost far more than the operating system, and home users are generally unwilling to pay the price.You can find cheap Linux laptops online. The eSys E320 (Quickfind code: 103124) costs &pound;323.12 including VAT fromwww.ebuyer.comHowever, this only has a 1.2GHz Via processor. For comparison, Ebuyer also offers an Acer Aspire 3003LC (Quickfind code: 96518) with an AMD Sempron 3000+, a bigger screen and Windows XP for &pound;364.24 or a Toshiba Satellite Pro M40 (Quickfind code: 102113) for &pound;419.99. (I have not bought from Ebuyer and have not seen the machines.) You could go for the Acer and install a Linux distros as a dual-boot system - but this assumes you know enough about Linux to look after yourself.FAT forever?I have acquired an external hard drive set up with the FAT32 file system. Should I re-format to NTFS before using it to match the hard drive of my laptop, running XP?Tim GosslingJS:Windows' NTFS (New technology File System) is more reliable and more efficient than the old DOS FAT (File Allocation Table) approach, but has a bigger overhead. Generally it is best to use NTFS for any drive larger than 32GB, if using it with XP. Also, NTFS is essential if you want to store files that are 4GB or larger. Manufacturers usually ship external drives using FAT because they will work with almost anything, including Windows 95/98SE/Me machines, and because most customers won't notice.iMac timeI am considering purchasing a new iMac. I bought a Mac OS 9.1 system just before they uprated it so would welcome advice as to whether I should wait.Peter KingJS:Whatever computer you buy, there is always a new model on the way. Apple usually updates products twice a year, but the next significant change will probably be the release of Mac OS X 10.5 (Leopard) around the same time as Windows Vista. Whether it's worth waiting for is up to you. However, you face a very big jump to an Intel chip that is incompatible with the PowerPC processor in your current Mac, and to an operating system where support for Mac OS 9 (Classic) is a low priority. A secondhand PowerPC-based iMac would offer a transition strategy, and preserve more of what you have now. But in terms of future proofing, the best strategy would be to dump OS 9 and take the great leap forward.Update problemsThe latest Windows security update (KB908531) has caused me big problems with saving and accessing my files in Word and other Microsoft programs.Alexandra AbrahamJS:Microsoft is working on fixes. See the Knowledge Base article: You may experience problems in Windows Explorer or in the Windows shell after you install security update MS06-015 (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/918165).Removing LimewireI have been asked to clean up a laptop that was having problems with "disk full" messages. I have not managed to remove Limewire successfully (the uninstall file was corrupt) and there is now a lot of space I cannot recover.Pete ChallisJS:Limewire has a reputation for being tricky to remove (I'd never install it in the first place), but it does have an uninstallation utility. If this fails, your best bet is to reinstall it and try again. If you have to do it the hard way, there is a list of the registry entries athttp://tinyurl.com/c678j. Otherwise, it can help to restart an unclean machine using an Ultimate Boot CD for Windows, such as UBCD4Win (www.ubcd4win.com. A web search for [Ultimate Boot CD] will find lots of information.Backchat&#183;Last week I mentioned Apple's Boot Camp as a way of running either Mac OS or Windows XP on an Intel-based Mac. Richard Cosgrove points out I could have mentioned Parallels Workstation (www.parallels.com/), which runs both at the same time. Both programs are in beta test form. Parallels also has a $49.99 version that runs Windows XP and Linux.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The guy in the seat next to me on the tube was a fan of Coldplay, while the Air New Zealand flight attendant three seats away definitely had a thing for trance.How did I know? They were both listening to iPods, which may be the coolest MP3 player in the world but ship with terrible earbuds. Why? To start with, they're white; and I'm getting sick of everything being white. I find them very uncomfortable - they're too big for my ears. And they leak sound so badly you might as well just play a ghetto-blaster.In fact, a ghetto-blaster would be better: at least you'd get the full range of sound, bass and all. The sound that leaks from the earbuds is tinny and all treble. And loud. God, if it sounds that loud from halfway down the tube carriage, the owners must be deafening themselves.OK, Apple isn't the only offender; most portable music players have dismally bad earbuds. But the iPod is ubiquitous. Look at someone in blissful ignorance that their music is being inflicted on everyone else within a three-metre radius and you'll see those telltale white wires leading up to their ears.The cheap earbuds that ship with most MP3 players are also incredibly flimsy. They fall apart regularly, and so have to be replaced regularly. A new pair of Apple earbuds costs &pound;25 - another nice revenue stream for Apple, though again, it's not the only offender.Worse, though, is a growing trend for people with phones that play music to not bother with the earbuds. They just play music through the phone's loudspeaker. In some ways, you can't blame them - the earbuds are so poor and so uncomfortable that you're better off without them. But the speaker of a phone is bad enough when you're trying to have a conversation with someone, never mind when it's got the latest chart drivel blaring out.I found myself on the tube home one evening with a very drunk man who was looking rather maudlin and listening to something that sounded suspiciously like Barry Manilow. His girlfriend was pretending not to know him, while everyone else glared stony disapproval. Finally, I couldn't take it any more and asked him to turn it down. He ignored me, but luckily got off at the next stop.You can get decent earbuds that don't leak sound. I know: I have a pair. They were a little more expensive than a pair of Apple earbuds but they're sturdy and the sound quality is excellent. I know they don't leak sound because I saw someone on the tube yesterday with the same earbuds, blissfully lost in his own world of music. Sitting next to him, I couldn't hear even a hint of what he was listening to.And the best thing about these earbuds? They totally block out the sound of other people's tinny music.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Over at the BBC, they're almost exploding with ideas at the moment.Not only is the corporation preparing to take on sites like MySpacein the future, but they've just announced a new prototype of a project calledInFax- basically a huge searchable archive of catalogued data from BBC shows over the past 70+ years. Search, and enjoy.The creators - who includeTom Loosemore,Matt BiddulphandBen Hammersley(the administrator of this fine parish) - are keen to stress that this doesn't cover every single thing the BBC has ever done.The catalogue is not comprehensive. It does not contain an entry for every programme broadcast by the BBC on TV and Radio since the 1920s. The main exclusions are sport, feature films, other non-BBC copyright programmes (e.g. TV series imported from the USA), some regional programming and programmes which do not exist.But it goes a long way.I might not have been able to find my own appearances online, but I did find out there are 84 other Bobbies who have made it over the years. And isthisour very own Jack Schofield? Isthischap the Guardian's Charles Arthur?Much fun to be had, and who knows what the twisted minds of the public will do when the APIs are released.
Chatting time.
It's not a new phenomenon, but the gulf has been growing, andJonas spells it out at TechNudge: it's a lot cheaper to buy a cheap Dell than assemble your own PC from parts.Well compared to Dell's price tag of $399, my parts, even using many of the cheapest components, came in at $599.04. I'm 50% higher! A significant part of my system budget does go to the 19" LCD monitor. Also, the Windows operating system Dell can get significantly cheaper than an individual is able to purchase it at. Still, I can barely purchase the monitor, Windows and the processor for what Dell is selling the entire system at.This is also without taking into account the cost of sourcing the components, the cost of assembling the machine and installing the operating system, and the cost of support. I reckon there's around two days work in all of that, so the cost of a $600 home-build PC is more like $800, depending on the value of your time.None of this is surprising. When you buy, say, a video card, that video card includes the extra costs of packaging, distribution, advertising, and any taxes, plus the retailer's profit margin. Dell avoids all those costs. Dell probably pays $10 a part for crateloads of stuff that eventually ends up costing $50 a part at retail.Dell certainly isn't paying $111 for a Pentium 4 and $89 for a copy of Windows XP. And it doesn't only get discounts for massive volumes, it probably also gets advertising support payments for mentioning Intel and Windows in its ads.Finally, Dell bundles a bunch of stuff that people pay it to install on new PCs, such as links to ISPs and trial versions of anti-virus programs. These payments could even provide the majority of Dell's profits. Home users, of course, generally don't get paid to install stuff when they build their own PCs.Incidentally, these payments to PC manufacturers were the main reason for the anti-trust case brought against Microsoft by the US Justice Department....In 1995, Compaq was paid large amounts of money to"position AOL Services above all other Online Services within the user interface of its Products."It therefore installed an AOL icon on the user's Windows desktop and removed the Microsoft MSN icon. Microsoft leaves space for manufacturers to add up to 40 icons to the Windows desktop, but removing MSN and IE (to get money from another ISP, Spry) violated Microsoft's OEM Pre-Installation Kit (OPK), which Compaq had agreed to, so it decided to terminate its Windows license. As a result, XP now includes the option to hide Microsoft utilities, and PC manufacters can sell cheaper PCs by charging to install stuff nobody really wants. (And there's also aDell De-Crapifierto remove it -- seeAsk Jack.)
Blog search is in a pretty dire state, so any promising newcomer is likely to attract attention. In Sphere's case, it has been too much attention. Thehome pagenow says: "We're still in a limited private beta release and have temporarily stopped issuing new passwords because there is more demand than our feeble back end can handle."In the meantime, you could follow the home page links or read the post on theSearch Engine Watchblog, which says:Sphere takes a new approach to blog search, looking at three critical variables to understand both individual blog posts and the nature of the blog they appear on. As with web search, Sphere attempts to understand link structures--who's linking to whom, and what are the quality of the links. Crucial to this analysis is an attempt to understand who's starting or leading discussions in contrast to those bloggers who are simply commenting on existing conversations.Sphere also looks at meta data--things like posting frequency, lengths of postings, and other non-keyword related data.And finally, Sphere's algorithm content does some heavy lifting with semantic analysis of blog postings. "It's the hard part, and most important piece of the secret sauce," said Sphere co-founder Steve Nieker.Screenshot from Yahoo'sJeremy Zawodny
TheMonad blogsays:1. Monad (MSH) has a new name: Windows PowerShell 2. Windows PowerShell will RTW (Web download) in Q4 2006 3. RC1 of Windows PowerShell is available today 4. Exchange 2007 and MOM will be built upon Windows PowerShell 5. The next wave of products will be leverage the same architecture - Admin GUI layered on Windows PowerShellSide Note: The names of many of the APIs have changed to reflect the new name (basically you'll have to search and replace MSH with PS). We're sorry about the inconvenience of this, we always expected the official name to be the Microsoft Shell or Management Shell so we felt confident that MSH was safe to use. When Marketing saw what the technology actually did and the incredibly positive reaction that customers and partners, they decided that we warranted a "Marquee" name (I'm not making this up). Marquee names are given to those features that are going to be emphasized during the Marketing push. So here is the net of all that: the downside is that you've got to change your API calls, the upside is that you are leveraging a technology that Microsoft Marketing plans to feature widely.There's also a new blog athttp://blogs.msdn.com/powershell/default.aspxComment: There's a good overview of Monad atArs Technica, which only slightly misses the point. MSH^h^h^h PowerShell isn't designed to compete with Python or Ruby or whatever: it's primarily an admin tool.
You need to see it to understand it, they said. They were right too -amBXrequires a huge leap of faith. It marks the return of Philips to the games industry but you have to wonder what they've been smoking in the meantime.So what is it? Well, think lights that react to your game and fans that kick in when you are, say, flying a plane or exploring a high peak. The word Philips use is immersion, but at this point you're probably using much stronger language. Bear with me though.The demo I saw yesterday included a reworking of the trailer for Broken Sword 3 complete with lightning (white LED flashes on and off), bad guy in underground setting (red LED glows) and plane flying through clouds (fans blow air in face). Sounds ridiculous? Absolutely, but bizarrely it sort of works. The lighting is fairly subtle - amBX is short for ambient experiences - and the fans are used sparingly enough to be effective. Perhaps most importantly of all, I actually missed it a bit when playing on the PC last night.The consumer package will launch later this year for the PC. It will include fans and lights, with the hardware itself being unveiled at E3. The aesthetics here will be crucial, as persuading your partner to have lights and fans surrounding your home PC will be hard enough as it is. You may need to hide the reciept as well, although the estimated cost - around 150-200 quid - is unlikely to put off curious hardcore gamers.Perhaps the biggest potential of amBX is the software itself. The scripting software is allegedly akin to HTML in ease of use, which means users can create their own scripts for any game. The frankly bonkers demo of an amBX-ed Sonic Heroes highlighted what is likely to happen when punters are let loose and the community grows.Philips have signed up some developers - including Revolution withBroken Sword 4- and are in talks with others. Support is key, of course, although the system is backwards compatible with older PC games. There will be a console launch next year too while the obvious potential for home-cinema should make a TV ready system then too. Foolhardy, visionary or, as I suspect, somewhere in between, amBX is certainly a breath of fresh air.
ModelCadillac BLS 2.0T 175hpPriceFrom &pound;25,628Top speed137mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.7secsConsumption31.4 mpg (combined)Emissions216g/km (road tax band F)At the wheelNicholas ParsonsThey'd rather walkJack NicholsonOn the stereoClassic FMEn route forDowntown BasingstokeWhen someone tells you a spanking new Cadillac is going to be left on your doorstep, you tend to get ideas. A Cadillac! The name alone trails its myths - of high-end limos the length of football fields, and of the kind of not entirely tasteful symphonies in chrome beloved of high-flying American businessmen and the older brand of rap star.One is also inclined to ask: "Is my doorstep big enough?" And perhaps: "What will the neighbours think?" The expression "gas-guzzler" may not have been coined specifically to describe a Cadillac, but it has come to apply to them, in common with most other American cars, and may even be deemed to fall a little short. Historically, Cadillacs don't just guzzle gas. They gargle with it and spit it out in the dust by your shoes.I'm sure General Motors, under whose globe-girdling umbrella Cadillac resides, knows what it is doing. Yet, with concern about emissions becoming more audible and resistance to big cars and their users growing from a mumble of discontent into something more concrete, one could politely suggest that there have been more hospitable moments in history for a company such as Cadillac to expand its European operation.But received ideas and blind anticipation alike suffer a humbling fall at the sight of the Brit-ready, right-hand-drive saloon, known as the Cadillac BLS. Cadillac is pleased to emphasise that, of all the cars is has ever produced, this is "among the most compact". Now, anyone who has ever hired a car in America will be familiar with that country's entertainingly elastic definition of the term "compact", which roughly translates into European English as "two very large cars welded together at the bumpers". And one can only speculate on the heroic, red-faced straining and breathing-in that took place around the Cadillac drawing board in order that this car could come in at just under five metres in length.Even so, that makes the finished BLS no more space consuming than any other executive-sized Audi, Mercedes, or even Peugeot. And perhaps this would be a good moment to mention that the BLS was designed in Europe and put together - it slightly dispirits one to report - in Sweden. Accordingly, the better part of any generic reckless American brio has been sacrificed to ideas about the European market. Finns, yes; fins, no. As for chrome, there is a strip of it along the bottom edge of the windows, but not in any other places where it might surprise you.Still, the BLS is triumphantly unembarrassed about having edges, which sets it apart from today's apologetically rounded-off and conscientiously softened saloons. True, the bonnet of the BLS is tucked under in a manner that would not have been dreamed of by Cadillac in the days before European Safety Standards began thinking about the welfare of pedestrians. But you could rip paper on the crease along the boot, a thumping trunk, the rear aspect of which features surely the first properly sheer vertical descent seen on a new vehicle in the past 25 years, excluding buses and waste disposal carts.Note, also, the vertically stacked headlights and the tall, emphatically flat sides, which can put you in mind of the kind of thickened-to-order, blastproof combat limos in which presidents or paranoid heirs to construction industry fortunes go about.Otherwise, though, this is a Cadillac boiled down for British A-roads and Belgian bypasses. You may catch a hint of the car's lineage in the deluxe interior - not least the cream-leather upholstery - and in the soft bonging noise with which the BLS informs you that you have omitted to fasten your seatbelt. Plus the dashboard boasts a centrally mounted analogue clock - for some reason, a token of serious prestige in the saloon car world, and yet, if we're being honest about it, no more than a travel-alarm in disguise.But the spongy suspension of US highway legend has given way to a firmer, Germanic ride, and the engine is racy and competitive, made for ducking and diving rather than cruising and gliding. My automatic was fitted with one of those manual overrides whereby you can stage a one-person coup at any point and wrest control of the gearbox away from the car - anathema, surely, in a Cadillac, of all vehicles. Isn't the right not to have to change gear manually written into the American Constitution, right after the stuff about guns?No matter. Even by Americanising the soundtrack on the hi-fi and driving on the wrong side of the road where possible, one couldn't escape the feeling that one was at the wheel of another interchangeable Euro-motor. Would a fin have hurt? Even just a little one.
If you're curious about virtual worlds but don't want to plonk down cash for a monthly subscription without testing the waters first,this resourcemay be your entry into the Massively Multiplayer Online Game genre. Clyde Bielss has listed a phenomenal number of freely available MMOs, and has kindly provided direct download links for almost all of 'em. Most, I'm afraid, are of the swords and sorcery ilk; however there are a few non-"faerie" gems to be discovered amongst the Tolkien-esque rabble.Quite a tremendous undertaking.viapopurls/del.icio.us
If there's anything new going on in the videogame industry, you can always rely on Sega to barge its way past the indecisive hordes shouting, 'Me! Me! I'll have a go at that!'Hence the company'sannouncementyesterday that it'll be bringing Super Monkey Ball to the Revolution console - complete with loads of party games that take full advantage of the crazy controller. The press release names just two: a ring tossing game and a version of arcade favourite Whack-A-Mole. 'Whack-A-Monkey?!' I cried (internally) when I skim-read that bit. Sadly not - the release clearly refers to 'smacking pesky moles'... A missed opportunity if ever there was one.Anyway, those of you who work for large corporations with internet access policies more stringent than those adopted by Far Eastern communist states can read the most interesting paragraph of said release here:"The single-player puzzle levels in Super Monkey Ball: Banana Blitz have been innovatively designed to challenge gamers' skills like never before. For the first time in the Super Monkey Ball franchise, AiAi and his friends will have the ability to jump when players flick the Nintendo Revolution controller in an upward motion. The ability to jump has given game designers another dimension in which to expand the Super Monkey Ball gameplay experience and allows gamers a whole new way to interact with the franchise; this time in true three-dimensional fashion."Vive la revolution!
Dear Matt,For many years, I did a 16-mile round trip to work by bike. But lately I have walked the two miles to a new employment. Now, at 57, still reasonably fit and looking forward to early retirement, I am anxious to get back on the bike.However, occasional excursions in recent years have caused great discomfort to the old nether regions. I have changed the saddle to one allegedly designed for more comfort but to little avail. Any advice?Bill White,via emailFirst, equip yourself with a good pair of cycle shorts - with the padding generally referred to as a chamois (though modern synthetics mean that no goat has been harmed in the making thereof).Second tip is keep them clean. Not to be indelicate ... but it's bacterial warfare down there - and that's not a battle you want to lose.Third, get you and your bike along to a decent bike shop that has a fitting service and seek expert help with your riding position (you will need to pay for this, but it's worth it). Finally, do not be fooled into thinking that a squishy saddle will be better; paradoxically, a firm one is. It's all about how you sit on it.
Pre-tax profits at Game Group fell to &pound;5.4m from &pound;29m previously, as the computer games retailer suffered sharply lower prices on older games and a lack of availability of new consoles.The firm's chairman, Peter Lewis, said he expected the market to remain competitive in 2006, particularly with older formats, but it should benefit as the transition from old to new technologies accelerates this year with the launch of Sony's PlayStation 3 and Nintendo Revolution.Despite the drop in profits, Game is raising the dividend by 15% to 2.53p, reflecting its confidence in the future.
It's time to chat.
In the early summer of 1841, Queen Victoria had been on the throne for only four years, the government was led by a long-serving prime minister, Lord Melbourne, whose administration was crumbling, JMW Turner was painting, Thomas Cook was preparing to open his first travel agency, Schumann's first symphony was being played, Charles Dickens was wowing the reading public with The Old Curiosity Shop - and Britain's nascent civil service sent teams of what were called enumerators round the country to see where everyone lived. It was the first systematic bureaucractic census to be compiled since the Domesday Book.Yesterday in an invention that they could never have imagined 165 years ago, the officials' copper-plated entries and dusty ledgers went online for the first time. In theory, everyone whose ancestors were living in Britain that summer will now be able to track down what they were doing, at least so long as they can decipher the writing.With only a little hyperbole, Sarah Richardson, a senior lecturer in history at Warwick University, said: "1841 is the first census of Victorian Britain, which heralded a new age of democracy, progressive society, literary and cultural advancement and imperial conquest."Well, yes. What the documents actually show is who was spending the night where on the evening of June 6. Householders were asked to fill in their house number and street and the name of every person in the house, with their age, sex and sometimes their occupation. There had been censuses before, since 1801, but they had relied on local vicars and poor law overseers and were accordingly much less detailed or reliable. The enumerators collected the forms, compiled the information in pencil, and then destroyed the originals.What is left, therefore, is a snapshot of that night, neatly docketed and filed - and, of course, a picture of a society whose more affluent households were stuffed with servants.At Buckingham Palace, the young Queen was tucked up with Prince Albert, her six month-old daughter, the Princess Royal, and 47 servants including four valets, five footmen, two dressers, two wardrobe maids, 12 ladies' maids, two pages of the backstairs, the Earl of Aboyne, Baroness Lehzen and someone called George Keppel, described as a groom-in-waiting, who may well be an ancestor of Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall - in which case the family has certainly come up in the world, though a precise link may have to wait until royal genealogists have discovered it.Across London at Devonshire Terrace in the parish of St Marylebone, 29-year-old Dickens, already a bestselling author but ever sensitive to his origins, was describing himself simply as "Gent". He shared his house with his wife, Catherine, his four year-old son, also Charles, two baby daughters, four female servants and one 19-year-old male servant, Thomas Hornsby.Up in Yorkshire in the parish of Guiseley, 20-year-old Charlotte Brontë was living in Upper Road as a governess. At Parsonage House, Newton-by-Daresbury near Warrington, nine-year-old Charles Dodgson - later to find fame as Lewis Carroll - was living with his parents, four sisters, two brothers, one gentleman, three private pupils and five servants. At 13 Charlton Terrace in London, a rising young politician, William Gladstone, was living with his wife and baby son and eight servants, including one boy called George Lee, who was 10.Bizarrely, the online company that purchased the licence to reprint the census from the National Archive - MyFamily.com, Inc - is based in Provo, Utah, somewhere that was undiscovered by white men in 1841, the year that the first wagon train set out from Missouri to try to reach California. Those taking out a subscription to trace their ancestors will have to pay &#163;69.50 for the privilege.The archive, which is the latest, and earliest, census the company has put online is not entirely easy to navigate. The enumerators rounded down the ages of adults in the survey to the nearest five years - Queen Victoria is listed as being 20 years old when she was actually 23 - but were also inadvertently able to fool the website search engine by abbreviating first names: Dickens is listed as Chas and the scientist Michael Faraday resides under the name of Michl at his house in Mayfair.Josh Hanna, marketing director of Ancestry in Europe, parent company of the website, said: "We've invested time and resources to scan and transcribe the 40,000 hard to read images written in pencil. This is a milestone in online family history research."The enumerators were evidently felt to have been successful in their task: there has been a census every 10 years ever since. The archive - atwww.ancestry.co.uk- now claims to have 4 billion names online.
Here's an interesting little polemicfrom a blog called, Lost Garden. Under the header, 'The joyful life of the lapsed game developer', the writer makes some familiar points about the hell that is modern videogame production, pointing out the long hours, lack of recognition and creative hopelessness of it all. Yes, we've heard a lot of this before, notably from EA Spouse, but Lost Garden brings some facts and figures into its analysis:"There are more lapsed game developers in the world than there are current game developers. Let's look at some back of the napkin numbers. The average career in the game industry is 5 years. With 800 mainstream games a year and an average team size of 40 developers, we have a rough population of 32,000. If 20% leave a year, that's roughly 6,000 new lapsed game developers every year. Over the past decade, that rapidly adds up to 50,000 or more lapsed game developers."This reminds me of the employee churn rates cited by Eric Schlosser in his new fast food expose, Chew On This (The Guardian has an extracthere). Of course, the five year figure given on Lost Garden is much better than the 3-4 month job span Schlosser attributes to young burger flippers - and you have to hope that creating videogames (even endless sequels) is more fulfilling than chanting "would you like fries with that?" 6,000 times a day.But from what this lapsed developer claims there doseemto be subtle similarities: a high-pressure environment dominated by young staff, the treadmill-like working practices, a pay packet that fails to reflect the hours that go into the role. And of course, both industries have become scapegoats for a generation of over-weight kids with turbo-charged attention spans. Does this mean the next Supersize Me or Fast Food Nation is going to come from videogaming? Is Morgan Spurlock going to report, bleary-eyed and chronically depressed, on a month spent testing game code for 20 hours a day?Or is the Lost Garden out of step with current working practices?
"EMI Music Publishing, the song rights company, yesterday announced a deal with Skype, the internet telephony business, to sell music on Skype's new retail website. Under the deal, Skype will be licensed to use song copyrights from EMI's catalogue to sell music as downloads and ring tones," reportsThe Times Online.Also, Skype "recently signed a deal with the Warner Bros' group of record labels, allowing Skype use of Warner Bros' master recordings."
"Sun Microsystems announced Monday that its longtime chief executive Scott McNealy is stepping down from the helm and will be succeeded by the struggling computer and software company's No. 2 executive, Jonathan Scwhartz. McNealy, 51, a Silicon Valley luminary for years, will continue as chairman of the company he co-founded in 1982. Schwartz, 40, will keep the title of president," reportsThe Mercury News.The announcement came with the quarter's financial results, where Sun lost $217 million, up from a net loss of $28 million in the same quarter last year. Sales climbed 21% to $3.2 billion including the takeover of StorageTek.According toBloomberg:"It's what the market wanted to see," said John Buckingham, who oversees $875 million at Al Frank Asset Management Inc. in Laguna Beach, California, including Sun shares. "McNealy was a hero in the late '90s, but he's a goat today."Comment: McNealy was a target following years of losses because some outsiders think Sun needs to cut up to a third of its 38,000 staff, to reduce expenses, and McNealy wasn't going to do that. Whether the change of power will make much difference is anyone's guess: Scott will still be Sun's chairman and will no doubt continue to attract press attention for his Motormouth act.
Microsoft geek blogger Robert Scoble has posteda manifesto for the company's future.
A games design team in Eugene, Oregon in the US has taken a novel approach to staving off tightening belt buckles between projects by offering up their services for tender on auction site eBay. If you have a clever idea for a game but no idea how to see it to fruition, or just a lot of money to burn, you can bid for the group who'll do your bidding for 90 days. Team members include:* Game Designer* Writer* Concept Artist* Texture and 2D Artist* 3D Modeler* Audio Designer* Programmers* ProducerWhilst probably intended as a fun exercise for bunch of talented and creative chancers, the Eugene team unknowingly are making a statement about the current business model of the interactive entertainment industry. As it currently stands, most games companies bankroll their employees on a long-term basis, effectively granting retainers to talent between projects to the (occasional) detriment of the bottom line.Frequent rumblings from an increasingly loud voice of industry execs have been promoting the idea of a so-called "Hollywood Model" of employment, in which talent is brought in on an ad hoc basis to do jobs for a fixed contract, and then released to go work for another company when their work is completed. Certainly this would reduce overheads, and could foster greater innovation in the industry by keeping the wolves away from the door when no publishers' commissions are on the table.The 90 days offered by the Eugene development team isn't nearly enough to get any substantial work done on a project except for a draft of a design document and a working prototype, but their approach may be forward thinking enough to establish them as an early-stage team package. At the competitive rate of only £112,252.34 for 90 days' work for eight employees with "60 combined years of experience" and no strings attached, employers may be tempted to forgo the high-cost of employee tax and benefits for a self-contained freelance model.Of course, this is a moot point if the bidding price remains at £0.
Although the Xbox 360 version of Top Spin 2 has attracted plenty of good reviews,thisis the next-gen tennis sim announcement many of us have been holding out for: Sega will be showing off Virtua Tennis 3 in Los Angeles this May. If you, like me, wasted many hours of your life playing out tense doubles matches in the masterful Dreamcast original, I'll let the press release seduce you for a bit..."With Virtua Tennis 3, the series returns with enhanced photo-realistic graphics and advanced player animations that perfectly match the behaviour and mannerisms of individual professional players. Next-generation systems allow gamers to see the most detailed expressions on the faces of their selected players as they battle to win heated tournaments around the world"Imagine the difficulty Sega must have had simplyidentifyingindividual mannerisms or expressions in the top players, let alone replicating them in digital form. Unless of course Andrew 'Angry Outburst' Murray is on the roster.Anyway, we can expect all the usual modes - including the mini-game splattered World Tour - as well as some newcomers. The publisher is also promising improved player AI and loads of new professionals to play against. They pretty much had me at "with Virtua Tennis 3..."It's due out in Spring 2007
Microsoft delivered a devastating critique yesterday of the European commission's ruling that it abuses its dominance of global software, accusing Brussels of foisting on consumers a version of Windows without its media player function that nobody wanted - and nobody had bought.As the company appealed against the commission's 2004 decision to fine Microsoft a record &euro;497m (&pound;340m), its lawyers accused the EU regulator of being economically illiterate, presenting flawed market analyses and ignoring all the evidence of healthy and growing competition from the likes of Apple and Google.But the commission hit back, claiming that the world's largest technology group was hell-bent on extending its global monopoly in desktop operating systems into new areas such as search engines and security, and accusing it of squeezing out rivals and stifling innovation.Rival hi-tech firms backing Brussels presented secret Microsoft emails from 1997 between Bill Gates, its founder, and executives outlining a concerted strategy to wipe out its rival Real Networks from the streaming video and music market just as Microsoft toppled Netscape, replacing it with its own Internet Explorer, which now has a 90% market share.The exchanges took place before 13 judges of the court of first instance, Europe's second-highest court. They are to cross-examine both sides' lawyers later today in a proceeding likely to determine the future shape of the IT industry and of the commission's regulatory powers.Jean-Fran&ccedil;ois Bellis, Microsoft's main lawyer, attacked the ruling that forced the group to issue a version of Windows without media player technology known as XPN. "The commission has not identified a single customer who would even want to buy Windows without its media functionality," he told the court."No PC manufacturer has shipped a PC with XPN installed on it: not Toshiba, not H-P, not a single one. As of March 31 this year, 1,787 copies of XPN had been ordered by retail shops - equivalent to less than 0.005% of all sales of Windows XP in Europe or 35.5m in the last nine months."Arguing that the commission had failed to prove that Microsoft had unlawfully tied two separate products, Mr Bellis insisted that the group had designed its operating system so that PC makers could install as many third-party players as they wished and the commission's theory that the market had "tipped" irredeemably in its favour was based on speculation. He maintained that Microsoft had simply tied WMP to Windows to improve its offering to consumers and software developers.But Per Hellstrom, the commission's main lawyer, replied that WMP was clearly a separate product and Microsoft simply wanted to ruin its rivals by tying the two together. "This is the world according to Microsoft, which decides what's best for consumers and can include what it wants without giving customers a choice."More than 70% of PCs sold in Europe only had one media player installed and that was the case for 80% worldwide, he said, insisting that, far from flourishing, rivals found it costly and time-consuming to switch to a non-Microsoft product.BackstoryMicrosoftwas founded only30years ago but now controls95%of the global market for desktop computer systems. In late1998the European commission began ananti-trust inquiryinto Microsoft's alleged abuse of its dominant position following complaints from Sun Microsystems.Mario Monti, then competition commissioner, ruled in March 2004, that Microsoft had abused its position in two areas and imposed a record&euro;497m fine.The European court of first instance is this week being asked to annul the Monti ruling, with averdictexpected late next year.
I've been checking out a couple of ape-themed mobile games over the weekend - as you do. First up, Monkey On Your Back, a really well-designed 2D platformer from a new developer namedCapybara. You play as a monkey trapped in the lair of an evil genius, Krenwinkle, and must escape through several levels patrolled by egg-headed scientists and trigger-happy guards.Naturally, you can jump up and scuttle along ceilings - and being a psychic monkey you can also leap on top of scientists and take over their minds, using them to open doors and to attack other enemies. The characterisation, even with such small sprites, is highly amusing - controlling a lab coated geek with a small simian perched on his soldier is much more fun than it really ought to be.It all sounds pretty daft, but the crisp, finely-detailed graphics are really quite lovely, bringing to mind the golden age of Mega Drive platformers like Robo Cop and Alien 3. Here though, you also get the offbeat comedy and tactics of the first two Oddworld titles. Level design is smart, too, with all the usual traps and features (moving platforms, deadly spikes, etc) accompanied by some more imaginative elements.Indeed, the experience compares extremely favourably with the excellent Splinter Cell mobile titles - but it may not be possible to check out Monkey On Your Back anytime soon: I've been told that the company is having trouble getting network operators interested in carrying the game on their portals, apparently because it has no TV/film license or connection to a big console release. If that's true it's a horribly depressing state of affairs and the industry needs to buck its ideas up.I've also taken a quick look atMr Goodliving's Gorillaz Entertainment System, a collection of retro mini-games starring the virtual pop band and glued together with some pretty astute eighties-themed presentation. The GES logo, for example, resembles a collision of the NES name with Colecovision typography, while sound effects are pure early Namco. You even get a homage to the old Commodore 64 Novaload lines between menu screens.Anyway, the four games are each named after a Gorillaz member. Muds gets a passable Breakout clone, where you bounce the ball off the top of his underpants. Noodles stars in a rudimentary fighting game stopping incoming objects with high, middle and low kicks and punches. Russel has to eat as many cookies as possible by grabbing at the correct areas of the screen corresponding to different key presses. Finally, 2D appears in a Skipping Stone-style rhythm action challenge where you hit the 5 button four times at the correct points to make him strike a punchball, then hit the button again to time the bag's bounces as it flies off across the room.It's an extremely limited experience, of real interest, perhaps, only to Gorillaz and/or retro console obsessives - but it's also stylish and daft and will amuse in very short doses. I think we could have done with more mini-games, though. A version of Moon Patrol with the Gorillaz Geep would have been fun (although that has sort of beendoneon the Gorillaz homepage...).So, what's the best monkey game on mobile phones?Monkey Ball Mini-Golfis certainly up there, Gorillaz certainly isn't, Monkey On Your Back certainly deserves to be...
Today, Apple announced a 2.16GHz Intel-basedMacBook Prowith a 17in screen. The UK price is £1,999, or £2,278.01 with AppleCare and VAT. The US price is $2,799.Update:John Gruber points out some oddities about the MacBook Pro pricing - specifically, that with some configurations, thelarger screen seems to come for free. "Either the 15-inch MacBook Pros are due for a price cut, or something very strange is going on", Gruber notes.
Anyone seen theSilent Hillfilm yet? No, me neither, but reviews have been mixed. Actually, they'vegenerally slatedthe film, with talk of a nonsensical plot and gibberish dialogue. Well, what did they expect? Anyone who has played the game - and you can get bet that none of the film reviewers have - could tell you that these are part of Silent Hill's charm. Well that and the fog, of course.In yesterday's Observer, Mark Kermodeblames videogamesfor the decline in quality of movie narrative. Despite using the term "joystick" - a common faux pas amongst writers who have not played anything since 1982 - he does make some sense, especially when discussing the innate differences between game and movie plot. But to blame gaming for "boy-friendly blockbusters" that "often boast nothing more than a collection of spectacular interludes assembled in the manner of a catalogue rather than a chronicle" is incredibly short-sighted. What about film distribution and finance? Comic books? Attention Deficit Disorder? YouTube? Reading standards in schools? That bloke down the pub who hates Woody Allen?Yes, 98% of game-inspired films are awful - I hold a flickering torch for the first Tomb Raider - but blaming videogames for the ills of the movie industry is simply ridiculous.
Chris DeWolfe, left, and Tom Anderson of MySpace.com Photo: New York TimesThe New York Times has done a big piece on MySpace:For MySpace, Making Friends Was Easy. Big Profit Is Tougher.More than 70 million members have signed up -- more than twice as many as MySpace had when Mr. Murdoch agreed to buy it -- drawn by a simple format that lets users build their own profile pages and link to the pages of their friends. It has tapped into three passions of young people: expressing themselves, interacting with friends and consuming popular culture.MySpace now displays more pages each month than any other Web site except Yahoo. More pages, of course, means more room for ads. And, in theory, those ads can be narrowly focused on each member's personal passions, which they conveniently display on their profiles. As an added bonus for advertisers, the music, photos and video clips that members place on their profiles constitutes a real-time barometer of what is hot.The problem is that really, nobody has enough ads to put on a billion pages a day.....But the key paragraph is almost at the end:IN some ways, MySpace has assumed the role America Online held a decade ago when it introduced e-mail services and Internet chat to the masses. But AOL's example is a cautionary one. For many reasons, largely its failure to keep up with trends, AOL lost its place in the social lives of young people.And the key paragraph that's missing is the one aboutMicrosoft's MSN Spaces, which seems to be more popular than MySpace in Asia (it supports Chinese and Korean) and, I'd guess, already has more than 30 million users.
In Saturday'sGuardian, afront page articleannounced that childhood obesity in the UK has doubled in a decade, and that a lack of exercise and a taste forHo Ho'sare to blame. Often when obesity hits the headlines, the anti-games crusaders line up interactive entertainment in their sights, claiming Mario and Sonic are the culprits. Well, here's a slight tear in their logic: little girls are fatter than little boys, and we all know (*wink*) that videogaming is primarily a boy's sport.Does this let games off the hook or is this ammunition for the argument that girls play games?
EA have rushed to fill theOblivion-sized gap in their line-up with the launch of "Project Gray Company". With phrases like "expansive open world setting" and producer Steve Gray'schoose your own adventure comments, it's obvious the Bethesda's epic is the main inspiration. In fact, reading his comments again I'm surprised he didn't go the whole hog and mentionhorse armourandSean Bean.RPG's used to be a hardcore niche but the success of World of Warcraft (6 million addicts/subscribers and rising) and Oblivion (over 1.7 million sales to date) has clearly had an impact at the world's biggest publisher. Even though EA had numerous million sellers in 2005 they were primarily franchise updates - relatively easy quick wins. Creating an RPG from scratch is a much tougher proposition, especially if sales are likely to be similar to, say, a *relatively* easy to develop new Burnout game. The key question then - how much time will EA allow for development? WoW and Oblivion took over 4 years to create - will "Gray Company" be given the development time that it will need to match, never mind better, these classics?
How was your weekend?
TheMySpacegeneration is ripe for the picking, thinks EA founderTrip Hawkins, whose interactive companyDigital Chocolate(mmmm) has announced the release of an avatar-based "hooking up" social networking game for America's mobile phones.The Hook Up: AvaFlirtingrepresents the logical convergence of a number of interests: the rise of avatar-representation, portable social and gaming technologies and social network-based interaction. According toRed Herring, the game will have Tamagotchi-like elements, which should act as non-verbal cues of the users' intentions and commitment to the concept, providing a heuristic for likely potential partners. In the same way as MySpace promotes friendship brokering via thumbs ups from strangers for similarities and kudos for techno-know-how, the avatar-based system ofThe Hook Up: AvaFlirtingwill rely upon both avatar looks/innovation and user personality, and should open up a market for personalisation on a device platform which has already witnessed the rise and rise of irritating ringtones. While avatar personalisation isn't anything new on the vast Interweb (seeStorTroopersandHabbo Hoteland othersocial virtual worldsfor examples), it's on the cusp in the mobile market.If Trip cracks it withThe Hook Up: AvaFlirting, he could be onto another winner.
"A Chinese company is touting an inexpensive Linux-based computer as a way to close the 'digital divide.'YellowSheepRiver's $150 Municatorappears to be available now, with a three-month leadtime, suggesting it could reach market well ahead of MIT's $100 One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) device." reportsLinuxDevices.com.The Municator measures 7 x 5.7 x 1.5 inches (180 x 145 x 37mm), and weighs one pound, six ounces (0.65kg). It requires five amps of 12-volt power, and comes with a 45-watt auto-sensing 110/220 adapter. A lithium-ion battery pack is optionally available. Other options include Wi-Fi and a modem.It can use a TV set as a display, as well as a monitor, and you can plug in a 40MB external hard drive. It runs a verson of Linux called Thinix 3.0, and open sourceRed Office. There's an impressive video demonstrating the Municator taken at the CeBIT 2006 exhibition atGoogle Video.Comment: Unfortunately it's not PC-compatible: "the Municator is based on a 64-bit Godson-2 CPU from BLX Semiconductor" which is based on the MIPS instruction set. According to LinuxDevices, its legality is open to question.However, it does prompt the question as to how close Chinese manufacturers could get to providing a decent working PC for $150 (without monitor) -- especially considering what you can already get for $300. And this sort of thing would be much more attractive than the $100 (or probably more) OLPC laptop, which has the sort of spec that makes it look of very limited practical use.The $100 OLPC had some appeal when the alternative cost $1,000, but if it's a $135 OLPC versus a $270 PC, things start to look different. If Chinese capitalism finally beats American paternalism, don't be too surprised....
Peugeot 407 Coupe&pound;30,900Top speed:143mphSeats:4Good for:BingersBad for:PurgersBeing British, I know only too well how to savour the sweetness of another's misfortune. But the faux-concerned smiles of the group of onlookers who'd gathered to enjoy my moment of torment last weekend as I tried to retrieve my keys from inside a closed boot was enough to leave a very sour taste in my mouth.'What I don't understand is how exactly you managed to shut your keys in your boot,' an elderly woman kept repeating. Others smirked while offering me coat hangers, credit cards and even half a brick to help me break in. I'd put the keys down to get a two-handed grip on a heavy box and had then slammed the trunk with my elbow - forgetting all about the keys. The delight of the gawpers was due to the fact that this had happened to the driver of a &pound;31,000 car. If I'd been at the wheel of a 15-year-old fume-belcher, there'd have been genuine empathy. But drive a snooty car and the crowd's schadenfreude is understandable.And Peugeot's stunning two-door coupe is a snooty car. The 407 started out as a decent saloon aimed at those with flamboyant taste. If you're the kind of person whose eye was drawn along the sale rail past the plain greys to the outer reaches of 'statement' colours, then the 407, with its outrageously large, shark-gilled 'nose', was for you. It even prompted Jeremy Clarkson to say that the car 'should sue for failed rhinoplasty'. But the Cyrano de Bergerac grille, an 'homage' to Ferrari, has gone on to win most of us over. So much so that Peugeot has decided to step up to the premiership and roll out a supremely luxurious coupe version of the 407. This means the French carmaker, usually associated with nifty runarounds and reliable workhorses, has shoehorned as many gadgets and gizmos into the car as is humanly possible. To sit in the driver's seat could bring on an attack of technophobia in even the most hardened button-pusher. The central console has 62 buttons on it - I counted them while stuck in traffic - covering everything from voice-activated satellite navigation to hands-free phone use. In fact, it's a challenge to find something it can't do. The car also boasts a sophisticated parking system. When you approach an obstacle, an image of your car pops up on the console surrounded by concentric rings of flashing colours. Beeping fills the air. There's so much information coming at you, it's easier to turn it off so you can concentrate on parking.The coupe comes with a selection of engines, but it's the twin-turbo charged V6 diesel which sums up how clever the car is. As powerful and smoothly invigorating as a Turkish massage, the engine blows the cobwebs off every other diesel on the market.All this comes at a price - &pound;30,900. It's the most expensive Peugeot you can buy. This is the deep water of the prestige boys and though the coupe matches them stroke for stroke, I can't see many people deciding to fork out Mercedes money on a Peugeot.So, to the missing keys... Someone revealed that the centre of the '0' in the 407 emblem was a concealed boot release. I popped it open, grabbed the keys and gave thanks for a design detail worth its weight in gold.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Tom Ferris, a hacker and researcher from Mission Viejo, Calif., postedon his Web siteThursday evening information about seven separate security vulnerabilities he found in different Mac OS X digital image formats. Ferris included proof-of-concept exploit code for all of the flaws in his advisories, though he insists the code is little more than the most basic example to demonstrate precisely where the problems reside," reports Brian Krebs atThe Washington Post."Ferris said he first notified Apple of the flaws in early January, and that Apple still is working on fixing at least seven other serious security bugs he found in iTunes and Quicktime after just a few hours of poking around the programs."Comment: I have not heard of any of these exploits being exploited by hackers or malware writers, but it's a good idea to install Apple's fixes as they are released.
Googler Blogoscoped has posted the lasteight years of Google.comfront pages, from Archive.org's Wayback Machine. Search Engine Journal has done10 years of Yahoo!
For a look at all the past week's posts, clickhere.
There is something familiar about Polish rock singer Mizar (mizar.us). Is it Darius with a beard? The second coming of Bob Latchford, Birmingham City's 1970s legend? Or just possibly the person he's trying to look like is that bloke out of the Bible. You know the one. But then the web is awash with lookalikes.If you'd like a fake Ricky Gervais to dance at your wedding or a phony Simon Cowell to come round and insult you,fakefaces.co.ukwill be happy to oblige. Little though can prepare you for the wonder that is Samie Oliver (samieoliver.com) - the best celebrity double name sincecrowdedscouse.co.uk. Rock bands are used to this sort of thing but a chap called Lee Lard (tinyurl.com/ls3lj) tours the UK being Peter Kay while the very sight of someone who looks like Billy Connolly (tinyurl.com/ehfqk) sends people into hysterics. Either that or they're throwing up.
TuesdayAudio gamingLara's creator speaksUK studios fare wellWednesdayDouble topsThe relationship between two anagramsParis plays on mobileThursdayIn the paperMore stamps8 year old GTA fan steals carFridayPutting the videogame debate in perspectiveTV ads economical with truthKatamari creator shock
One of the things Bill Gates raised when describingthe way he works-- and thatI picked upwhen I wrote about it -- was the value of having two or (like Bill) three screens. This is somethingThe New York Timeshas just covered, with Ivan Berger concluding: "Adding a second monitor turned out to be the easiest, most cost-effective and significant improvement in my work since I replaced my modem with high-speed cable."
You may not have noticed,seeing as gamers barely watch TV these days, but publishers have been told tostop using CGI footagein their ads. Yes, finally enough people have noticed that the movie quality graphics on show are not exactly what you get when you start playing. And it seems that those naughty publishers have been relying on the ignorance of the Broadcast Advertising Clearance Centre to do this."If you're saying that a large number of them use CGI footage generated just for the ad, that's at odds with what advertisers are telling us", said copy group manager Matthew Baily.Personally I'm surprised this is only coming to light now. Today's pre-rendered stuff at least bares some resemblance to the actual game, especially on 360. Compare this to TV spots for the N64 or PSOne with their promise of Toy Story quality graphics and you wonder how they got away with it for so long.Of course, veteran gamers are well used to these distortions of the truth. 1980s print ads - TV wasn't an option for most publishers then - were quick to promise "arcade quality" graphics. The reality was somewhat less glamourous, unless yousquintedwhen visiting the arcades. It didn't take Spectrum and Commodore owners long to get immune to ad claims, though enough people were suckered in byRise of the Robotsa few years later to suggest that pretty pics still appeal.
One of many incidental pleasures for Google users is the wayDennis Hwangproduces special logos to celebrate various events, such as the Olympics or Einstein's birthday. The work of numerous artists has also been celebrated including, yesterday, Joan Miro. That, sadly, resulted in a fit of what looks like copyright insanity. AsThe Mercury Newsreports:Today, the family of Joan Miro was upset to discover elements of several works by the Spanish surrealist incorporated into Google's logo. Google has since taken the logo off its site.The Artists Rights Society, a group that represents the Miro family and more than 40,000 visual artists and their estates, had asked Google to remove the image early this morning."There are underlying copyrights to the works of Miro, and they are putting it up without having the rights," said Theodore Feder, president of Artists Rights Society.Comment: This is a good illustration of how to turn a powerful free advertisement for Miro into a publicity disaster.
Friday's earlier edition of Chatterbox.
David Weiss providesa virtual tour of Microsoft's Mac Lab, which has "about 2000 square feet of solid computers".
Designer Keita Takahashi is rapidly becoming the most controversial man in videogaming. Not long ago, the offbeat talent behind Katamari Damacy declared that, actually he didn't know if he could be bothered tomake any more games. Now the opinionated livewire is at it again, this time revealing in aninterview with Gamesindustry.bizthat he's not that blown away by the Revolution's remote control-style joypad."I don't think a controller should have that much influence on the enjoyment of games," he raged quitely before adding, as if for maximum shock effect, "there's nothing I really want to do with it right now." Explosive stuff - and interestingly at odds with the rest of the industry which now seems to be conceding that, hang on, designing controllers with 52 buttons, two analogue sticks, a d-pad and 15 tiggers probably isn't the best way to attract a mainstream audience, while cameras, microphones and buzzers do the job really nicely.What next? "I don't really use Live Arcade much"? "I might not buy Final Fantasy XII"?! "That Killzone PS3 demo looked a bit ropey"?! Lock up your sacred cows - we suspect this loose cannon ain't done firing!
Tom Standagehas penned an in-depth look at former "dangerous" fads that caused rippled in polite society pre-videogames forWired Magazine.US senator Charles Schumer says some videogames aimed at kids "desensitize them to death and destruction." But dire pronouncements about new forms of entertainment are old hat. It goes like this: Young people embrace an activity. Adults condemn it. The kids grow up, no better or worse than their elders, and the moral panic subsides. Then the whole cycle starts over. Here's how the establishment has greeted past scourges.The author ofThe Victorian Internet(just got my copy today, coincidentally), covers a wide range of subjects, including novels, the telephone, comic books and the waltz.
Small storm in the teacup that is the blogosphere, perhaps, but Forever Geek pointed out some strange coincidences on Digg's front page, and got banned, as did users to who tried to digg the Forever Geek story. Thelatest versionincludes a summary, but the basic point is that "Digg gets anywhere from 500,000 to 800,000 readers a day. 16 (or 19) identical diggs for two articles by the same author? 22 of the first 24 diggers being being the same for both articles? Somehow I don't think that is a coincidence."Well, the Guardian pays highly talented people to decide what goes on the front page, but we don't claim that such decisions are taken directly by our readers. Digg does. It doesn't even say 16 (or 19) readers including one of the site's co-founders.And even the common phenomenon of a clique of users regularly digging each others' stories doesn't explain why the diggs should be in the same order....Comment: Either way, as a comment to Forever Geek points out somewhat unsubtly, the real problem with Digg now is the user base: "It has the same problem that all social networking sites have: most people are terrible idiots. Hence, the more users, the more the quality degrades over time." It's another Slashdot effect....Update: There's now a response from Digg'sKevin Rose. However, it clearly does not address the charges raised by Splashohere.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Gartner researchers say that worldwide PC shipments totalled 57 million units in Q106, a 13.1% increase over the same period last year, on its preliminary figures. "Most regions performed in line with Gartner's expectation with the exception of the US PC market which exceeded projections due to strong home desktop demand," says the company.Dell was the leading supplier, shipping 9.4 million units for a 16.5% market share. It was followed by HP (14.9%), Lenovo (6.0%), Acer (5%) and Fujitsu/Fujitsu Siemens (3.9%).Gartner says:Strong consumer demand was an important growth driver in the United States during the quarter. US PC shipments totaled 16.4 million units in the quarter, a 7.4% increase. Dell's US shipments were almost flat compared with one year ago. This continues the trend of slowing growth which began in 3Q05, but it is the first time that Dell has exhibited growth below the US market average. A weaker performance in the consumer segment was largely to blame.So now we know why Dell bought Alienware....Gartner doesn't mention Apple, butApple's earnings press releasesays it shipped 1,112,000 Macs, for an increase of 4%. Given Gartner's total of 57,138,000 PC sales, Apple's worldwide market share would be 1.9%, or around half of a Fujitsu Siemens. Considering it's in the middle of a brave platform transition to a differently-compatible processor, that looks pretty good to me....
