A year ago this month, Hewlett-Packard completed its $23bn takeover of Compaq Computer, creating an industry giant almost as big as IBM. It was a bitter battle, but not in the usual way. Compaq was only too willing to be the blushing bride at the wedding. The voices of dissent came from the relatives - the children of HP's famous founders, Walter Hewlett and Bill Packard - who believed it wasn't such a good deal for HP.The result was a triumph for HP's chief executive, Carleton Fiorina, who won the shareholder vote by the skin of her teeth. The vote also represented a defeat for "the HP way" - trusting the workforce, belief in the value of the individual, etc.HP had been started in a garage   in 1938 and run as a family firm, but when it had become a $40bn multinational, no doubt many considered that a Thatcher-style revolution was well overdue.The problem with computer industry mergers is that they are usually disasters. Typically, computer companies run into trouble because they are stuck with old, proprietary systems designed before the industry became a communal endeavour.Old, proprietary systems no longer attract many new users (there are always a few mugs) and can quickly become too expensive to keep developing. Alas, many large customers are still running their businesses on this incompatible kit, and they get very upset if you discontinue it.Pulling off a megamerger is one way to reduce overheads. Unfortunately, you also end up with at least two lots of incompatible old kit to support. This was the sad story of Unisys - "the power of 2" - which inherited two incompatible mainframe ranges, from Burroughs and Sperry Univac.That should not have been a problem with Compaq, which started as a PC company. But it was, because Compaq had already bought two of HP's former rivals: Digital Equipment Corporation, the pioneering minicomputer company, and Tandem.Still, the idea of the merger was for HP and Compaq to consolidate staff and overheads, shed overlapping and unwanted product lines, and jointly become more competitive than either was before. To this end, HP has already dumped a number of products, including its own Vectra PCs, and is shedding   15,900 staff. HP/Compaq/DEC customers should therefore have an exit strategy for any non-standard hardware and software that they are not 100% certain has a profitable future.Over the past decade, however, HP's shining success has not been its computers but its printers. In the latest financial quarter, the Imaging and Printing Group had sales of $5.6bn and generated $907m in profits, which makes up almost all of the $925m earned by the combined corporation, before taxes.At least the merger was well planned, and one year on, "HPaq" seems to be doing much better than some people - including me - expected. There's still a long way to go, but if Carly pulls it off, she is probably in line to become America's first female president.
Writing is dead, they say. The internet killed it: kids r writing SA n txt, grown-ups rely on spell checkers and stylish grammar is punished by green squiggly lines. In fact, listen to the critics and you would be forgiven for thinking the internet is not so much a cultural wasteland, but a vacuum - sucking the very essence of civility and art out of its users.Perhaps once. But now, with the internet firmly placed in the majority of homes in the English-speaking world, the web is seeing a burst of old-fashioned literary endeavour. Writing, it seems, is very much alive and well on the web.The combination of massive potential readership, almost free publication, and the ease with which words can be put online, means that literary magazines, notoriously profit-free in printed form, are blooming across the web.Sites such as The Simon, The Morning News and &#220;ber offer daily essays. Opium Magazine has daily "humour for the deliriously captivated" and publishes reviews and feature articles. Sweet Fancy Moses is "where wit lives". Haypenny does "concept fiction for concept people", and The Black Table prints what it likes. 3am Magazine has fiction, interviews, poetry and politics. McSweeney's has both great writing and the benefit of being the online presence of the publishing empire of Dave Eggers. There are literary journals covering every genre, every style, every country and certainly every city big enough to have a scene.Other established writers are    taking advantage of the cheap and easy publishing systems devised by webloggers. William Gibson has a blog, as does Neil Gaiman. The graphic novel genius Warren Ellis has a blog, as does no less than America's greatest living writer, Neal Pollack. Last week, the science fiction author Cory Doctorow announced that the free version of his latest novel, Down   and Out in the Magic Kingdom, has been downloaded more than 100,000 times since its release.Readers are getting a good deal. But why is this? Cost, mostly. Until now, a free press has been anything but: paper, printing, binding and distribution all cost money that niche publications would never be able to find or recoup. But with the internet,   one can be read almost anywhere on the planet, contributed to by strangers and influenced by writers who, only a few years ago, you would have never had the chance to hear of.The unveiling of good writing is one thing, but how do you become a good writer in the first place? The internet helps out there, too. Writers' communities, where people offer advice, encouragement and read and review each other's work, are becoming very popular. Sites such as Zoetrope, the Short Story Group and, while offering no critique, sites such as ABCTales, will publish anyone who wants to show their work to the world.Of course, the older, more established, usually dead, writers of the English canon are fully represented online. In fact, thanks to the expiration of copyright restrictions when a work reaches a certain age, many sites have grown up around offering free online versions of classic texts. Starting with the original Project Gutenberg, these free books sites are the perfect place to find good reading. Everything from Confucius to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle can be perused, downloaded, synched with your personal digital assistant or printed out and read in the bath. Sites such as NetLibrary, The Litrix Reading Room and the Online Books Page may look roughly designed, but their content is all proven classics from an age when getting your work read was much harder. For lovers of good reading, there has never been a better time.LinksThe Simonwww.uber.nuThe Morning NewsOpiumSweet Fancy MosesBlack Table3am MagazineTimothy McSweeney'sRetort magazineHaypennyFlakmagazine
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:An IRA statement which led to the postponement of the Stormont elections because it failed to include assurances that the IRA would cease all paramilitary activity has now been published. Does the statement go far enough? Should elections be reinstated? What do you think?Host_Chris2:would you describe the statement as groundbreaking?Bronco:wot did it sayHost_Chris2:it says, in part, "the full and irreversible implementation of the Agreement and other commitments will provide a context in which the IRA can proceed to definitively set aside arms to further our political objectives."Bronco:wot does it mean*LadeezMan has entered the NewsRoom*LadeezMan:im backBronco:did u leaveLadeezMan:just got up to stretch me barriesBronco:wotPashmina:is eveyone speakin irish today!LadeezMan:me legs. Its rhyming slangBronco:for wotPashmina:im lost!!!LadeezMan:barry legg = legPashmina:who is barry leggBronco:gay bloke on im a celebirtyPashmina:no thats wayne sleep!LadeezMan:thats himBronco:its not ryhming slang anywayLadeezMan:yes it isHost_Chris2:Barry Legg is the chief executive of the Conservative Party, facing criticism for his role in a council housing scandalPashmina:stick to the topic Chris2Bronco:leg dont ryhme with legg. There the sameHost_Chris2:the topic is the IRABronco:IRA = gay. that ryhmesLadeezMan:Chris2 do legg &amp; leg rhymeHost_Chris2:It could be what's called an "identical rhyme", ie the same word twice...Pashmina:yes or no will do thanxHost_Chris:or it might be a "repetend" rhyme. But I suppose Legg is, in this case, a homonym...LadeezMan:no thats Wayne SleepHost_Chris:it depends on how you use them in a poemBronco:barry legg, broke his legPashmina:does that rymhe thenHost_Chris2:we might call that a "rich rhyme", where the same word is given two meanings, except they're spelled differently...Pashmina:YES OR NOHost_Chris2:yesLadeezMan:see!Bronco:thats it im goin home to get me some wayne&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
The world market for personal digital assistants (PDAs) continues to fall (down by about a quarter on last year). In the first quarter of this year, according to IDC, about 2.5m were shipped worldwide, of which more than a third were Palm, still the market leader.There are a variety of explanations - the economy and economic instability, seasonal sales and so on - but it could also be that their "space" is disappearing. People just don't need them anymore.Why? For a long time, I took my Handspring everywhere. It was a small and convenient means of carrying my calendar and address book and it had the crucial functionality of synchronising with my laptop and therefore the company calendar and address book.Of late, however, it has been left on the desk. I haven't stopped using it though: it now serves the single purpose of synchronising Microsoft Entourage on my Apple PowerBook with Microsoft Outlook in the office. Its end is certainly nigh now that Microsoft has announced that sometime this summer, Entourage will finally hook up with Outlook servers directly.It is interesting to reflect on the fact that the synchronisation function outlasted the calendar and address book functions. This confirms the suggestion that connectivity is beginning to trump convergence in consumer devices. Once I could synchronise my phone with my laptop, I started to forget the PDA. For other people, synchronising the phone and the PDA might mean reduced laptop use (and other combinations).Naturally, I don't use the phone for entering appointments, typing notes, playing games or looking at photos of the kids (all things I did with my PDA), but merely being able to see my diary and look up phone numbers turns out to be more than sufficient.Making sure that smart devices connect with each other properly, over the steadily more pervasive internet and other digital channels, seems a much better bet than trying to pack more and more functionality into the devices themselves. I'm not sure, for example, if I want a phone that is an MP3 player. I think I would rather have an iPod with Bluetooth that could use my phone to download new music if it needed it.I am not sure if I want a (tiny) camera built in to my phone, either: I think I would prefer a   camera and phone that could talk sensibly to each other when required. Making sure that only "allowed" laptops could talk to my camera (and balancing the security and convenience aspects of those connections) is not trivial, but that is the area where additional functionality is justified.At the consumer level, it is also about choice and upgrade cycles. If I want a new MP3 player, I don't want to change my phone. If I want a new phone, I don't want to change my digital camera. This isn't bad for business, because manufacturers will sell me, in total, more of the gadgets.Adding more connectivity, not more functionality, has to be the way forward for personal digital devices.&#183;Seeonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Buy a downloadIt is laudable that Brian Buchanan (Move with the TV times, May 1) talked to both sides, but he made no attempt to validate the claims of the Motion Picture Association of America and Jack Valenti regarding the commercial consequences of video downloads.Although I support the position that online "trading" violates the copyright holder's rights, it disguises the real issue, which is the refusal of the media industry to address a powerful "lifestyle" market. As Valenti points out, these people would not slip a DVD into their pocket. The vast majority of people who could afford to buy downloads would probably do so if given an opportunity. But this market is being ignored.Many of his assertions are false. Who would buy a DVD if they had a low-quality, mis-encoded version? Perhaps the same people who buy videos of TV shows they have seen or taped online. Perhaps the same people buying DVD replacements for their commercial videotapes.Valenti's arguments are the ones put forward when the home VCR became widely available 20 years ago. Today, the industry makes more than half its income from this segment.We find the same arguments appearing in the music industry, which on the surface has a much better claim. Compressed MP3 versions of popular music are relatively easy to download, compared with video material. During the economic slump, the music companies point to a 15% fall in sales. However, they have also released 20% fewer titles over that time. And they have raised the price by more than 10%, upon which Economics 101 might predict a bit of a   drag on sales as well.Dr Michael D. FischerM.D.Fischer@ukc.ac.ukStream for a feeBrian Buchanan's article was well written but Valenti conveniently forgets that we've been encouraged to watch stuff before it comes out on C4, ITV, BBC for years - by Sky!Also, Valenti says that nothing can compete with free. That's not entirely true - pirate videos and DVDs are readily available, yet sales of legit copies remain good, because they are superior quality. People who are happy with a pirate copy are unlikely to have bought the real thing in the first place.If TV shows were available to download or stream from the networks for a fee, say $4 per episode, I'd do it, as would many others. Would it put Sky or C4 out of business? Unlikely, because not everyone has the ability to do it.You need a high-spec PC, broadband and knowledge if you're going to take advantage of it. The majority of British telly viewers can barely program their VCR, so I don't think the networks need worry just yet...Andy FisherAndy.Fisher@lstrillium.comMac files supportedWhoever told Brian Buchanan that "the most popular file formats such as AVI and VCDs/SVCDs are not supported on the Mac"? With five minutes research on a site such aswww.versiontracker.com, he would have found MacVCD, Playa and VLC, which do exactly that.Roger Houghtonrogerhoughton@mac.comReal star bloggersPeter Rojas (Second sight, May 1) notes bloggers rely on "original source material" and implies that blogging protects "traditional journalism and writing on the web" by reviving and remixing it. But bloggers can be real superstar DJs by creating original content, too - and not just   by plastering their opinions on the web. Mobile blogging enables people to post their observations, pictures and ideas from wherever they are, any time. Jon Hadley's moblogging. org is a good place to start.Paul Maypaul.may@verista.comUltraseek googlesFurther to Simon Bisson's article (Appliance of Google's science, May 1), the Google search appliance is only available in the US and Canada or for use from there, and Google has not revealed any ambition to make it available in Europe.In the past year, Verity has taken over Ultraseek and positioned it in their products as a small business solution (and a lower price than other Verity products). In most respects, Ultraseek will do what Google does, lacking only the knack of suggesting what it was you were looking for.Helen Varley Sarganhvs1001@cam.ac.ukGive me my life backIf it comes to separation or divorce I shall cite Online.  I'm the Online devotee,  he's the computer-illiterate. But where he exercised rights over all sections barring Online, now he exercises rights over the lot. I've just found Life in our recycling box. Give him his Life, and me my life, back!Murray Westonmurray@westonl6l6.freeserve.co.ukA logical marriageI like it. Maybe it is because I am interested in science and IT, but I find the new format logical and accessible.Nick Leenick@jaylee.demon.co.ukWider scopeI can't believe the moaning. I always enjoyed the Online section, but Life with Online incorporated is much better. The wider scope has improved the whole thing enormously.Patrick Donovanpatrick.donovan@eds.com
UN hails digital move for AfghansThe United Nations is claiming that an important move forward has been made in attempts to bring Afghanistan into the digital age.One of the barriers holding back the adoption of IT in the country has been that there is no software to support communication in its offical languages, Pashto and Dari. With more than 80% of the population using these languages, most government and business offices still rely on the typewriter.Now a team of Afghan, Iranian and Irish IT and language experts have produced a report - the Computer Locale Requirements for Afghanistan - that details what needs to be done for computers to handle Pashto and Dari characters and documents - including date and time conventions, and character sets.The study is now being distributed to computer and operating system manufacturers, including Microsoft, IBM, Red Hat and Apple.&#183;www.evertype.com/standards/afNHS plan scrappedPlans to create foundation hospitals are creating uncertainty over the rationalisation of the NHS's outdated IT portfolio. The NHS shared services initiative, slated for abolition under the reforms, is responsible for two national IT projects. One, the delayed scheme for a finance and e-commerce system for the NHS's 600 separate financial departments, will not now go ahead, the Department of Health said.However the second, a shared electronic staff record for all employees will continue as normal, a spokesperson said. The system, supplied by a consortium of McKesson, IBM and Oracle, is supposed to create a single payroll and human resources system for all NHS hospitals by early 2006.Foundation hospitals will not be able to opt out from another central initiative, the electronic health records systems being procured as part of the &#163;2.3bn National Programme for IT.Management helpIT specialists wanting to break into top management often hit a glass ceiling. The Society of IT Management, which represents staff in local government, is offering a way through. It is sponsoring up to five members a year to take an MBA at the Open University. The idea is "to equip ICT managers to take their place in the boardroom", the society said. It will pay 50% of fees during the first three years of a course. Students can choose from a general business or technology management MBA. The first intake is this autumn. Applicants must be SocITM members, work for a local authority and have a first degree together with management experience.www.socitm.gov.ukLocal vote downElectronic voting in last Thursday's local elections seems to have been used mainly by regular voters, rather than persuading the apathetic to cast a ballot. Turnout in Stratford-upon-Avon, which added internet voting to its use of electronic voting in polling stations, found turnout declined by 9% on 2000, the last comparable election. Swindon said that e-voting increased by 75% on 2002, with 11,055 e-votes including 349 via digital television - but overall turnout was slightly down.However, Sheffield, which claimed the world's largest e-voting pilot, found that 20,845, or 42% of voters, in its 15 e-voting wards used electronic channels, giving them turnouts 10% higher than in other wards.Sheffield reported problems with hardware for its voter registration   system, although this did not affect the vote. But St Albans had serious problems with computers for electronic voting at polling stations according to the Register, meaning some voters had to use paper ballots.www.odpm.gov.uk/pns/Display-government press release on e-voting.www.theregister.co.uk/content/6/30540.htmlwww.guardian.co.uk/online- last week's Online coverageEducation concernEducation standards body Ofsted says that in 10% of further education colleges, many IT students do not complete their courses. In a report, it points to a wide difference among colleges in performance, particularly in the higher   levels of FE qualifications, and says that overall, there is too much unsatisfactory IT teaching. On the brighter side, Ofsted found that the quality and accessibility of computing facilities was generally good.The report also praised adult further education IT courses.www.ofsted.gov.ukEmbassy project cutThe Foreign Office has cancelled an intranet, directory and database project linking its embassies and offices, having already spent &#163;9.5m. In a written parliamentary answer, foreign secretary Jack Straw said the project with Fujitsu Systems was cancelled after a review showed that boosting security to a level sufficient for current threats would have pushed the price from &#163;23.5m to &#163;42m over six years. Computing newspaper pointed out that the plans were finalised months after September 11 2001, when increased security risks became apparent.www.computing.co.uk/News/1140564
Wolverhampton is a good place to die. The city council was one of the first in England to try to save bereaved residents the heartbreaking chore of notifying multiple official agencies of the death of a spouse or another close relative.All they need do is tell the council's bereavement centre in the Civic Centre. Staff record the information and notify relevant organisations electronically so that the dead individual doesn't continue to get bills for council tax and reminders to return library books.The idea is not new. A joined-up bereavement service, enabled by IT, was one of the original projects conceived for Britain's first e-government initiative, a scheme called Government.direct, launched in   the dying months of John Major's government. A senior civil servant in the Cabinet Office had been struck by the difficulty of notifying officialdom that his father had died, and thought there must be a better way.It didn't happen, partly because of administrative and technical complexities, but mainly because ministers thought it would be the butt of journalists' jokes. (They were right.)Wolverhampton's civic leaders are made of sterner stuff. The council launched its bereavement service, originally funded through central government's invest-to-save budget, three years ago. It received further funding as a local government "pathfinder" to develop electronic messages using XML messaging technology and other parts of the e-government   interoperability framework.The council's ambitions include linking the system with those that schedule burials and cremations, as well as with the NHS.However, the scheme has hit a barrier. The council would like to set up links with national government departments and agencies so that notifications of death can flow seamlessly across official boundaries. However, according to Fahri Zihni, the council's chief ICT officer (who is also president of the IT managers' association SocITM), the law gets in the way. "Civil registration legislation is very long in the tooth and does not allow information about the deceased to be passed on," he says.The situation is similar to that faced by councils trying to set up one-stop notifications of changes of address. Even when everyone   wants to share such information, it is technically illegal to do so.Zihni says that, although changes in the law are promised, "our level of enthusiasm as a local authority is not replicated by central government priorities". He names the Inland Revenue and the Department for Work and Pensions as dragging their feet in accepting electronic notifications.The story contains two lessons about e-government. First, projects that make a difference to people don't have to be about ritzy websites. Second, without urgent action by Whitehall to tackle anomalies exposed by local initiatives such as that at Wolverhampton, much good work will go to waste.But at least when your long-dead grandmother receives a tax demand, you know who to blame.&#183;See:www.wolverhampton.gov.uk
There are two ways to save money in the data centre: use fewer servers or fit more servers into a smaller space. Virtual server technologies help companies make better use of existing hardware, but blade servers can pack hundreds of servers into a single 19 inch rack.Blade servers started as a spin-off from mobile technologies, using low power processors for higher density server installations, packing a complete server into a slim unit that fits into a rack shelf. In the past year, blades have become big business, moving in from the edge of the network to host core business systems. Processors have become more powerful, and now there are Intel-based blades based on the latest high-end Xeon processors.Traditionally seen as a tool for managing web farms, blades are now moving up into the rest of the business. While some organisations use them to run desktop operating systems, or as testing tools, others are using   blades to deliver complex business applications. Fujitsu Siemens' FlexFrame for MySAP is a flexible environment built around blade servers running the SAP business suite on Linux.More complex desktop applications can also take advantage of blade servers. Using tools such as Citrix's MetaFrame Presentation Server, applications run on relatively low cost blade hardware and are used from user desktops. Need to upgrade an application? Just install a new image on a blade, instead of traipsing around every desktop PC. Desktop clients for business critical applications like customer relations management systems will benefit from this approach, as they are large, expensive and difficult to maintain.With Sun's FireBlade solution, organisations can mix Sparc and x86 processors in the same blade shelf to run Solaris and Linux applications. A   separate server manages the blades, deploying operating systems and handling configuration. Sun sells single function server appliance blades to use as load balancers and hardware SSL accelerators to ease web farm development and deployment.Managing blades is critically important. Blade installations need to be flexible, so organisations can take advantage of the way systems can redeploy blades on the fly. Tools such as Microsoft's Automated Deployment Services allow organisations to build server images that can be held on a central server, and then deployed in minutes to an array of blades. It's possible to build a library of different images.This approach is used by most blade management solutions, and it saves on system administration time and resources. There are important issues, though. Blades are "headless", so they need to be controlled over the network. Good management tools are essential - large-scale management   frameworks and hardware-specific applications. HP uses its Insight Manager tool to control its blades, and provide system administrators with hardware reliability information, based on built-in monitoring systems.Intel sees two uses for blade servers. As well as being flexible servers for running web farms, larger modular installations can run complex applications. Running financial models across groups of blades means applications can treat them as flexible modules that are redeployed to target processing power where and when needed. With appropriate management tools, blades are even suitable for parallel processing applications, providing an alternative approach to scientific computing.Enterprise blade solutions from such companies as Egenera treat blades as processing area networks. With Egenera's management application, processing, storage and network are treated as resource pools, distributed across blade hardware running   Linux. These blades are diskless, using external storage like a storage area network. Egenera's management tools allocate resources to applications depending on what pools are available, and the set of business priorities.There's one big snag. There is still no standard for blade interconnects, so Sun's blade hardware won't run in HP's shelves. Intel is pushing the InfiniBand serial interconnection technology for future blade systems, while most current blade backplanes are based around gigabit Ethernet (and proprietary connectors).Soon, blade servers, virtual servers and component software will come together. Advanced management tools will monitor performance and redeploy servers in minutes to support changing demand, moving application elements from blade to blade, adding more resources as required. The hardware is already here; now it is time for the management tools to catch up.
Do sites such as faxyourmp.com allow us better access to MPs?People who may not have bothered to write and post a letter can now fax a message to their MP with a few clicks of a mouse - it's lobbying made easy and it's effective. For every letter received, MPs calculate there are at least 10 others who share the same concern. A mere 30 faxed letters is enough to make any MP get worried.Worried enough to have new email filters installed?The existing email filter system is out of control and is so sensitive that it rejects some entirely reasonable emails to MPs. I've been trying to draw attention to flaws in the police handling of the Damilola Taylor murder investigation but all my emails   to MPs on this subject get blocked.So you're opposed to the idea of filters?The idea is fine in principle but what constitutes threats and abuse? Who decides? Where do you draw the line between expressing a strong opinion and being insulting? No swear words, no sex, no threats and no insults. It is outrageous censorship, which is undermining access to MPs.Are decision-makers influenced by net protests?They tend to respond best when an issue hits the headlines and becomes a public talking point. The best way to ensure that is by visible protest, such as a strike, march or sit-in.But the computer is still an important part of the activism arsenal?All my human rights campaigns rely heavily on computer, email and the net. We start by batting around ideas   via email and then doing more research via the net. The computer is invaluable for designing leaflets, posters and news releases - most of which are now sent via email. My fax machine is almost redundant! I'm trying to get donations for a faster computer and broadband access.Does the net offer a less biased view of recent world events?The net has been a good way of circumventing the often narrow reports and debates offered on the Iraqi war. A lot of information and perspectives that don't get access to the mainstream media have appeared on the internet.Such as?Sites likeIndy Media, &lt;A HREF="http://www.zmag.org/weluser.htm"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;Znet,AlterNetandUrban75are all invaluable resources.Is hacking a constant threat?I have been targeted by cyber-terrorists. It has mainly been by neo-Nazi groups and Islamic fundamentalists... there have also been some from pro-Mugabe supporters from .zw addresses.So you must get a lot of email?I do get furious when people send unsolicited attachments, photos and very long emails. They seem to assume I have broadband (I don't), and think I have endless time to waste while the documents download (I don't)! Receiving up to 400 emails a day from all over the world is a nightmare - it can take over an hour to download them. Sometimes I spend eight hours or more responding to just a day's worth of email.&#183;Seewww.petertatchell.netandwww.tatchellrightsfund.org
David Blunkett this week trod where no home secretary has trod before. He told a BBC interviewer that a new high security passport card to be introduced in 2005 would become a de facto national identity card.Blunkett's announcement ends a political taboo going back to 1952 when the wartime national identity card scheme was abolished.A previous plan to revive identity cards in 1993 ran out of steam because the Conservative government at the time didn't like the idea of the European flag appearing on the card. There was also no proof that the card would perform its stated purpose: fighting crime. Finally, the technical barriers to joining up the necessary back-office IT systems were seen as insuperable.What has changed in the meantime is the arrival of biometrics: the technology of identifying an individual with a biological characteristic, until now usually a fingerprint. However, Blunkett indicated that a scan which shows the pattern of blood vessels in the holder's iris is now the preferred technology.Blunkett was speaking after a meeting of interior ministers of G8 countries agreed to work together on the technology to enforce border security.In fact, the UK's plans are already well advanced. The Passport Agency's latest corporate plan, published last week, reveals that within two years, passport books could contain a chip containing the holder's biometric data. A similar chip would appear on a proposed passport card. "Progress has been made and, subject to an adequate level of demand, we expect to launch a card in 2005," the plan says.The International Civil Aviation Organisation has already agreed in principle that all passports should include a biometric identifier. It has nominated facial images - digitised   versions of passport photographs - as the most promising technology. The US government says that from October next year, it will allow visa-free travellers only from countries that include biometrics in passports.All this is great news for the electronic security industry. At last week's Infosecurity Exhibition in London, electronics giant NEC demonstrated a facial recognition system that it says is robust enough for everyday security use. The software automatically homes in on the eyes, face and overall head shape from a camera image and matches the patterns with those on the ID chip.Singapore is already using fingerprint biometrics to carry out checks on residents arriving at Changi Airport or over the causeway from Malaysia. Their card is inserted into a slot and a forefinger into a fingerprint reader. As long as the fingerprint matches the template on the card (and your finger is not too sweaty or shaky), you pass straight through. Each verification "takes less than a sub-second", claims NEC.Although several European countries, including Belgium and Italy, are already encoding biometrics on identity cards, plans to introduce a passport card in Britain are still technically on hold. Confusing the issue is a proposal to issue an identity card to prove entitlement to social security benefits and NHS treatment.The entitlement card will have to carry biometrics if it is to be any use against identity fraud: otherwise it would be hard to stop one individual applying for more than one identity document. Late last year, the Home Office said it was considering an iris pattern supported by a facial image.Blunkett's statement suggests that he is moving towards issuing a dual purpose biometrically encoded passport and entitlement card. This is not as easy as it sounds. First, the two cards would be issued to different populations: the passport database is of citizens (and only 80% of us hold them), while the entitlement card would be available to legal residents of any nationality.Finally, there are practical difficulties with a single card. People who have booked an expensive holiday won't want to risk losing their passports the week before, so may prefer to carry a less valuable ID in their pocket. To confuse the picture further, many frequent travellers will need a passport book as well as a passport card.Although Blunkett has taken the political plunge, there will be plenty of devil in the detail.
Lost in spaceI've installed an extra 40GB hard drive. It works but the Properties sheet says total storage is 31.4GB. What's happened to the rest?Martin SmithJack Schofield replies:Drive manufacturers use decimals (base 10 numbers) when selling storage, where 1K is 1,000 bytes and 1GB is 1,000,000,000 bytes (10  the power of 9). Computers work in binary (base 2 numbers), where 1K is 1,024 bytes and 1GB is 1,073,741,824 bytes (2 to the powere of 30) or 1,024 megabytes. You should therefore expect your "40GB" drive to store 37.25GB of data. However, some computer BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) chips have problems with drives larger than 32GB, and your hard drive may have a jumper setting that limits the start-up capacity to 32GB. You could avoid this by changing the jumper, upgrading the BIOS or partitioning the drive to create two smaller drives.If using a New Technology version of Windows (NT, Windows 2000 or XP), it will not let you create a partition larger than 32GB using the old FAT (File Allocation Table) disk formatting system. This is by design: Microsoft recommends using the NTFS file system instead. You could format a larger drive under Windows 9x/Me and use it under XP but this is not a useful tip unless you use both types of Windows on the same PC. For more information, see the Microsoft Knowledge Base article number 314463, Limitations of the FAT32 File System in Windows XP.Big WindowsWhen I look at the Properties of, say, the Windows folder, it says the   Size is 576MB (604,366,204 bytes), and the Size on disk is 1,291,386,880 bytes, with 27,300 files in 317 folders. Does this mean that Windows is using up 1.29GB, and is there a way of reducing it?Andrew BerkereyJS:When a hard drive is formatted, it is divided into sectors, and when a file is stored, it is written into these sectors.      Each file takes up at least one disk sector, no matter how small the file, and no matter how large the sector (or, more      accurately, cluster of sectors).In your case, the properties sheet is showing a huge amount of wasted space. Windows is      holding 576MB of data but is taking up 1.2GB of the drive. This suggests that your drive is using large sectors (probably      32K) and that you have a lot of small files. You can see this effect if you right-click on the Favorites folder and selectProperties. My Windows Me machine has 602 links for Favorites, taking up 141K; but because each link occupies a 32K slot,      the directory uses 19MB of drive space!       Bear in mind that the Windows folder contains more than just Windows files. The Temporary Internet Files and Cookies      folders often have large numbers of small files, and you may have lots of files from other programs in the      C:\Windows\System folder and, particularly, in C:\Windows\Application Data, which usually includes Outlook Express email.      This makes it impossible to give a "correct" size for the Windows folder, though I would expect it to be closer to 1.2MB than      600MB.There is no failsafe way of cleaning out the Windows directory that saves a significant amount of space. I usually do it by      reformatting the hard drive and re-installing everything from scratch. This is not a good idea unless you have complete      back-ups and know what you are doing. Also, since hard drive space now costs about £2 per gigabyte, this is not necessarily      a cost-effective approach.How much?I'm selling my PC to my parents, but I'm not sure how much to ask. It is a Packard Bell Pulsar C433 (433MHz Celeron      processor, Windows 98), which cost £850 in 1999. I have also upgraded the memory and graphics card and added a DVD      drive.Chris WhalenJS:The second-hand value of a PC bears no relation to the original cost, but is capped by the price of new machines. Since      you can now get a fast Pentium 4 PC with Windows XP for less than £500, it is hard to get more than about £250 for the      average second hand model, and old machines are typically worth half that. To find the "going rate", tryeBay. Check the small ads in your local paper and compare with websites such asPC Depot Online.Backchat&#183;Last week, Phil Slade asked about copying websites to CD for a school in Kenya with no internet access. John Loader says:      "May I suggest a visit towww.worldspace.com? Worldspace operates satellites that, in addition to providing around 40      channels of free radio, have a download-only internet service covering large areas of general information."&#183;Geoff Winterman wanted to synchronise his PC to an external drive for back-up purposes and I suggested Second Copy      2000 ($29.95 from www.centered.com ). Robert Gray suggestsMehul's Backup, which is      free. John Haggerty usesReplicator from, also free, and you can download the source code. Tom      Corcoran says: "I use the excellent freewareBASKwhich will cover all      synchronisation backup needs."&#183;Jamie Keddie wanted software to control a TV set from his Mobile Action MA620 infra-red device. Michael Salem points out      you can do it with theSpitfire II.
BloodRaynePS2 (Also PC, Xbox and GC), &#163;29.99 VU Games/Majesco/ Terminal Reality, ****When the removal of Samus Aran's helmet at the end of Metroid revealed that the cyborg bounty hunter was a woman, it came as quite a surprise, since back in 1986, female lead characters, although not unheard of, were still something of a rarity.Now, thanks to the likes of Lara Croft, you can't move for them, and the latest in the line of butt-kicking babes is Rayne, a half-vampire assassin who has the best part of a cutlery drawer strapped to her arms, making Freddy Kruger's bladed gloves look like chopsticks.Visually, the nubile killer bears a striking similarity to 2000AD's resident vamp Durham Red. Rayne is an agent with the Brimstone Society, a secret brotherhood that acts as a kind of Neighbourhood Watch against supernatural nasties. Add in a few zombies, Nazis and biological experiments, and you can pretty much work out how the story pans out.But then again, this isn't a plot-driven story. It's a gory splatter-fest of epic proportions as Rayne spins, kicks, slashes, shoots and sucks her way through the bad guys. As the kills rack up, Rayne gets a blood rage "gift", where a red mist literally descends and her powers are heightened for a short period of time.Later on, you'll also get to use a harpoon, which allows you to reel in your lunch, a Max Payne-style bullet-time mode and a sniper feature. The repetitive action is mindless console fun, but stylishly executed, allowing the game to bite more than it sucks.RPVietcongPC, &#163;29.99 Take 2, ****Compared with other conflicts, the Vietnam war has been largely ignored by videogames. A combination of political and historical constraints have hindered development. After all, even if you beat the game, the US still lost the war. Not that you'd know this in Vietcong, a gung-ho, yet intense, first-person shooter.This is a team combat game that doesn't bog you down in a tactical morass. Your commands are limited to attack or hold, rather than the putatively more accurate rape or pillage. Political strategy game this ain't; tense shooter is more apt.But don't be fooled into thinking this is a Rambo blastathon. Vietcong simulates the sweaty jungle feeling perfectly, and with every scrap of land hiding a potential enemy, the feeling of in-game mortality is high.It's not all jungle firefights, although these are the most enjoyable sections. Helicopter assaults, base defence and tunnel attacks all play a part. There is always a sense of uncertainty during the missions,   with everything that could go wrong usually doing so.The visuals are as variable as the US foreign policy of the time. The forest is nicely depicted, with undergrowth and trees creating a claustrophobic environment, but the soldiers look the worse for wear. Maybe this is a deliberate attempt to capture the horror of war, although the use of an aged graphical engine is a more likely reason. Authentic 60s music - no N-n-n Nineteen, sadly - coupled with realistic weaponry set the right mood. Intense and edgy, Vietcong is a quality war game.GHPostal 2PC, &#163;24.99 Whiptail Interactive, *It is a wonder this game was made. The original Postal (released in 1997) was considered the worst game ever. Casting you as a disturbed American youth on a shooting spree ("going postal", apparently, is synonymous with "going ballistic"), it set out to do little other than generate controversy.The US Postal Service, in particular, took exception; gamers dismissed it because it appeared to have been made by a team of 10-year-olds.  Postal 2 is altogether more disturbing, as some care has been lavished on its execution, but the poisonous subject matter has been retained. It makes decent use of the latest Unreal shoot-'em-up engine, so it looks quite good. You assume the dead-end life of the anonymous "Postal Dude" in the scary trailer-trash town of Paradise.The game is split into days. Each morning, your charming wife gives you a number of seemingly innocent tasks, which are wont to develop into full-blooded shootouts. For example, when you go to your office to pick up your pay, the office is invaded by armed anti-violent games protesters.The game's use of modern technology means you can do things like knock your neighbour's head off with a spade and feed it to your dog. And the stereotypical way in which the occupants of Paradise are portrayed borders on the racist.Postal 2 clearly thinks it is chock-full of black humour - cult actor Gary Coleman even appears at a virtual book signing - but, frankly, it makes such films as Dumb And Dumber look like the works of Noel Coward at his sharpest. Far too sick for under-18s, but only teenagers could possibly find it clever.SB
French computer games company Infogrames will operate under the Atari name, which it picked up from Hasbro two years ago, reportsReuters. It will certainly arrive with a bang, with 4m shipments of its new game based on Enter The Matrix on May 15. Comment: Atari started as a Silicon Valley company that wanted to sound Japanese (great logo, but doesn't it make you think of Mount Fuji?), and now it's a French company that wants to sound American.
A growing digital divide between town and country is hampering the development of rural businesses, a report warned today.The study said that 95% of urban households have access to affordable broadband internet services but only 26% of market towns, 7% of rural villages and 1% of more remote areas can receive similar services.The Countryside Agency's 2003 State of the Countryside report warns that such restrictions could put rural businesses at a disadvantage, leaving them unable to compete fairly with urban businesses with high speed internet access.The agency's chairman, Sir Ewen Cameron, said a lack of broadband access would deny new rural businesses a "market for their products and services."The report also suggested that the use of video conferencing via affordable high speed internet connections - used by 6% of surveyed rural firms compared with 17% of their urban counterparts - could overcome the geographical barriers that rural businesses sometimes face. It added that broadband access could encourage them to make more of the opportunities offered by new technology.However, the report accepted that what it described as "lower sophistication by rural firms"  -which it said accounted for a lower take up of external email or online sales - may also help explain the lower number of broadband connections.Sir Ewen said new technologies would also offer residents access to essential services that no longer have a local physical presence and urged the government to set a "realistic target" for reaching the whole rural population with broadband."In particular, young people living in remoter areas need the same access to the latest entertainment, education and training, delivered through broadband, if they are not to feel disadvantaged compared to their urban counterparts," he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.The report also complains there has been no improvement in the shortage of affordable housing in the countryside and observes that rural post offices are continuing to close."While it shows that life in the countryside is generally good for many people who enjoy better standards of health, less fear of crime, higher education qualifications, and get on better with their neighbours, too often problems lie behind this overall favourable picture," Sir Ewen said.
It appears the Baghdad bloggerSalem Paxis OK, and blogging via a go-between (thanks to eagle-eyed Jane Perrone on theGU weblogfor the tip-off)
The government will next week launch a major drive to expand internet use among those groups least likely to go online.The &#163;1m initiative, Get Started, runs from Monday until the end of June. It will offer free trials through the network of 6,000 UK online centres in England, based in libraries, community centres, colleges and high street cyber cafes.Andrew Pinder, the "e-envoy" responsible for taking government services online, says the campaign aims to reach disadvantaged groups. "It's to tell people what they can get from the internet," he says.Ministers have set a 2005 target for internet access for all who want it and for making all public services available electronically. But the national audit office has warned this will fail unless more is done to help disadvantaged groups. Almost 40% of adults have never been online.The government is working with 15 voluntary and private sector partners to help it reach target groups. Taster sessions will be advertised on radio and television, and two characters in Coronation Street will receive skills training as part of the ITV soap's story line.John Fraser, head of external relations and partnerships at the office of the e-envoy, says: "We've specifically gone out and identified voluntary sector partners who are closer to the groups."
"Airlines should continue their ban on the use of mobile phones on board aircraft because of possible interference with navigation and communication equipment, according to a study published Friday by the UK Civil Aviation Authority."IDG Newsreports.
"The 128Kbps ISDN-based product will cost £35 per month, almost as much as BT's consumer broadband service once line rental is taken into account, but will only be a quarter of the speed of ADSL," reportsZD Net UK.
"MSN UK is creating what Microsoft calls the world's first Internet outhouse, or iLoo, complete with flat-screen plasma display, wireless keyboard and broadband access," reportsCNet. The iLoo will be used at various UK festivals, but basically it's just a publicity stunt....
If there's one game character who has got dangerous moves, then it's Ulala (pronounced Ooh-la-la) the nubile space disco queen-cum-TV reporter, who uses her groovy moves to knock out alien invaders and rescue hostages in the Space Channel 5 series.But Ulala's dress sense, which combines mini-skirts and hot-pants with kitsch backpacks, has come under attack from Lady Miss Kier, the lead singer of the group Deee-lite, who are best known for their dance track "Groove is in the Heart."The peeved dance diva has just filed a law suit in an LA court against Space Channel 5 distributors Sega, claiming that the game character has too many similarities, including dress, hair and make-up, to her own pop persona.Although Ulala's "look" seems to bear as much a resemblance to the average clubber or devout female anime fan than it does to any one particular person, according to Rollingstone.com the lawsuit reads: "The similarities and likenesses are so close that viewers, listeners, and consumers were and are confused or likely to become confused between Ulala and plaintiff."Although we'd love to suggest that it's just one of those publicity stunts generated to aid a pop group that's been out of the limelight for a while, Rollingstone.com go on to say: "The singer further claims that between May and July 2000 Sega asked to license her likeness, image and name for the games for roughly $15,000, but she declined. She is now seeking more than $750,000 for their misuse." Sounds like Sega maybe in for a financial rap over the knuckles if the claims are upheld.Game Stars milestoneITV's Game Stars event last month has been hailed as an important step in the future of gaming, according to MCV magazine's latest industry forum discussion. The show, which was the first mainstream TV event to honour both games and gamers, featured an awards ceremony and the culmination of the 'Search for Britain's Best Gamer'."Getting a national broadcaster to show an hour-long slot at peak viewing was certainly a milestone for the games business," Tracey Bunce, Marketing Manager for EA UK, told MCV."A lot more needs to be made of celebrity and general lifestyle usage and acceptance of video gaming as a format. The first show only managed to encapsulate a small part of this and needs to find ways to show the cultural acceptance of games is massive."It was certainly refreshing to see games getting this kind of mainstream coverage, although the reaction to Game Stars within the hardcore gaming community has been less than favourable."Simply raising the profile of the industry isn't enough. The Nazi party had a high profile, but this didn't make them a good thing," commented veteran games journalist Paul Presley on the event. "I think it was badly put together and made no sense. The nominations were a triumph for PR departments rather than being relevant to their categories. One game was nominated in three different genres which is ridiculous."There have been many attempts to make games more TV-friendly with programmes like Games Master, Game-pad and Bits, which have all received mixed reactions from their core gaming audience, who admittedly, have always been a notoriously hard bunch to please. It's clear that a coherent formula still needs to be found which bridges the gap between making entertaining television and representing games in a way which enthuses, rather than patronises, players.Rhianna PratchettCompetitionIf you yearn for some classic platform action to grace your GBA then enter our Crash Bandicoot: N-Tranced competition and win one of three copies of the game.   Just email us at Online.Competitions@guardian.co.uk with the subject line "Crash Bandicoot: Ntranced", your name, address and the answer to this question:To which group of mammals does the bandicoot belong?For more information on the game check outCrashntranced.comLast week's winners:Pokemon Sapphire GBA -  Gemma Moon (Plymouth), Duncan Metcalfe (London) and Lizzie Leeke (Rochdale)Signs DVDs - Paul Lipscombe (Weston-Super-Mare), Simon C Clark (Edinburgh), Peter Jones (Scunthorpe), Jamie Donald (Swindon), Kane Simons (Watford), Antonio Earl (Middlesex), Debashis Dey (London), Numan Akhtar (Manchester), Nell Philips (Birmingham) and Barrie Myers (Cheshire).
In among a flurry of announcements made at CES in Las Vegas in January this year, Microsoft's CEO, Bill Gates gave the first demonstration of a new type of portable device.Acknowledging that people can potentially carry around with them too many entertainment devices, he promised to shoehorn them into one small unit. The unit uses a version of the Windows CE operating system, which bears the fancy title of Media2go.The prototype device from Viewsonic (although Samsung, I-River, Sanyo and Creative Labs have also promised some too) paired a 20 Gigabyte hard disk with a large 4inch colour screen.Gates told the delegates that users would plug the device into a hard disk based video recorder, or even better a Windows-driven PC, and record and store TV programmes, home videos etc, which they could then review on the move.Naturally the devices also play back MP3 and Windows Media Audio files and store JPEG images.Although most observers seemed fairly impressed with the new format there were probably a few sniggers at the back from the staff of a French company called Archos.
For while Media2go devices won't reach the stores until the end of 2003, Archos had just scooped an award from CES for delivering a product now that pretty much does everything Media2go will do.Last the year the company unveiled the Multimedia Jukebox 20, a model that also included a 1.5inch inch screen and a 20 Gigabyte hard disk. It also featured a camera for shooting and storing images and played music too.Now the company has just launched the Archos Multimedia Jukebox 120, which will also play back video. The unit itself, which sports a 20Gigabyte hard disk (a 40 Gig version is also on the cards) and a 1.5inch screen, retails for £380. Smart owners, however, will also add the £60 JBM Digital Video Recorder a device that enables the Jukebox to store video from any RF source.Essentially this includes direct from a TV, video from a PC (it comes with a fast USB 2.1 connector) or even from a VHS video recorder. The files are then converted to the MPEG4 format enabling many hours (Archos claims up to 80 on the 20 Gig Jukebox) to be stored in what the company claims is VHS video and CD sound quality.With the prospect of a long bus journey looming, now seemed as good a time as any to put the Jukebox to the test.Setting up isn't too tricky. The video unit snaps on the end of the Jukebox with its connectors facing outwards. Then it is matter of connecting various phono leads to the Scart adaptor that comes with the unit and then plugging the Scart into the TV.After a bit of fiddling with the settings - I almost forgot to change from NTSC to PAL - an image comes up on the LCD screen and you are recording.A couple of hours later I was sitting on the 73 catching up with last night's "I'm a Celebrity." Image quality is on the whole pretty good.  VHS quality? Well it's hard to tell.The fundamental issue with the Archos is the size of the screen, which at 1.5inches is about the size of those found on camera phones. Inevitably after a few minutes I began to tire of the small picture and eventually got out my book instead. Archos is addressing this by launching a version with a 3.3 inch screen in late Autumn.The light on the bus wasn't too bad, but I can imagine the LCD would struggle in strong sunlight.To be honest if I lived with the Jukebox I would probably load up videos of family, pets and big occasions to bore my friends with. I'd maybe add a few choice footballing moments too. And while it offers a neat way of catching up on soaps, I'd be amazed if anyone has the patience to sit through an entire film on it.Significantly the Media2go devices will boast much larger screens, - 4 inches is being touted as the minimum - which might make viewing a little more conformable.
Of course increase the screen size and there inevitably will be issues with battery life. Microsoft is claiming an incredible six hours of viewing before the Media2Go devices will need a recharge. Given that many personal DVD players with significantly larger batteries as well as that the Jukebox 120 with its smaller screen doesn't run for anything like that length of time, I think Microsoft is a tad optimistic.Still, it is early days for video on the move and Archos should be congratulated for getting there first. I am sure a market for personal video players will develop, but as for cutting down on the number of gadgets? Well maybe factoring a mobile phone into the entertainment device would be the best way. And therein lies another tale.
IDG Newsreports that "Sonic Foundry has agreed to sell its desktop audio and music production product family to Sony Pictures Digital for $18 million in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities and obligations, the companies announced Friday."Comment:I hope I'm wrong, but this looks like a terrible waste. In Vegas+DVD and Sound Forge,Sonic Foundryhad two of the best multimedia editing apps on the market. However, being a very small company, it was never able to compete with the massive marketing and PR budgets deployed by the likes of Apple and Adobe. Sony was the obvious buyer, since its Screenblast programs are based on Sonic Foundry technology, but Sony doesn't seem to have much of a clue about software (apart from PlayStation games). It might have been better for users if Microsoft had bought the products and done its usual trick of knocking out $499 software at $99 and selling millions of copies. For Sony, software is just a way to spice up hardware, so I can't see Sony doing that.
"Verifier technicians" at 8e6 Technologies get paid to look at porn sites, so that access can be blocked from employees or children, reports theKnight Ridder News Service.
Sad to say, China's Legend computer company is changing its name to Lenovo, according toCNet. It seems too many other companies are using Legend in too many other countries, but Lenovo sounds more like something you'd use to freshen your rinse cycle. They could have called it Lian Xiang, the name used in China, but that probably wouldn't go down too well with potential US buyers.
Desperately unhappy iTunes users, between sending irate emails to that clueful man-o-the-people Andrew Orlowski, bought 275,000 tracks during the service's first 18 hours of operation, according to Andrew's Register colleagueTony Smith.
Apple's new music service has had a good press, which is in keeping with the massive support given to almost anything Apple does. (Hard to see anyone else getting away with such a high-priced service based on its own software and iPod-style player without stimulating some sort of outcry. Instead you get sneering, asThe New York Timesdoes, at those "occasional oddballs whose music players are not iPods".) Of course, it's hard to find anyone who thinks the current music subscription services are adequate, but asthis pagepoints out, 99c a song is not a good deal compared to a flat $10 a month forEMusic, unless you download less than 10 songs a month -- and a lot of broadband users download 10 an hour. Still, not everyone inhabits Steve Jobs's famous reality distortion field: in The Register,Andrew Orlowskiclaims that: "Judging from my inbox, happy users are outnumbered by unhappy users by about ten to one."
The blogging community now seems able to recreate the Slashdot effect. So many people have linked toThe Dante Inferno Testthat they've taken the server offline.
We cannot, by dint of living outside the US, properly review Apple's new downloadable music service. But theNew York Timescan, and have. The verdict? They like it a lot. (viaKarlin Lillington).
WinHEC, the 12th annual Windows Hardware Engineering Conference, opens next week in New Orleans. One of the demos will include a prototype code-named Athens, co-developed by HP. Following the success of the Windows Media Center edition of XP, the next idea is to do a PC for collaboration and communication, including voice, video and text messaging in one streamlined design.
The Recording Industry Association of America has agreed to settlements of $12,000 to $17,500 to end lawsuits against four students it accused of creating and operating Napster-like file-trading networks on campus, reportsThe San Jose Mercury News.
The RoboCup American Open kicks off today, reportsWired. It could be considered a practice event forRoboCup 2003.
My name is Jane Perrone and I am addicted to eBay. So it came as no surprise when the online auction site announced last week that it provided a marketplace for goods worth £3.37bn in the first three months of 2003, doubling its net income to £66m.I am one of the 68.8 million registered users who spend large swathes of time buying and selling via the net, allowing eBay to cream off such a healthy profit.I blame my sister for my eBay habit. A couple of years back, she emailed me details of some kitsch trinket she fancied as a birthday present: I registered, bidded, won the item for a ridiculously low price, and was instantly hooked.The UK head of eBay, Douglas McCallum, has predicted that half the UK's online population will be using the auction site to buy and sell goods within five years. So are we about to become an eBay nation?eBay has managed to transfer seamlessly to the web the bargain-hunting spirit that packs them in at car boot sales and popularised the TV show called, er, Bargain Hunt.But it is the millions of users selling everything from mobile phone covers to sports cars that have made it an online behemoth. eBay allows people to indulge in their strangest obsessions, confirming the truth of the adage "one person's junk is another person's gold".I recently compared notes with another addict, who, despite appearing to be a sane individual, said he went through a stage of bidding for retro mermaid figurines for his fish tank, "but only the good quality ones". Someone else told me that their father recently purchased 20 chip pan baskets for no apparent reason.I first realised I was addicted when I stayed up till the wee small hours waiting to make a last-minute bid on a pristine 1960s Luton Town FC Subbuteo set. I can easily spend an hour flicking through pages of retro melamine ashtrays, and I don't even smoke.I justify my addiction in many ways: it's useful for getting rid of unwanted Christmas presents (lava lamp anyone?), I can always find unusual birthday presents for people, and the money I spend goes directly into someone else's pocket rather than being deposited in a retailer's cash till.I'm the kind of person (read: sucker) that another addict, who prefers to be referred to simply as "Gary", makes money from.He started using eBay when the first Lord of the Rings film came out. "I found an old 1970s Tolkien board game in my loft. I thought I'd cash in on publicity. It sold for £160 and I was hooked," he says.Gary spends about 10 hours a week on the site and made £200 profit on £700 turnover at the height of trading last summer, even buying stock from real auctions to sell on via eBay.Gary is used to dealing with a global audience for his sales. "I had a New Yorker who was adamant that London was a district in Brooklyn and he wanted to save on shipping by driving over to collect. What do you tell them?"eBay's triumphs in the UK are echoed around the world. It is the only online auction site to garner a truly international user base (it has 20 country sites) and become a high-recognition brand with a loyal army of more than 30 million active users.How? The key to eBay's success is that, on the whole, it works and people trust it. The site's feedback system - which allows buyers and sellers to rate other users - allows you to ensure you only trade with other users who have a good track record, and where disputes do happen, eBay is happy to arbitrate.Things do go wrong, though, and the stakes can be high. People tend to throw aside the normal checks they apply when buying or selling high value items. Tom Wykes, a printed circuit board designer, spends about an hour a day on eBay. He sold a Land Rover worth more than £5,000 to someone in the US, but the buyer kept him waiting for three months before pulling out from the sale.Ian Donegan, an advertising executive, has bought and sold around 300 items without any major hiccups. But he is aware of the dangers of impulse bids. "Surfing eBay late at night after getting back from the pub is not to be recommended and can be very costly," he notes sagely.None of the fellow addicts I spoke to are planning to give up their auction obsession: in fact, I regularly add to our number by recommending that people have a look on eBay before splashing out on a new mobile phone or laptop. Personal recommendation is part of the reason why, along with Google and Amazon, eBay has earned a place as one of the holy trinity of essential consumer websites in the largely cheerless world of the dotcom downturn. And I can stop anytime, honest.
NTT DoCoMo is to sell a wristwatch-mobile phone, reportsAFP. But it is clearly not expecting millions of buyers. A recentWiredpiece claims: "'Dick Tracy watch' is shorthand for an unfulfilled desire, something industry should have long since delivered. We can sequence the human genome, but we can't make a Dick Tracy watch?" I suspect it is still a few years away....
By 3.53pm last Friday, 2,633 votes had already been cast in today's local elections in Swindon. Deputy returning officer Alan Winchcombe watched the figures being updated every two minutes on his office computer. "It's more than a vote a minute," he says with satisfaction.For the past week, 137,000 Swindon citizens have been able to vote in the council's elections through an internet site, an automated telephone system, the town's eight information web-kiosks and NTL's digital television service - the first time votes have been cast through television.Swindon is one of 18 councils offering e-votes to 1.5 million people. The government has pledged to hold a fully e-enabled general election after 2006.E-voting in Swindon closed at noon yesterday. Last year, nearly 16% of the borough's votes came through internet and telephone services, helping to boost turnout to 31.2%, up from 27.7% in 2000.Secret paper votes placed in ballot boxes have served Britain well, so e-voting's security is vital. Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) staff have tested the integrity of the systems. "They have tried denial of service attacks, without success," says Ken Bellamy, head of e-government for Sheffield City Council, which is allowing 174,000 voters to use phone, text message, website, web-kiosk - or ballot box. The city believes this is the biggest e-voting pilot so far.The main danger is not the technology. "You are looking at two big changes," says Stephen Coleman, professor of e-democracy at Oxford University. "One is remote voting, the other is doing it electronically. Remote voting is by far the riskier of the two."He says any kind of remote voting, including conventional postal votes, means voters can be bullied or tricked into changing their votes by family members - particularly with digital TV - or bosses.To this end, Sheffield has this year built polling booth-style shields around its public web kiosks, so only the voter can see the screen.Swindon's system records internet protocol addresses - which, through an ISP, can be traced back to the user - and the caller's number, for the automated phone system. "We probably have a more sophisticated audit trail than for the paper votes," says Winchcombe.Swindon's e-votes are held in a data centre in Slough. The file is   encrypted, and holds only the vote and a 10-digit personal identification number (Pin), randomly generated for this election - voters used it to log on to their chosen system. The file linking Pins to voters' names and addresses is held in Swindon.Sheffield's votes and voter lists are similarly separated. Smart cards were sent to all voters, with a reference number (VRN): the cards can be used for access to local services such as the city's swimming pools and the new National Ice Centre. "We're not na&#239;ve enough to think they will keep it just to vote," Bellamy says.As the VRN will be used repeatedly, the votes' database uses a separate voter identification number (VIN). In both Swindon and Sheffield, the two databases will only be linked under a court order, in an electoral fraud case. This is the same as a ballot-box vote, where votes and voters can be linked through the code stamped on each ballot paper.E-voting's biggest problem, which is also unique to this method, is that of oversight. "There is a huge amount of public trust in the paper voting system, in part because people can see the ballot papers being counted and know that they can recount them if there is any doubt," says Richard Allan, MP for Sheffield Hallam and the Liberal Democrat IT spokesperson. How can they do likewise for e-votes? "The answer is, they can't," says Bellamy.If they demand a recount, says Winchcombe, "they will press a button, and it will come up with exactly the same result".For this reason, Allan thinks e-voting systems will need to produce detailed statistics by polling district, allowing checks for anomalies.To build confidence, Sheffield has given its politicians the chance to test the e-voting system, and in Swindon, the council will be contacting 10% of voters, partly to check that they voted through the channel the system thinks they did.Like most government IT, e-voting systems are built and operated by private companies, and this, too, could cause concern. In the US, Republican senator Chuck Hagel was recently re-elected by a system operated by Election Systems &amp; Software - a company in which he is a major shareholder and former chief executive, although there is no suggestion of wrongdoing.Here, suppliers were chosen through the standard public-sector procurement process by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and the participating councils. Sheffield is using US e-voting firm Election.com, US software firm Oracle and British   Telecom. Swindon is using a consortium including Election.com's main rival Votehere and Telewest.Coleman says that the source code of e-voting systems should be open to inspection. Both Swindon and Sheffield say they have had the opportunity to see it.E-voting should stop unintentionally spoilt ballots - e-voting systems allow a spoilt vote, but check the voter means to do this first. But will it boost turnout? A recent survey of 813 adults for the Electoral Commission said that 55% would be encouraged to vote by e-voting, rising to three-quarters for 18-24 year-olds.But Coleman says that when prompted, non-voters have deeper reasons: "People don't like to say they don't think it would make any difference, or they don't care about it." He believes that e-participation - consulting the public regularly through electronic means - is more important.However, Swindon shows how e-voting might increase turnout. Last year, Conservative councillor Justin Tomlinson held one of Abbey Meads' seats after campaigning heavily online, and 28% of his votes came through the internet. This year, every Tory candidate has a web page.The Liberal Democrats got the highest proportion of their votes online overall, at 13.3%. The Conservatives gathered 11.4% online, compared with only 8.7% of Labour votes. A problem with home internet voting is that poorer voters without a computer will not benefit from its convenience. Hence the variety of e-voting methods. Furthermore, neither Swindon nor Sheffield has cut the number of polling stations for today's elections, although Swindon's will have fewer staff.Tonight, Swindon's e-votes will be sent from Slough by one of two ISDN lines. They will already be in Swindon, however, in a sealed envelope, as they were counted yesterday. "We won't open the envelope unless the technology fails," says Alan Winchcombe.So why the ISDN lines? Because the government wanted a fully electronic election, and that's what it will get.Some question its determination to get voting online so fast. Coleman, who is generally in favour of e-voting, says that the UK is going much faster than any other country in Europe except Estonia."I've heard people in Germany and France saying, why is Britain doing this? People at senior levels of government are looking at this with their mouths open."Swindon borough councilwww.swindon.gov.ukSheffield's voting sitewww.votesheffield.com
Is there an art to blogging?I think there is and I don't think I've necessarily mastered it yet! I have got that feeling of when you're working in a new form and you start to feel the edges of it and it's really intuitive. However, if I'm ever going to write another book, I'm going to have to quit doing my blog as I have a hunch it interferes with the ecology of being a novelist.What constitutes a good blog?I haven't really had that much experience of them as a reader. I wasn't looking at them much prior to starting my own blog. I saw a few more after that and then, I think during the first week of   the war in Iraq, I feel as if I saw blogging go mainstream. On a Monday, I'd mentioned to a friend in Vancouver that there was a guy in Baghdad who was blogging and my friend asked me "what the fuck is blogging?" By the Friday, blogging was being discussed on the evening news.Do you follow many weblogs?The one I've been looking at most frequently since the war started isThe Agonist. The guy in San Antonio who runs it, Sean-Paul Kelley, seems to do nothing but sit filtering and chopping the news down, so you can go CNN, Reuters, etc. He also has the $600 a year subscription to a service called Stratfor (www.stratfor.com, which gives corporate intelligence.Is brevity the key to good internet communication?It's hard to say   whether it actually is brevity when it involves a hyperlink. If what you're presenting is a customised node, then the node is the message and you don't want a lengthy node!So is Google officially a verb now?When I wrote Pattern Recognition, it occurred to me that I could use it as a verb and it also occurred to me that someone might already have done so. I thought it didn't matter too much. If I'm first that's great, but if I'm not, then it's just good reportage in a way. Sites likeWiktionarytrack new usages and neologisms. The page on Google as a verb went back almost two years!Has it usurped all other search engines for you?Actually it has and I hadn't really thought about that. Unless I get into a situation where I'm really, really stuck for something, then I start    trying other things. Before I started using Google, I usedDogPilefor a long time. I use Google as the universal spell-checker.Any other favourite sites?I doCNN,BBCandeBay. Obviously IGooglefairly frequently.Do you see the net as becoming more corporate?It hasn't seemed to me like the romantic idea of "anything goes" on the net has made much sense for quite a while. What I see more is an attempt to find a way to make money on the net. No one's managed to catch up with the pornographers yet!&#183;www.williamgibsonbooks.com
Two years ago, the music industry was infuriated by Apple's call for music lovers to "Rip, mix and burn" their favourite music - rip the music from CDs on to their computers, mix tracks together and burn the result on to a CD. The big labels saw the ad campaign as an incitement to mass music piracy.This week, Apple went one step further. It unveiled a new music download service that offers 200,000 songs for 99 cents apiece, whole albums for $9.99 (&#163;6.50) with only the loosest restrictions on how the music is subsequently used.The difference this time was that the move was feted by record labels, industry associations and stars including U2 front man Bono, jazz trumpeter Wynton Marsalis and singer Alanis Morissette. "You can't stop piracy," said the musician Seal at Monday's launch in San Francisco. "So you have to work with technology, and you have to get into the rhythm of it. That's what Apple has done here."Even Hilary Rosen, who, as chief executive of the Recording Industry of America, has been seen as the hammer of online music, was full of praise for Apple's new iTunes Music   Store, calling it "cool" and "cutting edge".And while the store is available only for US-based Mac users today, Windows users in the States will be let in on the act soon. Apple also hopes to negotiate worldwide rights for its music library, allowing overseas customers to make purchases too, although it is unable to say how long that process will take.The arrival of the new service, backed by all five major record labels, caps a remarkable seven days for the music business. The industry has seen its fierce legal pursuit of file-sharing services suffer a serious setback, and signalled a U-turn in its attitude towards music downloads.As well as the new Apple service, which initially is only available to users in the US, record giant EMI has announced it is going to make 90% of its catalogue available for download to UK users, through Freeserve and BT's DotMusic, among others.Both services represent a move away from the record industry's first steps online. These typically charge subscriptions and charge users extra to burn music to disk, with some songs "expiring" after a certain date.These restrictions have not been popular with music lovers. Analysts   estimate that existing music download services have only managed to attract around 650,000 users worldwide. By comparison, figures released this week by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) suggest that there are around 5m music downloaders in the UK alone.Replacing the illegal downloads with a legitimate alternative will be a   huge challenge for the music industry, says Peter Jamieson, the BPI's executive chairman. "It is definitely the most significant quantum change that the music industry is going to have to face in any of our lifetimes," he says. "Moving on to an online situation is different from, say, moving from wax to LP to CD or whatever."But it is a change the labels have   decided to make, just as their previously sweeping legal offensive against online file-sharing services has faltered. The industry, led by the RIAA, has pursued a number of start-ups through the courts.The RIAA's action closed Napster, the forerunner of today's peer-to-peer services. But, on Friday, the music labels suffered a major setback when a US district court judge said the companies that make peer-to-peer file sharing software are not doing anything illegal - even if their users are.The decision, if upheld on appeal, will mean the industry will have to start pursuing individual music pirates, rather than the companies who make the file-sharing software. That is unlikely to be practical for more than a few showcase trials,"The record labels are moving from a very defensive stance," says Calum Chace, a partner at KPMG who specialises in media. "Their main concern has been to protect their copyright material, which is not an unreasonable thing to want to do."They've now moved from that to realising that in the future, people simply are going to get their music this way: that they are going to download it. It's much better they be the providers than it all gets pirated."While the record labels have complained in the past that "you can't compete with free", Chace suggests they do have advantages over illegal downloads. "If you try downloading stuff from KaZaA and Morpheus, it's quite slow and cumbersome... you also know at the back of your mind that it's not legal. That might, depending on the kind of person you are, bother you from a self-protection or even moral point of view."If the music industry makes its sites quick, easy, not horribly expensive, it's hard to compete with free, but not impossible," says Chace. "And they've got so many other weapons in their arsenal - they can offer discounted tickets to concerts, or access to seated areas, discounts on merchandise, or chatrooms where the stars turn up. There's a lot the industry can do. Digital content marketing is the future, I'm convinced."
Up to two-thirds of children in Britain are not getting enough sleep and have missed out on as many as 4,500 hours by their seventh birthday, according to research published today.The findings reveal a dramatic shift in nightly routines, with one in 10 of the 500 parents surveyed admitting they had never read their children a bedtime story.Instead, children are now falling asleep to television shows, computer games and videos.One in eight children actually sleeps less than the amount recommended for adults, with that figure rising to 25% for children whose parents are out at work.And although most parents agreed that lack of sleep impaired their children's performance and behaviour, two-thirds were not even aware of how much sleep their children should be getting.Jim Horne of Loughborough University, an expert in sleep deprivation, said: "Bedrooms are changing from places of rest and tranquillity to places where there are lots of things to keep children awake, such as computers and televisions."I would not allow a child to have a television or a computer in their bedroom, or at least place firm limits on their use. Evidence suggests that adequate night-time sleep is just as important as healthy eating and regular exercise for children to develop.It is believed that sleep deprivation may harm neurological development and can contribute to school-related problems, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.Some experts believe chronically tired children will become chronically tired adults, unable to cope with the stresses of modern day life.Press Association
The music industry might be struggling to adapt to the file-swapping, internet age, but it is already clear which creative business is likely to be hit next. The television industry, long used to maintaining careful control over who gets to see what and when, is already losing control of its schedules, and its precious content, to the file-swappers.Dozens of hit TV series are made, and broadcast first, in the US, before being exported around the world for screening much later. Normally, you have to wait months - even years - to see US-made programmes in the UK, but now you can see them only hours after America. How? Thank the internet. And, ultimately, it may change how we watch television.Thanks to broadband and hard drive video recorders, it has become a lot easier for people to store TV shows on their computers. And thanks to file-sharing programs such as KaZaA, BitTorrent, Limewire, XNap and Neo, it has become a lot easier to then share them with others. Now, within 24 hours of a show being broadcast in the US, people on the other side of the world can see it, too. Dedicated fans of shows such as 24, Friends, Buffy, The Sopranos and many other hit series are using this software. Still more file-swappers use private FTP connections (direct connections between computers) AOL Instant Message or IRC (internet relay chat) chatrooms to swap files. There's more than one way of delivering the content as long as you're hooked up to the internet. After that, it depends on the sort of computer you have.If you have something that plays AVI files, Video CDs and Super Video CDs - and most Intel and AMD-powered PCs machines can, especially with software from such sites aswww.divx.com- then once you download whatever you want to see, you're fine.However, for Macintosh users, it's a little more tricky. The Mac OS has fewer of the decoders needed for the various formats. Indeed, the most popular file formats such as AVI and VCDs/SVCDs are not supported on the Mac. While MPegs and MOV-for mat files are great for the Mac, they are not the choice of the people uploading because they take up a lot more disc space and download time.How long does it take to download a show? That all depends on your connection, and where you are getting the file from. A 23-minute episode of Friends (that's how long it is without ads, which are never part of the download) can be downloaded in less than an hour.Downloads of less than 250MB are watchable, but anything under 80MB for a 25-minute show will be poor, as will anything under 100MB for a longer show. But you may not be able to watch them full-screen on your computer, and if you transfer them to a disc to watch on TV, it will look like a poor VHS copy.Anything over 350MB and up will look fairly decent full-screen on a 15-inch monitor and perhaps even on a 17-inch screen - just like watching broadcast television on a portable telly. Anything over 1GB in size is normally a high-quality copy of DVD-like standards.It's not unknown for a lot of people to set up their machines to download (or DL, to use the online slang) some episodes of a show - say Buffy and Angel - before they go to bed. In the morning, the files have arrived, and then they set up other downloads before they head off to work, with all the shows there for them to watch when they want. And they are getting value for money from their "always-on" broadband connection - just don't try this at home with a modem and one phone line.That's the how, but why do people do this? Can't they just sit in front of the TV and be patient like the rest of us? The companies involved would certainly prefer that.A UK-based licence-fee payer felt that he had already paid for the show. Others claimed they only downloaded shows never seen in the UK, so it could not be theft.Matt, a UK-based downloader, DL's a lot of cartoons and anime, including Invader Zim and Family Guy. "I download because Invader Zim has never been shown on UK telly, Family Guy had crap scheduling and a lot of the anime I like is either unavailable   or is ridiculously expensive."I'll be honest and admit that in the case of some anime, yes this is piracy, because it's legally available. However, it's also stupidly expensive. And as I'm not an idiot, I'm not going to buy it. For TV shows that aren't available to buy or even watch on TV here, I don't think it's piracy."Chris, another downloader, agrees: "I download stuff but will still buy it quite often as it looks a lot better in DVD quality on my 32-inch telly than as a download on a 17-inch monitor. But a lot of the things I download don't come out on DVD ever - some aren't even on UK telly."Is it piracy? For my own viewing, since I can't buy it, the copyright holder cannot be losing out on any money, except through their own design, so I don't see what rights I'm infringing."In the UK, the BBC and Channel 4 appear relaxed about the online file sharing, saying it is more an issue for the US networks and programme makers.But those networks are certainly unhappy about what is going on. A   spokesperson for News Corporation - owners of Fox Television and distributors for Angel, Buffy and 24 - is blunt: "This illegal cross-border file trafficking aptly illustrates what it is the studios seek to prevent."We do not seek to prevent consumers from making secure physical copies of copyrighted TV shows for their own personal time-shifting purposes. Rather, we seek only to prevent people from making and redistributing insecure 'virtual' copies of those TV shows, because those copies will inevitably be fodder for illegal file trafficking."The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) and its international counterpart, the Motion Picture Association (MPA) serve as the voice and advocate of the American motion picture, home video and television industries. Chairman and chief executive Jack Valenti said: "Is Channel 4 going to buy that show &#91;West Wing&#93; if everyone has already watched it free over the internet? No, and that means the show makers lose out on revenue from the UK."Putting shows on DVD and video   is also a way of earning back the costs of making shows _ but who is going to buy the DVD if they already have the show stored on their hard drive?"But are the networks at fault for failing to release shows worldwide? Or why don't they set up an online distribution model? According to Valenti, that may happen one day, but not now. "There is no business model on this Earth that can compete with free. If someone puts a show online for nothing, others will go to it. That's a fact, regardless of what the networks do with it."It frightens me that there is a generation growing up, thinking that because it's there free, they can take it. You wouldn't see these kids go into a rental shop and put a DVD in their pocket without paying for it, but that's what they are doing online, they are putting the show in their virtual pocket."Valenti knows he is in for a long, hard battle, but he is prepared for it. "This is not something that is going to change overnight, but for the survival of the industry, the piracy does have to stop."Top ten downloads1Star Trek (all series)2Buffy/Angel3244Friends5West Wing6Japanese Anime shows (mostly involving robots)7Stargate8Farscape9Firefly10Smallville
Web by CDA village school in Kenya has a computer but no phone line, so no internet. Can I copy sites to disc and send them by mail? Is it legal?Phil SladeJack Schofield replies:You can, but whether it is legal is another matter. Educational establishments and students are generally allowed to get away with many things that would be illegal if ordinary users did them, and the concept of "fair use" (in the US) or "fair dealing" (in the UK) covers a lot of incidental copying. Different websites allow different types of use, and different countries have different rules on fair use. There is a good guide to the UK position in Guidelines for Fair Dealing in an Electronic Environment, published bythe Joint Information Systems Committee and the Publishers Association in 1998.For the situation in the US, seethe University of Texas's Fair Use of Copyrighted MaterialsandStanford University's Copyright &amp; Fair Use. But from my reading, copying a website on to CD for someone else's use would not seem to constitute fair dealing, and it would be much better if a librarian, in Kenya, created CDs for this purpose. You should look for guidelines on each site or write to the webmaster to ask permission.Many people do copy websites for offline reading, and Blue Squirrel's Web Whacker is often used in education. Web Whacker 5 is available for Windows, and Web Whacker 4 for the Mac (including old 68020-based systems with Mac OS 7.5). Seewww.bluesquirrel.com/products/whacker. The same company also sells an Education Edition ofWeb Whackerand the more powerfulGrab-a-Site. Tenmax'sTeleport Prowould also be a good program for your purposes.Black Widowis worth a look. For dozens of alternatives, seethe Free Download CentreMessenger pop-upsI had a warning message and was advised to go to blockmessenger. com where I was told to disable messaging. Should I?Carole WattsJS:Many people are suffering from   pop-up advertising messages that arrive via a low-level messaging service that is part of all NT-based versions of Windows (NT/2000/XP). It has nothing to do with Windows Messenger, MSN Messenger or any other messaging application. Blockmessenger.com's author claims that "the only way to block these spam messages _ required doing extensive tweaking and configuring of my computer," and offers to sell you a blocker for $29.95. This is a bad deal.You can turn off this messenger service yourself, in one minute. Log on to Windows XP in administrator mode, go to the Control Panel, and open the Administrative Tools folder. Double-click the Services icon, and scroll down the Name column until you get to Messenger. Double-click Messenger to get the Properties sheet (or right-click it and select Properties), and then click the Dependencies tab. The lower box should be empty, which is to say, nothing depends on you running Messenger.Go back to the General tab and look for the Service Status section. If Messenger is running, click Stop to stop it. Next, go to Startup type and click the down arrow on the right. Clicking the arrow lets you select Manual or Disabled, and you can select either. If Messenger has no dependencies, select Disabled and click OK to finish. You will not get any more Messenger pop-ups.Clean deskMy desktop is full of stuff I've downloaded, and saved to desktop. Can I save these programs elsewhere?Brian StorerJS:It is unlikely that any of your programs are actually on the desktop, or are running from the desktop. If the icons have a small arrow on them, they are just shortcuts to the real programs. Any shortcuts you do not want, you can throw in the bin. You will get a message to tell you that this will not uninstall the program. If you have icons that don't have little arrows, they are probably files you have downloaded, such as Zone Alarm.However, when you double-clicked the download to install it, the program files were extracted and installed somewhere else: in this case, they are probably in C:\Program Files\Zone Labs\ZoneAlarm. You can therefore bin the file you downloaded and expect the program to keep on working, though it is wise to check first. If you want to keep files you have downloaded, you can use the mouse to drag them from the desktop and drop them in a folder, such as My Files, in Windows Explorer. However, it might be better to download these files directly to a folder such as C:\My Downloads and keep them off the desktop altogether.You can also use Windows Explorer to remove icons and files from the desktop, or vice versa. In Windows 9x/Me, you can move a shortcut file from C:\Windows\Desktop to a folder in C:\Windows\Start Menu, and it will appear on the Start menu. In NT-based versions of Windows, these special folders are stored under C:\Documents and Settings.In synchI am looking for an inexpensive piece of back-up software that works with Windows XP. I have been using LapLink to synchronise my desktop with an external drive to back up all my data, but I can't afford to buy the latest version.Geoff WintermanJS:Second Copy 2000 works with Windows 9x/Me and NT-based versions (NT4/2000/XP). It runs in the background to keep your files backed up to another directory or hard drive, or to another computer on a network. It costs $29.95 fromwww.centered.com, and a 30-day evaluation copy is available. A free alternative isAnders Petersson's No Hands Backupbut it does not run in background mode.Backchat&#183;Last week, David Wood wanted to send SMS messages by email, and several readers responded by sending messages to my email. D O'Keeffe usedGo2mobile.com, which does "SMS to PC and back". Nigel Shindler says it is "one of the many useful features of Vodafone Mail, which is Vodafone's new email service. It can be accessed directly over the web, via a POP3 client such as Outlook Express, or from a mobile phone. And it is free to Vodafone subscribers". Jason Bailey has usedKapow!, which lets you email ukmobilenumber@kapow.co.uk. Lynda MacNamee says she has tried a few services including ICQ, and thinks the best one isLiquidDrop.com. It lets you send SMS messages by addressing them to the mobile number@LiquidDrop.com, @OnHisMobile.com or @OnHerMobile.com etc. "You get a delivery confirmation when the message is received. Best of all, you get any replies in your email."&#183;Peter Rowe wanted to convert Microsoft Publisher files into HTML to put them on the web, but was worried about the size of the files. Ian Ford says: "If Publisher can't resolve text and graphic elements, the text will be saved as an image along with the graphic elements. This can lead to large page sizes. By adjusting the layout it may be possible to allow Publisher to resolve the text and graphic elements separately and thus reduce the page size."
Many duels are being fought over the future of the NHS, but one of the fiercest is between two American billionaires. Microsoft's Bill Gates and Oracle's Larry Ellison - both unlikely ever to use the service - are head to head in a battle to ensure that the NHS is modernised around their technology.Both companies feature in a list of 31 likely to be invited to bid for NHS IT contracts worth billions. The list was whittled down from 99 expressions of interest: half a dozen will succeed.Two types of contracts are on offer. The first is to run "national applications" such as a system to handle appointment bookings. The second is for local services: to   take over IT for all NHS organisations within one or more of five geographical regions.In both types of contract, the choice of system architecture will set a standard for years, if not decades, to come. Hence the interest from across the pond.The published list of consortia shows Microsoft named as a member of two out of 31, headed by Accenture and EDS. Most of the rest involve Microsoft (for whom I have done some occasional work in healthcare) in some way.Oracle is not listed in any of the consortia going for local services, though several bidders, such as CSC, will use its technology. And Oracle is bidding in its own right for national application contracts.Both companies claim a track record in health.To Microsoft, the NHS is worth   at least &#163;50 million a year under a bulk purchasing deal negotiated in 2001. Bill Gates has shown a personal interest in the NHS: Tony Blair's decision to invest in IT followed a Downing Street meeting with the Microsoft chairman. The company says it has set up a testing centre at Reading to demonstrate that its systems can supply the NHS with a "secure connected infrastructure".Oracle claims to be working on that scale already. The French national health insurance organisation, CNAM, relies on an Oracle database to serve 60m people. The company says it is the natural choice for the "national spine" that will connectelectronic medical records under the NHS plan.One sign of Microsoft's serious ness is that it has joined arch-rival Sun in the EDS consortium. Sun is a famous advocate for standards-based software, perhaps Microsoft's biggest long term threat in healthcare.The threat is serious. In the US, the Veterans' Administration - a giant, national, state funded healthcare service - is offering its open source records system free as a core for a national electronic health record. Suppliers of proprietary systems are worried.Will the NHS follow suit? Richard Granger, director general of NHS IT, has made one public hint. In a speech to this year's Healthcare Computing conference, he said: "We're not going to move to a point where software is free," adding that R&amp;D and support will always cost something. "But I want to move in that direction."
How do you find on the web what you didn't know you were looking for? For millions of people, the answer is weblogs, a compilation of links to sites that someone finds interesting for one reason or another. Add some, hopefully, insightful commentary, and you have the hottest thing to happen to the web in years.A weblogger surveys the vast world of the web and carefully arranges what's out there, presenting it in a new form. But what webloggers are doing is nothing new. It's what DJs have been doing on the radio and in dance clubs for years now - picking and selecting the best records from what's out there.The role that DJs and webloggers play in selecting, arranging and,   increasingly, reworking and remixing, has become extremely valuable in a world awash with seemingly infinite numbers of new songs, films and television shows, books and video games. A weblog functions like a filter for the web, a handpicked selection of what's worth checking out. What makes blogs work so well is that it's a person, not a computer, doing the link picking, a person with specific taste that we appreciate.The best DJs have a specific sensibility, and if it's one that appeals, we'll go see them spin records or listen to their sets on the radio. And just as the avalanche of new music created the circumstances for many DJs to be more popular than the artists whose music they're spinning, the ever-expanding information on the web has made what webloggers do increasingly important. We're already seeing weblogs eclipsing in popularity the sites they link to, like Slashdot and Instapundit becoming many people's go-to source for information about technology and politics. We saw the same phenomenon with the war in Iraq, with warblogs keeping abreast of developments better than any single news site such as CNN.Weblogging tools such as Blogger and Movable Type now make it possible for just about anyone to remix the web. The DJ/blogger is the perfectly postmodern response to a pop culture where surplus, rather than scarcity, is the rule.Some are concerned that blogging will make more traditional journalism and writing on the web irrelevant. But a remix doesn't render the original song worthless, and there are plenty of instances   where a sample has revived a previously obscure song by bringing it into the public eye. And without original source material to link to, many bloggers would have nothing to blog about.More and more we'll be turning to weblogs to stay on top of everything. Taste and subjectivity are beginning to matter as much as creative ability. Musicians and songwriters who can craft original tunes have already learned that they have to share the spotlight with the person who is going to play it at the dance club. In the same way, bloggers are emerging as an increasingly indispensable part of the landscape of the web, directing flow, sparking trends and creating order out of the cultural chaos that is the internet.&#183;online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
What is the most powerful part of your personal computer? Eric Drexler, founder and chairman of the Foresight Institute, thinks the answer could lie in the gunge that is stuck behind some of the keys. Well, the gunge isn't smart but it contains bacteria that pack an astonishing amount of digital information into a tiny space."Nature is giving us a little hint here," says Drexler. We may not be able to use bacteria to perform our computations, but they clearly show that molecular machines can exist, and can be put together quite cheaply. "Everything in your body was built by molecular machine systems," he adds.Molecular machines could also be used to build tiny computers, atom   by atom. And if each computer takes up less than a cubic micron, then you have room for at least a billion of them on your desktop.Things that work at this sort of scale are in the field of nanotechnology, a term Drexler coined in the 1980s. He wrote about the idea of molecular manufacturing in a scientific paper in 1981, then published a popular book about the field, Engines of Creation, in 1986. It is now available as a free download from the Foresight Institute website.A molecular machine that can construct almost anything can obviously be used to make a copy of itself. This should be the key to an explosion in productivity. The less entertaining corollary is that it could perhaps turn the biosphere into another 1980s idea, "gray goo".Although not much seems to   have happened in nanotechnology over the past 20 years, the Americans are funding a lot of research and development. Speaking at the O'Reilly Emerging Technologies conference in Santa Clara last week, Drexler put the figure at $1 billion a year. The US government's National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI) accounts for about $700 million.And after 9/11, one of its important new areas of research is "the use of nanotechnology for chemical-biological-radioactive-explosive detection and protection."In the UK, the Institute of Nanotechnology is tracking the field. It is offering a seminar next month on the convergence of nanotechnology and biology, just before the EuroBiochips 2003 conference.Intel and other chip manufacturers, in their quest to put more and   more transistors on small pieces of silicon, are already working at the nanotechnology level. Intel's latest 90-nanometer chip manufacturing process uses "nanoengineered silicon", and the company is doing long term research on carbon nanotubes and silicon nanowires. However, chips made that way could be a decade away.Whether the microchip industry will move to molecular machine manufacturing remains to be seen. But Drexler has no doubts that "the future of digital systems is molecular, and the future of the material world is digital".Doom or utopia? "I don't know," says Drexler. "I don't think we can say. The future is open and depends on the choices we make. Let's try to make the right ones."Useful linksEngines of Creationwww.foresight.org/EOCEric Drexler talks about A World with Advancing Technology&#91;MP3 file&#93;www.foresight.org/SrAssoc/spring2002/audio/Drexler.mp3Gray goohttp://info.astrian.net/jargon/terms/g/gray_goo.htmlwww.kurzweilai.net/meme/frame.html?main=/articles/art0142.htmlUS NNIwww.nano.govInstitute of Nanotechnologywww.nano.org.ukCenter for Responsible Nanotechnologywww.crnano.orgEuroBioChips 2003www.eurobiochips.com&#183;Send comment to:online.feedback@guardian.co.uk
InternetSlack deliverySupermarket websites are failing to deliver, according to a report published this week. Almost all the big name services had problems, according to the survey carried out for trade magazine The Grocer. It took 80 minutes to order 33 items from Sainsbury's, and the goods arrived three hours late - with two items missing. The Iceland shopper struggled to find items, ordering took 135 minutes and the company could only deliver in a two-hour slot, once a week. The Asda order took 130 minutes to place, and arrived 20 minutes late - with 13 items missing. Tesco delivered on time and only needed 50 minutes to place the order. But it still made mistakes. Waitrose and Ocado did best, with both orders complete and on time.Sounds goodApple has introduced new versions of its best-selling iPod portable digital music player to accompany its new music service. The company is billing the new iPods, which can store and play thousands of music files from your Mac or PC, as being lighter than two compact disks in their cases, and, at 0.62 inches thick, thinner too.The new 15 and 30GB models come with a new docking device, which should make it easier to connect the player to a Mac or PC. The base station also includes a line out socket, for a connection to a hi-fi. And the outside of the player has been redesigned, with four backlit buttons arranged below the screen to make navigation easier. The software on the devices has also been updated, allowing users to compile playlists while on the move. The 10GB model costs &#163;249, the 15GB model &#163;299 and the 30GB version &#163;399.www.apple.com/ukWeb radioAccording to a new report, internet radio stations are attracting three times    as many listeners as they did three years ago. Ratings agency Arbitron says that more than 100m have tuned in to stations online and that many are plumping for the more obscure broadcasts. Among the most popular are Yahoo's serviceLaunch, Seattle-based jazz stationKPLUndLive 365, which offers any one with internet access the opportunity to start their own webcast.Westminster Wi-FiForget 3G. 4G is coming, but you'll have to be passing through Westminster to take advantage of it. The borough's council is to create Westminster 4G, a blanket Wi-Fi (wireless Lan) zone across Soho and other areas of the West End. From next month, council staff will be able to access the internet via laptops/PDAs equipped with 802.11b wireless facilities. The scheme's architect, West End Conservative councillor Ian Wilder, says the 4G zone will revolutionise the way the council monitors noise, traffic and security. Council workers will also be able to log on to the systems in real time.&lt;A HREF="http://www.westminster.gov.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.westminster.gov.ukGadgetsPalm bounces backAfter a series of poorly received PDAs, Palm looks set to re-establish itself in the handheld PC market with a pair of innovative, competitively priced models. Aimed at the high-end business users, the Tungsten C is Palm's first PDA to feature integrated Wi-Fi. The top end model also packs a 400MHz Intel processor, Palm's latest operating system - 5.2.1, 512MB of storage, 64MB of memory and a built-in keyboard. At &#163;400, it costs significantly less than other recent Palm products.Its second model, the Zire 71, is pitched against Sony's Clie range of models in that it features a raft of enter tainment applications, including an integrated camera, and MP3 and movie players. It is available now for &#163;245.www.palm.com/ukVulcan PCRemember the Psion 5 organiser with its small, but usable screen and keyboard? Due to be launched later this year by Vulcan is a PC not unlike the old PDA. Its one inch-thick mini PC features a 5.8in screen, 20GB hard drive and 256MB of Ram. It has a full Qwerty keyboard, runs Windows XP and features integrated Wi-Fi. The price is expected to be around &#163;1,500.http://minipc.vulcan.com
Legend of Zelda: The Wind WakerGameCube, &#163;39.99 Nintendo *****Released in 1998 for the N64, Zelda: Ocarina of Time is widely regarded as the greatest videogame. Its fabulous mix of 3D exploration, devious puzzles and epic storyline made it a benchmark title.So there is a lot riding on Wind Waker, the first Zelda game for the GameCube. Luckily for Nintendo, Wind Waker is an absolute treat. Unlike the land-locked titles of yore, this latest adventure sees the hero, Link, traversing the seas, island hopping his way to becoming world saviour.As with all Zelda games, it starts off slowly. Whimsical encounters on sandy beaches, chasing piglets and eavesdropping on old ladies are just   some of the early exchanges. It's these sub-plots and mini-games that give this series its unique atmosphere. But it isn't too long before the adventure starts, with plenty of trademark dungeons to be explored.The conundrums are always logical, but challenging. The graphics are the most controversial aspect. The cel-shaded look gives this a cartoon feel that has disappointed some fans. But while this makes for a lighter atmosphere, it allows for excellent facial characterisation. The dust clouds, smoke and fire all look impressive.There's no debate over the combat, though, which has been radically improved by the ability to use opponents' weapons. A surprisingly disappointing camera is the only real niggle, although the over-reliance on sea travel can grate. But Zelda: Wind Waker lives up to its predecessors and is the game of the year so far.SBDevastationPC, 34.99 Arush/Novalogic, ***Given its popularity, the first person shoot-'em-up (FPS) has been relatively stagnant for years, so attempts to broaden the genre are always welcome. Devastation promises to do just this; cramming in team-based and deathmatch-style levels in an effort to make it more than just another Unreal-powered blaster. So how does it fare?Not that well. With 20 missions and two playing modes (arcade and simulation), there may be plenty to get on with, but pretty soon, you can predict the themes a mile off.You have plenty of firepower - 30-plus weapons - as well as the ability to use chairs, planks of wood or just about anything you can get your hands on, but this illusion of freedom only works in theory.No one, for instance, will risk approaching an armed guard with a bottle unless he is out of ammo   (which happens more often than you might expect) and the bizarre physics model has you knocking over things when you were trying to be stealthy.Later, you can be assisted by up to eight teammates - who supposedly obey four basic commands -stop/ follow/attack/defend - although their suicidal tendencies ensure they are best left behind until you can clear the path ahead, somewhat defeating the point of their presence.Devastation is a collection of good ideas, slapped together by a team clearly still coming to grips with the engine. Potential for a sequel perhaps, but right now there are far better FPSs on the shelves.MACasino IncPC, &#163;29.99 Hothouse/Konami, ***Considering the less-than-mainstream subject matter that has formed the basis of sim games in the past - several games, for example, have put you in charge of road and rail transport networks - it seems bizarre that Casino Inc is the first in which you can run a casino, or indeed a chain of casinos.Casino Inc was created by Hothouse, the outfit behind Gangsters, which tried so hard to innovate that it proved hard to play. Unsurprisingly, then, Casino Inc conforms strictly to the tried-and-tested sim game format.You start with one empty casino, which you must fill up with roulette tables, bars, one-armed bandits and so on. Following a meticulous tutorial and gentle learning curve, the fun starts when your casino achieves a measure of success and the scammers move in. You can exert satisfying control over your security staff, even gratuitously ejecting punters for the fun of it. And you can send out teams of low-lives to rip off rivals.The skill mainly consists of shaping your casino to attract the right sorts of customers (high rollers, for example, are keener on baccarat than pinball), and augmenting your income by building extra floors and offering Las Vegas-style accommodation. Casino Inc's quirky, adult-oriented demeanour (you can bribe brothels to send prostitutes to rival establishments in the hope that the police will close them down) helps it rise above the general morass of sim games which, inevitably, live in the shadow of the mighty Sim City. While Casino Inc does not break new ground, it will satisfy all but the most po-faced enthusiasts.SB
Cost of barriersVic Keegan (Second sight, April 24) is right to point out the "human" barriers to the spread of broadband, which can be overcome, as he points out, by education. However, there are barriers to education in ICT, such as lack of English reading skills and study skills and incipient technophobia. Our 32 community-based ICT centres in Brent and Harrow offer the access Keegan believes is necessary to overcome the digital divide, but also offer support and informal training programmes. These help overcome barriers, using tutors to train people in small groups and volunteer facilitators, who speak six Indian languages at Brent Indian Association, for example. We have trained and supported almost 5,000 people in the two years we have been operational.There are additional barriers to computer use for learners who are visually or hearing impaired, and we overcome these in partnership with agencies such as Middlesex Association for the Blind, by offering specialist training, using adaptive hardware and software. These enable visually impaired learners to have their emails read out to them. However, the additional costs have to be borne either by the consumer or by government - central and local.Don MacdonaldNorth West London Onlinedmacdonald@nwlonline.netCrucial pointIn the Business Solutions section on page 14, Getting Straight to the point (April 24), the third question discussed securing operations and protection against unwanted intruders.Yes, passwords, yes, firewall; but what about a  proven  effective backup strategy? Data loss is a frequent reality; how long would the questioner's business last following total loss of company data? The answer was excellent as far as it went, but minus a few out of 10 for ignoring this crucial area...Nick PattinsonNickP@AardvarkConsultants.ltd.ukTrivial passwordsIn his piece about the casual disclosure and poor choice of passwords, Jack Schofield suggests two steps that would improve password security: greater company control over password choice, and user education, so that we all pick better passwords. Reducing the number of passwords would be far more effective. I have a file of more than 70, some needed for trivial purposes, such as shop catalogue requests. If passwords were required only for access to information that  really merited protection, we all might take them more seriously.Richard Plattrich@rdplatt.co.ukWebsites attackedI've just read the article concerning cyber-terrorism during Gulf War two (April 24). Its proposition that cyber-terrorism failed to materialise is only correct up to a point. For instance, the repeated attacks on the al-Jazeera website were not mentioned.Mat Wakefieldmat_wakefield@gmx.netLamp confusionMy old colleague Simon Bisson seems somewhat confused (Lamp lights up the world, April 24). He presents Lamp-based solutions as rough and ready, saying they aren't complex application servers delivering large scale e-commerce solutions.However, he later talks about Lamp solutions powering sites such as Slashdot, part of the OSDN net work that receives more than eight million unique visitors a day, and O'Reilly using it for complex sites.According to Netcraft.com, Firebox.com the online gadget retailer uses Lamp, and Guardian Online itself runs on Apache/1.3.27. Are these all rough and ready?I hope Bisson meant to say that Lamp provides a powerful basis on which applications can be developed, offering a platform accessible to all, at a price anyone can afford. Due to its flexible nature and the use of open standards, the individual parts can be replaced with alternate solutions as and when required.John Crickettjohn@crickett.co.ukLegal eaglesJack Cummins (Feedback, April 24) states that he "can see no reason to prevent other domain owners concerned about privacy using a third party address such as a solicitor or accountant" when registering domain names.Here's a reason: not all of us have a solicitor or accountant!Antony Hawkinsa.d.hawkins@shef.ac.ukNot so creativeJust wanted to add my voice to Stephen Eeley's (Feedback, April 24) calling for a return to Online's original format.It was much clearer before. If it has to be merged with another section, wouldn't it make more sense to combine it with Monday's Media section or with media jobs on Saturday? Anyway, it is still a good read.Chris Coombeschriscoombes@artserve.netSabotageRecently, when I try to get through to the Stop the War Coalition site, I get a totally different site,www.123-reg.co.uk, instead. Is this sabotage, and, if so, how illegal is it?Chris Maddenchris@chrismadden.co.uk
The technical term is futzing. We've all done it: frittered away a day getting a new IT system to work, rather than doing what we're paid for. Futzing is one reason why computers do not seem to be the boon to productivity their makers would like us to believe.Doubts about IT's contribution to profits are not good for computer makers, especially at a time when customers are taking a hard look at the costs of IT. Recent research shows the "total cost of ownership" to be much higher than the price on the box. One study, for example, showed that an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system costing $4m in software and hardware actually cost $20.5m to install. Other studies show that only a minority of IT projects achieve what they set out to do.All this creates a climate of scepticism around investments in IT, hitting the suppliers' bottom lines. In the US, spending on IT is set to fall for the third year in a row. This is why IT firms, led by Microsoft, are investing millions on ways of identifying and measuring benefits.An organisation called the Information Work Productivity Council has launched a programme of research at the Sloan school of management at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to identify new ways of measuring benefits. In the words of one sponsor, James Firestone, a senior vice president of Xerox Corporation, one of the eight corporate members: "It will find ways to unlock the latent productivity in technology hardware, software solutions and service offerings."The "productivity paradox" has been worrying economists since the late 1980s. They noticed that despite massive investments in IT, US productivity in the 1960s and 1970s grew at an average of just 1% a year. As a Nobel prizewinner, Robert Solow, put it: "You can see computers everywhere but in the productivity statistics."MIT Professor Erik Brynjolfsson, who is leading the $4.5m research project, says the paradox is being resolved. He says that more recent data from the 1990s at last show a correlation between rising IT spending and productivity.Earlier this year, Brynjolfsson revealed to a seminar sponsored by BT - another firm with a keen interest in proving that technology helps productivity - the results of a long-term   study of 800 US firms showing a correlation between IT investment and market value.He likens the impact of IT to that of the electric motor in factories at the beginning of the 20th century. Manufacturers enthusiastically adopted electric motors to replace steam engines in their plants, but at first the motors merely duplicated their functions. It was only when manufacturers started to distribute electric motors around factories and design buildings for the convenience of production lines rather than around the central steam engine that the great leaps in manufacturingproductivity became possible.Something similar, Brynjolfsson says, may be happening with IT. The technology itself doesn't make a difference, but the process changes that it enables do. "IT is significantly more productive when combined with organisational change."Until now, too many IT systems, especially in government, are "paving over the cowpats", he says. The benefits emerge only in a new type of enterprise, the "digital organisation". Such a firm has few tiers of management, rewards initiative and invests heavily in human capital - it hires the best workers and spends a lot of time training them up. His exemplar is Dell, the PC firm.Brynjolfsson's ideal of the lean, mean digital organisation looks a little battered in the post-dotcom bear market. With stock prices languishing, companies need to measure value in a new way. This particularly applies to information workers, those who need much investment in IT but whose contribution to output is particularly difficult to measure. Hence the Information Work Productivity Council. Its objectives are "to develop standard productivity models and processes to help business improve information work productivity, processes and profitability".Susan Conway, the council's industry director, says: "Ultimately, the information age will be measured not by the output of technological products, but by the improvement of the actions and decisions that drive business performance."But the fact that such improvements need such heroic efforts to pin down, will itself fuel scepticism about IT as a magic bullet.
Modern businesses thrive on electronic information. But as time passes, this is information that piles up in server directories, effectively locked away for good, as no one can remember what HV365-1093.DOC actually contains, and nobody really has the time to look. But what if it was the text of a document that won substantial amounts of business, or the original memo that defined the company's current business model?Keeping track of what is in all those megabytes of files is a complex task. Not everyone wants to use a document management system, checking their work in and out, and manually filling in forms full of metadata. However, there's value in understanding what information is available. It's time to bring another web technology back inside the firewall.The Google search engine now accounts for a large percentage of all the searches carried out on the web. What businesses need is an enterprise Google of their own, able to crawl through file systems and intranet servers. Armed with an index and a set of search forms, anyone should be able to find anything they need.It's not surprising that Google is   already in this market with the Google Search Appliance, a standalone search tool that will search any web servers in a business's network. Two hundred different file types can be indexed, including output from common productivity suites such as Microsoft Office. Bright yellow single rack units, Google's appliances can index between 150,000 and 15m documents, depending on the configuration purchased.Companies such as National Semiconductor are using Google appliances to manage large-scale information intranets, where large numbers of servers spread across the world contain hundreds of thousands of documents. E-government is also getting results from implementing Google's yellow search systems, including the much-praised San Diego implementation. Here a $20,000 investment in a single server opened its information stores to the general public as well as intranet users.Solutions such as Google's can be expensive, though not as expensive as implementing a Verity or Autonomy search solution. The high-end of search technology, both systems offer advanced document search based on sophisticated Bayesian search techniques. While Google's tools are restricted to working with web servers, Autonomy's enterprise search tools can search file systems, databases, email servers and document stores. This opens up a larger selection of documents, though there's a lot of work required in choosing which servers are to be searched, and how information is to be delivered.Companies that have standardised on Microsoft technologies can take advantage of the extended search tools built into SharePoint Portal Server. These can crawl file systems, web and mail servers (including Lotus Notes). Developers can extend SharePoint, adding tools for searching other data sources through a standard set of interfaces. While the search facilities in SharePoint are   similar to those offered by most vendors, end-users subscribe to searches, and are notified if the result changes.There are also open source enterprise search solutions. A free, GPLed, search tool is ht://dig. This will index web documents across a multi-server intranet, though external parsers are required to index other document types. Another, though not fully open, option is the combination of the Glimpse index engine and the Webglimpse front end. Out of the box this can index a wide selection of web accessible files, including Word, Excel and PDF. While a licence fee is required for commercial installations, all the search engine code is available to users.One of the biggest problems facing organisations is the number of   different systems they want to index. Compatibility is a key issue, as information will be stored in many different formats, and inside as many different applications. Any enterprise search system will need to be able to winkle information out from the tiniest crevices, and present it in a readable form to an indexing engine.If enterprise search is going to be at the heart of a knowledge management strategy, then appropriate investment will be needed. Full access to all files does not come cheap, but good results can be achieved by just improving access to common document types. Once a system has been widely accepted, then it is time to dig out legacy information from obsolete stores, convert it to current formats and make it available to the index.LinksGoogle Search ApplianceSearch appliance:www.google.com/applianceAutonomy:www.autonomy.comVerity:www.verity.comWebglimpse:www.webglimpse.netht://dig:www.htdig.orgMicrosoft SharePoint:www.microsoft.com/sharepoint
Brits best of badUK e-commerce websites are the best in Europe at informing customers of their rights, although their performance is not impressive: fewer than half inform users that they can cancel an order within seven days, according to research by World IT Lawyers. According to the European civil rights website EDRI.org, the group found that in Switzerland, Portugal and the Netherlands, fewer than a third of e-commerce sites provide this information, which is a right under the European directive on distance selling.www.edri.org&#163;35 chargeNominet is to charge &#163;35.25 for each co.uk, org.uk and me.uk domain name transfer of ownership from May 19, a service that has been free. The cost of buying a domain name for two years can be less than &#163;9, including web and email forwarding. A spokesperson for the non-profit making registry told PC Adviser that making a transfer charge seemed fairer than increasing the charges for all purchases and renewals. It makes about 2,500 such changes each month, and will start providing the service online from the end of this year.www.pcadvisor.co.ukNeon historyA flashing neon sign in Elephant and Castle, south London, has made e-government history. Its planning application was the first in Britain to be processed via the Planning Inspectorate's online Planning Portal.Southwark council says it is the first authority to integrate its own planning IT system, from Plantech, with the Planning Portal run by the planning inspectorate for the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and the National Assembly of Wales.North Devon district council is also accepting online planning applications through the portal.&lt;A HREF="http://www.planningportal.gov.uk"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.planningportal.gov.ukNAT reports todayGovernment departments spent &#163;610 million on software last year, the National Audit Office reports today. Ninety five per cent of departments buy from Microsoft. The NAO praises efforts to get bulk discounts from suppliers but says that more needs to be done.It finds that departments have been slower than expected to take up new   discount deals reached by the Office of Government Commerce. Of the 66 departments surveyed, 10 departments estimated that they would save some &#163;5.4m by using the agreements.The comptroller and auditor general, Sir John Bourn, said: "This report shows that many departments are being intelligent customers when it comes to software licensing. But it remains important that they have all the information they need to make the right decisions."www.nao.gov.ukDubya cutsCongress has slashed President Bush's e-government budget by 89%. The White House had requested $45m this year to make public services more friendly; Congress cut that to $5m. It is a bad start to what is supposed to be a $345m programme over four years.The federal government is already committed to making all paper forms available online by November. This will increase information sharing between agencies, modernising technology and protecting systems from online attacks.Half the US population has now used a federal, state or local government website to get information or conduct transactions.RoutemasteredResidents of Lower Coquet in Northumberland are making 250 trips a week on a bespoke bus service with its route plotted by computer. Callers can book the Phone &amp; Go service up to two hours in advance, through a centre at   Newcastle University. Its staff then use special software to create a route for each journey of the 424 and 425 bus service, often picking up residents from their front doors.The Northumberland county council-funded service, which started in December, covers areas that previously had no public transport. Newcastle University told Kablenet.com that, if successful, it hopes that bus companies will invest in the scheme.www.kablenet.comTop councils betterA report by SocITM, the staff association for local government IT managers, links a council's strength in using IT and its overall quality as measured by government's Comprehensive Performance Assessments (CPA). Local authorities rated as excellent in the CPA process are 10 times more likely to run one of the 10 most highly ranked council websites in SocITM's annual survey.High-ranking councils were found to spend 21% more per head of population than other authorities on information and communications technology.Coverage of this year's Better Connected surveywww.socitm.gov.uk
Long armProving that the law has a very long arm indeed, an online edition of the Proceedings of the Old Bailey in London from the late 17th century to the early 19th century was launched on the web last week. The site features the original text as well as supporting articles and bibliography, along with digital images of trial accounts as they were published - including the ads.The site - produced by academics from the universities of Hertfordshire and Sheffield - contains information from 22,000 trials covering the period from December 1714 to December 1759, with the release of the remaining trials occurring in batches. The full archive is scheduled to be available by next spring. There will eventually be accounts of more than 100,000 criminal trials, comprising more than 60,000 pages of original text covering the period from 1674 to 1834.If you'd like to witness more current proceedings of the world's most famous court, a company is arranging tours.www.oldbaileyonline.orgwww.old-bailey.comTop deckMuch has been made of the US government's "deck of infamy" playing cards, handed out by the US military in Iraq to help track down members of Saddam Hussein's regime. A number of satirists and peace activists have followed suit and produced decks of their own, with one targeting the French administration. By far the best is the deck produced by a US pressure group, the Trade Regulation Organisation (TRO),   calling for a US regime change.According to its press release: "The US governing regime is no longer consistent with world peace or prosperity - the playing cards will show the way to regime change and, eventually, large-scale war crimes proceedings." So, Dick Cheney is the ace of spades. Tony Blair the queen of hearts, while Murdoch is given the king of hearts. President Bush is granted the lowly four of clubs. King of that suit? White House senior adviser, Karl Rove.www.gatt.org/regimewww.redrat.net/BUSH_WAR/cardswww.examineur.com/articlesClutterCreative Mac users may love Clutter, the new software device that grabs album info from a playing MP3 track, sends it off to Amazon, and comes back with an image of the CD cover. You then place these icons on your desktop and play them via your iTunes software. Very messy, lots of fun.&lt;A HREF="http://www.sprote.com/clutter"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.sprote.com/clutterWhich white?Should The Beatles have released the White Album as a single long player? George Martin thought so and many fans and music critics agree. A number of them have listed their ideal single album tracks at the Turn Me On Dead Man, a psychedelic music site. There's also a software device that helps you select your favourite order. It even works out the timings of the sides. Sony Music has launched a site that lets you custom build a Bob Dylan CD. Other artists to follow soon, says Sony.www.turnmeondeadman.net/AWA/AWAAlternatives.htmlwww.custommixcd.comUp my streetHouse price information on any home sold in England and Wales since April 2000 can now be accessed on the Land Registry website. The government hopes that being able to discover price differences in the same street might help rationalise the market. Unlike UpMyStreet.com, which aggregates other local information, the service costs &#163;2 for details of each property.www.landregisteronline.gov.ukwww.upmystreet.comBig birdA Norwegian artist is staging his own version of Big Brother, with birds instead of people. Magne Klann has placed a webcam inside a wooden bird house in a tree at Bogstad Gaard in Oslo. He's given the blue tits that occupy the house some lamps, a TV and pictures. But, says Klann, there will be no evictions.www.piip-show.noNew &amp; notedJapanese street fashionwww.japanesestreets.comWebby presentation cancelledwww.webbyawards.comCanterbury Tales with glossarywww.librarius.com/cantales.htmAnonymous blogginghttp://invisiblog.comSix of the best:Leonardo da VinciRenaissance manwww.mos.org/leonardoThe paintingswww.ibiblio.org/wm/paint/auth/vinciThe drawingshttp://banzai.msi.umn.edu/leonardoThe Museumwww.leonet.it/comuni/vinciBBC serieswww.bbc.co.uk/science/leonardoMore linkswww.kausal.com/leonardo/links.html
"The supermarket of the future has wireless express checkout, smart shelves ... and a 'VeggieVision' produce scale that sorts pears from peaches with a digital camera. At least that's the vision the German retail chain Metro is promoting with a new store that showcases a number of new technologies under a single roof," reportsAPfrom Rheinberg in Germany.
