Another day, another zombie apocalypse, this time in smalltown America. Your character and his dour fellow survivors are stranded at a rural campsite and must make a dash to the nearest town to begin a quest for longevity, initially hooking up with a group who have fortified the local church. By scavenging supplies and weapons and recruiting survivors you gradually build up a resistance movement to be proud of, winning the trust of compatriots by protecting them from zombies and not running them over in your car or setting them on fire with molotov cocktails. That may sound easy, but State Of Decay’s dodgy controls and glitchy graphics make it surprisingly difficult to avoid the odd accidental immolation during the game’s flailing combat and messy retreats from zombie hordes. First released in 2013, this comes with both pieces of downloadable content and, although you’d struggle to believe it, has slightly spruced up graphics. Yet, despite its glaring flaws and downbeat low-budget feel, it still manages to deliver a weirdly compelling recreation of the daily grind of living with marauding bands of flesh-eating undead.ALSO OUT THIS WEEKKirby And The Rainbow Paintbrush, Nintendo Wii UKirby And The Rainbow PaintbrushPoor old second-rate Kirby, a Nintendo mascot loved by few, starring in games that rarely amount to much. Kirby And The Rainbow Paintbrush effortlessly joins this legion of meh, its tale of colour being drained from a magical kingdom proving as trite and unloveable as its pink marshmallowy hero. The game itself involves drawing lines on the Wii U gamepad touchscreen to guide Kirby towards collectibles and away from danger, a quick tap making him spin long enough to destroy a nearby enemy. Unfortunately the simplicity of its controls is undermined by finickiness, as well as Kirby regularly ignoring the rainbow-hewn line you’ve just drawn in favour of trundling to his death. These problems are exacerbated later in the game when you’ll need to guide two Kirbies simultaneously, and even sections where he transforms into a rocket, tank or submarine get tedious before their levels are over. And, unless you’re playing its tacked-on three player co-op mode, you won’t need your TV, instead spending the entire game hunched over the gamepad’s little screen. Although not actively offensive, the Rainbow Paintbrush is classic Kirby: forgettable.Nintendo, £34.99AUX B, Android &amp; iOSAUX BRather than paper flyers or a cheesy app with a venue map you’ll never use, the B-Sides music festival (Lucerne, Switzerland, 11-13 Jun) has AUX B, a game that ignores pop stars, concentrating instead on life as a sound engineer setting up the band’s PA system. With no formal instruction you bumble about, using the onscreen patch bays to connect the outputs at the top of the screen to the inputs at the bottom via an increasingly bewildering array of phono and DIN plugs. Dragging your finger between two sockets of the same type automatically connects them with a chunky cable, adding to a growing spaghetti junction, with the interface showing signals pulsing down leads and output sockets buzzing with the anticipation of being connected to the next link in your rawk daisy chain. Successfully wiring each sound system results in the speaker at the very bottom emitting a brief burst of psychedelic sound waves before depositing you into the next puzzle. Complete all 80 levels before 15 May and you can win tickets to the festival itself. Or you could simply view this as a charming diversion from other “free” mobile games, which really just want to shake you down for spare change.Christian Schnellmann, free
Will the world become battery-powered? That’s certainly the ambition of Elon Musk, the PayPal billionaire turned would-be space explorer and electric car baron.On Thursday night,Musk unveiledwhat he called “the missing piece” in sustainable energy: a range of batteries that can be used in homes and businesses to store power from wind or solar or take advantage of cheap electricity to charge up overnight and then be used in peak hours.Related:Tesla announces low-cost batteries for homesTwo billion Powerpacks – as the batteries are called – could store enough electricity to meet the entire world’s needs.“That may seem like an insane number,” Musk said. “We’re talking about trying to change the fundamental energy infrastructure of the world.”The first place to feel the battery charge will be Nevada. Next year, Musk’s Tesla Motors is set to start operating a power-storage-device “gigafactory” across nearly a thousand acres of Nevada real estate. It’s required to contribute $3.5bn to the local economy, in return for a $1.25bn tax break.Battery expert Davide Andrea, an engineer at Colorado-based battery manufacturerElithion, worries about costs. The most basic home unit will cost $3,500. No details have yet emerged about the cost of the large units Tesla is reportedly supplying to companies including Apple and Google to help manage their power supplies.“Electricity is way too cheap to store in an expensive battery,” Andrea said. “It’s like saying I’m going to be storing my potatoes in a safe. Potatoes are too cheap to store in a safe.”But Andrea is sold on the idea that batteries are part of a more efficient energy future. He is currently involved in a new project in Boulder to install batteries in homes, in order to ease the strain on power plants and avoid costly rewiring as the sizes of neighborhoods change.Felix Kramer, a clean energy entrepreneur in California, said he hopes Musk’s presentation on Thursday evening changes minds.“Tesla demolished the idea that EVs [electric vehicles] were golf carts,” Kramer said. “And maybe they’re about to do it again now. Maybe they’re about to demolish the idea that we can’t switch from coal and gas to wind and solar because of reliability issues. If they convince consumers, that changes the conversation.”But Andrea and Kramer are enthusiastic about the possibility of greater infrastructure improvements with greater adoption of electric cars. Power provision could get a lot more efficient if cities can be persuaded to draw power from those car batteries, as well as supplying it. That would provide electricity and diminish local reliance on expensive, fossil fuel-powered generators during times of peak demand – when everyone in New York turns on the air conditioner, for example. Nissan isalready tryingto do this with the Leaf in Japan.“In a home, the cost of the storage becomes much more important,” Andrea said. “It solves so many problems – the power company no longer has to turn on a dirty power plant during high-demand times. You can use the present wire infrastructure.”If those sound like lofty goals, they had frankly better be: Musk will have to impress a great many people in order to justify the gobs of moneythe state of Nevada is giving him– the gigafactory will be allowed to operate essentially tax-free for 10 years and won’t pay property taxes for another 10 afterward. Beyond even that, the state is giving Tesla $75m in transferable tax credits, which the company can sell to other businesses in the region.Nor is it the first time Musk has asked the government to chip in: SpaceX receives$685m in help from Nasa.Still, if Musk’s batteries can merge wind, solar and electric car power into existing grids, that would constitute tremendous economic savings for cash-strapped municipalities everywhere.“This is within the power of humanity to do,” Musk told the large crowd gathered at Tesla’s design center in a Los Angeles suburb on Thursday. “We have done things like this before. It is not impossible.”
Streaming music service Grooveshark has shut down as part of the settlement following its loss of a copyright-infringement lawsuit brought by major labels.The US-based service had been going for nearly 10 years, but its decision to build a catalogue of music from users’ uploads rather than licensing deals with rights holders led to its demise.“We started out nearly ten years ago with the goal of helping fans share and discover music. But despite best of intentions, we made very serious mistakes. We failed to secure licenses from rights holders for the vast amount of music on the service. That was wrong. We apologize. Without reservation,” explaineda note on the Grooveshark website.“As part of a settlement agreement with the major record companies, we have agreed to cease operations immediately, wipe clean all of the record companies’ copyrighted works and hand over ownership of this website, our mobile apps and intellectual property, including our patents and copyrights.”Grooveshark has also encouraged its users to switch to “fan-friendly, affordable services” including Spotify, Deezer, Google Play, Beats Music, Rhapsody and Rdio.At its peak, Grooveshark was one of the most popular sources for streaming music,claiming 35 million users between 2009 and 2011. In recent years, though, the company saw its apps removed from Google and Apple’s app stores, and was sued for copyright infringement by major labels and music publishers.Grooveshark managed to settle out of court with publishers EMI and Sony/ATV in 2013, but in September 2014 themajor labels won their lawsuit against the company.The judge in the case ruled that Grooveshark had explicitly encouraged its employees to upload music to the service to stock its catalogue – trumping its defence that it was abiding by “safe harbour” legislation by removing infringing content when notified by the copyright owners.Related:Behind the music: Why Grooveshark takes a bite out of artists' earningsIn recent months, Grooveshark tried to find a new path,initially claimingthat the lawsuit only covered “an early version of Grooveshark which we dispensed of in 2008”, beforeunveiling plans for a new Broadcasts appcombining music and messaging, which would be fully licensed.The writing was on the wall in late April, however, when the judge in the case ruled that Grooveshark’s “wilful” infringement meantdamages could reach up to $150k per song, which, with 4,907 tracks part of the lawsuit, could have meant a maximum damages bill of $736m (£482m).Now the site is gone for good. Labels, music publishers and companies like Spotify will be hoping that the result will be a new influx of users for licensed streaming services – particularly those with free tiers that were competing with Grooveshark.
Deep in the heart of the Bible Belt, John McAfee, the tech millionaire, eccentric and one-time fugitive, appears to have finally settled down – in his way.A few months shy of his 70th birthday, McAfee, as famous for his plentiful eccentricities as the anti-virus software he created, is living somewhat in the open again, this time in Lexington, Tennessee, a rustic and unassuming town with a population of less than 8,000.Born in Scotland, raised in the US, McAfee had been living in Portland, Oregon – a city that seemed a more obvious choice for a yoga-loving, gun-toting technocrat who had just fled Belize via Guatemala amid a bizarre murder investigation. His woodsy property in the west Tennessee countryside, though, has ended up suiting him better. He’s happier here, even if he still spins ominous stories of hit men on his trail.“One never knows what the future holds,” McAfee tells the Guardian, before admitting that he can’t see himself living anywhere else. “I have friends here in Lexington. This is a beautiful small town. Neighborly. But yes indeed – bad people are still after me.”McAfee is still looking over his shoulder, even three years after he fled Belize when officials named him as a “person of interest” in the shooting death of his neighbor. McAfee, never formally charged, ducked out of the country and spent part of his time on the lam while granting media interviews, posting on his blog and sending emails, all of which lent a bizarre twist to the flight of someone who was ostensibly hiding from the law.The computer security pioneer quickly introduced himself to the town’s mayor and sheriff upon arrival in Lexington. He uses multiple phones to throw off would-be trackers and says a neighbor recently told him about seeing a black car driven by a man with a scar on his face.That same McAfee gives the appearance of a man determined to live a much lower-wattage existence these days.He’s back to developing software, for example, much of it with a focus on privacy. No longer living on the run, he’s also mentoring startups and presenting himself as a security expert via appearances on news outlets like Fox News and through high-profile speeches. He gave one such presentation earlier this month in Las Vegas at the National Association of Broadcasters annual conference, warning attendees how porous and vulnerable smartphones have become, at times holding one aloft from the stage as he spoke.“Security is no longer in the hands of the data center staff,” he said during the event. “People are watching you while you’re on the phone.”Meanwhile, McAfee also runs a software development company, Future Tense Central, which shares space with a startup accelerator in Opelika, Alabama, about a six-hour drive from Lexington.When he’s not there or on the road, he can be found in the small-town environs he now calls home, midway between Memphis and Nashville, in a state whose house of representatives recently voted to make the Bible its official book and where McAfee says he plans to spend the rest of his life.It’s a striking change of scenery for the entrepreneur who found extraordinary success developing software to combat the first computer viruses that had begun zipping around the globe. After he started McAfee Associates out of his home in the 1980s, McAfee’s fame and fortune rose in tandem with his warnings – paranoia, some argued – about existential threats to the digital grid.A fugitive who fled Belize after his neighbor was shot dead, John McAfee’s image has combined a combustible mix of drink, drugs, women and guns.Photograph: InternetMcAfee’s sometimes dystopian take on technology proved prescient given all we now know thanks to the National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden. But there’s also another side to him, one built on a combustible mix of drugs and drink, of harrowing moments like the time he put a loaded Smith &amp; Wesson to his head in front of a Wired reporter and the image he presented of himself as the Hugh Hefner of hacking. A few years ago, he released a video posted to YouTube that explained how users can uninstall McAfee software featuring scantily clad women, guns, “bath salts” and its star in a smoking jacket and pyjamas.More recently McAfee has emerged as a privacy advocate. He has claimed, for example, to have information about who was behind the Sony hack. “A lot of the things I’m working on now are focused on privacy and personal power,” McAfee said. “People should take their power back. We depend too much on governments and corporations for our personal lives.“Think about this. There are 10m waterproof phones in circulation. You have teen girls frequently texting in the shower. App developers these days – most of them aren’t companies like IBM or places with audit controls and some measure of respectability. And they’re asking permission to turn on the device’s camera, to read SMS messages and on down the line. You’ve got to believe me – while we’re speaking, people are spying on teen girls. And I know it’s actually happening.”The views on privacy and security that inform his work and the products his company is releasing generally skew a bit darker than mainstream attitudes toward consumer products. He thinks the Apple Watch is a “nightmare” from a privacy standpoint. He’s also skeptical about connected devices in the home, considering them less as useful technology than as one more entry point for a hacker to use to cause harm.“Game apps are the worst,” McAfee said. “They’re developed by a few people, most of the time we don’t even know who they are, and they end up with 100 million users. And virtually all apps that are free ask for excessive permissions. Why? Because nothing in life is free. If they’re giving it to you for free, they’re collecting your information. The vast minority only use what they need. If you don’t need an app, don’t download it.”Except, of course, his company’s, which he insists most people do need. The company’s website says it was founded by McAfee in 2013 and that its focus is mobile and web applications designed to help users take back control over their information and privacy.John McAfee is transferred in an ambulance to the national police hospital in Guatemala City on 6 December 2012, after fleeing Belize.Photograph: Johan Ordonez/AFPHe says the company also has an encrypted email program that, at the time of this writing, it hadn’t released yet.Beyond his company, McAfee has high praise for the Round House, the Opelika startup space that represents his base of operations and where he works with other fledgling startups.“The objective is for everyone to work together here, and the teams have come up with some astonishing products,” he said. “One has a robotic hand which can be manufactured for $28 for people who’ve lost fingers.”Privacy is the issue, though, that really animates him. He turns frequently to a now-famous statement by Google’s chairman, Eric Schmidt, to help make his case. “If you have something that you don’t want anyone to know, maybe you shouldn’t be doing it in the first place,” Schmidt told the financial news channel CNBC in 2009 when asked if people should really treat Google as a “trusted friend”.“Most people don’t understand privacy,” McAfee says. “Google would have you believe if you have nothing to hide, why should you care if people know everything. But stop and imagine a world in which everyone knows your every thought and every action. It would be chaos.“When you first meet someone, you don’t divulge your deepest secrets. If privacy doesn’t matter, would you be willing to give your wallet to a total stranger and let them go through it and write down everything they find inside? Then why on earth would we believe that if we’re not doing anything wrong, we shouldn’t care if someone has our information?”McAfee’s own relationship to privacy is complicated. He says repeatedly he’s not in hiding today, even if he has chosen to live far from the madding crowd. But even if he wanted to keep a low profile today, it wouldn’t work for long.His life is being turned into a movie by Montreal-based production company Impact Future Media. Its working title is Running in the Background.Company founder and producer Francois Garcia tells the Guardian some announcements related to the film will be made “in the near future”, but due to contractual obligations, no details about attached names, distribution partners or dates can be disclosed yet.For now, the real version of McAfee’s story, the one unfolding in the US heartland, will have to suffice.
The US air safety authority has issued a warning and maintenance order over a software bug that causes a complete electric shutdown of Boeing’s 787 and potentially “loss of control” of the aircraft.In the latest of a long line of problems plaguing Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner, which saw the company’s fleetgrounded over battery issuesand concerns raised over possiblehacking vulnerabilities, the new software bug was found in plane’s generator-control units.The plane’s electrical generators fall into a failsafe mode if kept continuously powered on for 248 days. The 787 has four such main generator-control units that, if powered on at the same time, could fail simultaneously and cause a complete electrical shutdown.“We are issuing this AD [airworthiness directive] to prevent loss of all AC electrical power, which could result in loss of control of the aeroplane,” said theFederal Aviation Administration directive. “If the four main generator control units (associated with the engine-mounted generators) were powered up at the same time, after 248 days of continuous power, all four GCUs will go into failsafe mode at the same time, resulting in a loss of all AC electrical power regardless of flight phase.”Should the electrical shutdown happen at a critical phase in flight such as take-off or landing, or while manoeuvring in the air, the loss of control could be catastrophic.The FAA considered the situation critical and issued the new rule without allowing time for comment. Boeing is working on a software upgrade for the control units that should rectify the bug.“The airworthiness directive action addresses a condition that only occurred in the lab. Simulated testing determined that this condition is possible in cases where an aeroplane’s power is left on for more than eight continuous months. No airplane in the fleet experienced that condition,” a Boeing spokesman told the Guardian.According to Boeing’s records, all of the 787s currently in service have been turned off and turned on again as part of maintenance. The FAA’s directive mandates action recommended by Boeing on 19 April.“If there is a definitive record of a powercycle within the last 120 days, no operator action is immediately required. Operators will perform periodic power cycling at scheduled intervals until incorporating a software update. Boeing will issue in the fourth quarter of 2015,” said the Boeing spokesman.•Cyber-attack concerns raised over Boeing 787 chip’s ‘back door’•Boeing 787 Dreamliner: FAA to issue ‘airworthiness directive’ in wake of fire•The demise of the Boeing 747 is a sign of changing flight patterns
The other day, my bosstweetedabout one of those fundamental facts of life that speaks to us all. It was this: the excruciating annoyance of being subjected to the keyboard click sound of a person’s mobile phone.AsIonesco, the Romanian playwright, said, anguish brings us together. Is there anybody who isn’t instantly riled at this? Who doesn’t want to throw their hands up at the true horror of humanity, and around the phone owner’s neck?Is it rude to ask strangers on the train to FFS TURN OFF KEYBOARD CLICKS ON YOUR MOBILE! I mean honestly, who has keyboard clicks on?!&mdash; Jemima Kiss (@jemimakiss)April 28, 2015The tat-tat-tat of a machine gun would be more soothing on the ears. The screeching wail of an unfed child. The sniffles of a common cold.There’s often something about technology that removes us from displaying correct courtesy and etiquette to our fellow human beings. We forget we are dealing with real people, with real feelings and most importantly, a real finite source of patience.People think nothing of staring at a screen relentlessly over dinner, but imagine whipping out a book and cracking a spine while dining with a friend.If anybody is reading this thinking: “Oh, crap, that’s me, that is, with the keyboard clicking sound – but it was on by default, and I don’t know how to turn it off,”let me Google that for you.Of course, the keyboard click is not the only irritating sound that can emanate from a phone, interrupting an otherwise relaxing journey through the Cotswolds, or whatever.What about that “whoosh”sound of a text being sent? And the most awful, of course: the double barrel of leaking headphones orsodcasting– playing music out loud from tinny speakers.There’s a fußball table in our office (of course there is – this is the Guardian), which, while awesome, is also the scourge of many a meeting taking place on the soft seating (again, this is the Guardian).If two people are having a conversation, don’t rack up a clanging, racket-inducing game a metre away. It’s this kind of basic lack of manners – or, to put it less politely, rudeness – which is a pet hate.And as technology has grown and spread and become a part of everyday life, we have new irritants to deal with.It’s not just phones of course. The modern day equivalent of a fellow passenger reading a newspaper over one’s shoulder is now a colleague lurking a little too long at the desk to take a quick scan of your open tabs.And what of email reply-alls? Reply-alls are mostly approximate to gathering up a bunch of people you don’t know, who do not care about you, and telling them something they have zero interest in. And then being subject to a number of other people’s responses. Which you also have zero interest in.This also goes for being continuously looped into a Twitter thread which became boring around 20mins after the initial dialogue started.What annoys you most about technology? Which are the worst crimes? Please leave your comments in the thread below.
“Would you like an easy peeler?” Liz Kendall asks me, pulling out a massive bag of satsumas. The job, says the shadow minister for care and older people, and the Labour candidate for Leicester West, is extremely unhealthy, though that’s not the biggest problem with working in politics.First elected as an MP in 2010, Kendall has already been disciplined for tweeting in the House of Commons and for passing a bottle of water to a colleague doing her maiden speech, and complains about the inefficient and outdated Parliamentary conventions – including the 40-minute ritual of physically walking through the lobby to vote. The process would be far more efficient voting electronically, she says, while the order of speakers could also be published online so members didn’t have to wait four hours to talk for five minutes.“Parliament is just not fit for purpose,” she says. “Even in the chamber there’s no list of who will speak, but an unwritten list that they won’t publish. But we won’t get there without strong leadership that recognises that they need to lead by technological example.”Technology has been neglected by every party in this election. Even the Conservatives, who published a simple but compelling technology manifesto in 2010, have failed to follow up for 2015. And Labour, which has been working with some respected UK technologists for months, developed a slate of compelling ideas that failed to make it into its manifesto. Why?After a long pause, Kendall says: “Well, it was a significant part of the policy review,” referencing the work done by Labour’s policy coordinator Jon Cruddas. “The big theme was of giving people power and control, and we have to do more to push technology as a party.” So it wasn’t deemed a priority by the top brass, in other words.Tech is ‘crucial to life chances’Today, Kendall is exploring theManchester Digital Laboratory, a networking, events and community space that has thrived since it started as a non-profit in 2009. MadLab has an eclectic roster, from meetups for redundant engineers to jewellery workshops to hacking and DIY genetics sessions.A recent series of successful digital skills training courses covering social networking, website design and programming have trained 150 unemployed women and a further 80 are on the waiting list. Former student Claire Lewis now works as a teacher, but credits the course with giving her the confidence boost she needed. “It came at a time when I was really low, a single mum living with my parents and with no job. Not only was it a really smart course, but the people on it were smart as well. And somehow being women, the dynamic was really different.”MadLab has hosted the Young Rewired State coding camps for children, including these programmers in 2013.Photograph: MadLab Manchester Digital Laboratory/flickrKendall said she’s “obsessed” with ensuring the UK has good jobs and an economy not reliant on low-skilled workers. “Tech is crucial to tackling inequality and giving people life chances, as well as getting the best value for public money. We should be open about how the government works and every department should be thinking about how it can use technology. We have to take technology into politics.”‘Technology enables individualised care’She is more animated about the potential of technology in the NHS. Kendall talks about visiting a constituent who suffered with the lung condition COPD that was significantly improved by a trial of tele-nursing. Rather than hospital visits and being on oxygen 19 hours a day, Clive Callow was monitored in his own home with data sent back to a team of specialist nurses who advise on adjustments in his treatment or visit him at home. “It has given him more control over his life and helped him manage his condition, and his wife is over the moon,” she says.Another scheme in Kew, south-west London, teaches patients how to manage their own kidney dialysis at home. The nurses said patients “felt more in control of their lives” and ready to take responsibility for their own health. And the CLASH project in Leicester helped an arthritis group learn how to use digital communication tools like Skype, which, says Kendall, helped to tackle the related depression and isolation that often affects sufferers.“It’s not just wealthier people and the middle class that benefit from health tracking,” she says. “Technology helps give people individualised care. If you’re Clive, you have a huge incentive to try anything because COPD is a horrible condition, and the NHS has a huge incentive because treatment costs a fortune.”Health data belongs in a national health serviceWhen the NHS was founded, average life expectancy was 65 and many people died of infectious diseases and accidents. Now one in three babies will live to 100 and the challenge is long-term chronic diseases. That crisis, she says, can be staved off with technology.“One of the biggest challenges is to use technology not just to manage conditions but to prevent health problems in the first place. The state normally tells people what is good for them, but people should have as much control over their lives as possible and be self-reliant.“If you look at the possibilities of monitoring data about genetics and susceptibility to diseases, then there’s an even stronger argument for a national health service, because the principle of owning and controlling your own data, for example, is really important.“The problem is that the NHS hasn’t brought the right people together yet – those who have an incentive to keep people healthy and those who know how the tech works. We need to make huge changes for that to happen.”Private finance initiative ‘not the cause of NHS problems’But if relationships with specialist, external companies are critical, that doesn’t sound like a commitment to end PFI, the private finance initiative, within the NHS. “I don’t believe PFI is the cause of the NHS’s problems,” says Kendall. “The current system is hospital based, despite the future challenge being about community care, and the Tories have done nothing to address this in the past five years other than add more layers of bureaucracy.“We have an ageing population, elderly people ending up stuck in hospital because we don’t have community nurses and social care to look after them at home.”Striding out of MadLab, Kendall strikes a glamorous figure for a politician, a combination of film star glasses and forthright charm. How long will the health role contain her? She deftly responds to rumours that she is being lined up to eventually run for the Labour leadership, being appropriately dismissive.“If anybody says anything nice about me, then that’s great. We need strong, diverse voices up there, which means making space for women – literally – around the table, in meetings and party and government level. But right now, though, we have the mother of all battles.”
It’s Friday. I’m technically on holiday but this WOULDN’T GET DONE WITHOUT ME. So here we go!
David Cameron has made some headline-grabbing election promises, but none so technically implausible as hisvow to eliminate communications tools that “we cannot read”earlier this year. He’s not alone in proposing a ban on effective cryptographic tools. The FBI wants the same thing, and their zeal to protect the state from citizens’ secrecy has even prompted it to alter its exemplary security advice. The suggestion that Americans should encrypt their devices so as to protect their data when they inevitably lose them, have them stolen or throw them away without securely erasing themhas been expunged from the FBI’s site.It’s impossible to overstate how bonkers the idea of sabotaging cryptography is to people who understand information security. If you want to secure your sensitive data either at rest – on your hard drive, in the cloud, on that phone you left on the train last week and never saw again – or on the wire, when you’re sending it to your doctor or your bank or to your work colleagues, you have to use good cryptography. Use deliberately compromised cryptography, that has a back door that only the “good guys” are supposed to have the keys to, and you have effectively no security. You might as well skywrite it as encrypt it with pre-broken, sabotaged encryption.There are two reasons why this is so. First, there is the question of whether encryption can be made secure while still maintaining a “master key” for the authorities’ use.As lawyer/computer scientist Jonathan Mayer explained,adding the complexity of master keys to our technology will “introduce unquantifiable security risks”. It’s hard enough getting the security systems that protect our homes, finances, health and privacy to be airtight – making them airtight except when the authorities don’t want them to be is impossible.That’s a technical argument, and it’s a good one, but you don’t have to be a cryptographer to understand the second problem with back doors: the security services are really bad at overseeing their own behaviour.Once these same people have a back door that gives them access to everything that encryption protects, from the digital locks on your home or office to the information needed to clean out your bank account or read all your email, there will be lots more people who’ll want to subvert the vast cohort that is authorised to use the back door, and the incentives for betraying our trust will be much more lavish than anything a tabloid reporter could afford.Since 2003, America’s Transportation Security Administration has required all locked baggage to have Travelsentry locks, which allow anyone with a widely held master key to open them.Photograph: Mario Anzuoni/ReutersIf you want a preview of what a back door looks like, just look at the US Transportation Security Administration’s “master keys” for the locks on our luggage. Since 2003, the TSA has required all locked baggage travelling within, or transiting through, the USA to be equipped with Travelsentry locks, which have been designed to allow anyone with a widely held master key to open them.What happened after Travelsentry went into effect? Stuff started going missing from bags. Lots and lots of stuff. ACNN investigationinto thefts from bags checked in US airports found thousandsof incidents of theft committed by TSA workers and baggage handlers. And though “aggressive investigation work” has cut back on theft at some airports, insider thieves are still operating with impunity throughout the country, even managing to smuggle stolen goods off the airfield in airports where all employees are searched on their way in and out of their work areas.The US system is rigged to create a halo of buck-passing unaccountability. When my family picked up our bags from our Easter holiday in the US, we discovered that the TSA had smashed the locks off my nearly new, unlocked, Travelsentry-approved bag, taping it shut after confirming it had nothing dangerous in it, and leaving it “completely destroyed” in the words of the official BA damage report. British Airways has sensibly declared the damage to be not their problem, as they had nothing to do with destroying the bag. The TSA directed me to a form that generatedan illiterate reply from a government subcontractor, sent from a do-not-reply email address, advising that “TSA is not liable for any damage to locks or bags that are required to be opened by force for security purposes” (the same note had an appendix warning me that I should treat this communication as confidential). I’ve yet to have any other communications from the TSA.Making it possible for the state to open your locks in secret means that anyone who works for the state, or anyone who can bribe or coerce anyone who works for the state, can have the run of your life. Cryptographic locks don’t just protect our mundane communications: cryptography is the reason why thieves can’t impersonate your fob to your car’s keyless ignition system; it’s the reason you can bank online; and it’s the basis for all trust and security in the 21st century.In herDimbleby lecture, Martha Lane Fox recalled Aaron Swartz’s words: “It’s not OK not to understand the internet anymore.” That goes double for cryptography: any politician caught spouting off about back doors is unfit for office anywhere but Hogwarts, which is also the only educational institution whose computer science department believes in “golden keys” that only let the right sort of people break your encryption.
The good news: Netflix is producing a 13-part animated series based on Dr Seuss’s classic kids book Green Eggs and Ham. It’ll be produced by Ellen DeGeneres, and air in 2018. The company had the charming idea of announcing this fact to reporters with a Dr Seuss-style poem.The bad news: The poem is terrible. Our best guess is that it was written by one person with a sense of scansion, and then edited by four other people who don’t know what a syllable is. Take a look, but any English graduates beware. This thing will haunt you at night.NETFLIX ORDERS GREEN EGGS AND HAM – THIRTEEN EPISODES FOR THE WHOLE FAMIn 2018 This Classic Book – Comes to TV with a Whole New LookIssued from Netflix headquarters.Delivered straight to all reporters.We’d love to share some happy newsbased on the rhymes of Dr. Seuss.Green Eggs and Ham will become a showand you’re among the first to know.In this richly animated production,a 13-episode introduction,standoffish inventor (Guy, by name)and Sam-I-Am of worldwide fame,embark on a cross-country tripthat tests the limits of their friendship.As they learn to try new things,they find out what adventure brings.Of course they also get to eatthat famous green and tasty treat!Cindy Holland, VP of Original Content for Netflixthrew her quote into the mix:“We think this will be a hitGreen Eggs and Ham is a perfect fitfor our growing slate of amazing storiesavailable exclusively in all Netflix territories.You can stream it on a phone.You can stream it on your own.You can stream it on TV.You can stream it globally.”Ouch.
Could you please explain how one erases one’s profile from Facebook? I find the posts trivial and boring and don’t have much time to go into it.UrsulaFacebook has a help page:How do I permanently delete my account?This advises you to download a copy of your Facebook data, because you will lose it if you do delete your account. You can also do this by logging into Facebook, clicking the down arrow, and selectingSettings. Click the bottom entry that says “Download a copy of your Facebook data”.If you really, really want to delete your Facebook account, log on, go to theDelete my accountpage and click the button that says “Delete my account”. After that, no one will be able to see your Facebook info, though it may take a few months for your posts and photos to be removed from Facebook’s servers. However, note that any messages or emails you have sent to other people will not be removed. These are in the recipients’ accounts, not in yours.The safer option is to deactivate your account. To do this, go back to the Settings menu and click Security in the menu on the left. This will bring up theSecurity Settingspage. Click on the text at the bottom, where it says “Deactivate your account”. (My links should take you straight to these options.)Deactivating your account will remove your profile and most other information. However, you will be able to reactivate your account by logging on again.Before deactivating or deleting your account, rememberyou can blockpeople and apps you don’t like. You could also consider using a utility that provides more control over what you see in Facebook. For example, Matt Kruse’sSocial Fixerwould enable you to hide posts by keyword, author, application and so on. (It’s more polite to hide people than to unfriend them.) It can also hide trending articles, trending videos and the ticker feed.Social Fixer has another important function for users with less-than-perfect eyesight: you can make Facebook’s text larger.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
The electric car company Tesla has announced its entry into the energy market, unveiling a suite of low-cost solar batteries for homes, businesses and utilities, “the missing piece”, it said, in the transition to a sustainable energy world.The batteries, which will retail at $3,500 in the US, were launched on Thursday at a Tesla facility in California by the company’s ambitious founder, Elon Musk, who heralded the technology as “a fundamental transformation [in] how energy is delivered across the Earth”.Wall-mounted, with a sleek design, the lithium-ion batteries are designed to capture and store up to 10kWh of energy from wind or solar panel. The reserves can be drawn on when sunlight is low, during power cuts or at peak demand times, when electricity costs are highest.The smallest “Powerwall” is 1.3m by 68cm, small enough to be hung inside a garage on or an outside wall. Up to eight batteries could be “stacked” in a home, Musk said, to applause from investors and journalists at the much-anticipated event.The batteries will initially be manufactured at the electric car company’s factory in California, but will move production to its planned “gigafactory” in Nevada when it opens in 2017.The Nevada facility will be the largest producer of lithium-ion batteries in the world, and it is hoped its mass-production scale will help to bring down costs even further.It is not the only battery storage system on the market, but the Powerwall boasts a relatively high storage capacity, a competitive price, and the heft of investment and excitement generated by Musk’s vision.The entrepreneur, who helped to invent the online payment system PayPal, has also founded a private space company, Space X, and is experimenting with a high-speed public transport system called Hyperloop.Musk also unveiled a larger “Powerpack”, a 100kWh battery block to help utilities smooth out their supply of wind and solar energy - which is generated intermittently - or to pump energy into the grid when demand soars.He said on Thursday about two billion Powerpacks could store enough electricity to meet the entire world’s needs. “That may seem like an insane number,” he said. “But this is actually within the power of humanity to do.”Deutsche Bank estimates sales of battery storage systems for homes and businesses could yield as much as $4.5bn in revenue for Tesla. The energy storage industry is expected to grow to $19bn by 2017, according to research firm IHS CERA.Tesla is currently taking orders for the systems, with the first units expected to shift in August.
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatest apps and games for iPhone and iPad. A summary of the last three weeks, in fact, since the last roundup.As ever, prices are correct at the time of writing, with (Free + IAP) signifying that an app is freemium, using in-app purchases. If Android is more your bag, check the regularBest Android Apps and Gamesroundup.APPSOne Drop: Diabetes Management App (Free)This app has a very specific purpose: helping people with diabetes track their glucose, food, activity and medication. It works with Apple’s HealthKit technology, and includes social features to get encouragement and tips from your peers.iPhoneWhere to Eat London 2015 (£2.99)London is a fine place to eat out, and this app wants to help you explore some of its finest restaurants. It includes reviews of more than 100 eateries by pro reviewer Chris Pople covering a wide range of styles and prices.iPhonePolyvore Remix (Free)There have been a few slick clothes-shopping apps recently, but Polyvore Remix is more about choosing from the clobber you already own, and finding new items to go with it. Trending suggestions make it fertile food for fashion thought.iPhoneSnapsolve (Free)When I was at school, homework was generally fitted in during morning break or lunch before a lesson, usually in a panic. In 2015, students can simply take a cameraphone snap of their homework and get help from a remote tutor. The theory is that people will pay for harder solutions and mentoring. Give it a year or two, and I’ll probably be using it to keep up with my (eight year-old) son’s homework...iPhoneLumiKids Beach (Free)Developer Lumos Labs has millions of adults using its main brain-training app, but LumiKids is its spin-off brand for children. This second app in the latter series offers a mix of grey-cell-stretching mini-games around a summery beach theme.iPadEdjing Pro (£5.99)As a freemium DJ app, Edjing has picked up millions of users. Now this pro version adds more features and manual tweaks for DJs ready to step up a gear – although like the existing version, it can still pull tracks from Deezer and SoundCloud as well as your local files.iPhone / iPadGolf Media: Tyler, the Creator (Free + IAP)Many musicians have apps, and most aren’t that engaging. Tyler, the Creator (of Odd Future) is trying something fun, though: his own digital magazine gathering topics he’s interested in, with a monthly subscription. One for the fans, perhaps, but creative and interesting with it.Hipstamatic DSPO (Free + IAP)This is a brand new app from mobile photography startup Hipstamatic, armed with the slogan “Let’s shoot together”. It’s a group camera, then, where you invite friends to contribute shots and view your snaps, with chat built in too. Filters and Snapchat-style scribbles are also included.iPhoneDingo (Free)Like Twickets, Dingo aims to help fans buy and sell unwanted concert tickets at face value – initially in London. It connects buyers and sellers with chat and handles the payment side of things – including delaying transfer until the ticket has been verified.iPhoneRhymeo (Free)I am the world’s worst rapper: less Jay Z and more “JESUS will you stop rapping, it’s embarrassing”. But in more talented hands, Rhymeo looks fantastic fun: it gets you to choose a beat and a theme, then freestyle rap with the aid of images and rhyming words. Check my pretzel, makes me feel dreadful, gonna feel fretful, might make me tremble. For example.iPhone / iPadFootball Manager Classic 2015 for iPad.GAMESFootball Manager Classic 2015 (£14.99)The Football Manager Handheld games are excellent, but if you want to go even further down the football management rabbit-hole, get this new version. An iPad-only release, it’s the full version of the FM Classic mode in the PC game, with a full match engine and bags of depth – but still accessible enough to play in short pick-up-and-play sessions.iPadImplosion – Never Lose Hope (£7.99)A little bit Devil May Cry and a little bit God of War, this is a beefy action title that makes the most of your modern mobile device. It sees you facing off against a nefarious alien race on Earth, with neat touch controls and some impressive graphics.iPhone / iPadHalo: Spartan Bundle (£7.99)Not one Halo game for iOS, but two – both developed by Microsoft, although they’re not first-person shooters like the console franchise that spawned them. Instead these are tight, playable top-down action games that offer a decent challenge.iPhone / iPadLetterpad (Free + IAP)Tiny Tower developer NimbleBit is trying its hand at a word game, and very good it is too. More than 200 levels of nine-letter grids and clues to find words within them, with plenty of pop culture and games/tech references – and even an Apple Watch extension.iPhone / iPadRainbow Ruckus - The Amazing World of Gumball (£1.49 + IAP)Cartoon Network’s The Amazing World of Gumball is a treat on TV, and its new game is very fun too. It’s a colourful platformer where you have to restore the rainbow of Gumball’s hometown Elmore by guiding it through sewer pipes. Fun for fans and newcomers alike.iPhone / iPadWar Dragons (Free + IAP)Dragons are HOT! (Yes, literally if you get them riled, etc etc). Riding on the scaly back of Game of Thrones’ popularity comes this social game from Pocket Gems, less tower defence and more tower attack, as you try to scorch defenders with your dragon’s skills, while defending your own base from others.iPhone / iPadDoes not Commute (Free + IAP)A novel take on driving games, here, where you don’t just control one car: you control everything on the road. Often, frankly, to the detriment of established traffic-control procedures. Basically you have to avoid pile-ups, although it’s hard not to occasionally sit back and watch chaos unfold.iPhone / iPadSorcery! 3 (£3.99)If you grew up with the Fighting Fantasy game-books, you may already be aware of their digital successors from publisher Inkle. Fighting Fantasy co-writer Steve Jackson is behind this absorbing tale of gods, serpents and magic, where reading and playing go hand-in-hand.iPhone / iPadLost Within (£4.99)Just as Microsoft has brought Halo to iOS, now Amazon has brought its uber-creepy survival horror game Lost Within to Apple devices. Resident Evil-calibre frights are plentiful, with a storyline that lives up to the action.iPhone / iPadSpirit Lords (Free + IAP)Can action/RPGs be as popular on mobile as they are on PC and console? Yes, it just takes the right games to come along. Spirit Lords may be one of them: a well-crafted game that sees you battling, looting and playing with guild-friends through an engaging story.iPhone / iPad
Virtual reality has a problem that’s hard to graspIn the immersive virtual-reality experiences that game developers are currently building for hardware such asOculus Rift, visual and aural perceptions can be very convincing. But as absorbing as it might be, the lack of one sense can present an especially jarring distraction. In VR worlds, and even in ordinary games, we are rarely afforded the chance to touch, to feel. Beyond feedback through vibration, communicating the physical is remarkably difficult.But a Bristol academic project may have just cracked itUltrahapticsstarted life during an undergraduate project of computer scientist and company CTO Tom Carter. Through a PhD and much collaboration, Carter and his team have conceived a way to build 3D shapes in thin air that you can feel and interact with.Shapes made from thin air?The Ultrahaptics technology uses a grid no bigger than an LP packed with small ultrasonic speakers – the kind used in ultrasound scans – to project interactive shapes in front of the player. The team can currently create sound waves that you can feel, hovering 3D dials, or even a game ofPongwhere you feel the ball bounce off your palm.But you won’t be leaning on an ultrasound wall any time soonUltrahaptics technology is workable, and quite staggering to experience. But shapes made from air, though very tangible, are delicate. A rock-hard VR environment built from ultrasound isn’t a reality yet, but objects that Ultrahaptics allow you to touch inside virtual reality, such as a force field or buttons in a cockpit in an alien spacecraft, very much are.And it doesn’t stop with gamesUltrahaptics hope to see their technology used in the home, such as controlling the cooker when your hands are covered with food. There’s a plan for a car dashboard in touchable sound, to stop drivers fumbling for buttons.
1. Adjust exposure on iOSWith iOS 8, Apple has given iPhone and iPad users the ability to manually adjust the exposure on photos. Previously, tapping on a part of a picture in the Camera app would set both the focus and the exposure; now, you can tap to set the focus, then slide your finger up or down anywhere on the screen to lighten or darken the image. The yellow sun icon moves accordingly to indicate the change in exposure. To start again from scratch, tap on a different part of the screen.2. Straighten photos in iOSAnother addition in iOS 8 and above is a straightening tool. Once you’ve snapped a photo, tap the thumbnail next to the shutter button to view it, then choose “Edit”. Tap the Crop button (far left) and you can slide your finger along the the dial at the side of your image to straighten it as necessary. As you make changes, the picture is automatically zoomed and cropped to preserve its original dimensions. Tap “Done” to save your edits.3. Turn on HDR+ mode on AndroidThe latest versions of Android include an HDR+ mode in the default Camera app — turn it on with a tap on the “More” button (three dots) and a tap on “HDR+”. When you press the shutter button the app actually takes several photos in a row with different exposure settings, then combines them for the most evenly balanced shot. Picture processing takes a couple of seconds longer but it can really make a difference when there’s a wide contrast between the darkest and lightest parts of an image.4. Apply Lens Blur on AndroidIn the default Camera app on the most recent versions of Android you can swipe in from the left (or the bottom in landscape mode) to bring up a list of photo and video options. One of these is Lens Blur: it lets you take shots with a sharply focused foreground object and a blurred background. Compose your shot, press the shutter button and you’ll be asked to tilt the phone slightly — after a few seconds your photo is ready to view and can even be refocused afterwards.5. Hide your least favourite Instagram filtersSave some time thumbing through Instagram’s filters by hiding the ones you never use: scroll all the way to the right, tap “Manage”, and you can re-order the filters in your list or hide them by unticking the relevant circle. Alternatively, tap and hold on the thumbnails on the main Filters screen, dragging them to a new position or onto the photo itself to hide them. You can always bring a filter back again if you change your mind.6. Change the intensity of filters on InstagramTapping once applies an Instagram filter, but you can tap again to bring up a slider that changes the intensity of the effect. If you love an effect but find it just a little bit too strong, then this is the place to go — you can also add a border from the same screen. Other Instagram effects, like brightness, contrast and warmth, can be added via the spanner icon and again adjusted manually through a slider.7. Tweak white balance with VSCO CamVSCO Cam is one of the leading mobile camera apps for both iOS and Android and lets you take more control over your pictures. One of the ways in which it does this is by enabling you to tweak the white balance of your shots: on the capture screen, tap the settings wheel at the top, then the “ADV” button to bring up the slider at the bottom. One tap on the brightness icon lets you switch to white balance instead.8. Use the rule of thirds in VSCO CamVSCO Cam, like several other camera apps, lets you overlay a grid of nine rectangles on top of your picture before you hit the shutter button. This relates to an old photography trick called the rule of thirds: the idea is you try and get the most interesting parts of the shot close to the lines or the intersections between them. To get it up on screen, tap the settings wheel at the top and then the icon showing a cross inside a square.9. Change shutter speed in Camera+One of the reasons you might want to get yourself a third-party camera app is the extra settings you can gain access to. Camera+ for iOS is one example, an app that lets you tweak the shutter speed of your iPhone’s camera among other settings. Tap the menu button (lower right), then “Advanced controls”, then toggle the “Always show” switch to on. Back on the capture screen, tap the middle “Auto” button to pick an appropriate shutter speed for the subject you’re trying to shoot.10. Pick the right mode in Camera+Another useful Camera+ feature can be found in the lightbox (tap the flower icon in the lower left to see it). Choose to edit a picture from here, and you can choose from 16 different scene modes: everything from Concert to Beach. Once you pick one of the scene modes from the list, Camera+ automatically adjusts the colour, brightness and other image settings to match your choice — there are options for darkening an image, reducing the effects of fluorescent light, improving the image clarity, and more.11. Create an antique look with Camera Zoom FXCheck any list of best camera apps for Android and Camera Zoom FX is likely to be on it. One of the app’s best features is the stack of filters it comes with, available in the photo library component — choose a picture then open up the edit pane via the crayon icon button to find it. Some of the filters require a small payment, but there are a few free ones to play around with: Holga 35mm (in the Favourite/ Ready Made section) makes your pictures look like they were taken by a classic camera of the past.12. Get better macro shots with Camera Zoom FXCamera Zoom FX also offers a variety of focus modes for you to pick from to get better pictures. When you’re composing your shot, tap on the settings icon (three sliders) then select Focus from the list — choose Macro to tell the app to focus on objects in the very near foreground. Give it a try when taking close-ups of whatever subject (you can still tap anywhere on the display to set the focus point as usual).13. Change ISO settings in AfterlightThe polished Afterlight brings with it a stack of helpful tools for iOS, Android or Windows Phone: its primary focus is filters, textures and frames for your pictures, but it includes its own photo capture component too. Tap on the “M” button on the capture screen to bring up the manual controls, then choose “ISO” to adjust the light sensitivity of the image. A higher ISO means better pictures in low light, but the noise of the photo can increase too.14. Experiment with filters in AfterlightBack to those Afterlight filters, and there are 74 to pick from, whether you’re taking a new picture or importing an existing one. Tap on the coloured swirl icon to begin browsing the available filters — each one is previewed as you select it and you can adjust the intensity using the slider underneath. There are also dozens of textures on offer behind the roll of film icon, which can make your image look like it was taken using real camera film.15. Build Instagram collages with Pic StitchInstagram now has its own separate collage-making app (Layout) but Pic Stitch has been helping users get multiple photos into one Instagram square for a long time now. From the app’s front screen, choose one of the layouts from the many on offer, then tap once in each square to snap a picture or choose one from your camera gallery, Facebook or Dropbox. Images can be rotated and zoomed inside their frames, so you can focus in on the most important parts of each picture.16. Improve your portrait shots in FacetuneMake sure your Facebook friends or potential Tinder matches always see your best side by touching up your portrait selfie shots with FaceTune — it’s like a mobile Photoshop dedicated entirely to your face. From the main editing screen, tap “Whiten” to brighten up your teeth, “Smooth” to get rid of wrinkles or “Tones” to conceal dark patches underneath your eyes. “Details” lets you boost your eyes (or another winning feature) and “Patch” can remove blemishes, while “Reshape” improves the symmetry of the image and lets you move parts of your face around like putty.17. Cut people from the shot with A Better CameraOne of the tricks that Android app A Better Camera brings to the table is removing objects or people from of your pictures with a few taps of your finger. It focuses on moving targets, so essentially you can save your landscape shots even if someone wanders in front of the lens. On the capture screen tap the Modes button (bottom right) then choose “Smart multishot” — when you tap the shutter button, several images are taken in quick succession. Choose “Object removal” and you can then tap on moving objects or people to remove them.18. Sort your photos more easily in SmugMugSmugMug doesn’t let you capture photos but it’s a handy app for keeping them organised on your mobile devices and the Web. One of the ways it does this is by letting you filter by keyword, so you can instantly call up all your photos of the kids with a simple search, even if they’re spread out over several years (assuming you’ve assigned all the correct keywords first). There’s also a photo rating filter in SmugMug to enable you to keep your favourite five-star snaps close at hand.19. Straighten perspective issues with 500px500px is great for discovering new photographers and sharing your own work, but the photo-taking part of the mobile app is worth a look too — it actually features tools developed by Adobe for its own Photoshop software. Tap the “Upright” button underneath a picture to correct perspective problems (if you’ve shot a lighthouse from the bottom of it for example): “Level” straightens the main lines in the photo without changing their angle, “Vertical” adjusts the image so vertical lines run straight from the top to the bottom, and “Full” corrects both vertical and horizontal lines.20. Adjust shadows and highlights with SnapseedGoogle just pushed out an update to its photo editing app Snapseed, and one of the bigger changes is a new highlights tool to go alongside the existing shadows one. These features let you brighten up dark areas of your picture and tone down lighter sections to make details clearer — with an image open, tap the plus icon, then “Tune Image”. Tap and drag on the picture to choose “Shadows” or “Highlights” and then drag your finger from left to right across the screen to make adjustments.21. Use the hardware buttonsFor some this will be second nature but not everyone has stumbled across this tip: on iPhones and most Android phones you can use the volume control buttons to take a snap rather than pressing the shutter button on screen — in fact Windows Phone devices have a separate hardware button on the side especially for this purpose. A lot of the time it’s a more natural way to take a picture and lets you hold your smartphone more securely while you’re trying to compose the perfect shot (or selfie).
One DropONE DROP: DIABETES MANAGEMENT APPiOS (Free)This is a potentially valuable app for people with diabetes, helping them track their glucose, food, activity and medication in a timeline, complete with notes and photos. But it’s also a social network of sorts, providing encouragement from others.Charlie &amp; Lola- My Little TownCHARLIE &amp; LOLA: MY LITTLE TOWNiOS/Android (£2.99)They’ve starred in children’s books and a popular TV show, and now Charlie &amp; Lola have their own app too. It’s a collection of six mini-games for kids, from creating animals and making music to building their own town.Office RemoteOFFICE REMOTE FOR ANDROIDAndroid (Free)Microsoft’s latest Android app ties in to its Office software on PC, enabling you to control your PowerPoint presentations from your Android device. It also works with Excel spreadsheets and Word documents: a handy tool for office meetings.HandpickHANDPICKiOS/Android (Free)If you’re looking for cookery inspiration, Handpick is well worth a look. It gathers tasty meals from Instagram and food blogs, suggests recipes, and helps you decide what to whip up from the ingredients in your cupboard.Monster MingleMONSTER MINGLEiOS (£2.29)Another app for children, this gets them building colourful monsters by stomping (or swimming, or flying) around a landscape picking up new body parts. It’s playful and fun, with no firm goals other than to make the funniest beasts possible.Edjing ProEDJING PROiOS/Android (£5.99-£6.84)Edjing has been available for some time as a free DJing app, but this new version has more features for anyone stepping up from playing songs in their bedroom. That means more audio effectsand manual tweaks – and even an Apple Watch mini-app.DingoDINGOiOS (Free)Dingo is an app for music fans – just in London now, but with potential to expand. Buy and sell tickets for shows minus the touts, with the promise of face-value prices and a delayed-payment system to prevent fraud.Hole19HOLE19 - GOLF GPS &amp; SCORECARDiOS/Android (Free)Available for a year on iOS, this excellent golfing assistant is now on Android too. It shows you the hole you’re about to play, tracks your shots, and then analyses your performance to help you improve.Google HandwriteGOOGLE HANDWRITEAndroid (Free)This is a brand new app from Google for Android smartphones and tablets: a way to enter text by writing it on-screen, whether using a stylus or your finger. It won’t replace your touchscreen keyboard, but can come in handy from time to time.6 Seconds6 SECONDSiOS/Android (Free)This is an intriguing new spin on streaming music. The app gets you to search for a favourite song, and then tells you quickly where it’s playing in the world on a radio station, so you can quickly tune in. A novel way to discover radio.Football Manager Classic 2015FOOTBALL MANAGER CLASSIC 2015iOS/Android (£14.99)If you love theFootball Managerseries but don’t have the time to sit at a PC playing any more, get this for the tablet. It’s a full version of the series’ pick up’n’play spin-off, with engrossing tactics and an impressive match engine.Implosion - Never Lose HopeIMPLOSION – NEVER LOSE HOPEiOS/Android (Freemium)This is a gloriously fun action game set on a post-apocalyptic Earth roamed by some seriously nasty aliens. Reminiscent ofDevil May CryorGod of Waron console, it sees you hacking, slashing and shooting your way through a series of tough levels.Gumball Rainbow RuckusGUMBALL RAINBOW RUCKUSiOS/Android (£1.55 + IAP)The Amazing World of Gumballis one of Cartoon Network’s best shows, and this mobile game is very good too. You play Gumball, trying to find your town’s rainbow in an entertaining platform caper.Does not CommuteDOES NOT COMMUTEiOS/Android (Freemium)This is described as a strategic driving game, in which you’re in charge of an entire rush hour, trying to ensure it doesn’t turn into a pile-up. Quirky and fun.Halo - Spartan BundleHALO: SPARTAN BUNDLEiOS (£7.99)Not just one Halo game, but two –Halo: Spartan StrikeandHalo: Spartan Assault. They’re both tight, well-designed adventures that take a top-down viewpoint, offering a satisfying challenge across 30 levels in each.LetterpadLETTERPADiOS (Freemium)There are few time-killers more fun on a smartphone than a well-crafted word game, andLetterpadis certainly that. It has nine-square grids of letters with clues to find words within them – complete with an Apple Watch version to play on your wrist.CrowntakersCROWNTAKERSiOS/Android (£4.99)If you’re into strategy games,Crowntakersis well worth a look. It’s a turn-based roleplaying game that gets you battling and looting, with the promise of a new world to explore each time you play. It’s a keeper.Spirit LordsSPIRIT LORDSiOS/Android (Freemium)Action RPG likeDiablohave been very popular on PC – nowSpirit Lordsis trying to make the genre work on mobile. You create a character, explore worlds and team up with other players for the tougher missions.Sky PunksSKY PUNKSiOS/Android (Freemium)Temple Runmade the “endless runner” one of the most popular mobile gaming genres. NowSky Punksis hoping to continue the fun with a more sci-fi theme and “GlideWing” vehicles to ride. There’s even a cameo fromAngry Birds– the game comes from its publisher, Rovio.Yahtzee With BuddiesYAHTZEE WITH BUDDIESiOS/Android (Freemium)WhatWords With Friendsdid for multiplayerScrabbleon smartphones,Yahtzee With Buddieswants to do for the familiar dice-rolling game. It gets you to compete with friends – or strangers – with daily challenges to spice it up.
The Surface 3 is Microsoft’s third stab at making a lower-cost tablet-laptop hybrid, but is this vision of the future of computing good enough to tempt laptop users?The cheaper, smaller brother of the solid Surface Pro 3, the Surface 3 is aimed at less power-demanding users, but this time it runs full Windows 8.1 and is ready for Windows 10.Familiar on the outsideA full sized USB 3.0 port, mini Display Port and a microUSB port for charging adorn the right side along with a headphones port.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianAnyone familiar with Microsoft’s other Surface tablets will instantly recognise the Surface 3. It looks just like the Surface RT and Surface 2 before it, with a grey metal body, three-position kickstand and a capacitive Windows button.The Surface 3 is also 2mm thinner and 54g lighter than its predecessor, at 8.7mm thick and 622g in weight. Compared to most tablets it is both thick and heavy – the iPad Air 2 is 6.1mm thick and weighs 437g – but it is slim and light for a full PC. The Surface Pro 3, for instance is 9.1mm thick and weighs 800g, while even Apple’s thinnest and lightest MacBook is 13.1mm thick and 920g.The Surface 3 has a smaller screen than the Surface Pro 3, but has the same 3:2 ratio as its bigger brother. Most Windows laptops and tablets use the wider 16:9 or 16:10 ratio, which is better for video consumption but worse for browsing sites and reading text.The 10.8in full HD screen has wide viewing angles and is relatively crisp for a PC, but isn’t in the same league as many tablets or high-end computer screens that have twice the resolution and higher pixel densities such as the iPad Air 2, Samsung’s Galaxy Tab S, Apple’s MacBook, Dell’s XPS 13 or the Surface Pro 3.Windows 8.1Microsoft hasn’t fixed the fundamental problem with Windows and high resolution (HiDPI) displays yet – I’m told Windows 10 will do that – which means how applications look on the screen is a bit hit and miss.Windows apps downloaded from the Microsoft store look crisp as do some standard applications such as Google’s Chrome. But many do not take advantage of high resolution icons and text. As a result programs such as Evernote look awful with blurry icons, menu buttons and text.The Surface 3 comes with a copy of Microsoft Office 365 personal, which is a nice added extra and works very well on the tablet.Fanless AtomA microSD card slot hides behind the kickstand.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Surface 3 is powered by Intel’s Atom X7 1.6GHz quad-core processor, which is the chip maker’s latest low-power processor for mobile devices. It is a very different animal to the poorly performing Atom chips used in netbooks circa 2007.General computing performance is solid. The Surface 3 feels snappy and handled most things without issue. Light Photoshop duty was fine, as were standard office duties. It can also support a second screen through the mini DisplayPort – connecting a standard 22in monitor worked well enough, but made the Surface 3 a bit sluggish, as did opening over 15 tabs in Chrome.The Surface 3 is completely fanless, however, which is impressive given the performance. It is silent and even when installing apps while attempting to write this review it barely got warm.Also notable is the inclusion of a full size USB 3.0 port, which makes connecting accessories, mice or just about anything very easy – a big bonus for a full PC. A docking station is promised for later in the year, which will add further ports and utility as a desktop computer replacement.MicroUSB chargingMicrosoft’s proprietary magnetic charging connector has been replaced in the Surface 3 with a microUSB port. The tablet ships with a high-powered microUSB charger, but it can be charged with any USB charger.It charges quite slowly with the charger in the box when in use – adding only 5% in about an hour. It will charge even slower with a less powerful USB adapter. A full charge takes three to four hours when in standby.The battery lasts for around seven hours of general computing in my testing, which is far from the 11-plus hours of battery offered by ARM-based tablets but is good enough for a day’s work.Keyboard and stylusThe keyboard is thin but the keys have decent feedback and are backlit for working at night.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Surface 3 does not ship with a keyboard – it is a £110 extra. I would call it optional, but it’s not really. Without the keyboard the Surface 3 is a mediocre tablet. With the keyboard it’s an excellent hybrid.The keyboard acts as a cover for the screen, magnetically attaching to the side of the Surface 3. It has full-sized backlit keys that, while slim, have a decent amount of travel. It is very clicky though, and is noticeably louder than most other laptop keyboards.The trackpad is solid, if a bit small, but supports two-finger scrolling and other standard gestures.The Surface 3 also has an optional pressure-sensitive stylus costing £45. It is accurate, feels like a pen and rivals a dedicated Wacom tablet making drawing on the screen or hand writing a pleasure, but is very much optional.CamerasThe camera is solid for a tablet.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Surface 3 has an eight-megapixel camera on the back, which works well enough for a tablet, but isn’t worth writing home about. The front-facing 3.5-megapixel camera is solid for video calling.PriceThe Microsoft Surface 3 costs £419 with 64GB of storage and 2GB of RAM, or £499 with 128GB of storage and 4GB of RAM, available on 7 May.VerdictThe Surface 3 is Microsoft’s best compromise between price, size and power yet. As a tablet it performs admirably – not as good as dedicated tablets with longer batteries, crisper screens and slimmer profiles, but good enough.The situation is similar when it comes to using the Surface 3 as a laptop replacement. It’s not as easy to use on a lap, and isn’t as powerful as similarly priced laptops, but it does the job well enough.The biggest issue is that at £419 without the £110 detachable keyboard it’s really not all that cheap. The Surface Pro 3 with a better screen, faster processor and similar battery life comes with a keyboard for £639.Despite that the Surface 3 is the best jack of all trades yet and is arguably a better work machine than an iPad with a keyboard case.Pros:compact full Windows 8.1 PC, decent screen, seven hours battery life, full USB 3.0 port, solid build, Windows 10 upgrade when releasedCons:jack of all trades, master of none, not capable of heavy computing duties, not cheap, problems with Windows and HiDPI displays remainThe suede-like back of the keyboard will get dirty quickly, but keeps it from moving around on a desk or lap.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviewsMicrosoft Surface Pro 3 review: the most lappable tablet yetApple iPad Air 2 review : Apple’s best tablet yet, but is that enough?Microsoft Surface 2 review: making progress but can’t escape RT
Police found a trail of destruction, liquor and mayonnaise at a Calgary home rented out through Airbnb this weekend – after what the owners heard described as “a drug-induced orgy” at their home.Mark and Star King rented their home through Airbnb to four people who said they were visiting for a wedding that weekend. On Friday, they handed the keys to one of those people; on Sunday their neighbors were texting them about a fight on the lawn and the apparent destruction of their home.“The couch was completely broken, there was food product everywhere, the occupants had urinated everywhere, the table was smashed,” Sergeant Jim Leung of Calgary police told the Guardian. “In 27 years of policing I’ve never seen somebody take a home and trash it as badly as they did.”The Kings toldCanadianmediathat on Saturday night neighbors saw a party bus and cars pull up to their house, with about 100 people filing out of the vehicles and into their home.Videoshows what the bacchanalia left behind: mayonnaise and barbecue sauce all over the walls, bits of furniture all over the home, puddles of alcohol, cigarette butts and broken glass.Star King toldCBCthat walls were dented and toilets “flooded and plugged with condoms” and that she found “chicken meat in my shoes”.“We came and wished the home was burnt down to ashes,” she said. “It would have felt way better.”She said that she overheard police describe the situation as a “drug-induced orgy”.Leung said “it’s probably one of the worst offenses of malicious property damage”, he has ever seen, and that police tentatively estimated damages “somewhere between $50-75,000, but it could be higher than that”.He said that police first came to the house around midnight on Saturday, when officers in the vicinity heard sounds of a party. They asked the occupants – not knowing they were renters – to keep it down, and left without incident.Neighbors called back at 5am on Sunday morning to complain that they heard “young people screaming and shouting from the deck area”, where police found people “creating a disturbance” that was quickly broken up.‘In 27 years of policing I’ve never seen somebody take a home and thrash it as badly as they did,’ said Sergeant Jim Leung of Calgary police.Photograph: screengrabAbout two hours later, they were called back because of a fight on the lawn, and neighbors contacted the Kings. Leung said it took “some time” to get the revelers to leave on Sunday morning, and that without the homeowners present, “the Calgary police had no offense to investigate at that point”.Only when they entered the house did “they notice significant damage inside”, he said.Asked whether police had collected names of the carousers, Leung said: “It was very chaotic and a lot of the occupants were asked to leave immediately.”Police have begun a criminal investigation and intend to contact the person who rented the Sage Hill home from the Kings. “We know the identity for the person who rented the home,” Leung said.“He may or may not be the person who took care and control of the home, or the person who just signed the property. We need to find out what his role was.”An Airbnb spokesman, Jakob Kerr, said the renter was immediately banned from the service, and that the company was “working quickly to reimburse [the Kings] under our $1 Million Host Guarantee, which covers a host’s property in the rare event of damages”.“We have zero tolerance for this kind of behavior and our team is working quickly to make this right,” Kerr said in a statement, adding that the company will offer its “full assistance to law enforcement in any investigation of this incident”.Kerr stressed that such incidents were rare for Airbnb, which provides rental services to some 35 million people and offers servicesaround the world. The company tries to prevent abuses by encouraging guests and hosts to vet each other; only allowing reviews of guests and hosts who have actually stayed with one another; and by employing a “trust and safety team”.The company has tried to forestall such incidents after struggling with several high-profile horror stories in its young history. Last year a New York host experienceda similar ransackingof her apartment, and Airbnb said it would work to reimburse her for damages. In 2012, Swedish police raided a Stockholm home that had beenconverted into a brothelby renters.In 2011 an Oakland host found his belongings stolen andmeth pipes strewnaround his home, and a San Francisco woman found her home despoiled – evidence of theft and fire, her clothing soiled, furniture broken and personal documents photocopied, and a “death smell” suffused throughout.
Streaming music gadget Gramofon has been providing people with a way to stream Spotify through their stereos since asuccessful Kickstarter campaign in April 2014. Now its creator is expanding to other music services.Wi-Fi hotspots firm Fon has rolled out a software update for its device that includes Qualcomm’s AllPlay technology, including support for Napster, Rhapsody, TuneIn and Aupeo.The company says other streaming services including Tidal, SoundCloud and iHeartRadio will follow in the coming months, as it tries to persuade users of non-Spotify services to buy one or more Gramofons for their homes.Fon drummed up more than $315k in pre-ordersof the device in its original Kickstarter campaign, passing its original target of $250k.It plugged in to buyers’ existing hi-fis and streamed Spotify over their Wi-Fi network, pitched as a cheaper alternative to buying a brand new internet-connected stereo from a company like Sonos.The latter has a much wider selection of streaming services as partners, however. Adding AllPlay goes part of the way towards remedying that, while the new software update also enables Sonos-style multi-room music for people who have more than one Gramofon.Fon told the Guardian that it has quietly been upgrading existing owners’ Gramofon devices in recent weeks. People who download AllPlay’s mobile app will also be able to stream music stored locally on their device – their iTunes collection, for example.Expanding beyond Spotify could spur a new bump in sales for Gramofon, especially with the publicity around services like Tidal, which is now co-owned by a group of major artists including Jay Z, Madonna and Daft Punk.Related:Spotify data hints at a 'musical midlife crisis' for 42-year-old music fansGramofon’s global head of sales and marketing, Stephen O’Reilly, told the Guardian that streaming services will be able to add AllPlay to their official apps so that their subscribers can stream through the gadget, just like Spotify users can using that company’sSpotify Connect technology.“None of these guys have their own version of Spotify Connect. Qualcomm solves that problem, and that’s why it’s so attractive to these services,” he said.“When people are able to play music on their own traditional stereos at home, that all contributes to making the pie for streaming services much bigger, and to making the digital music economy more valuable.”The price of a Gramofon will drop from €79 to €69 to attract new customers, as well as to tempt existing buyers into buying a second device for the multi-room feature.
It’s official, Microsoft has killed off Internet Explorer, its new browser will be Microsoft Edge … although you’ll be forgiven for thinking nothing has changed if you’re looking at the logo.The browser, formally known as Project Spartan after the protagonist of Microsoft’s Halo game series, is completely new according to the company. It announced the new name as part of its Windows 10 presentation at its Build developers conference in San Francisco.Edge is meant to give Microsoft a clean break from the negative connotations attached to the Internet Explorer brand by millions of people forced to use old, decrepit versions on work computers.Although for some business customers, Internet Explorerisn’t totally dead. It will live on for many of Microsoft’s customers as the centrepiece of much software as a services packages, often required by administrative applications and point of sale.For the consumer, however, Microsoft wants to rebrand around a faster, leaner and more advanced new browser platform. It will be the default browser for all Windows 10 devices, including computers, tablets and smartphones, and will feature integration with Cortana, Microsoft’s digital assistant similar to Google’s Now and Apple’s Siri.Microsoft’s Edge browser promotional video.Testing of preview builds of Windows 10 released by Microsoft have shown Edge to be considerably faster and leaner than Internet Explorer, more akin to Google’s Chrome or Apple’s Safari.Whether anyone will actually notice the change, given the barely changed logo has yet to be seen. For many the big blue “e” is the internet. Edge will be no different.Microsoft also announced that iPhone and Android apps would run on Windows 10 using a kind of emulation that allows developers to reuse existing code, accelerating development for Microsoft’s platform.•Microsoft names everything after Halo now. Here’s what they should do next …•Windows 10: ten things to know about Microsoft’s new OS
The launch of the Apple Watch has brought a whole new level of attention to wearable tech and in the process is exposing an issue with one of the technologies at the, er, heart of many wearable devices.Tracking your heart rate – be it out of curiosity as you sit at your desk, or as a useful tool in exercise regimes – is one of the key features pushed by the Apple Watch as well as other wearable devices.But users with tattoos on their wrists have taken to social networks to report problems using the feature.The optical heart sensor sits on the underside of the watch and uses infrared and green LEDs to determine the wearer’s heart rate. In Apple’s case, it also checks whether or not the watch is sitting on a wrist, which it uses to activate security features such as a pin lock.The sensor, which is similar to those used in other heart-rate-tracking gadgets such as the Fitbit Charge HR and the Microsoft Band, works by shining green light into the wearer’s wrist. Blood, being red, reflects green light less than the surrounding tissue, and so the amount of reflected light picked up by the sensors on the underside goes up and down with each heartbeat.Unfortunately, the system is easily confused by a number of factors – including the presence of dark tattoos.Reuters reporter Matt Siegelsaid: “The watch locks on tattooed skin and does not deliver the soft pings that alert a user to incoming messages. The heart rate readings were also significantly different on the tattooed and untattooed wrists.”A user onsocial news site Reddit presented another testimonial, writing that “I was about to give up and call Apple… when I decided to try holding it against my hand (my left arm is sleeved and where I wear my watch is tattooed as well), and it worked. My hand isn’t tattooed and the Watch stayed unlocked. Once I put it back on the area that is tattooed with black ink the watch would automatically lock again.”Unusually, the website for the Apple Watch contains a link encouraging would-be purchasers to “learn about the Apple Watch heart rate sensor, its accuracy and limitations”, and it explicitly warns that tattoos can cause trouble.“Permanent or temporary changes to your skin, such as some tattoos, can also impact heart rate sensor performance. The ink, pattern, and saturation of some tattoos can block light from the sensor, making it difficult to get reliable readings,”the linked document reads. The sensor can also generate inaccurate reading when exercising in the cold, or doing arhythmic movements during activities such as boxing or tennis.The issue has already been dubbed “tattoogate”bysomeoutlets, in what seems to be the latest example of Apple’s visibility working against it. Since the problem is endemic to optical heart rate monitors, users of other gadgets have been reporting similar problems for months.In January, an owner of the FitBit HR fitness bandtook to Reddit to complainthat the device didn’t work on their right arm, with a full sleeve tattoo, but did on their left. And in 2014,an Amazon reviewer pointed out the same problemwith theScosche Rhythm+heart monitor. But neither of those devices sold in anywhere near the quantity of the Apple Watch, which analysts say has alreadysold to a million customers in the US alone.It wouldn’t be the first time Apple has come under specific pressure for issues that wind up being widespread in the industry. When the iPhone 4 shipped with an external antenna which could lose signal if held the wrong way, the company ended uppublishing an apologyeven as users chronicledthe vast number of non-Apple devicesthat shipped with warnings against the same problem.For individuals whose tattoos prevent them from using an optical heart-rate monitor, Apple recommends connecting the watch directly to an external monitor such as Bluetooth chest straps. Most Apple Watch owners are unlikely to be enthused by that solution and the larger question of how to make wearables work for everyone remains unanswered.Apple did not reply to a request for comment.
Following the Internet Archives release of 2,600 MS-DOS games for streaming in the browser, users have discovered that classics such as Castle Wolfenstein, Lemmings, Zool and Commander Keen can be embedded directly into tweets.The games will now show up as clickable, playable games right in people’s Twitter stream, the same way pictures, gifs and videos do with rich-media cards.The 2,600Microsoft Disk Operating System gamesare a subsection of the Internet Archive’s MS-DOS software collection, curated by American activist and historian of technology Jason Scott.I see your Wolfenstein and I raise you Street Fighter IIhttps://t.co/Se7lUnnQqa&mdash; Samuel Gibbs (@SamuelGibbs)April 30, 2015The system uses the open source MS-DOS emulator DOSBox and javascript to run the games straight in the browser, and follows the Internet Archive’s 2013 release of early arcade and console games from as far back as the 1970s and its Console Living Room collection last year.The Internet Archive’s mission is to create an internet library of sites, texts, images, movies and digital content, archived for posterity. But many of the games here are actively being sold by their creators, including Duke Nukem 3D, which was originally available through the Internet Archive but removed due to “issues with the item’s content.”Whether other publishers will turn a blind eye to the Internet Archive’s collection remains to be seen, but for now your twitter stream is likely to be full of them.•Destiny: what House of Wolves brings to competitive multiplayer
Streaming music service Spotify is under pressure from some major labels to restrict the free version of its service, as Apple prepares to launch a subscription-only competitor. Now the boss of music publisher Kobalt is warning those labels to rethink their strategy.“This attitude that we should kill streaming is a huge mistake. In Scandinavia in 2009 we had an 80% illegal market. Today it has shrunk to 4%. The credit goes to Spotify, who single handedly took the region from a dark, illegal, non-monetised majority to a thriving, paying majority,”Willard Ahdritz told Billboard.Ahdritz warned that Spotify may come off worse in an “exclusive content war” if rivals like Apple and Tidal strike deals for certain artists or albums to only be available on their services.“That will not be good for the fans. It will not be good for the long-term global business model. It will only benefit short-term cash gains,” said Ahdritz.“In my opinion, if Spotify fails, we all lose. There is $1 billion in risk capital from outside investors that has come in to build Spotify and help extinguish piracy.The idea of ‘taking down Spotify,’ to trade with another big tech company, will guarantee that there will not be another $1 billion dollars in risk capital that will come in and try to build a music streaming service again. And what happens then? Will kids go back to buying CDs? No.”Kobalt’s main business is collecting royalties for songwriters and music publishers, although it also has a “label services” division that works with artists including Nick Cave, Lenny Kravitz, Placebo and Best Coast to release music.Related:How much do musicians really make from Spotify, iTunes and YouTube?The company recently raised $60m from investorsincluding Google Ventures and tech veteran Michael Dell’s personal investment company MSD Capital.Ahdritz has been an outspoken critic of the music industry’s lack of transparency when it comes to how digital royalties are collected and then paid out to musicians, and he returned to the theme in his Billboard interview.“I am a little tired of going to award ceremonies and seeing people awarded as ‘visionary of the year’ for taking the industry from $40 billion to $15 billion. What kind of vision is that?” he said.“What’s the next vision? $10 billion? $5 billion? I hope we get to a situation where people can tell the difference between real long-term value and just short-term cash advances. I believe that transparency will actually benefit the people who criticise us the most because they are the biggest copyright holders in the world.”
Oops, can they do it again? Games firm Glu Mobile has made nearly $100m from its Kim Kardashian: Hollywood mobile game, and now it is hoping to repeat the success with Britney Spears.The publisher has signed aneight-year licensing deal with the musicianto make an official mobile game “featuring the voice, likeness, and creative influence of Ms. Spears” that will launch in the first half of 2016.Glu is promising fans that they will be able to “experience the glitz and glamour of the entertainment business” – suggesting a focus on Spears’ early pop stardom and recent Las Vegas comeback, rather than the not-quite-as-glitzy years in the middle.“People like Britney Spears obviously have been successful for more than a decade. They have brand recognition and social following everywhere: not just developed nations but also emerging markets,”said Glu’s chief executive Niccolo de Masiin his company’s earnings call for its latest financial results.“We can use our partnership with her to expand not only amongst the casual demographic, but also to try and bring new people into gaming that have never played a game before.”Glu released Kim Kardashian: Hollywood in June 2014 as a game for players to make their way in the entertainment industry, mentored by its star.Related:Will the next Angry Birds come out of India?The Android and iOS game made $74.3m of revenues by the end of that year, and another $21.3m in the first quarter of 2015, which suggests it will have crossed $100m in revenues by the end of April.That’s actually not big money by mobile game standards: players of Candy Crush Sagaspent more than $110m a month on that game in 2014. But with Kardashian rumoured to begetting a 45% share of her game’s net profits, it’s a significant earner for a celebrity.Britney Spears is actually the second musician to strike a deal with Glu, since the company announceda partnership with Katy Perryin February 2015 for a game that will be released towards the end of the year. “There is certainly space for more than one female musician in the game sector,” said de Masi.His company has the financial backing to strike more of these kinds of deals, too. Alongside the Britney Spears announcement, the publisher revealed that Chinese internet giant Tencent has invested $126m for a 14.6% stake in Glu Mobile.
The Apple Watch is facing major supply constraints after a key component delivered by one of two suppliers was found to be inherently defective.The component in question is the “taptic engine”, a flagship feature for the watch that enables it to deliver silent notifications with a gentle tap on the wrist, as opposed to a typical vibration. Produced for Apple by two companies, internal testing in February revealed that the components supplied by Chinese firm AAC Technologies “started to break down over time”,according to The Wall Street Journal.Since the errors were caught in time, the newspaper reports that “there’s no indication that Apple shipped any watches with the defective part to customers” and thus no recalls are planned. But the watch component is now being supplied almost entirely by Japan’s Nidec Corp, meaning that consumer demand for the watch may outstrip supply for some time to come.When the watch was made available for pre-orders in early April, customers reported specific units rapidly falling out of availability: early birds successfully secured a watch guaranteed to be delivered by 24 April, the release date, but by the end of the morning most units had an expected delivery date of June or July.The solid gold Apple Watch Edition, which retails for upwards of £8,000, was particularly hit, with some models being so backordered that they have an expected delivery date of August (since then, the Edition supply problems seem to have been sorted, and gold lovers can pick one up for June delivery).Indications of a problem with the taptic engine had manifested in the review units received by some outlets ahead of launch. Writer John Gruberreportedthat the first watch Apple sent him to review had a faulty taptic engine, necessitating a replacement by the end of the first day.Gruber also questioned whether Apple could be certain that no faulty devices made it to customers, passing on reports from at least one reader that their device, bought at retail, had a faulty taptic engine.
Man has been tested through history. Abraham underwent trials, Hercules suffered labours. Women have been tested too, and I am among them, having been asked to assemble and review baby technology while in charge of 11-month-old Evan.Driven by a birth boom, this market is rotund. A staggering £900m a year is spent on baby products, with new gizmos issued at the rate of stinky nappies. Innovation is key. Why have a simple buggy when yours could have headlamps and an odometer? Educational toys are old news: here’s Baby’s Own Tablet! The marketing literature says this stuff is for people who “enjoy staying on top of the hottest trends ...[and] we know your children feel the same way”. “Gimmicky tat for credulous ******”, my husband sighs, wrestling with an allen key. Electronic kiddie entertainment or assistance is useful, but there is a darkness behind the trend too.In her brilliant book,The Madness Of Modern Parenting, Zoe Williams calls it the “fear that something might go wrong [so] you’ll buy anything”. The more intense the risk, the more money there is to be made from it, she says, ie parental fear is being whipped up to boost the ringing tills. These devices promise to help modern mamas and papas control their babies – but ha ha, weep weep, the little sods don’t work that way. Add to the mix impenetrable instructions – just what you need after months of sleep deprivation, and, in my case, a day of retrieving Evan from a bowl of catfood, then the cat – and you wonder who these things have actually been designed for.4Moms Origami Strollerbestbuggy.co.uk, £929“What strollers should be,” boasts the voluminous packaging. This means an electronic buggy that measures walking speeds (to burn off that baby-weight? Hmm), has headlamps for night-rides (past bedtime, we’re on the sofa, with wine), a phone charger (OK, quite useful), and a button which folds this giant automatically, like Optimus Prime. This feature is entertaining, until it decides not to work, as mine did, prompting a call to customer services because error codes mean you should stop using the buggy immediately, which wouldn’t be ideal if you were miles from home, with a baby, in the rain. It also handles kerbs awkwardly, weighs a back-breaking 11kg (without an 11kg baby in it), and has a chassis so wide it wouldn’t fit through my front door. No shopping basket either - the handlebar bag is the size of a wet wipe. What strollers shouldn’t be, ever, more like.NiniWalker Baby Walkergadgetbaby.co.uk, £79.99The assembly instructions were so microscopic, so brain-manglingly confusing, that five of my university-educated mum friends, including one who had studied structural engineering, were baffled. It is a Spanish walking-aid for nearly-mobile tots, where baby holds a handle that connects to a tube and two wheels, while a harness ties him or her to another, higher tube, so the adult doesn’t have to bend down to help them. At first, my semi-standing son was tentative - as was I - but as his fat legs grew stronger, up and off he went. Maybe not for everyone’s toddler, but worth the torture for us.VTech InnoTab 3 Babyvtech.co.uk, £79.99This tablet promises that “children can have fun and learn”. Translation: any loud, flashing toy will beguile most babies, and many older ones. Designed for kids from 12 months, it’s a bit complex for younger ones: signing in and picking programs involves a little more nous. Evan enjoys bashing it on the floor and chewing its stylus, but I did find him colouring a monkey yesterday, unnervingly, on a game called Baby Colour And Pop. Not too expensive a product for its potential, and lots more games are available online too for square-eyed older kids.Biloop Cry Translatorvaluebasket.com, £49.99Waggle this paediatrician-approved orb near your screaming child, and it’ll tell you what’s wrong. Here’s what’s wrong: 1) Letting your child scream while you shove this at their tonsils isn’t fun. 2) The advice in your booklet (Baby stressed? Cuddle) is hilariously obvious. 3) My friend’s son fell on his head, and you told us he was hungry. My son also prefers using your lullaby-calming mode in the manner of a ghettoblaster, holding it against his ear, while proceeding to dance like a meerkat. This is not ideal at 4am, but at least he isn’t crying.Withings Smart Baby Monitorwithings.com, £239.95At last, something useful! A monitor with the “allure of an elegant white music box” – the top priority for any parent – that links to your iPad and iPhone via WiFi and bluetooth. It then shows you your snoozing (ideally) baby while you’re out on the razz. Cut to me squatting in a busy bar last week (free WiFi, your honour), stroking my son on the screen behind my gin. Both sound and vision are excellent, as you’d expect from the price tag, but don’t accidentally press talkback or lullaby mode, or your husband will hear you and wish you dead. Also, is it wise to peer in on our kids like this? Big Mother Is Watching You – shiver. Plus now she’s paranoid as well as half-pissed.
Hello Thursday!
Sharp, sleek and futuristic, the latest offering from Miami’sMonad design studiolooks more like an instrument of fear than of music. Yet instrument it is – a 3D-printed two-string piezoelectric violin that owes its otherworldly appearance to nature. As Monad’s Eric Goldemberg and Veronica Zalcberg reveal, the contorted shape is a nod to ecosystems in which “strange roots grow over other trees and become one with the host”.Having taken to the stage with its equally intriguing siblings – a one-string bass called a monobarasitar and a cello – at the 3D Print Design Show in New York in April, the violin will begin a worldwide tour in Tokyo this month. Spectators are in for a treat, as two new instruments will be making their debut – a small didgeridoo and a larger one, dubbed a “hornucopia”, which Goldemberg describes as coiling around the musician “like something out of the filmAlien”.Yet Goldemberg and Zalcberg insist the instruments’ unusual forms, and sounds, are not alienating to those more familiar with their traditional counterparts; the studio has already been approached by classical musicians keen to create their own designs. Indeed, with 3D printing enabling designers – and musicians – to manipulate sound in ingenious and novel ways, Goldemberg believes the technology could strike a chord with many performers. “It’s like DIY on steroids,” he says.3D Printed Cello &amp; 2-String Piezoelectric Violin in Action.
FromMasterchiefinHalo: Anniversaryto Bond in theGoldenEye 007remake, Oliver Hollis has assumed the form of some of gaming’s biggest icons. But what is it like to perform in digital realms, and how is it different from stage and screen?What is motion capture performance for video games?From a performance point of view, motion-capture acting is essentially performing the action of motion of human and non-human forms, which is then translated on to a video game character.How is motion-capture performance for games distinct from stage or screen?The only real difference is how you communicate a character. In film there are certain established rules you have to follow – shot or size of performance, for example. In motion capture you are still communicating the truth of a character, but the rules are different.That’s because the player is interacting as audience and director?Yes. But also there is the way you perform. Technology is getting closer to capturing every movement of your face and so on. But it’s still not like film. It’s not 100% accurate, so you still have to modify your performance to accommodate for that.But as technology improves, and more nuance is captured, is there more pressure on the actors?Performances in games do have to be incredibly good now, because the viewer – the player – can walk straight up to a character, and look them dead in the eyes. If there’s any faking or untruth there, they will detect that immediately.Does the fact you wear no costumes and perform in blank sets liberate you as an actor?Absolutely, because you don’t have to contend with your own identity. In any other medium, people can usually see your face and make judgments, perhaps based on other work you’ve done. With motion capture you start from absolute zero every time. You can become absolutely anybody. It’s been described as “pure acting”, and I think that’s true.
At a conference in Cannes eight years ago, I sat next to a producer who was working on an ambitious TV project about anthropology. We were both listening to a speech by a TV executive and I was in full conference flow, frenetically typing (badly) and flicking between emails. I must have been exhausting to sit next to, because at the end he turned to me with a mixture of weary astonishment and concern. “It’s not good for you to work like that,” he said. “Why don’t you just listen, and think about what he is saying?”I very much felt that I had been listening – look at my reams of digital notes, my laptop hunch, my aching fingers. I couldn’t be working any harder! And there certainly weren’t any other journalists in the room kicking back and absorbing the atmosphere. “Have you ever tried meditation?” he asked me. I didn’t exactly dismiss what he said, but felt like meditation was something other people did, and I thought I was happy and fulfilling my obligations with my furious, restless output.Related:The web has stolen my creativity. I need the time and space to think …It’s true that there is a relentlessness to journalism. It is an industry where words, ideas and reported truths are the grist for an insatiable, global industrial mill. But those stories rely on the creativity of individual journalists and editors – and a demanding and very pressurised environment is not conducive to either creativity or long-term good health. The same is true of many industries, of course, especially now that potential, opportunity and demand are all condensed around the screen. Yet rather than us deciding how to use digital technologies, the technology ends up shaping us, changing our lives and our working behaviour both in positive ways and less positive ways we could not foresee.I called time on this creeping restlessness of technology back in January. Some commenters said I could just turn the technology off if it bothered me, but that’s not the point. We shouldn’t have to choose between being a digital hermit, isolated from the opportunity and the advantages of the world, just because maintaining a balance between connectedness and calm is so hard. I have practised meditation every day for 100 days. Given my natural restlessness and short attention span, this is a significant achievement for me. It’s extremely hard to make time for it between a heavy commute and the children, but I have managed to do this every day. I have been asked what difference it makes, and find it hard to answer; it’s intangible, subtle, complex. It’s a very small part of the day dedicated to acknowledging how I feel and where I am. It’s incredibly simple. It’s not a self-help CD or life coaching. It’s just a pause, before diving in to a demanding day.We need to think of our mental health in the same way we do our physical health. We understand the stress and exhaustion of physical hard work, yet struggle to do the same for our psychological wellbeing. Similarly, our view of conditions such as depression and anxiety should acknowledge that mental wellbeing is a spectrum. It’s not a case of being labelled with a mental illness or not. We are all susceptible to stress, anxiety and exhaustion, which all too often lead to depression.I take my mental health far more seriously now than when I was at that conference in Cannes. Exercise is a good release of tension, and meditation provides a space for release too. And I try to leave the office for lunch, not take my laptop home at night, and get back in time to put my kids to bed. I like long, difficult walks, and have a strict no-tech at the dinner table rule at home.Related:Smartphones are addictive and should carry health warning, say academicsThe connection between technology use and mental health is anecdotal. Millions of people are empowered, enlightened and entertained through new technologies every day, but there is a cost to this connectedness, and at the very least the impossibility of escaping 24/7 work sets a poor precedent for a work-life balance.I don’t believe we have to choose between being a technological philistine or an evangelist. There is a better position based on understanding and experiencing technology, and using it with personal responsibility and a touch of common sense.I met a young woman recently who couldn’t stop smiling when telling me about her obsessive smartphone use, how her friends tease her about it, how she feels uncontrollably anxious when the battery is low and she is drifting closer to disconnection. She is ambitious, hard-working and full of enthusiasm for a job she loves.I suggested buying an old-fashioned alarm clock so she could keep her phone in another room at night, and reminded her about the “do not disturb” mode, which mutes all but urgent calls. She was horror struck – about as horror struck as that producer in Cannes eight years ago. I thought it was just enthusiasm and hard work. I couldn’t see the inevitability of burning out after working so frenetically, but he could.
Thirty four million viewson YouTube;30 million views;23 million views. Not figures for music videos, orcats playing the piano, or evencelebrities reading mean tweets, but clips of exploding cysts, unplugged blackheads and, reader – I’m sorry to have to tell you –botfly extractions.Welcome to the world of “popping”. To Generation Xers, popping might be more familiar as thefunk dancethat came out of California in the 70s – as in body-popping – but in the age of internet, it speaks to two hours spent down a YouTube clickhole of pus and screams.Popping is seeping across the internet, burying under our collective skin, oozing tens of thousands of likes and clicks.Not only are there dedicated YouTube channels (YouTube’s Greatest Cysts;Cyst.Blackhead.Acne.Bursting) and an active and enthusiastic subreddit (/r/popping), but there arewebsitesand forums, the sole aim of which are to provide popping aficionados with their hit of zits.I want to say 'euw gross'. I want to wretchThere are even popping celebrities – includingDr. Pimple Popper(“Blackhead Queen”) andDr. Vikram Yadav(“The King of Comedones”).Online awardsare handed out, best-of roundups created.I want to say euw, gross. Iwantto wretch in disgust. But, I’m afraid that, well … my name is Hannah, and I’m a popaholic. And the above numbers are testament to the fact that I am not alone.Who, among us, can honestly say they have never squeezed a spot? Who has never been frustrated by one of those under-the-skin chin lumps, impervious tozinc oxide? Whodoesn’tlook at the pore strip after it has been peeled from the nose?There could be worse things to be into, right? Crystal meth perhaps, or water-boarding.‘Does everyone have on their safety glasses?’The appeal of these videos doesn’t just stop at the lancing of cysts (closed sacs made up of pus, fat, keratin or fluid – I’msosorry), or even different types of cysts, in which I have become well-versed:ganglion,sebaceous,epidermoid.A spectrum exists. Some people graduate from, say,whiteheadstoabscesses. Before crossing genres to watching the removal of botflies, orimpacted earwax, or the tweezing ofingrown hairs.There’s a lot of debate in the popping “community” about what people are into; judgment even.Tonsil stones? Dude, that’s fucking disgusting. But more often there’s a kind ofwhatever you’re intoacceptance. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ Rare for the internet.The cyst has a name, which is commonI have no idea what started my own fascination with watching cyst-popping, but I remember what tipped the scales:Operation Kill George.(“Oh wow, thank you for the reminder! That is a classic that I have not watched in a while” says Chris Azzari, founder ofPopThatZit.com, when I contact him for this piece.)I’ll try to explain: Operation Kill George is the sole upload of the YouTube channelProjectKillGeorge, as if its owner posted it in 2012, saw the response and thought:my work here is done.George follows the tropes of a specifically popular kind of cyst video. The cyst has a name, which is common. The film, which is almost 10 minutes long, starts with an intro to rivalApocalypse Now, and is backed with dramatic music.In this case, the song is byAlexandre Desplat, a composer better known for cinematic soundscapes. There’s something about a popping video set to the music of a man who recently scoredThe Imitation Gamewhich I approve of.Operation Kill George, a classic of the genre. Credit: YouTubeLocated on the back – the best location, Azzari tells me – the seemingly never-ending guff stream that springs forth, likeKatie Hopkinsin full-flow on Twitter, might have something to do with the lump having been there for 20 years.“Does everyone have on their safety glasses?” asks the doctor, before pinching at the lump like a crab on acid.George has been viewed more than 17 million times, has upwards of 20,000 likes, and has almost 19,000 comments.‘It’s certainly gross’I’m interested in why we’re interested in this stuff. Particularly the general squeezing of pimples and cysts, more than those who have graduated to getting off to a three-inch bug beingpulled from someone’s ear.The enduring popularity of TV programmes such as the UK’sEmbarrassing Bodies, and the fact thatcertain popping videosfrequently break out to go viral, racking up thousands of page views formainstream media, proves that it is more than a niche concern.Popping fans even include celebrities. British writerCaitlin Moranis one. The tweet she shared of a25-year-old blackhead– imagine a Redwood root being prised from the ground – broke the internet way beforeKim Kardashian.@RealSharHorganThere was a blackhead in my armpit in 2005 I still remember with all the joy of a birthday&mdash; Caitlin Moran (@caitlinmoran)October 23, 2011NumerousMetaFilter threads, queries onYahoo Answers, YouTube comments,WebMD searchesandImgur postsalso point to this being a question people are interested in knowing the answer to.My first port of call is to ask the active enthusiasts of the popular popping subreddit. These are the true fans, who know the struggle of an out-of-focus camera, gauze blocking the view, a video with distracting squealers, an incompetent popper.A lot of redditors think that it’s somehow cathartic. “Soothing” and “cleansing” are words which come up a lot. “It relieves my stress. Seeing it explode out gives me relief”, writes one redditor,former_anachronism.It’s just so satisfying, especially black heads for me – they’re my favourite. I like solid when it comes to popping, those giant cysts constituted almost entirely by liquid don’t tickle my fancy –Zelda6finity.58008_35007agrees with my proposition that it might be an atavistic thing, harking back to a gorilla love of grooming. “Could be our monkey brains. I remember picking fleas off my cat as a kid and finding that satisfying, but not quite the same.”Others tell me they think it is an extension of their general love of cleanliness and order. But there are other theories, too.“It’s something illicit and certainly gross. Just that slight sickening feeling in your stomach is pleasurable to some. Some people just get the same sort of thrill as, say, riding on a roller-coaster”, museszatan130.The doctor will see you nowDr Sandra Lee– AKA Dr. Pimple Popper – is one of the stars of the popping scene. A dermatologist who took over her father’s Californiapracticewith her husband, she also features on TV show,The Doctors. Lee echoes the viewpoint of a lot of the redditors I asked.“I agree that there is something hypnotic about pimple popping”, she writes via email. “Sometimes when I upload my own videos I find myself watching certain parts over and over.Dr. Sandra Lee, or Dr. Pimple Popper to her fans.Photograph: Dr. Sandra Lee“I have seen people mentionASMR(autonomous sensory meridian response), or that it is something primitive.”The redditors revere Lee. (Sample comment: “I wish I could marry you Sandra. I’d put a ring under my skin and pretend it’s a cyst.”)Lee tells me that she first entered the popping world when she uploaded a blackhead extraction to herpersonal Instagram accountand noticed a significant jump in followers and engagement, with individuals tagging friends in comments.She decided to set up adedicated YouTube channelin late 2014, which now has upwards of 70,000 subscribers and 32 million views. She tells me she is driving her husband up the wall with the glow of her phone late at night while she edits her videos shot with iPhone.I wish I could marry you. I'd put a ring under my skin and pretend it's a cyst.Reddit userLee and I go deeper into the popping talk, however, when I ask whether repeatedly watching these videos is a healthy form of release or indicates something more compulsive.Dermatillomania, or SPD (skin picking disorder), is a condition included in theDSM V(Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders). But Lee tells me watching her videos might be a means of helping individuals with this condition.“I do know that it helps some of my viewers cope with their dermatillomania. I have a few patients with this condition, and when I see one again, I plan to suggest that they watch my videos and let me know if it helps them cope.”A lot of fans feel Lee’s popularity is down to her caring manner with patients. An extraordinary story, this: during treatment, one regular patient, known as “Pops”, spoke of the recent death of his wife.Both Pops and his wife had been longtime patients of Lee. After watchingvideos featuring Pops, redditors asked Lee to set up agofundmepage for him, as he was struggling with financing the care home he had just moved into: Lee hopes to present him with a cheque for almost $6,000 (£4,000) next week.‘A guy filming bathroom tiles? Bad’It’s not as simple, however, as being either grossed out or fascinated by popping. Lee mentions the difference between “soft pops” and “hard pops”: those who appreciate the silly-string snaking of a blocked pore versus people who can stomach alipomaexcision.There’s also a split between those who enjoy watching videos in a clinical setting (as with George), but who baulk at the DIY videos which have also spread across the web.In some cases, there’s a level of horrified behind-the-camera banter to these which can have me in stitches, hence a cropping up ofreaction videos. I’d also argue, maybe, that a familygathering aroundto finally rid an uncle of his hard-to-reach back zit is more heartwarming than a viral video of adog greeting its owner.It’s equally pleasing to see pop-watchers get their hands on the real thing. “Jesus Christ, that is like heaven”,says one popperin a broad Dublin accent, hardly believing her luck, as her friends debate whether to name the blackhead she’s digging out Bob or Wayne.YouTube commenters in particular are quick to point out the pros and cons of a given video. A splat on a camera lens? Good. A guy filming bathroom tiles while we know the good stuff is squirting out-of-shot? Bad. (“Could have done this so much better”).Someonefilming in portrait modeor making a too-small hole? Don’t get them started.Theleast sanitaryof homemade poppings receive short shrift. “Wear some fucking gloves!”, is a common complaint, as an amateur goes at her boyfriend’s shoulder with a carving knife.An amateur goes at her boyfriend's shoulder with a carving knifeOften, comment threads underneath videos featuring infected tattoos or recurring cysts descend into class-based warfare, with people pillaging Southern-accented “rednecks” for not washing, allowing their lumps to get so large, and asking why they don’t “just go to the fucking doctor”.As Lee points out, however, healthcare is expensive in America, and given that these procedures are often not deemed medically necessary and therefore would not be covered by insurance, people might not be able to afford to have them professionally removed.Mostly though, commenters express concern with themselves: how they started with a chaste squeezing of a forehead blemish, to four hours later watching an operation on a seven-year-old tumour or extractions ofmango worms on puppies.“HOW DID I END UP HERE?” screams the internet.The King of ComedonesHowever, in addition to the savage lack of public healthcare in America, is there – like an oxidised blackhead – a darker side to these videos?Most of the DIY videos filmed at home are anonymised. Occasionally, names are mentioned in the background, as a group of frat-boys nursing red paper cups discuss proceedings.Nearly all of the videos filmed in clinical settings avoid identification of patients. But some videos are more discomforting than others; and not just the age-restricted ones.Dr. Yadav performs an extraction. His videos have been viewed more than 217 million times.Photograph: YouTube screengrabBy far the biggest popping celebrity on the scene isVikram Singh Yadav, a New Delhi based doctor. His YouTube channel, established in 2009, has 165,000 subscribers and a staggering217 millionviews. His speciality is the removal of blackheads andcomedones.His most recent hit is a video showing blackheadsunder UV light(“this world is full of all things, some that glitter”), but his most viral video was theremoval of maggotsfrom a man’s ear. And for the record, even I cannot bring myself to watch that.Yadav’s fandom stretches far and wide, to the point that he now uploads new videos every Wednesday and Sunday to satisfy pus-thirsty viewers.He is popular because of his quirky turns of phrase and his habit of introducing all videos with “hi, friends” – stick that on a T-shirt and a lot of people would buy it –but personally I find Yadav’s rough-handled approach to his patients off-putting.He also slags them off. A lot. And I’m like:dude, they are literally right there. They can hear you?To stick to his deadlines, I imagine him spotting someone across the street with an inflamed ingrown hair, and dashing in between cars before bundling them into a sack.Yadav didn’t respond to my requests for comment. For her part, Lee tells me she always asks permission to film.“I will offer to extract them for free in exchange for permission to videotape the procedure to post on my social media.“Interestingly, very few people decline. So I feel it’s a win-win-win situation. I didn’t realise how very appreciative many of my patients were to have me extract their blackheads andmilia.”‘There’s a zit manifesto’One thing is for sure, the explosion in online popping popularity doesn’t show any sign of abating.Chris Azzari, 36, is a veteran. Now, there are a whole roster of popping dedicated websites –epiczitpop.com,pimplepoppingvideos.net– but Azzari set upPopThatZitback in 2006, when, working in IT, he saw a gap in the market.His website is ordered into categories – butt cysts, belly button lint…In the years since, he has appeared on the talk shows ofTyra BanksandRosie O’Donnell. His website is meticulously ordered intocategories– “butt cysts”, “belly button lint” and, (rather worryingly), “MRSA”. There is even azit manifesto.“The community is great and has changed a lot over the years”, he tells me. “People come and go, people complain, people praise, and you have to take it with a grain of salt. In the early days I used to try and please everyone, but we all know that is impossible.”At the site’s inception, PopThatZit offered $20 (£13) for original submissions. “If there was a site like this when I was in high school I could have made my college tuition.”Azzari says that PopThatZit continues to grow. “Many visitors are regulars that come every day and people spend a lot of time on the site. We get about 350,000 visitors a month and sometimes have big spikes when the site is mentioned places”.Online interest in cysts has exploded over time. Credit: Google TrendsPhotograph: Google TrendsA look atGoogle Trendsshows a continuing rise in people searching for cyst hits. Most poppers seem to live in New York, and interestingly, Dallas (it’s unclear as to why this was never covered in the show).Recent media coverage has also buoyed the community. Avideo(completely dull, by the way), of a man popping his ganglion cyst with a hammer and nail has done the rounds.The Mirror ran a poll in which 65% of respondentscitedpopping videos as “totally satisfying” rather than “totally gross”, andin another poll, 78% said they found them “fascinating”.Over the past couple of years outlets such asBuzzfeedandOddeehave run collated pieces. Even the Daily Mail’stop-rated commenton an article about cysts was approving.‘I absolutely cannot’One of the redditors I contacted asked me by direct message why I was interested in popping. I told him, as above, that I wasn’t precisely sure.Ganglion cysts, also known as ‘Bible bumps’ due to a popular means of getting rid.Photograph: YouTube screengrabI was never into the gameOperationas a kid, nor did I ever suffer from acne. I am very squeamish in a lot of ways – blood tests make me cry, and I had to stop eatingDoritosafter I realised they look like they have blackheads. (Someone else must have noticed this, surely?)Low points, however, have included chasing after my brother-in-law’s ganglion cyst with a copy of Dante’s Inferno, him running from the room and knocking over an anglepoise lamp on his way out.(Ganglions are known as “Bible bumps”, as whacking them with heavy objects is an effective, if unadvised, way of getting rid).More recently: a colleague swinging by my desk for lunch, seeing an open tab of a YouTube cyst video (for this piece!) and her swiftly departing with the words: “I absolutely cannot”.Of course, when not writing 3,000 word essays on the subject, I try to hide my interest. I guess, like a hardcore porn habit, it’s the sort of predilection that lends itself to the quick snapping shut of a laptop lid.“Viewer discretion advised” a lot of videos state in their introduction. Yeah, no shit.But even Lee, Dr. Pimple Popper herself, has a confession to make:“Redditors try to tell me all the time: ‘You are one of us!’. Perhaps I’ve been in denial, since until lately, I’ve not really thought that I was “one of them” – maybe just that I was just a “provider” for them.“But I’ve slowly started to admit to myself that I, too, am a popaholic.”The Guardian obviously does not condone – or comedone – trying to extract cysts or any type of lump or bump at home. Go and see a doctor – and then upload to YouTube.
The anonymous networking app Secret is shutting down. Founder David Byttow took to Twitter and Medium to spread the news, saying: “Secret does not represent the vision I had when starting the company.”With a heavy heart, I&#39;ve decided to shut down Secret, wind-down the company, and return the remaining money.https://t.co/HZUCMe3xFu&mdash; David Byttow (@davidbyttow)April 29, 2015Byttow said he would return unspent capital to the company’s funders; over the company’s three rounds of funding, it acquired some $35m from investors including the Google and Reddit founder Alexis Ohanian. “Over time, I plan to publish postmortems so that others can learn from the unique mistakes and challenges we faced and the wisdom gained from such an incredible 16 months,” Byttowwrote.Apps like Secret, Whisper and YikYak bill themselves as anonymous alternatives to texting and chat in a world where so much data is compromised and contains valuable information about the user. But that privacy has often turned out to be double-edged, as users use that protection to escape reprisals for posting racist and misogynistic comments andcatty gossip about co-workers. (YikYak has beenbannedin many elementary and high schools.)And more to the point, it didn’t help Secret much that a high-profile venture capitalist, Mark Suster, became one of its favorite punching bags. Susterposted last yearthat he had deleted the app long ago because of the quality of the discussion. “At least 25% of all posts were misogynistic. 25% were homophobic or ironically openly gay, sexual and crass,” he wrote. “Many were saying terrible things about fat people.”The influential investor Marc Andreessen, too, wrote one ofhis trademark tweetstormsabout an unnamed startup “designed to encourage negative behavior, tearing people down, making fellow souls sad”. The tweets were widely interpreted to refer to Secret, and while other investors criticized Andreessen for his comments, others agreed with him.Byttow said he would try to make the transition painless for his employees. “I will spend the next couple of weeks doing what I believe is right to wind down Secret gracefully,” he wrote. “While a majority of the team has already moved on to other exciting opportunities, I will dedicate most of my time to helping the core team find their next roles.”
I use my iPad for many things. I watch football matches on it. I listen to the radio on it. I rest coffee cups on it.One thing I do not use it for is flying a plane.That is something that differentiates me from, say, American Airlines, which had to ground “a few dozen” flights on Tuesday aftera malfunction with its pilots’ iPads.The idea that an iPad could malfunction will come as no surprise to anyone who has ever operated an iPad. My iPad football match watching is regularly interrupted by malfunction. As is my iPad radio listening. And once a coffee cup fell off my iPad, although that may not have been the iPad’s fault.“Some flights are experiencing an issue with a software application on pilot iPads,” American Airlines said in a statement. “In some cases, the flight has had to return to the gate to access a WiFi connection to fix the issue.”American Airlines pilots have been using iPads to store crucial flight data, such as flight plans and maps, since 2013. According to the airline, pilots using the iPadsinstead of the 35lb paper manualsthey were required to carry before saves 400,000 gallons of fuel annually.But there is something inherently disconcerting about the idea that the pilot of your plane is sitting up there in the cockpit twiddling around with a few iPad apps, muttering “damn it” to himself as he opens the wrong one and is suddenly confronted by a Netflix advert for a Jason Statham film – that the pilot of your plane is up there squinting at a screen covered in fingerprints and pizza grease, holding the iPad in both hands and turning it through 180 degrees like a steering wheel because he can’t turn off auto-rotate.American Airlines has stressed that the failure was not the fault of the iPad itself. Some third-party software had failed. But that’s just the point isn’t it? An iPad uses lots of third-party software. And that third-party software tends to fail.So why use iPads at all? The business case for ditching the old paper system seems a little spurious. It is easy to believe that dropping 35lb could save 400,000 gallons of fuel. American Airlines flies a lot of planes. It’s just hard to believe those savings couldn’t come from somewhere else.The airline could get the pilot and co-pilot to drop 17.5lb each, for example. Or serve rice crackers instead of aeroplane food. Or not stock so many different cans of fizzy pop. Or ditch a couple of life jackets.The fuel saving claim aside, there is just something more reassuring about a good old-fashioned paper system. That’s 35lb of paper they’re packing. The weight of a four-year-old human child, or a six-month-old labrador dog. Even if a pilot loses a few pages, or spills Dr Pepper all over his bag, there’s still got to be something in there of use.Maybe the thing that is most unnerving about having pilots rely on iPads for flights is the way we see iPads being used everywhere else.Whether it’s that group of tourists using an iPad to photograph themselves in front of the Lincoln memorial, or the smug artists in the mostrecent Apple TV advert, or me slumped on my sofa watchingCrankfor the third time, we’re used to seeing the iPad as a fun, time-wasting, occasionally depressing device. Let’s keep it that way. Let’s keep it pure. Let’s bring back the 35lb of paper.
The Reef is open. That’s the high concept behind House of Wolves, Destiny’s second downloadable content package. The strange floating junkyard that players glimpsed all too briefly during the game’s story missions will provide the core of the expansion, and the focus of its new competitive (PvP) and co-operative (PvE) content.Here lurk the Awoken, a human race that once fled to the outer reaches of the galaxy when the period of glorious galactic expansion was brought to a cataclysmic end by The Darkness. Now the tribe lives among the abandoned remains of a thousand derelict starships, ruled over by a Game of Thrones-like royal family. The Fallen, one of the alien races seeking to invade Earth, has rebelled against the Awoken, and now their queen has enlisted the help of the Guardian to seek revenge: her key target, the Fallen sect known as the House of Wolves.It’s a typical Destiny narrative – obtuse and shrouded in backstory – but, as Bungie revealed in a recent Twitch stream, it provides an intriguing new social space (The Reef’s Vestian Outpost), new bounties, new quests and a new activity named the Prison of Elders. The developer isn’t revealing any more about the new co-op content right now; instead, it has been showing of its four new multiplayer maps and – the most interesting addition – the Trials of Osiris weekly event, a gruelling 3v3 elimination contest that will run every weekend.Players can earn unique weapons, armour and other items by blasting through a Trials weekend.Photograph: ActivisionIt works a little like Counter Strike, or Search and Destroy in Call of Duty. Teams compete in a series of matches, and the first to five wins claims the victory. There are no automatic respawns, but players are able to revive downed teammates after a thirty-second wait. The more teams you defeat, the better your haul of rewards at the end of the trials – and according to Bungie, the competition will have its own unique weapons and armour.The idea behind Trials is to create a PvP equivalent of raids – in other words, a challenge aimed at experienced players with a lot of high-end equipment. And as with raids, there’s no matchmaking – you need to come in with two equally skilled friends. For a lot of players this will be a prohibitive rule, and may well cause a whole new wave of anger and frustration from the community, many of whom are now using third-party group finding websites to create raid parties. But for Bungie, it’s all about rewarding experienced teams.“We wanted to increase the level of investment in PvP,” explains design lead, Lars Bakken. “The trials experience is a way of creating a PvP endgame, so power matters: you have come in with your best gear. But you can also earn the best gear in the game by playing in Trials. So if PvE is less interesting to you, but you care about winning and you like getting the best stuff, this is another way to get to the endgame. We wanted multiple ways for you to get there.”To enter the event you need to purchase a ticket called the Trials Passage – then if you lose three Trials, you’re bumped out of the competition and have to pay 100 glimmer to come back. During play, you may also be randomly given Passage Coins that can be used to buy buffs. One lets you start with a game in hand, one scrubs your first loss off the records and another makes one win count as two.We played on the small Burning Shrine map with its mass of interconnected walkways and central battle zone. Immediately, with the loss of auto-respawns, the feel of the game changes. It’s much more guarded and cautious, and using scenic advantages like higher platforms for better sight lines, becomes a much more pressing consideration. In our matches, super abilities also came to the fore, providing the decisive attack in a number of rounds. Basically, this is no place to come with teammates who don’t know the maps and don’t work closely together to spot enemies.Once you’re done, you visit new character Brother Vance at the Vestian Outpost, basically the Trials overlord, who hands out the tiers of rewards. It looks like there are six tiers at the moment, from Stone up to Gold, each offering an array of exclusive goodies.“Trials came about pretty organically,” says PvP design lead Derek Carroll on the origins of the event. “We were trying to create more of a hardcore mode, just something different from what we’ve done before, but something that was still very Destiny. If Control and Rumble are at one end of the spectrum in terms of intensity and personal responsibility, Elimination is on the extreme other end: every second-to-second decision you make matters to you and your team – they know thatyoudied, not justsomebody!”The team had already started tweaking the rulesets with the Skirmish and Salvage modes, but this time they then started looking outside of PvP altogether. “I remember at one point someone saying, ‘what would it be like if we actually added wipes, like wipes from the Raid or from Strikes, into PVP?’,” says recalls Bakken. “We thought: ‘oh that’s interesting’. So under the hood, Trials is using the technical underpinnings of what happens in a wipe – that’s how the rounds work. The first time we did that we thought, OK, this is pretty cool and we went from there. We’ve had to bring in new UI elements, all the additional stuff that tells you whether you’re winning or losing, the mid-round carnage report, all of those things came out of the mode feeling completely different from anything we’d had before.”The new Black Shield map.Photograph: ActivisionBeyond Trials of Osiris are the four new multiplayer maps: Black Shield, Thieves’ Den, Widow’s Court and the PlayStation 4 exclusive Timekeeper. The Mars-based Black Shield is an old Cabal firebase on the moon of Phobos. It’s a tiny map, a dense clutter of narrow passageways snaking around the building’s exterior, with Mars looming in the background. Thieves’ Den, meanwhile, is a Fallen hideout in the Ishtar Sink on Venus, another claustrophobic rat run, with small rocky chambers interlinked by narrow passageways that open up on to a sheer cliff face (this offers a few hair-raising leap points, allowing quicker access to other areas – if you’re confident in your jumping skills). Here, the Control mod capture points are only a few metres apart so it’s a constant frantic firefight.The most interesting of the generally available maps though is Widow’s Court, set in one of Earth’s irradiated dead zones. The remains of a beautiful gothic town provide the backdrop to a much larger and more open environment, complete with rusted vehicles and overgrown road networks. One of the control points is in a beautiful cathedral building, while the others are in miniature courtyards, so the longer sight lines are countered by some blind corners and risky cover positions. It’s less frenzied than the others, offering a more tactical experience.The Thieves’ Den is an isolated Fallen hideout on Venus; the players are wearing some impressive custom gear.Photograph: ActivisionFinally, the PS4-only Timekeeper is another smaller map, this time taking place within an enormous Vex machine in Merdian Bay, Mars. Once again it’s a labyrinth of arched tunnels and overlooked chambers – one of the control points has a sort of gallery above it, allowing for some easy potshots against unwary objective players. When you do get outside, you see the desert dunes rolling out endlessly toward the red horizon.For Bungie, though, it seems the greatest concern has been to align the Crucible experience alongside the PvE content – to make it as valuable and relevant to longterm players. “One of the things we’re doing with House of Wolves is making sure Crucible no longer feels sub-optimal in terms of your investment in the game,” says Bakken. “Across the board we doubled the marks and reputation gains for every match, everywhere in the Crucible. We doubled the amount of engrams you get, so you’re going to see blues drop. We added in 12 new purples just in the reward stream so you’re going to see legendaries drop just by playing in the Crucible.Widow’s Court is the largest and most visually compelling of the new maps, set in a ruined European city.Photograph: Activision“Beyond that, we took the idea of the daily Crucible featured play list, which shows up on the main page of the Director, and changed it all. So now, each day, by completing one game in the daily featured list, you get a reward package that includes motes of light, passage coins which allow you to buy buffs in the Trials of Osiris experience and then engrams as well. Playing one game in that daily featured PvP list is just as good as playing in the daily story or doing patrols and turning in bounties: it’s going to give you a package of goodies.”The big question, of course, is whether all of this represents enough new stuff for Destiny players to fork out another £20. Bungie is keeping the cooperative content under wraps right now, so that’s a tough one to call. Certainly, there is an attempt to address some of the complaints about the Crucible here – that for many players, it doesn’t feel as rewarding or relevant as PvE. The new Trials, the new rewards systems and a flush of new items will help, and the maps are ... okay.It’s interesting though that, Bungie is also going to be making the Dark Below maps available to all Destiny players when House of Wolves comes out. It’s an admittance, perhaps, that you can’t get away with a Call of Duty-style map pack economy with such a vast and complex game as Destiny – you can’t feed these fans on multiplayer real estate. People were looking to House of Wolves for a new raid and they’re not going to get that. At the moment, we only have half the story about what they’re getting instead.Thanks toEurogamerfor some assistance on this article. Keith Stuart attended a press trip to the Bungie studio in Seattle with other journalists from Europe. Travel and accommodation costs were met by Activision
Is that an emoji in your Instagram feed, or are you just happy to see me?Instagram has launched a surprise crackdown on the symbol for an eggplant, or aubergine, which the Guardian can reveal is employed by some users to represent a penis when posting a message with their pictures.The eggplant has been blocked from Instagram’snewly unveiled functionto search for images by emoji.The illustrations for the banana and the peach remain unaffected.Earlier this week,an investigation by Buzzfeedrevealed that while the search would provide results for users who type in the gun, syringe and corncob emoji, a search for the eggplant results in “no tags found”.The eggplant can still be used in photo captions and provides results when used in the “people” search. Some enterprising Instagram users have also started using the banana to direct users to images of the eggplant emoji.Instagram confirmed that the eggplant was blocked because it violated their community guidelines, Buzzfeed reported. The Facebook-owned company confirmed this to the Guardian, but did not respond to a question about the other sexualized produce.American English speakers are the most popular users of the eggplant emoji,according to a study released last week.There is also high demand for the taco emoji– though it is not clear whether that is out of love for the food or in homage to the vagina, which is much more difficult to depict using currently available emoji.For those mobile phone users looking for a more explicit emoji experience, there isan app called Flirtmoji– which includes images of anatomically correct sex dolls, a suggestively scarred back and other items you can find at your neighborhood sex shop or with a XXX-rated online search.It also includes a taco.
YouTube is getting into the movie business, although its films will be getting their premieres online rather than in cinemas.Google’s online video service has announced a partnership with multi-channel network (MCN) and DreamWorks Animation subsidiary AwesomenessTV to make a series of films featuring YouTube stars.Related:‘Traditional TV viewing for teens and tweens is dead. Not dying. Dead.’“Together, we’ll release several feature-length films over the next two years, all driven by YouTube stars and developed and produced by AwesomenessTV’s Brian Robbins,”wrote YouTube Originals boss Alex Carloss in a blog post.“The films will all premiere globally on YouTube before they become available elsewhere, setting what we believe will become a new distribution paradigm for years to come. We hope to release our first film this fall, with more details to come soon.”Robbins had alreadyannounced at the recent MIPTV conferencethat AwesomenessTV is producing six feature films, having topped Apple’s iTunes chart in December 2014 with Expelled, a film featuring online star Cameron Dallas.“This film accomplished in four months what it takes most studios four years to do: create a hit movie that resonates with the audience most important to follow,” said Robbins, whose company wasbought by DreamWorks in 2013.YouTube is funding a new show from Prank vs Prank.YouTube has also announced deals with four popular creators to launch new shows exclusively on its service, including scripted comedy shows fromSmoshandThe Fine Brothers; a new series of trickery showPrank vs Prankfeaturing celebrities; and a “murder mystery reality” series fronted by vloggerJoey Graceffa.It’s part of what Carloss described as “an even bolder step to invest in ambitious projects from our top creators” as YouTube faces the prospect of growing competition for its stars from the likes ofYahooandFacebookas well asSnapchatandVessel.Related:YouTube backs digital star Stampy's new Minecraft show Wonder QuestYouTube has also acquired exclusive rights to the first series of Wonder Quest, the new educational show launched by British Minecraft gamer Joseph Garrett (aka Stampy) which made its debut this week. “ Google saw potential in the show,”Garrett told the Guardian in an interview.Carloss signified YouTube’s willingness to stump up for exclusive shows in aprevious blog post in September 2014.“We’ve decided to fund new content from some of our top creators, helping them not only fulfill their creative ambitions but also deliver new material to their millions of fans on YouTube,” he wrote then.“We’ll experiment with new formats and ideas. We’ll get our hands dirty. We’ll make some mistakes. Together, we’ll (hopefully) create some fantastic new content on YouTube. But one thing is certain: there’s no one we’d rather go on this adventure with than our creators.”
Welcome to this week’s roundup of the latest, greatest Android apps and games, covering smartphones and tablets.All the apps below have been released in the, ahem, three weeks since the last roundup. Where an app includes in-app purchases, it includes “IAP” in its pricing information.APPSGoogle Handwriting Input (Free)The latest official Android app from Google, the title says it all: it’s a way to scribble text into your device, whether using a stylus or (less than ideally) a thumb or finger. It works for smartphones as well as tablets.Related:The best Android apps of 2014Office Remote for Android (Free)Microsoft’s new Android app is great for PowerPoint presentations: and specifically the ability to control them from your Android device. It’ll also work with Excel and Word, connecting to your PC via Bluetooth.Handpick (Free)If you get cross at people Instagramming their sandwiches, this isn’t for you. If, however, you quite fancy browsing food posts on that app as well as cookery blogs for inspiration, Handpick is great fun – including suggestions of ingredients to pair.River Monsters Fish On! (Free + IAP)Based on a TV show, this is an app for keen anglers whose main use is for logging details of your best catches – but also browsing those of other people, which in turn could give you a few hints and tips about how to fish better yourself.Charlie &amp; Lola: My Little Town (£2.99)This isn’t the first time children’s book/TV characters Charlie and Lola have appeared in an app, but this one’s official from the BBC. It’s a collection of mini-games, from creating animals and dressing up characters to building a virtual town.Phonograph Music Player (Free)If Android’s default music player isn’t floating your boat, Phonograph may be worth a try. It plays your music collection, while pulling in artist pics and biographies, helps you create playlists and edit tags, all within Google’s Material design guidelines.Golf Media: Tyler, the Creator (Free + IAP)Many musicians have apps, and most aren’t that engaging. Tyler, the Creator (of Odd Future) is trying something fun, though: his own digital magazine gathering topics he’s interested in, with a monthly subscription. One for the fans, perhaps, but creative and interesting with it.edjing PRO (£6.84)As a freemium DJ app, Edjing has picked up millions of users. Now this pro version adds more features and manual tweaks for DJs ready to step up a gear – although like the existing version, it can still pull tracks from Deezer and SoundCloud as well as your local files.Hole19 - Golf GPS &amp; Scorecard (Free)Already popular on iOS, this golfing companion app is now available for Android too. It shows you the hole you’re about to play, tracks your distance and general score/stats, and then helps you analyse how well (or otherwise) you played afterwards. An Android Wear smartwatch version is included too.6 Seconds (Free)6 Seconds is a novel take on music streaming: rather than hosting its own catalogue or pulling tunes from YouTube or SoundCloud, it gets you to search for a song then scans its real-time data on what radio stations are playing around the world, so you can switch to one streaming that song.Football Manager Classic 2015 for Android.GAMESFootball Manager Classic 2015 (£14.99)The Football Manager Handheld games are excellent on Android, but if you want to go even further down the football management rabbit-hole, get this new version. A tablet-only release, it’s the full version of the FM Classic mode in the PC game, with a full match engine and bags of depth – but still accessible enough to play in short pick-up-and-play sessions.Skullduggery! (Free + IAP)Freshly transplanted from iOS, this is one of the most original and playable indie games in recent memory, as you ping a skull (sorry, “Semi-Organic Autonomous Skull”) around a series of obstacle-packed levels by stretching then letting go of your brain. Except much less disgusting than that sounds.Related:The best Android games of 2014Implosion - Never Lose Hope (Free + IAP)A little bit Devil May Cry and a little bit God of War, this is a beefy action title that makes the most of your modern mobile device. It sees you facing off against a nefarious alien race on Earth, with neat touch controls and some impressive graphics.Plunder Pirates (Free + IAP)Looking for a new strategy fix beyond Clash of Clans and similar games? Plunder Pirates might be it. Themed around piracy (the old-fashioned kind, not the ‘downloading Game of Thrones’ kind) it sees you building a pirate base, then sailing off to loot other players. Opens out nicely the more you play.Gumball Rainbow Ruckus (£1.55 + IAP)Cartoon Network’s The Amazing World of Gumball is a treat on TV, and its new game is very fun too. It’s a colourful platformer where you have to restore the rainbow of Gumball’s hometown Elmore by guiding it through sewer pipes. Fun for fans and newcomers alike.Joe Danger (£2.29 + IAP)It may have taken its time to cross from iOS to Android, but Joe Danger still feels like one of the fresher game ideas, putting you in the shoes of a stuntman, flying (and often smacking your face) through a series of oversized stunts. It’s simply marvellous.The Firm (£0.84 + IAP)Working as a trader in a big financial firm doesn’t seem like much fun, to be honest. Except in this game, where it’s a hoot – albeit occasionally a frantic hoot. It’s a simple game revolving on your reactions, tapping on the screen to make as big a profit as possible. Or, if you’re not quick enough, getting fired.Does not Commute (Free + IAP)A novel take on driving games, here, where you don’t just control one car: you control everything on the road. Often, frankly, to the detriment of established traffic-control procedures. Basically you have to avoid pile-ups, although it’s hard not to occasionally sit back and watch chaos unfold.Spirit Lords (Free + IAP)Can action/RPGs be as popular on mobile as they are on PC and console? Yes, it just takes the right games to come along. Spirit Lords may be one of them: a well-crafted game that sees you battling, looting and playing with guild-friends through an engaging story.Crowntakers (£4.49)Finally, something for strategy fans to get their teeth into: an absorbing turn-based game that involves exploring a different procedurally-generated map each time with your collection of mercenaries, levelling up as you go.
Samsung has reclaimed the top spot in global smartphone sales, beating Apple and Lenovo, despite its profits slipping 39%.Samsung sold 83.2m smartphones globally in the first quarter of 2015, according to data from research firm Strategy Analytics, reclaiming the top spot from Apple which sold 61.2m iPhones in the same period. In total, 345m smartphones were sold globally.Both Samsung and Apple have a healthy margin over the third biggest smartphone manufacturer Lenovo-Motorola, which sold 18.8m smartphones, and fourth placed Huawei, which sold 17.3m.Samsung’s sale figures come as it announced a slump in its smartphone profits, which generated 2.74 trillion won (£1.6bn) in quarterly profit down 58% compared with 6.43 trillion won a year earlier.The underperforming mobile division dragged the company’s net profit down to 4.63 trillion won, compared with 7.49 trillion won a year earlier.iPhone impactApple’s launch of theiPhone 6andiPhone 6 Plus, which are both larger than the 4in iPhone 5S from 2013, ate into Samsung’s high-end smartphone sales. Those seeking larger smartphones finally had an iPhone option; until that point, large screens in excess of 5in were a feature that set Samsung apart.Data from Counterpoint Technology Market Research indicates sales of iPhones were also strong in countries where Samsung’s presence looms large, such as its home market South Korea and Vietnam, which has Samsung’s biggest phone factory.The Korean company said its profits will increase during the second quarter as theGalaxy S6andS6 Edgeexpand sales after their global launch this month. The two models have garnered positive reviews and demand for the curved screen Edge phone has seen Samsung struggle to keep up with the production quantity required.“Galaxy S6 sales have been going as well as expected, while demand for the Galaxy S6 edge have been better than anticipated,” Samsung Vice President Park Jin-young said during a conference call.Shipments of its high-end phones will not be big enough to offset an expected decrease in sales of middle- to low-end models, Samsung said.Betting big on Samsung’s ‘iPhone killer’Samsung is betting big on its Galaxy S6 to reclaim lost ground in key markets such as China, where it faces strong competition from not only Apple, but local players such as Xiaomi.The initial sales of the S6 were “great” but the pre-orders of Samsung’s new smartphones were “no match to the iPhone 6,” said Tom Kang, director at Counterpoint.Analysts said the improvement in Samsung’s mobile profit hinges on how quickly the company can catch up with demand for the S6 Edge smartphones, which cost approximately £160 more than the S6. But even then, they questioned if the Galaxy S6 series would be strong enough to stave off competition from the bigger iPhones.“The shipments of the plain S6 model and the Edge model will be not bad, but it won’t be surprising,” said Peter Yu, an analyst at BNP Paribas. “What is important is how many they can sell during the second half of this year.”Apple traditionally introduces a new iteration of its iPhone in the autumn.•Samsung ‘investigating’ claims of fingerprint hack on Galaxy S5•Samsung drops branding from Galaxy phones in Japan•Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge faces shortages as demand outstrips supply•The woes of Jay Y: can the Galaxy S6 save Samsung’s crown prince?
The stone age equivalent of Jamie Oliver and Mary Berry were handicapped by the lack of cooking utensils, and also ate with their hands. When the copper age arrived, it delivered better tools for cooking, but not for eating. Copper is poor material for making spoons because it has a very strong taste. The bronze age brought with it stronger metals but they did not taste any better, so eating with the hands continued in most parts of the world except in east Asia. There, they cracked the problem by developing chopsticks. That the rest of the world didn’t adopt this remarkable invention is odd, especially when you consider that metal cutlery that didn’t have a taste, took more than another6,000 years to develop.The first breakthrough in this quest was the discovery that gold utensils, as well as looking fabulous, are inert and so do not interfere with the flavour of food or drink. They didn’t know it at the time, but this is associated with the high electrode potential of gold, which means it doesn’t chemically react with very much. Since it does not react with the food, drink, or the indeed the mouth, it doesn’t produce new compounds and so doesn’t have much of a taste. Job done, you might think, except that gold is too rare and expensive to be a practical choice for anyone except kings and queens.Silver is quite inert, but has a lower electrode potential than gold and so does react with some foods and indeed the mouth, producing a mild metallic taste. It is rare and expensive too and so was used only by the rich. More plentiful metals like copper, bronze and iron have electrode potentials that are lower than silver, react with quite a lot of food, and taste foul. Thus for most of recorded history, those not using chopsticks either ate with their hands, with cutlery made from metals that taste quite strong, or from other nice-tasting materials such as wood.Then in 1743 the cutlers of Sheffield found a way to cover a layer of silver over copper, and so use much less silver to produce a whole canteen of cutlery. Called silver plate, this allowed the growing merchant class in Britain and elsewhere to eat with only the minimum of oral displeasure. Then in 1840 with the discovery of electricity, electroplating was born. This made silver-plated cutlery even more affordable, and so the middle class could have silver, and eat with dignity.Nevertheless the problem remained: silver still had a distinct taste.Napoleon IIIhad the money to try using aluminium which, although mostly unreactive because of a protective oxide layer, discolours easily. Plastic spoons came into use in the 20th century but, despite their chemical inertness, they couldn’t compete with silver. This is partly because the shine and glitter of cutlery are an important part of the experience of eating. A polished spoon speaks of cleanliness in a way that no matt plastic surface can. Besides, to be born “with a silver spoon in your mouth” was a status symbol, a sign of being part of a prosperous family.It was a metallurgist calledHarry Brearleywho made the breakthrough, and in doing so revolutionised every cutlery drawer in the world. In 1913 he had the job of making better steel alloys for gun barrels. He was working in one of Sheffield’s metallurgy labs and trying different alloying elements to improve the hardness of steel. If they didn’t look promising when tested he chucked them in the corner. One day he walked through the lab and saw a bright glimmer in the pile of rusting rejected specimens. He fished out this specimen and realised its significance: he was holding the first piece of stainless steel the world had ever known.Well, not quite: materials scientists in France, Germany and the US had, unbeknown to him, already discovered that adding chromium to steel changed the electrode potential of its surface by creating a stable and transparent oxide layer, making it resistant to rusting. What made Brearley special was that he discovered it in a city renowned for its cutlery, and so he had the urge to put it in his mouth and see if it tasted of anything. The 6,000-year quest for an affordable tasteless metal was over.Of course we take it for granted now. It has become the metal with which we are the most intimately acquainted; after all, we put it in our mouth almost every day. The average kitchen is full of stainless steel cutlery, pots and pans, not to mention the kitchen sink. Ultimately it has been a very democratic invention, giving everyone, however poor, a culinary experience as exceptional as using gold.So it is really odd then, that on special occasions, people still get out their silver cutlery. The material can’t compete with stainless steel for taste, and so would be better recycled to make solar cells or jewellery. We are the generation born with stainless steel spoons in our mouths, and we should be very proud of that.
American Airlines was forced to delay multiple flights on Tuesday night after the iPad app used by pilots crashed.Introduced in 2013,the cockpit iPads are used as an “electronic flight bag”, replacing 16kg (35lb) of paper manuals which pilots are typically required to carry on flights. They are used to distribute information such as flight plans throughout the airline’s fleet.But the app that replaced the flight bag crashed on Tuesday, affecting multiple planes scattered throughout the entire fleet, according to passenger reports, leaving the pilots unable to take off. “The pilot came on and said that his first mate’s iPad powered down unexpectedly, and his had too, and that the entire 737 fleet on American had experienced the same behavior,”one passenger told business news site Quartz. “It seemed unprecedented and very unfamiliar to the pilots.”An American Airlines spokesperson confirmed the issue,telling the Verge: “Some flights are experiencing an issue with a software application on pilot iPads … In some cases, the flight has had to return to the gate to access a Wi-Fi connection to fix the issue. We apologise for the inconvenience to our customers.“We are working to have them on the way to their destination as soon as possible.”Another spokesperson said that the issue affected “a few dozen flights” across the airline.When the electronic flight bags were introduced, American Airlines proudly detailed the environmental and cost-savings impact of the change. “Removing the kitbag from all of our planes saves a minimum of 400,000 gallons and $1.2 million of fuel annually based on current fuel prices,” said the company’s head of safety and operations performance, David Campbell.“Additionally, each of the more than 8,000 iPads we have deployed to date replaces more than 3,000 pages of paper previously carried by every active pilot and instructor. Altogether, 24 million pages of paper documents have been eliminated.”The glitch in the electronic flight bags comes in the same month that a US watchdog warned of the possibility of in-flight Wi-Fi being used to hack into the avionics system of a plane.The Government Accountability Office warned that: “Modern aircraft are increasingly connected to the internet. This interconnectedness can potentially provide unauthorized remote access to aircraft avionics systems.”A week later, a security researcher was barred from a United Airlines flight after he tweeted about attempting to hack the passenger oxygen controls on his flight.Find myself on a 737/800, lets see Box-IFE-ICE-SATCOM, ?  Shall we start playing with EICAS messages? &quot;PASS OXYGEN ON&quot; Anyone ? :)&mdash; Chris Roberts (@Sidragon1)April 15, 2015Chris Roberts was forced to find another flight to San Francisco following the ill-advised tweet.
Wednesday is here.
Studying the horror of the world wars turned me into an avowed pacifist by age fifteen. Two years later, I walked into an army PR van for a chat with the recruitment sergeant. I felt confused when I went in but when I left, a bundle of helpful propaganda under my arm, I was also scared.How could I have become a pacifist thinking about signing up to the armed forces?It took years before I understood myself, but smarter people had already worked it out. Michael Herr, Tim O’Brien and other biographers of America’s failure in Vietnam had the answer. To say that war is hell is an obvious truth, but the harder, darker and more subversive idea is that it can be persuasively glamorous too. A clarion call to the base instincts beneath our precious veneer of civilisation. It satisfied desires that lurk hungrily in us all, however much we might wish otherwise.Some soldiers and civilians recall wartime as the best years of their lives, the carnage and loss forging bonds of solidarity as strong as those of family. It is a thing of extremes that brings out the best and the worst in people.Rick Rescorla, an Englishman who served in the US army before becoming a security consultant on Wall Street, was in the Twin Towers on September 11. After leading his charges to safety he went back in, again to save more people and was killed when the South Tower collapsed. Shortly before he’d called his tearful wife and told her: “stop crying ... I’ve never been happier.”When warfare is so dramatic, so pivotal in much of history, it seems less inconsistent that some might find it both irresistible and appalling. My pacifism is a luxury, bought with the blood of warriors.As Richard Grenier, paraphrasing Orwell, had it: “people sleep peacefully in their beds at night only because rough men stand ready to do violence on their behalf.” War is sometimes necessary, and without it there would be no pacifism. That’s a far greater contradiction than being a militarist who favours peace.At age 17, I understood little of this. All I knew was that a drive toward pacifism and a fascination with the military were tearing me apart. I called on a friend who was playing the latest video game he’d acquired: Overrun, a tactical simulation of modern warfare. Over a surreal afternoon, we discussed the consequences of real violence while playing at it on the computer.As is so often the case, play proved a fantastic medium to explore the activity it was mimicking. Theories of learning through play suggest that children use it to explore adult activities prescribed to them due to their youth. Why shouldn’t adults use it as a way to get inside activities they find fascinating in theory but repugnant in practice?That was the start of a long love affair with military games both on screen and on the tabletop, from frantic shooters like Medal of Honour to sedate simulations such as Unity of Command.In playing these re-creations of horrors past and yet to come, my desire for militarism is satiated. It’s a safety valve, a way I can harmlessly examine the dichotomy between the lure of war and the fruits of peace. Those who decry the depiction of violence in these games don’t see that simulating an activity can act as a replacement as well as an encouragement.To accept this does not equate with across-the-board comfort at all titles. There’s a world of difference between the flawed, sinister protagonist of Spec Ops: The Line and the gung-ho, invulnerable super-soldiers of Call of Duty.Time and perspective also matter. The hard realism of the excellent Band of Brothers: Earned in Blood works because the second world war is history now – something we’ve discussed, deliberated and put in its proper context. By contrast, the release of Battlefield: Hardline directly after the tragedies in Ferguson just feels crass and exploitative.Yet even the people who choose those sorts of games over more contemplative fare may be doing so for good reason. In the humdrum safety of our cosseted, comfortable western lives we yearn for stimulation and excitement. Some find it in extreme sports, others in travel and adventure. I, and many others, find it in military games.Study after study has found no suggestion that playing violent games makes people violent. But no one has stopped to wonder whether playing them might help divest gamers of their more warlike urges. Perhaps it’s time to update the wisdom of the ancients and say that if we want peace, we must prepare for wargames.
Coinbase, the American firm which has been called “the AOL of Bitcoin”, is to launch its services in the UK for the first time.From Wednesday, British customers will be able to load up the company’s bitcoin wallets with pound sterling in addition to US dollars. Coinbase will also let financial traders speculate on the the price of bitcoin against pounds and euros on its exchange.The move brings Coinbase into the competitive British market, which co-founder Fred Ehrsam argues is buoyed by the forward-looking attitude of UK regulators towards Bitcoin, as well as other financial technology innovations. “The payments regulators and the Treasury are taking a very balanced view of bitcoin. They’re really taking their time to understand the core technology prior to regulating.”Coinbase stands out in the loose, anarchic world of bitcoin. It is one of a small group of companies attempting to sanitise the currency, ridding it of many of the negative connotations that have sprung up since it first exploded into the public eye in early 2013.Over its short history, bitcoin has been heavily linked to the narcotics trade, first through the Silk Road black market, and later through spin-offs after the site’s operator, Russ Ulbricht, was arrested in October 2013; it has also becomeheavily associated with theftthrough hacks and scams.But while the cryptocurrency, with its pseudonymous aspects and anti-state roots, is popular amongst the darker side of the finance world,there are many players who want to bring it into the light. Coinbase is the biggest.Founded in June 2012 (when the price of bitcoin was just $6, compared to $225 today), the company has won the support not just of the bitcoin establishment, but also of the wider tech industry. In January 2015, it successfully raised $75m in its third fundraising round, valuing it at $400m, the biggest of any bitcoin firm. But more than the money, it is the investors backing Coinbase that give it the credibility to try and take bitcoin mainstream.Backing Coinbase in the series C funding round were a number of large US banks, Japanese phone company DoCoMo and the New York Stock Exchange. Now, the company offers services throughout the bitcoin economy. It handles payment services for merchants who want to accept the currency, stores bitcoin for consumers who want to spend it easilyand, following NYSE’s investment, runs a foreign exchange for traders who want to buy and sell bitcoin in bulk.The Coinbase exchangelaunched in January, and according to Ehrsam, “quickly rose to be the most liquid bitcoin exchange in the US … globally it’s neck and neck to be the most liquid bitcoin exchange in the world”, outside China, that trades in US dollars.With the expansion of the exchange service to Britain, Ehrsam predicts the customer base will be “a healthy combination of regular everyday people, [high-net-worth individuals] and then a few hedge fund guys, a few institutional guys. Over time, that shifts more and more towards larger institutional players.”The company’s merchant services were trialled in the UK by Dell,which became the biggest company to accept bitcoin for sales in Britain in February. British businesses can sign up for a merchant account, accept bitcoin in exchange for goods and services, and choose to immediately convert the currency into pounds, paid into their bank account.In the US, Coinbase handled bitcoin payments for more than 10 companies with more than $1bn in revenue by the end of 2014; at the start of the year, it had none, co-founder Brian Armstrong told the Guardian in December.“I can throw out other numbers which are interesting too: our consumer wallet growth is 10x in the last year, and despite the price going up or down our core metrics around user sign-ups, deposits of bitcoin, and so on, continue to grow at a good rate. Maybe more interesting is merchant activity … that graph looks great.”It is this ability to extend a previously niche product into the mainstream that has earned the company the tag of “AOL for Bitcoin”. Just as the proto-ISP brought millions online, Coinbase could bring millions outside the conventional financial ecosystem. But unlike many startup founders, Ehrsam downplays the dominance of the Coinbase in its sector.“It’s very analogous to email, where you might have a lot of people using Gmail: ultimately, the switching cost is next to zero, because we’re completely interoperable with the rest of the bitcoin network. At the end of the day, that means that people can walk,” he argues.But underpinning the whole expansion is a more fundamental question: is Coinbase too late? 18 months ago, one bitcoin was worth $1200; now it’s less than a fifth of that, and the price has been essentially static since the beginning of 2015. Is bitcoin in its dying days?“It is a funny thing living in the bitcoin world every day,” Ehrsam says. “We’ve been through this cyclical process at least three times, where you see what appears to be a plateau. Then there’s a ramp up, and a ‘bust’, but it still ends up at a higher plateau.“And it brings new people in building new things.”
Twitter will expand its efforts to “curate” tweets and media for its users, according to chief executive Dick Costolo, although his latest comments to analysts stopped short of signalling a Facebook-style filter for people’s main timelines.In thesocial network’s latest earnings call, Costolo was asked whether Twitter plans to expand to all users the curated feed of noteworthy tweets that logged-out users see when visiting its site.Related:Twitter misses forecasts after results are published early – on Twitter“As we iterate on the logged-out experience and curate topics, events, moments that unfold on the platform, you should absolutely expect us to deliver those experiences across the total audience and that includes logged in users and users in syndication,” said Costolo.Twitter recently launched a new version of its homepage for people who visit without being logged in to the service – more than 500 million of them a month, according to the company’s latest figures.“By organising our content in a way that’s easily discovered and consumed, we extend the reach of Twitter far beyond the 302 million people who log in every month,” said Costolo earlier in the earnings call.“We first introduced the logged-out home page on desktop in the US and we intend to bring it more places over time, while also iterating on it and making improvements that keep it informative, entertaining and relevant.”Twitter’s plans for curation are being followed closely by its keenest users, who fear that it may change its current system of an unfiltered timeline of tweets presented in reverse-chronological order.That contrasts with Facebook’s news feed algorithm, which analyses the 1,500-odd posts that the average user could see in any given day, andnarrows them down to around 300that are actually shown in the feed.Related:Twitter's 'Instant Timeline' is actually a really good ideaIn September 2014,Twitter’s financial chief Anthony Noto suggestedthat the unfiltered timeline approach “isn’t the most relevant experience for a user” and hinted that Twitter was keen to “organise that content better”.This, of course, would give more scope to prioritise ads, at a time when Twitter has admitted that its “direct response” technology to target ads is underperforming. But the changes might also help the company reignite growth from its current302m monthly active users.Early adopters may not need to panic just yet, since unfiltered timelines and curated timelines are not necessarily an either/or choice for the company.If the goal genuinely is to make Twitter more accessible for new users, it is quite possible that the company will introduce an option to have its main timeline curated – it alreadyoffers new signups an “Instant Timeline” of accounts to followbased on their existing contacts – while leaving in the ability for experienced users to keep the traditional unfiltered feed.
Twitter shares plummeted on Tuesday after its disappointing financial results were published early – on Twitter.The company had been expected to release its latest quarterly earnings figures after the stock markets close at 4pm. But after they were published early by financial news service Selerity the company’s shares were briefly suspended. The shares plummeted 20% when trading resumed.Selerity, the finance company that shared the results early on Twitter, said that they neither hacked into emails nor received a leaked press release.Today’s$TWTRearnings release was sourced from Twitter’s Investor Relations websitehttps://t.co/QD6138euja. No leak. No hack.&mdash; Selerity (@Selerity)April 28, 2015They said they had simply used the company’s investor relations website, where Twitter had posted a press release with the headline “Twitter Reports First Quarter 2015 Results; Lowers Full-Year 2015 Expectations.” Twitter itself did the rest. Twitter is investigating.We are investigating the source of the leak. (2/2)&mdash; TwitterIR (@TwitterIR)April 28, 2015Wall Street investors have long been concerned about growth at Twitter but this time it was disappointing revenue growth that sent the company’s share price plummeting. The number of monthly active users of the microblogging site climbed to 302 million by the end of March, up 18% compared to the same period last year, Twitter said. The company added just 14 million more users over last quarter’s 288 million - a bump that represents less than a quarter of the 63.1 million tweeters who follow Justin Bieber.Slowing revenue growth surprised analysts. Twitter announced revenues had risen 74% to $436m, missing analysts’ expectations of $456.2m. In the prematurely released statement, Dick Costolo, Twitter’s CEO, said: “Revenue growth fell slightly short of our expectations due to lower-than-expected contributions from some of our newer direct response products.”“It is still early days for these products, and we have a strong pipeline that we believe will drive increased value for direct response advertisers in the future,” Costolo said. “We remain confident in our strategy and in Twitter’s long-term opportunity, and our focus remains on creating sustainable shareholder value by executing against our three priorities: strengthening the core, reducing barriers to consumption and delivering new apps and services.”Twitter has revamped its format and launched new services including the live-streaming video service Periscope to attract new users. Anthony Noto, Twitter’s CFO, said the company was very happy with Periscope. “We’ve seen tremendous early growth on Periscope,” he told investors. “In the first 10 days alone, more than one million people signed into the app.”But the stock continued to fall in after hours trading on the news that the microblogging site slashed guidance for the coming quarter, saying that its direct response products – which help it target advertisements – had underperformed and were likely to keep underperforming throughout the year. Costolo said the company was trying to attract advertisers by agreeing to strict conditions. “It’s great value for advertisers, lower value for us,” he said, but added that he thought the decision was an acceptable short-term sacrifice.The company also acquired marketer TellApart, formerly a major partner of Facebook’s on that company’s ad exchange, FBX. The predictive analytics firm helps to generate custom advertisements and will tailor Twitter users’ ads to match up more closely with those users’ behavior online.TellApart is backed by Twitter’s CEO, Dick Costolo, who invested in the company’s $4.8m series A round of funding. “We’re not breaking out TellApart in our guidance from the standpoint that it’s not material,” Costolo said when asked about the specific financials for TellApart. He expects the deal to close on 1 June.
LG has launched it latest G4 flagship Android smartphone, which boasts a slightly curved quad HD screen, a low-light camera and a leather back.The G4 is LG’s attempt to maintain the momentum gained by the company’sG3 last year, which introduced a quad HD screen to the smartphone market and garnered favourable reviews for being one of the most usable phablets – smartphones with screens 5.5in or bigger.The slight curve to the screen is meant to enhance the smartphone’s durability and help it survive drops to the floor without shattering the screen, according to LG.The leather back is just one of a couple of options for the removal back panel of the G4Photograph: LGThe G4 marks a shot across the bow of LG’s South Korean rival Samsung, which ditched both a removable battery and expandable memory with itsnew flagship smartphone, the Galaxy S6. The G4 has both a removable battery and expandable memory via microSD card.LG has also chosen to use Qualcomm’s six core Snapdragon 808 processor with 3GB of RAM, instead of the company’s top-of-the-range eight core Snapdragon 810 processor as used in LG’s curved G Flex 2 smartphone.Since its launch the Snapdragon 810 processor has been plagued by heat issues causing its performance to dramatically degrade, and smartphones using it to heat up. Samsung reportedly switched to its own Exynos processors to avoid such heat issues.The new smartphone runs a customised version of the latest Android 5.1 “Lollipop” and has a large 3,000 mAh battery and a screen that is 11% more power efficient according to LG.“Internal testing shows the G4 gets more than a full day of use on a single charge,” said Paul Jacobs executive chairman for Qualcomm.Most high-end smartphones released this year are likely to last in excess of 1.5 days. The Sony Xperia Z3, for instance, lasts more than two days per charge.LG’s 16-megapixel laser auto-focus camera from its previous smartphones has been improved with a 40% larger image sensor and a lens that lets in 80% more light for a greater low-light performance, which rivals some dedicated digital SLR cameras according to the company.The front of the phone has an 8-megapixel selfie-camera.The G4 is likely to be keenly priced. The G3 was sold at a starting price of £450, over £100 cheaper than similar rivals from Samsung and HTC.It’s expected to be available in May in the UK and other markets.
Fancy a kale caesar salad? Call an Uber.The fast-growing and controversial taxi app on Tuesdaylaunched its UberEats food delivery service in New York City and Chicago.Peckish customers in selected areas of the cities can now order lunch – which the company promises will arrive in less than 10 minutes – instead of a ride.But the menu choice is somewhat limited, with only two dishes offered at time: for lunch on Tuesday customers can choose between a pastrami sandwich or a spring salad from American Cut steakhouse in Tribeca. Customers will also have to be locatedbetween 14th and 40th streets, the only area covered by the UberEats service. Orders are only accepted between 11am-2pm.Later in the week, Uber is promises to offer “kale caesar salad from sweetgreen, steak sandwich from Num Pang, and more”. In Chicago the company will deliver the pepito torta from Xoco, carne asada cemita from Cemitas and more.Dishes cost $9-$13, plus a $4 delivery fee.The service is already offered in Los Angeles and Barcelona.“Starting this week, the on-demand meal delivery service that piloted in LA and Barcelona will launch in Chicago and New York City,”the company said in a blogpost. “Now people with the Uber app in all four cities can get food from the most popular, iconic restaurants delivered within minutes.”Analysts expect food delivery to be the first of several new services Uber will launch in coming months in attempt to justifythe sky-high valuation placed on the company at its latest venture capital funding drivein December.Douglas McCabe from Enders Analysis said: “Relatively small deliveries make a lot of sense. It’s the same model as delivering a person. Not least, there is probably spare vehicle capacity during the day. But Uber’s ambitions might be beyond that: you can envisage the strategy paper that shows how they ultimately aim to replace the private car in cities and, arguably, public transport.”Competition in the New York food delivery business, which has mostly been controlled by Seamless and GrubHub, hotted up on Tuesday when Momofuku’s David Chang launched Maple – another food delivery app, but one that doesn’t bother to have a restaurant, just a kitchen in the financial district.Maple was only offering three dishes on Tuesday: spicy shrimp stew, roasted beet and avocado salad and flank steak tacos. Lunch costs $12, dinner $15.The service is only available south of Chambers Street, because it says it wants the meals to arrive hot within a five-minute bike ride of its kitchen. It plans to open satellite kitchens throughout the city.Maple, which has attracted $22m series A investment last month, said it was “merging the kitchen-savvy of New York’s top chefs with the expertise of process-driven technologists”. We’ve got no idea what that means either.
Just as Tom was everyone’s first friend on MySpace back in the day, so Steve is everyone’s first character skin in Minecraft. Now he’s getting some competition for that role: a female character named Alex.From this week, Alex will be a free default skin across all the game’s console versions, in what developer Mojang says is an effort to better represent its audience.“Now, everyone loves Steve – he’s probably the most famous minecrafter in the world, and has excellent stubble. But jolly old Steve doesn’t really represent the diversity of our playerbase”explained the company in a blog post.“For that reason, we’re giving all players opportunity to play with an Alex skin instead. She brings thinner arms, redder hair, and a ponytail.”Alex isn’t a new character: she’s already available on Minecraft’s desktop version, but this is the first time she has been selectable on consoles.Her introduction represents a change in policy for Mojang, since Minecraft’s original developer Markus ‘Notch’ Persson originally intended the game’s default hero to be genderless – even with the stubble.“The human model is intended to represent a Human Being. Not a male Human Being or a female Human Being, but simply a Human Being,” hewrote in 2012 on his personal blog.“The blocky shape gives it a bit of a traditional masculine look, but adding a separate female mesh would just make it worse by having one specific model for female Human Beings and male ones. That would force players to make a decisions about gender in a game where gender doesn’t even exist.”Steve’s unchallenged role as the default skin has not prevented Minecraft from amassing a huge audience that crosses the gender divide, particularly among children, where girls are as fervent Minecraft players as boys.Related:YouTube backs digital star Stampy's new Minecraft show Wonder QuestWhile players have been able to buy and download skins of other characters – Mojang’s Simpsons pack is launching for PlayStation players this week, too – making Alex a free default option is a significant move.It is also likely to spur more debate about whether the range of options could be widened further to, for example, provide options for different races.Mojang is holding itsMineconconference in London at the start of July, which may see more announcements about how Minecraft will develop following the company’s$2.5bn acquisition by Microsoft.If nothing else, launching Alex on console editions of the game will give more attendees an alternative option to Steve if they’re planning to turn up in cosplay for the event.
“I read the other day about these bio-hackers who are injecting their eyeballs with some bioluminescent fluid that gives them night vision – it’s crazy.”Dan Bunting, lead multiplayer designer at Treyarch, is talking about the news stories that have influenced Black Ops 3 during the game’s three-year development cycle. Set 50 years in the future, with a new Cold War as its backdrop, the latest CoD battlefield is a very different place. Widescale Drone warfare has been neutralised through the development of powerful air defence systems, so the emphasis is back on ground infantry once again.But the soldiers themselves have changed. The invention of direct neural interfacing between the human brain and computer technology has led to a new era of bio-augmentation and cybernetic enhancement. In Black Ops 3, the player is part of an experimental unit fitted with bionic limbs and a wealth of other future-tech improvements that blend mind and machine. According to Treyarch a lot of this is closer to science than fiction.“You make an estimate of where you think technology will be in the 2060s, then a few months later you hear that the foundations of that technology are happening today,” says campaign director and senior executive producer Jason Blundell. “We take ideas from medical research and scientific advancements, from wearable computing, bio-augmentation and robotics. We talk to specialists in certain fields and discuss their theories. But look at some of the stuff that [Google-owned engineering firm] Boston Dynamics is already doing with its robots – they have prototypes that are running at 50mph ...”A street battle during the Ramses mission in Black Ops 3, showing off the ever-present dropcraft and mini-drones, as well as major firepower installations that players will be able to hack and controlPhotograph: ActivisionDuring a press visit to the Treyarch studio in Santa Monica, the team shows off a demo of one Black Ops 3 campaign mission, which takes place at Cairo’s Ramses station. It’s pretty recognisable Call of Duty fare, a chaotic maelstrom of swarming ground troops, explosive air support and yelling NPCs. However, the high-tech stuff soon arrives. A dropship deposits a self-building “mobile wall” into the street to cordon off the area. Later, the player’s squad is attacked by a duo of giant robotic balls covered in spikes that zoom in and splatter their way through the forces (these devastating gadgets – weirdly reminiscent of the alien weaponry in the Battleships movie – are called Robotic Anti-Personnel Sentry Droids, and are available as a scorestreak in the multiplayer). Then, a cloud of mini-drones immolate a soldier. The scene ends with one allied operative using a tablet to select a whole area of the battlefield before seemingly causing it to blow apart through cybernetically-enhanced telekinesis.In gameplay terms, the most obvious impact of this technological leap into bio-augmentation is the new movement system. Player soldiers wear upgradeable cyber-suits that allow them to double jump onto rooftops, run along walls and powerslide along the floor, chaining moves together to traverse the environment in a smooth, streamlined dance. Objects can be mantled without loss of speed or firing potential and soldiers can sprintforever: “There is no marathon perk, there is no lightweight perk, it just works that way,” says studio design director David Vonderhaar. “This is really important. It’s the glue that holds everything else together. You can continue to stay guns-up. The aim is to wind the combat loop as tight as possible.”Of course, comparisons with both Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare and rival sci-fi shooter Titanfall are inevitable. The latter made a big deal of its enhanced boost jumps and vertical sprinting, and given the fact that developer Respawn Entertainment emerged from Call of Duty creator Infinity Ward in the most controversial of circumstances, criticisms and conspiracy theories are going to cloud this aspect of the game.And they won’t finish there. The new “specialists” feature in Black Ops 3 allows players to take part in multiplayer bouts as one of nine elite spec-ops warriors, each with their own powerful special weapons and abilities. These are only available when an onscreen meter powers up, and they are intended as a mid-point between regular combat and the scorestreaks that tend only to be accessible to more skilled players. It all sounds extremely similar to the Titan system in Respawn’s game, where a timer counts down to the point at which players get to call in their giant mech.Naturally, Treyarch doesn’t broach this directly – but it does address questions about how familiar the system seems. “It’s not to be confused with the [Advanced Warfare] exo jump; mechanically, it works extremely differently,” says Vonderhaar. “Ours has nothing to do with verticality – our maps have a height limit of two storeys and staying in the combat frame [i.e. being able to always see the opponent] are keys to our design strategy. But we did want to remove the obstacles that slow the player down. Ladders in [multiplayer] suck. They’re not fun to get on and climb up.”Then studio head Mark Lamia chimes in with a comment seemingly laser targeted at any Titanfall references. “To be fair, wedidmake Spider-Man,” he says, referring to the company’s acclaimed, parkour-influenced super hero tie-in from 2002. “We had some amazing movement systems in that game. We showed Black Ops 3 to the Tony Hawk’s Pro Skater developers and said ‘you guys should get this’. And they did.”At the demo event, we get to play three new multiplayer maps. Combine is set in a labyrinthine farming research facility in the Egyptian Sahara, with an open courtyard providing a frenetic kill zone in the centre. Stronghold is a Swiss chateau which mixes tight interiors with open areas that offer long sight lines. Hunted is the biggest map in the game, a picturesque mansion complete with a waterfall, pool and underwater tunnel.It’s the latter that proves most interesting. Treyarch has apparently been trying to add swimming to its CoD games for years, but has finally mastered the feature. Now you can dive into the water, move about freely in the aquatic environment, and even use your gun. A pre-demo video shows players shooting out of the water at passersby moving along the water’s edge.Elsewhere, the movement system does handle very differently to Advanced Warfare. The controls are more subtle, so that it feels less like a turbo boost into the air, and more like a controlled ascent. Wall runs are easy to set up via an angled sprint toward a vertical surface and a deft tap on the jump button. When connected with a wall, you can then leap on to another surface, and even jump out, pull back on the analogue stick and reverse the movement, so you’re suddenly going backwards. It’s a great evasive move, and it suggests that head-to-head encounters are going to be less about who has the fastest trigger finger.Jump out again, then press the “crouch” button and you hit the ground in a power slide, which can be directed around corners. It’s complex yet accessible and within minutes players are chaining moves together, turning the environment into a pro-skater playground. We’re having a lot of fun.But we’re also aware that this is not unique and it’s not, in itself, innovative: rocket jumps and special ability pick-ups have been part of first-person shooter design since the beginning. Before CoD, before Titanfall, id Software littered its levels with limited availability weapons and armour; Crysis brought us cyber suits and timed abilities. This has always been a genre that has supported the evolution and sub-division of feature-sets. But Treyarch is going to have to be on the defensive. And it will need to reassure gamers who prefer the traditional CoD experience that its flights of spatial fancy won’t be too disruptive. “We don’t force anything on players,” says Bunting. “If they don’t want to use thrust jump or wall-running they don’t have to. Most encounters will still be boots-on-the floor.”A soldier heads into action sporting one of the new guns – all of which can be personalised in detail thanks to a new “paint job” feature, replacing the old emblem design systemPhotograph: ActivisionReally though, perhaps the biggest change to Call of Duty is happening away from multiplayer, and away from movement controls. It is the campaign mission design. Not only will this mode be playable in co-op with up to three friends, but Treyarch says that the game will abandon the corridor approach and provide much larger, more explorable environments. “We’re allowing you to go off the rails,” says Blundell. “You will really be able to explore the space, to decide how you engage the area and to move through it.”Apparently, the areas are so open that players simply won’t be able to see everything in one playthrough – if they choose an approach, there will be sections they won’t see. Also, in classic RPG style, players will be able to upgrade their characters with a range of special abilities as they gain XP. These aren’t the static pre-set soldiers of traditional CoD, these are personalised avatars who progress. According to Treyarch there are around 40 “cyber core” abilities, like drone hacking for example, that players earn as they go and can use when they like. And as players gain new abilities they get to show these off in the dedicated safe house area visited between missions, where soldiers are customised and where participants can personalise their bunks with medals and achievement markers.Blundell says this concept of freeform character customisation has forced changes to the narrative structure. Black Ops 2 brought in branching story elements with several different endings. Black Ops 3 gains longevity in a different way. “Due to the type of game it is, and the type of story we wanted to tell, rather than having a branching storyline, we’ve gone for a design that’s more like peeling back layers of an onion – that’s the most tactical way I can describe it,” explains Blundell. “This is definitely a story that needs multiple replays; there are different perspectives, things that you learn as you play, so you may want to go back later to re-experience certain moments in a fresh way.”Related:Call of Duty: Black Ops 3 introduces co-op campaign and cyber-soldiersTreyarch also reckons that this move to open environments and customisable player-characters has demanded major changes to the artificial intelligence system too. “As the spaces get bigger, the AI needs to be able to make intelligent decisions in that space,” says Blundell. “So we’ve created a new animation system and a goal-orientated AI that supports over 20 different types of archetypes – bipedal robots, humans, rolling balls of death – they decide how they engage you and how they move through space. For the first time they also communicate together and move into formations based on where you are and your abilities.”Once again, it’s nothing new for the genre, but it’s certainly new for Call of Duty. True, this is still a game about shooting people in the face, and the setup remains a macho fantasy of specialist warriors going in and clearing up when science and military-industrial complexes drop the fucking ball, dude. But the Black Ops series has always toyed with the fundaments of the series, and this is an interesting step toward something slightly more complicated. The role-playing elements, the reactive AI and the slick traversal systems represent a climb out of CoD’s self-imposed ghetto of immediate, gutsy action and twitch-core simplicity.So while non-believers will wince and hurl accusations, long-term fans will be intrigued. Call of Duty, always the totem of unapologetic blast-em-up action, is also sometimes a subversive presence – witness the legendary nuclear death scene in Modern Warfare or the stomach-churning No Russian mission in Modern Warfare 2. Treyarch is promising a gritty messed-up story with Black Ops 3, and it says it has big plans for the Zombie mode (which is set to have its own dedicated XP progression system) but it’s the systemic changes that could prove most interesting and disruptive to this vast money-making edifice.“In game development, if you feel totally comfortable you’re not doing it right,” says Bunting. “This is our first time on the new console technology, we’ve had a three-year cycle, so we took bigger risks from the outset. We wanted to go for something new and fresh.”I guess we’re about to find out what new and fresh looks like when there’s a billion dollars riding on the result.Keith Stuart attended a press trip to Los Angeles with other journalists from Europe. Activision met the transport and accommodation costs.
Paul McCartney has become the first western musician to sell a set of “sound stickers” within messaging app Line, where his official profile has nearly 10.7 million followers.He’s one of the most popular artists on Line, and the app has become the former Beatle’s biggest social platform by some distance. McCartney has2.3 million followers on Twitterand6.2m likes for his Facebook page.The new set of stickers - collections of images that fans can download then paste in to their conversations with friends – follows two previous (soundless) sets released within Line in 2013 and 2014.The new set has been released to tie in with McCartney’s latest tour of Japan, which is Line’s home country.Two of Paul McCartney’s new sound stickers.“A few weeks ago, Paul recorded a variety of phrases exclusively for LINE in both English and Japanese before jetting off for tour rehearsals in LA,”explained his website.“These recordings have been combined with 24 illustrated stickers designed to convey a wide range of daily expressions, which are a great and fun new way to chat with your friends.”Related:Messaging apps' next threads: encryption, payments, media and adsThe stickers aren’t just a personalisation tool for fans of McCartney: they’re a new revenue stream for him. Line is charging 100 virtual coins for the set, with that amount of virtual currency costing £1.49 in its in-app store.Line, whose main rivals include WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger in the west, but also KakaoTalk and weChat in Asia, has been growing fast in recent years. In January, the companysaid it had 181 million active users.Paul McCartney is one of a number of musicians with active profiles on Line, including Taylor Swift (who has 14 million followers on the app), Katy Perry (13.2 million) and Linkin Park (6.6 million).Line has wider music ambitions too. In December 2014 it announcedplans to launch a streaming music service in Japanin partnership with labels Sony Music and Avex Digital, thenacquired Nokia’s MixRadio streaming serviceto run elsewhere in the world.
