Yep, there's no getting away from it – this is monday, alright.
Age:29.Appearance:A female Mark Zuckerberg.Crazy – they look alike, and they've got the same name. I bet they're related!Yes. Yes they are.Are they cousins?No – Randi's the Facebook founder's older sister.She must be very proud of him.It's not entirely clear.Why? Has she switched to Google+?Not quite, but she has left her role as Facebook's marketing director. She had been at the company since 2005, back when it was still called Thefacebook.Have they fallen out, then?As I say, it's not clear. She says she's leaving with: "a deep love of Facebook".And what does Mark say?Er, nothing.Like!No need to crow. This could be Cain and Abel, 2.0.Sorry, I was just "liking"Randi's Facebook page.Oh yes? What does it say?It says: "Randi is the founder &amp; CEO of a mysterious soon-to-be-launched media company."Yes, that would beRtoZ, the new social media consultancy she's left Facebook to set up.Upcoming events. View all.Eh?PICNIC IN THE PARK. RSVP: Yes – No – Maybe.Are you still with me?Sorry, got distracted. I've a Facebook invite to a picnic on Saturday!That's lovely. But keep up, will you? There's more to get through.Right, yes. RtoZ, what's that about?No one's completely sure. Randi says it will be "focused on the exciting trends underway in the media industry", which could mean anything.Want to hazard a guess?Well, some think she'll be advising old media – TV networks, and so on – about how best to harness new media.Any customers yet?Not so far – she's still recruiting. But Snoop Dogg might be interested in collaborating.Really?Yes, he once released avideoof himself saying: "Randi Zuckerberg, what de-do, it's big Snoop Dogg. When I come back to the Bay, we got to play. You know what I'm talking about?"Do say:"We can confirm Randi has decided to leave Facebook to start her own company. We are all grateful for her important service."Don't say:"Dislike!"
The commonly held belief that the internet is turning an entire generation into solitary web-junkies is a myth, according to new research. The findings may offer succour to parents worried that social networking sites such as Facebook are reducing their children's participation in school sports and cultural activities.In a paper to be presented to a gathering of Nobel prize winners later this month, three influential economists claim their work demonstrates the internet is actually making us more socially active.Stefan Bauernschuster, Oliver Falck and Ludger Woessmann of the Ifo Institute in Munich reject the claim that the internet isolates people socially and erodes the traditional foundations of society. "There are no indications whatsoever that the internet makes people lonely," Bauernschuster said. He explained that their study revealed that a broadband connection at home positively influences the social activities of adults as well as children.The three economists found that once adults had access to broadband, their attendance at theatres, cinemas, bars or restaurants actually increased. They also found evidence that far from curtailing children's extracurricular experiences, a broadband internet subscription at home increased the number of children's out-of-school social activities, such as sports, ballet, music, painting lessons, or joining a youth club."With the help of the internet it is much easier to maintain contact with other people and to make plans to meet in the real world," the economists write."In addition, the internet conveys diverse information on leisure time and cultural offerings as well as on (local) politics and voluntary commitment. Moreover, the internet facilitates reserving and buying tickets for events."The economists claim their work provides evidence that most people use the internet to search for information and to communicate rather than for entertainment. They found 95% of people used the internet to search for information while 89% used it for email."Evidently the information and communication function of the internet dominates over its passive entertainment function," Falck said. "For this reason, the internet seems to foster rather than destroy social participation of adults and adolescents."The research comes in the wake of an Ofcom survey that shows Britain's burgeoning love affair with new technology. The survey found that 60% of teenagers said they were highly addicted to their smartphones, with 7% of them claiming they now spend less time socialising with their friends as a result, compared with 4% of adults. In addition, 6% of teenagers said they also spend less time playing sport now they have a smartphone while 15% said they were reading fewer books as a result.But the economists' findings, to be presented at the Lindau Meetings, an annual gathering of Nobel prize winners and leading academics, later this month, suggest the internet can be a force for good socially.The three write: "The internet is qualitatively different from the television in that its main function is not so much one of passive entertainment. At least in some areas of social engagement, the main function of the internet seems rather one of active information and communication – which the internet provides in an individualised form at any time – that is conducive to social interaction."
Perhaps it was the spurious precision of theheadlinethat caught my eye. "Web 2.0 will end on October 1 2012", it said. The idea of a meme – an infectious idea – having a definite termination point was peculiar enough; but a meme as nebulous as Web 2.0?Of course the phrase had become ubiquitous in PR-speak over the past few years. It seemed that the press release for every self-respecting online product or service had to have it somewhere in the text. But to ask the authors of these documents to explain what they meant by Web 2.0 was to risk accusations of mental cruelty, for they generally knew not whereof they spoke. (In that respect, it was like asking News International executives about "ethics".) Many seemed to regard&nbsp;it simply as a synonym for "cool" or "the latest thing". In that respect, Web 2.0 resembles many other&nbsp;technical terms – think "laser", "turbo" and the prefix "i" – which have been co-opted by the hucksters of their&nbsp;days.The prediction of Web 2.0's demise was made by Christopher Mims, a  technology commentator who writes for the MIT journalTechnology Review. He started by typing Web 2.0 intoGoogle Trendssearch engine. This shows that usage of (or at any rate searches for) the term peaked in 2007 and that it's been&nbsp;going downhill ever since. Mims then extrapolated the downward trend&nbsp;until&nbsp;it hit the X-axis on the chart.&nbsp;QED.As it happens, Web 2.0 does mean something, even though the definition gets a bit fuzzy round the edges. It first appeared in1999but didn't really gain any traction until the publisher Tim O'Reilly and his colleagues were brainstorming a title for a conference they were organising in 2003. The basic idea behind the event was to challenge public perceptions that the collapse of the 1995-2001 internet boom implied that the web was a busted flush. So they decided to call the&nbsp;conference Web 2.0 and launched&nbsp;the meme upon an unsuspecting world.Having done so, they then had to come up with a definition for it. The nearest they could get to one was the notion of the web as a "platform"  – ie a basis on which software and applications could be built. So if the internet itself was the platform on which Web 1.0 – the first version of the Web as a simple publication system – was built, then Web 2.0 was the platform on which new, innovative&nbsp;&nbsp;applications could be&nbsp;built.What kinds of innovations? Well, social networking services such as MySpace, Orkut, LinkedIn, Facebook and Twitter. Image-hosting services like Flickr. Online mapping systems such as Google Maps andOpenCycleMap. Cloud computing services like Google Docs, Zoho, Instapaper, Dropbox (and now Apple's forthcoming iCloud). Wikipedia. And so on, ad infinitum.Web 2.0, in other words, became the underpinning for much of our  online environment. Even as it did so, however, we lacked a succinct description of it that would make sense to lay people. The nearest we got was David Weinberger's description of the new web as "small pieces, loosely joined". In a memorable 2005 essay, the programmer and entrepreneurPaul Grahamdecided that three things distinguished Web 2.0 from its read-only predecessor: a programming technology called Ajax, which could turn any web page into a small virtual computer; a democratic attitude which persuaded many web developers to make their services interoperable with&nbsp;those of others; and the realisation that &nbsp;the only way to be successful was to take seriously the needs of users.The implication, of course, is that Web 1.0 was as much of a perversion of the original concept of the web as the horseless carriage was of the potential of the automobile. Industrial corporations saw the web simply as a new kind of push medium – billion-channel television, if you like. They were wrong, of course, but it took the bursting of the dotcom bubble to expose the extent of their misconceptions. So one way of looking at Web 2.0 is simply to say that it's "the web done properly".Which may explain why  Christopher Mims's chart peaked in 2007. It could be that as the world settled down to having the web as it should be, people (apart from PR folk)&nbsp;stopped fretting about this Web 2.0 thingy and started taking it for granted. After all, as some Chinese philosopher has doubtless observed, fish are probably not very curious about water.The big question, of course, is what will Web 3.0 be like? And the answer, I suppose, is that if we knew that then we wouldn't be here.
The games industry is in the throes of its traditional summer drought, with new releases slowing to a trickle, forcing many players to return to previously played titles or – perish the thought – venture outside. Yet those saving money for the winter silly season could do worse than take a look at the wealth of free titles available.There can be few better ways to avoid the sun's rays than to sit in a darkened room playing Valve's tactical shooterTeam Fortress 2, relaunched as a free-to-play title on PC and Mac. It's hard to imagine a more charming and well-balanced multiplayer game. Its appealing art style – not a million miles from Disney/Pixar'sThe Incredibles– is a breath of fresh air in an arena rife with ultra-realistic guns and gore.Smaller studios are also producing fascinating content:Sweatshop, funded by Channel 4 and developed by Brighton-based creative agency Littleloud, is a gently educational and oddly charming browser-based strategy game that tasks players with managing underpaid and overworked employees on a factory production line.Other independently developed gems includeFotonica(Santa Ragione, PC/Mac), a hectic, first-person sprint through abstract environments, requiring dizzying leaps between wire-frame platforms;Dead Cyborg(Endi, PC), an impressively crafted and beautifully presented adventure; andDon't Take It Personally Babe, It Just Ain't Your Story(NaNoRenO, PC/Mac), an exceptional anime-styled visual novel dealing with sexuality in the internet age, penned by Ontario-based writer Christine Love.In mobile circles, meanwhile, the latest trend is the "freemium" pricing model, with developers offering free downloads in the hope that satisfied customers will shell out for additional content – commonly in-game credits or unlockables that make progress quicker and easier. The addictiveMonster Mayhem(Chillingo, iPhone) is one such title, with players using a variety of weapons to hold back advancing tides of zombies, werewolves and assorted menaces.Relentless Software, the developer behind the well-likedBuzz!series, recently made its App Store debut with the terrificQuiz Climber(iPhone), with players competing against Facebook friends to answer as many multiple-choice questions in a row as possible. The element of one-upmanship makes this ruthlessly addictive. A description one could also apply toMagnetic Billiards: Blueprint(Zee 3, iPhone), which throws out the rulebook  and benefits greatly from it, as well as a level of design polish all too rare among its mobile peers.
The premise ofDemolition Companyis so eye-stabbingly obvious that I'll spare you the indignity of explaining it to you. Nevertheless, in the same way thatAngry Birdstakes a simple concept and has fun with it, there was hope thatDemolition Companymight have offered some sort of organisational or logic challenges in dismantling complex structures with various bits of heavy machinery or large chunks of dynamite. Apparently not.Regrettably, the end result is so crushingly dull and ill-thought through that any glimmer of interest in driving a skid steer loader, with its pneumatic drill planted invitingly on its bumper, or a bucket excavator for scooping detritus from your building site, wanes within moments. Anyone would have to admit that the idea of taking a swing at a building with a massive demolition ball would be immensely tempting, but infuriatingly the buildings are simple structures that appear to be made from Lego blocks – neatly collapsing rather than, as you would hope, exploding into smithereens.On the plus side, the vehicles themselves do look pretty realistic, if that sort of thing's your bag, and the physics of falling debris appears accurate. But fun, this ain't.
The Edinburgh international book festival begins this week, featuring a fortnight of storytelling and literati self-promotion. Looking at the 17 packed days of a programme filled with debates, talks, readings and keynotes, I've noticed that there is virtually no reflection on the cards for the "dead tree" version of the story that is threatening to shake-up publishing's centuries-old foundation. More so, it is surprising given the "digital first" bent of its headline sponsor, theGuardian, that there's no mention of apps, digital extensions or the new, multiformatted way of telling stories that's emerging among a new and talented crop of content creators supported by innovative and risk-taking storytelling outlets.But I admit, picking on the book festival is unfair; linear stories still dominate the page, our TVs, our radios, our games consoles and the theatre. Yet the process of telling a story doesn't have to be unidirectional.Stories are memory aids, instruction manuals and moral compasses. When enlisted by charismatic leaders and turned into manifestos, dogmas and social policy, they've been the foundations for religions and political systems. When a storyteller has held an audience captive around a campfire, a cinema screen or on the page of a bestseller, they've reinforced local and universal norms about where we've been and where we're going. And when they've been shared in the corner shop, at the pub or over dinner they've helped us define who we are and how we fit in.Human experience is a series of never-ending, overlapping stories bumping into one another in expected and unexpected ways. Our days are made up of personal narratives of good and evil, joy and conflict, magic potions and angry gnomes. They are naturally co-creations based on a push and pull of projection and interpretation. We interpret, analyse and synthesise the characters and events in our lives to help us make sense of the world, and these have been translated by professionals into folk tales, myths, legends, pantomime, bestsellers, soap operas and Hollywood blockbusters. Storytellers are simply curators of information who finesse the elements of a yarn into a beginning, middle and end.But the tools they use to tell tales are evolving, becoming more modular and tailored, more participatory and more engaging than just the printed word or the moving image. The new form of storytelling that's coming from a digitally enabled cabal moves beyond reinterpreting a text for radio or screen. Some creatives have taken their inspirations from Kit Williams's 1979 picture bookMasquerade, which motivated a generation of people to pour over symbols in illustrations to find a treasure buried in the Midlands, starting their stories anywhere – online or off. They weave narratives from seemingly innocuous blogs, magazine ads, TV slots, fashion labels and public phone calls. Clues in the alternate realities designed by authors are littered in the physical and the virtual; consumers simply need to be tuned in to see them, and willing to take part in the unfolding narrative.Frank Rose, author ofThe Art of Immersion: How the Digital Generation is Remaking Hollywood, Madison Avenue and the Way We Tell Stories,believes this is exactly what people want from their story experience. "The kind of multi-way conversation that the web makes possible is what we've always wanted to do," he says. "The technology finally enables it."Rose celebrates the way that the new kinds of storytelling brings audiences together to traverse plots, but recognises that there are challenges for consumers and for creators: "It's very different when you have a medium that forces you to engage with other people," he says, reflecting on the arc of a narrative that is necessarily more complex, multifaceted, and demands more flexibility. "You don't know if you're going to have to tell a story for one hour, two hours or 10 years."Other creatives are using digital media to extend their storytelling palate in a similar way to what Tom Stoppard did for Shakespeare'sHamletinRosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead. George Lucas,Matrixdirectors the Wachowski brothers andLostcreator JJ Abrams have each taken their cinematic plotlines across other media, exclusively evolving minor characters and side stories in these different formats to enhance the original narrative for the people who choose to tap in.Rose believes stories are in an exciting period of flux. "We're in one of those 50-year windows when an entirely new medium is being created and no one knows what to do with it," he says. "All you can do is throw stuff out there and experiment." And some are. When at Penguin publishing, Jeremy Ettinghausen was a leader in this regard, crowdsourcing a story in the wikinovelA Million Penguinsin 2006 and commissioning We Tell Stories, a series of pieces situated in the physical context using GPS-enabled devices, in 2008. Increasingly, other innovators realise what connected media can do and have taken steps to reinterpret the hero's journey in a way that puts the reader/viewer/consumer in the central role. ThinkChoose Your Own Adventurewhen there are millions of possible options, not just turning to page 33.Admittedly, multimedia storytelling isn't for everyone – consumers or creators – nor is it appropriate all the time. Some people naturally see Twitter as an opportunity to retellRomeo and Juliet, while others feel more comfortable with pen and paper. The Edinburgh book festival has chosen to celebrate the latter. I wonder what will happen when the former gets a festival of its own.Multimedia storytellingOnline Caroline:This early 2000s experiment in interactive storytelling drew consumers/participants into an immersive drama about Caroline and her boyfriend. Created by the UK-basedXPT(Rob Bevan and Tim Wright), it told its story with the reader, sending personalised emails and narrative video clips based on feedback to the site. Split into 24 parts, the whole story took a minimum of 24 days to complete.The Lost Experience:The TV dramaLostlittered its plot with conundrums but few people knew that there was a much more intricately woven plot in the real world, told through clues in websites, advertorials in US magazines and newspapers, TV commercials and recorded messages.The Blair Witch Project:The 1998 horror movie, which showed a group of friends seemingly stalked by a malevolent enemy, was most remarkable for the buzz that it built online before its cinema release. The important elements were leaked online, a forum was set up, new footage was shot and the rumours of the veracity of the so-called "documentary" spread like wildfire. Its storytelling approach has often been replicated, but never with&nbsp;such&nbsp;success.We Tell Stories:Penguin Publishing commissioned London companySix to Startto help six writers tell stories using digital media in compelling ways. Over six weeks, notable authors played with Google Maps, infographics, blogs, Twitter, email and reader-driven plotlines. This project came hot on the heels&nbsp;of&nbsp;Penguin's  crowdsourced wikinovel,A Million Penguins(2007).Conspiracy for Good:Tim Kring, creator of the TV seriesHeroes, "wanted to create a narrative that spilled out into the streets". In 2010, with Nokia andThe company P, he produced a social benefit storytelling experience "to take real-life action and create positive change in the world". Players became heroes and villains, literally running through the streets of five countries, and participating in fundraising drives to further the mission. The project has sent more than 10,000 books to libraries in Africa and supported 50 scholarships.• The following correction was published on 14 August 2011:  Homophone call: "Kit Williams's Masquerade motivated a generation of people to pour over symbols in illustrations" (New Review).
There's something not quite right about Facebook games. Certainly, the likes ofFarmVilleandPet Societyhave been hugely successful, the former peaking at more than 80 million users. But – well – they're not really all that social. You can trade items with friends and visit one another's virtual farms and cafes, but there's little interpersonal contact. In real life, our relationships don't tend to revolve around the exchange of livestock."These games feel more like they'reexploitingsocial relationships," says Matthew Warneford of Dubit, the social games developer. "It's known as the reciprocation effect. The game designers encourage players to send their friends in-game items, because the recipients then feel bound to give something back – so they join the game too. It's just about driving traffic. In order to make these games truly social, you need to give people more meaningful experiences."But there is a revolution coming to social gaming. Next month, Electronic Arts (EA) is launchingThe Sims Social, a Facebook version of its 100m-selling "virtual soap opera". In the PC versions of the game, players adopt and take care of virtual people ("sims") who live in customisable homes.The Sims Socialretains this element but also lets you hook up with Facebook friends and invite their sims around to your virtual pad. If the sims like one another, they'll date and can even end up getting on very wellindeed. If they don't get on, they'll become enemies, sneaking into one another's homes, nicking food and kicking over trash cans."The meaningful social interaction is more powerful than asking one another for cows," says John Earner, general manager of Playfish, EA's social game studio. "A few very early&nbsp;social games, most notablyFriends For Sale,capitalised upon relationships, but they hadn't figured out how to make a sticky, persistent game with depth and longevity.&nbsp;WithThe Sims Social, we think we have done that."These computerised relationships are then broadcast on your Facebook walls so everyone knows what your characters have been up to with each other. As with massively multiplayer games such as World of Warcraft (where many a husband or wife has discovered that their spouse has married an onscreen elf), this will doubtless lead to intriguing social conundrums. If you're married, is it OK for your sim to be dating several of your friends' virtual characters?More importantly,The Sims Socialhints at a future in which Facebook games leverage our online relationships as part of the gaming experience. MTV has already commissioned a range of Facebook dating sims, such asThe Flirt Game, which offer highly focused ways to chat up other social media users. But there are more complex examples coming. The creators of the photo-sharing site Flickr are beta-testingGlitch, a massive multiplayer social game set within the minds of giants on a surreal world. Players must work together to solve the mystery of their environment, and it is all hooked into Facebook.Warneford reckons this is the future of social gaming: simple puzzles for friends to solve together, and learn about one another in the process. "Social games are becoming more focused on how they can give the experience more purpose. How can we create a narrative? How can we allow players to collaborate? We're moving beyond simply taking advantage of friendships, into strengthening them."
Price £36,795MPG 34Top speed 126mphEvery holiday begins full of hope. The sun will shine. The sea will sparkle. The arguments will be minimal… But there's often a moment when that hope begins to fade. Or, as happened on a recent camping break in Dartmoor, is extinguished altogether. It was two in the morning and the rain had been falling, with extreme prejudice, for hours. The smell of sick from where my young daughter had thrown up her "campfire supper" still filled the tent. Finally, the combination of rain and wind  overwhelmed our flimsy "pop up" tent. It collapsed – the wet nylon smothering us in the dark. "What are we going to do?" wailed the kids. My wife looked to me for an answer – not a place she usually finds one. But this time I was up to the crisis. "Quick," I yelled as if we were doomed passengers on the Titanic. "Into the Jeep!" A cream-leather and polished-chrome lifeboat in the storm…Visit any camping shop and you'll be amazed by the ingenuity of today's equipment – wind-up torches, self-inflating sleeping mats, glow-in-the-dark loo paper. But really there is only one accessory a happy camper needs – a 4x4.It is 70 years since the first drab-green, rugged little vehicle with its distinctive cut-out doors, bucket seats and folding windscreen rolled off the Willys-Overland production line. Known as the GP – army abbreviation for General Purpose – it wasn't long before the letters were slurred together to give us the Jeep. Better than the Willy, I suppose.After helping to win a world war, the Jeep was reborn as an off-road utility vehicle. Willys' slogan at the time was "The Sun Never Sets on the Mighty Jeep". Over the coming decades millions have been sold in various incarnations. The first Grand Cherokee, the largest and most luxurious of Jeep's offerings, made its entrance by smashing through the convention-centre windows of  the Detroit motor show in 1992. Four million sales later and my damp, tired and emotional family are gratefully appreciating the all-new 2011 anniversary model.The Cherokee still offers the expected levels of off-road ability – for a big car it's surprisingly lithe and its Selec-Terrain traction-control system and "Quadra-Lift" air suspension means even the roughest terrain is rendered velvety smooth. But it's the on-road refinement that impresses the most. Fire up the 237bhp 3-litre V6 turbodiesel and  you don't find you're sitting in a&nbsp;slab-sided brute with the manners of a&nbsp;Texas redneck, but in a remarkably urbane SUV. It's like John Prescott opening his mouth and speaking with the voice of Martin Jarvis.Inside it's all real wood, cushioned leather and LED highlights. The only cowboys who'd feel at home here are JR and Bobby Ewing. The seats are heated; soft, forgiving materials are used on all the key "touch points"; your Big Country music comes at you through nine speakers and a&nbsp;subwoofer; there's a touchscreen infotainment centre; keyless "enter-n-go" system and even a panoramic sunroof to soak up the views.The superluxe Grand Cherokee has all it takes to serve up the great outdoors to you on a plate. But, best of all, it's entirely waterproof and it doesn't smell of sick.Go East – the cars that won't let you downJapanese and Korean makes are still the best choice for a used car you can rely on, according to What Car? and warranty specialist Warranty Direct. The new figures, released today, show that cars from European brands fail most often. However, based on Warranty Direct's 50,000 live policies on cars of between three to eight years of age, they are also typically cheaper to fix.Honda tops the standings in the annual car reliability study for an unprecedented sixth year in a row, recording an impressive 9% failure rate. The top 10 manufacturers all come from either Japan or Korea.The combined What Car? and Warranty Direct study names British marque Land Rover as the least reliable brand, with 55% of its upmarket vehicles suffering faults in a 12-month period. Alfa Romeo (46%), Renault (45%) and Saab (43%) – all European brands – are the next most breakdown-prone manufacturers.The top two European brands are Skoda and Smart in 11th and 12th respectively. Only they prevent an even stronger showing for Far Eastern manufacturers, by nudging ahead of Daewoo.What Car? editor, Chas Hallett, said: "This year's study is a stark reminder of the disparity in reliability between Far Eastern brands, which dominate the top 10, and European brands, which contribute the bulk of the bottom 10."Wheel of sportAs Britons we love our sport. But how far are you prepared to drive to participate or watch your favourite? New research by Kwick Fit shows that we drive a total of 83m miles each year to take part in sport, but it is horse riders who cover the furthest distances – an average of 260 miles a month. Although horse riders do the most driving per person, it's Sunday league footballers who contribute to the highest combined mileage – 1.8m amateur footballers cover a total of 8.75m miles in their cars each year driving to play matches. And while their commitment to fitness is shown by their regular workouts, those visiting the gym account for 6.9m miles in the car, as people take the easy option there and back. It's rowers who have to drive the second furthest after horse riders to get in a boat (24 miles), with cricketers driving just slightly less (21.5 miles each time). David White, customer services director of Kwik Fit, said: "Horses obviously require a lot of attention and that's perhaps why riders travel the furthest out of all sportspeople. It's also message to mums and dads who want to buy a horse for their child – that they have to be prepared to do a lot of driving! It's slightly ironic that walking, running and cycling all appear in the top ten of total distances travelled. But sometimes a journey to a particularly scenic spot would be unreachable for a walker, runner or cyclist without their car."
Anyone who saw the filmThe Social Networkwould have no way of knowing that Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has a sister. But now Randi Zuckerberg is generating headlines of her own – after six years working faithfully in her younger brother's shadow as Facebook's director of market development, she is jumping ship to set up an independent social media company.The tech bloggers of Silicon Valley are rubbing their hands at the prospect of some sibling rivalry to follow on from the multiple lawsuits that the younger Zuckerberg – he's 27, she's 29 – has endured over the parentage of his wildly popular website.But older business analysts wonder if this may not be the online equivalent of the great Dunkin' Donuts rift of the 1950s, when one of the two original partners behind America's most popular snackshops broke out on his own with the rival Mister Donut franchise. (They were later bought by the same corporate parent and reunited after close to 40 years.) More perplexed tech watchers wonder what Randi hopes to achieve that she hasn't already done in one of the world's most rapidly expanding companies. Her new outfit has a name, RtoZ Media, but no publicly defined goal, no employees and no fully functioning website – yet.Randi is unlikely to be planning anything excessively controversial.  She appears to have decided to have fun with her money and her instantly recognisable last name to branch out on her own, without doing anything to damage the Facebook brand she worked for so long to help establish."I'm proud of what I've done here … but I know I'll be able to do just as much, or more, for Facebook once I'm on the outside," she wrote in her resignation letter last week. She said her goal was "to launch my own innovative programming and work with media companies", adding: "Facebook will clearly be a central element in all my projects."She might not have a reputation as a cutting-edge innovator like her brother, but Randi is no slouch. She, too, went to Harvard, graduating in psychology at about the time Mark was dropping out to focus full-time on the phenomenon he had unleashed. At first, she thought she would study to be a cantor – the singer who accompanies the rabbi in Jewish services – but changed her mind when it became clear there was an irresistible new family business to join.In Silicon Valley, she has always had a reputation as someone unafraid to let her hair down and have a good time. A few years ago, she made a music video, celebrating the demise of the erstwhile Facebook rival Friendster with a tongue-in-cheek ditty called Valleyfreude.She has sung periodically since, and written a column for Tina Brown's online publication The Daily Beast. Her sense of fun is strictly of the non-scandalous variety, however: she has been with her husband, venture capitalist Brent Tworetzky, since they were both at Harvard. In her professional life, she has worked hardest to marry Facebook with numerous traditional media initiatives – broadcasting a presidential debate in 2008, bringing the World Economic Forum in Davos to Facebook's global audience and launching Facebook Live, which she used to relay a town hall meeting held by President Barack Obama.Does that qualify her as a high-flyer on a par with her brother or Steve Jobs? Not exactly. But it probably sets her up nicely as a high-profile consultant to the great and the good of corporate America, who want to understand how to integrate social media into their marketing and customer outreach plans.Just a couple of days before she resigned, Randi argued at a round-table discussion hosted byMarie Clairemagazine that the best way to police social networking sites wasto oblige everyone to use their real names. That did not endear her to the more radical online community, which believes anonymity and identity-shifting are all part of the great experiment of the&nbsp;internet.It did, however, send a reassuring message to conservatively inclined executives who might otherwise be nervous of embracing a communication tool over which they have limited control. She is likely to be talking to a lot of those people in the coming weeks and months.
Leisure DiveAiming to replace planking – extreme lying down – in the affections of internet pranksters, the leisure dive is the latest photography meme spreading across Facebook and beyond. The object is to appear as chilled out, debonair and suave as possible in a reclined position while you are in mid-air, seconds away from hitting water (think invisible chaise longue). Tom Daley possibly won't be incorporating any ideas from here into his Olympic routines, but the sight of someone eating crisps while reading a magazine four feet above a swimming pool looks just as impressive as a triple inward pike and half twist.The Daily MashThe Daily MashI recently overheard a woman say that, following the hacking scandal, she was now getting all her news from The Daily Mash. Indeed, how can traditional media compete with headlines such as "Every copy of the News Of The World contained 'tiny microphone'" and "Mancini buys entire Arsenal squad for a laugh"? Even though they may not be true. Alongside ads for men's mag Stylish Masturbator and an "inappropriate wildlife sanctuary" called Cameltoe Park is a very real ad for Sky Sports on the same page as a spoof story headlined "BSkyB changes logo to middle finger" – testament to the site's success.Blog roll: BookishGood Show SirGood Show SirMining the rich seam of terrible sci-fi and fantasy book covers.Ready When You Are, CBPutting non-chronological books in chronological order and other nerdy reading pursuits.The StaxxScans of curious old books, including British Chimney Sweeps: Five Centuries Of Chimney Sweeping.BookrideThe joy of dull covers plus collecting technological predictions in literature.To Be ShelvedExotic book shelves, quidditch world cup posters and the bookshop inside an old theatre.A Penguin A WeekReading a pre-1970 Penguin a week at a time.What we learned on the web this weekNot all dogs go to heavenNot alldogs go to heavenHow toimprove a Michael Bublé videoThe curiousmystery of the anti-Stephen Fry graffitiThe deletedLost scene that explains everythingA greatway to extract teethEven ifsomething is fake it's still realThe LoudnessWar is overThe Champis scientifically the saddest movie in the world everPlane trailsare beautifulHow toact like a werewolf
My girlfriend is getting very spoilt and blasé about new cars arriving at our house. "It's not very distinctive," she says, sniffily, about Peugeot's small family hatchback, which has been given a modest facelift – so modest most people won't even notice. "I was hoping it was going to be a nice one, to go away in."Well tough titty, lady. Or, to be more appropriate, hard cheese, because as it happens we're going to Cheddar, near Bath, for the weekend.London to Cheddar and back turns out to be the ideal trip to test the Peugeot 308, highlighting the good as well as the not so good. On the positive side, we easily get there, potter around Somerset, then back home on one tank. This E-HDi diesel model averages over 60mpg, producing just 118g/km of CO2(it's crazy how car performance is half metric and half not). Which sounds brilliant, but it's actually not as good as the eco Golf.Ah, but the Golf doesn't have a full-length panoramic glass roof that our Peugeot has, which turns Friday night motorway gridlock hell into a&nbsp;birdwatching heaven – red kites, my girlfriend's all-time favourite bird of prey, circling overhead. It's also ideal for viewing Cheddar Gorge from the road below and without the need to get out of the car, or even stop. As the driver, it's a bit frustrating having to keep an eye on the winding road ahead, but I&nbsp;can appreciate the view of the steep rock walls above secondhand, via the oohs and aahs of my girlfriend. There's raptor rapture here, too, peregrines nesting on the cliff… I&nbsp;think she's making it up now.So it's not too hard on the old planet, or the pocket, and is excellent for twitching and upwards on-the-move tourism. It's nice inside, comfortable and smart. And it's more than able on the motorway (though I never figured out the cruise control).So what's wrong with it? Well, it's not exactly thrilling to drive – a bit baggy on the bends along the bottom of the gorge. I know, it's not meant to be a rally car, but I wouldn't have minded a slightly more responsive drive, given that I was missing out on the geological and ornithological excitement above. Then there's the aforementioned indistinctiveness, which – though I don't like to agree with her – I think my girlfriend is right about. It might be aerodynamic and have a low drag coefficient, but it's not a car you're going to feel any emotional attachment to. Capable, then, rather than lovable.Oh, and the air conditioning is abso-effing-lutely useless. We come back on the hottest day of the year and by the time we get home, our edible souvenir – the obvious one – is sweating almost as much as I am.Peugeot 308 e-HDiPrice£19,565Top speed118mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.4 secondsAverage consumption62.7mpgCO2emissions118g/kmEco rating8/10In a wordCheesy
Your leader is right to note the important role of petitions in our democratic heritage (In praise of… petitions, 5 August), but concerns about their disruptive power and representativeness are nothing new.Illustration:Gillian BleaseOne of the reasons for the effectiveness of the early-19th-century campaign to abolish slavery was that activists deluged parliament with thousands of petitions. These were presented in the chamber, which allowed sympathetic MPs to raise the issue incessantly and hold up other parliamentary business, forcing the issue on to the agenda.There were often complaints from MPs and others that petitions and signatures were manufactured by pressure groups, using a variety of shady tactics, and were not a true reflection of public opinion. For all this, petitioning did provide a vital connection between people and parliament (particularly important in an era when most did not have the vote), and proved to be a popular way to participate in the political process.Dr Henry MillerResearch assistant,1832-1945 Programme, History of Parliament• All the fuss about thefirst e-petition calling for the return of hanginghas missed the real story (Government's e-petition site crashes repeatedly on first day, 5 August). Double the number of signatories have called for the ban on capital punishment to stay.With all the publicity on television, radio and in the press, as I write the hangers have only managed to garner just over 4,000 signatures. Admittedly the site was busy for a few hours, but that does not explain the derisory numbers calling for a return to state-sanctioned killings. There is no public appetite for the death&nbsp;penalty.Frances CrookDirector,The Howard League for Penal Reform• Having looked at the e-petitions available online, I feel there is a worrying theme in the attitudes being displayed in a significant number of the e-petitions, some examples being returning to capital punishment and removing access to human rights. Given the problems that society has in the UK – excessive use of alcohol, teenage pregnancies etc – doesn't it seem more suitable to be improving the way our society operates instead of reverting to a time gone by which most of Europe left behind decades ago? Or do we wish to be seen as a society that lives in the past and can not move forward?Grant BuckleyLlandrindod Wells, Powys• I have just counted 42 separatee-petitions in favour of the death penalty. This duplication seems rather ludicrous and avoidable. The previous website rejected petitions that duplicated existing ones. In fact, I wonder why they got rid of the previous one and took 15 months to set up this one (badly). Anyone would think that the government is not all that interested in hearing from the people.Nigel WoodcockManchester• The introduction of e-petitions has two major flaws. First, there is no mechanism to register disagreement with a particular petition. Second, and more importantly, it moves Britain nearer to populist mob rule. Surely a referendum, triggered by a relatively high number of proposers, is a way of improving democracy, but within saner boundaries?Keith StapyltonBracknell, Berkshire• I agree withyour editorialthat the Commons tradition of collecting protests should never have been allowed to fade. The RE.ACT Campaign, a 140,000-strong petition calling on Michael Gove to include religious education in the baccalaureate, aims to achieve a House of Commons debate. Many petitions are gathered in traditional paper form. There are still many in the UK population who have no access to the internet, thus an e-petition government website holds the danger of hundreds of thousands of signatures being lost. I hope that traditional forms of petition will still be accommodated.Richard SmartDirector, Premier Christian Media, organisers of theRE.ACT Campaign
"My Google email account was recently hacked into whilst I was on holiday in Slovakia. The hacker said that I had been robbed at gunpoint in Spain and robbed, then asked people to send money to a money transfer account in Spain," read the email that arrived this week. "This has happened to other people, I gather."It certainly has: this is the peak season for people having their accounts hacked, principally because so many are travelling, and thus using either computers or networks that are shared and which they trust too much.For that reason, Google, Hotmail and Facebook (though notably not Yahoo) have all implemented a system called "two-factor authentication" to protect your account. The basic idea is straightforward: as well as your username and password, when you use a new device to access their system, you also have to enter a one-time code which is sent to your mobile phone.The idea is to protect against your user details being stolen over an insecure network or a computer that may be running malware that tries to capture precisely those details. And even if the malware captures the one-time code, once you've logged out the code becomes invalid. So if they try to log in with your stolen details, they'll be faced with a demand for a code – which will be sent to your phone.Phone protectionIdeally, the would-be thief won't have your phone – though the possibility that they might is the reason why you should protect your SIM with a passcode, and set your phone to lock automatically.The problem is that not everyone uses 2FA (as it's also known) – and it's quite hard to force them to. "With 750 million users, it's quite hard to get a security feature to work for everybody," says Joe Sullivan, Facebook's chief security officer, a former US federal prosecutor who previously worked at eBay for six years and joined the giant social network in 2008.For many people working on their familiar computer, a username and password is sufficient security. But for others, 2FA is desirable, he says. "It's like how I have a key to lock my front door, but I also have an alarm that I can choose whether I set or not."Google and Hotmail also allow you to set up two-factor authentication. Yahoo Maildoes not– so avoid using it in situations where you don't trust everything about the network and computer you're using. (An internet cafe computer should not be trusted, on principle; nor open wireless networks in hotels, railway stations or elsewhere.)One thing that using two-factor authentication with all these services is that, first, you need a mobile phone number; second, you need toset it up before you travel, or at least while you're at a trusted machine (which isnone of the machines you'll encounter while travelling).Turning it up to Factor TwoTo activate two-factor authentication:• In Google, it's found through the "settings" tab on the top right-hand side of the page. You have to set up 2FA on a trusted computer. (It's a good idea to have a printer to hand so that you can print out a list of backup codes it provides for access just in case your mobile phone is lost or stolen.) You'll have to provide a phone number to which the codes can be sent; obviously, a mobile is ideal.Google has introduced two-step verification to protect accounts• In Hotmail, you first need to add a mobile phone number in your Windows Live Account overview page. (Again, you'll need to do this on a trusted computer first.) Then whenever you go to Hotmail or other Windows Live services, you can choose to get a single-use code – a string of numbers that will be sent via text message to your phone – to use instead of your password. Make sure you do. Single-use codes expire after about 15 minutes; make sure too that you log out of the account before leaving the machine.• In Facebook, go to Account (top right-hand corner) and Account Settings. From there choose Security and Login pprovals: this offers a tickbox for "Require me to enter a security code sent to my phone". Again, you need to have your number entered.Yahoo doesn't offer 2FA, which is a problem, because it puts your login details at risk. There isn't any option to introduce it either; the Guardian has established that a service called YToken which has a web page claiming to offer it in fact doesn't, because there wasn't enough demand, according to its owner.If you need to access Yahoo emails while you're away, it's safest either to do it via a smartphone (with a Pin and phone lock) or set up a Hotmail or Gmail account which periodically logs in to the Yahoo account and shows you the email from it, and use more secure authentication with them.Meanwhile, at TwitterTwitter doesn't yet have two-factor authentication enabled. "It is great and something to aspire towards," says Del Harvey, Twitter's head of Trust and Safety. "But the fact that it has taken Google this long, with the resources that it has, tells you that it's not simple."Furthermore, lots of people use Twitter from their mobile phone – its 140-character updates mean that it's ideal for both smartphones and the simplest phones which only send texts. (In a number of countries, Twitter has an SMS number to which you can send updates.)"We get a lot of people who contact us to tell us they've lost their phone, and need us to turn off their SMS updates," says Harvey. Implementing two-factor authentication for people who lose their phone "would mean we lock them out of their [Twitter] account on the web and also make it incredibly difficult for them to get started up again".Although she uses Gmail, and two-factor authentication, Harvey knows that if you get a sufficiently large number of users you'll eventually get an unmanageable number who have managed not to follow the instructions. "They've lost their phone, or they didn't write down the backup codes, or – this happens – they did take down the backup codes but stored them on the phone. And now they've lost the phone..."Harvey's faith in human fallibility is touching, but well-founded. "Users aren't likely to use things that make it harder to use their account," she says. Instead, Twitter has focused on adding straightforward security that prevents your details being "sniffed" over networks: all connections to Twitter now happen over secure SSL links (the https: prefix in a browser toolbar: if you find yourself on what looks like a Twitter site but it doesn't have that prefix, end the session).A Twitter spokesperson said: "Users can turn on https. It's not currently on by default. We're working on that though."Building a better passwordThat of course won't stop people guessing your password if it is weak — a word in a dictionary or a simple combination of letters and numbers. (Yes, lots of people use "abc123" as their password. That's not a strong password.)You can check your password's strength athowsecureismypassword.net, which will tell you how long it would take the average desktop PC to crack your password. It doesn't store passwords, and doesn't ask for a username, so you can trust it.For "abc123" the answer is "this is one of the 500 most common passwords – you should probably change it". (For my personal Twitter account, the answer was "24,000 years".)Facebook and Twitter search out weak passwords: if you try to create an account with a weak password, or one that has been shown to be widely used (as happens when hackers breach systems and post huge lists of usernames and passwords), then they will block it."When we see those massive stores of emails and passwords, we make sure to get to see the emails and passwords," says Facebook's Sullivan. "If we find that someone has the same email/password setup on Facebook, we change it and force them to change it when they login."Facebook's advantage is that it can also force people to prove their identity by showing them pictures of friends – something that the real person will generally be good at doing, and anyone else won't.Sullivan says that anywhere between 1% and 10% of passwords are the same between sites – pointing to another problem: people using the same password between sites. It is the single biggest source of vulnerabilities, besides weak passwords.The ideal is that you use a different password at every site – which can be done, if you use some imagination. It's also good to include numbers and punctuation marks – those add to the complexity, and hence the difficulty of breaking them.Most of all, if you use a different password at every site, then if by some misfortune your username (often an email) is stolen along with your password at one (flawed) site, then the automated tools that hackers use on other sites (including Facebook, Gmail, Hotmail, Twitter and Yahoo) will fail to get them in. That's success – at least inasmuch as it prevents you having a worse day than having your account hacked.
Amid the sense-shattering tumult of this year's E3, with every stand showcasing dozens of visually astonishing console blockbusters, one single demo stood out. It was forMass Effect 3, the latest title in Bioware's gigantic space opera. The game begins with series hero Commander Shepard stranded on Earth just as the Reapers – a pitiless machine army – invades, turning futuristic cities to high-tech rubble. In a lengthy escape sequence Shepard and his mentor Captain Anderson are fleeing through the collapsing buildings, attempting to reach a rendezvous with the Normandy starship.En route, they discover a boy trembling in an air con duct. They pluck him from his hiding place, assure him they can help, and after battling through dozens of reaper soldiers, put him aboard an escape craft. But as the symphonic soundtrack reaches its emotional height, a gigantic reaper monster, striding between collapsed skyscrapers, aims a laser gun at the boy's ship and blows it to pieces. Shepard – and the small group of journalists watching in the demo room – can only look on, shocked and silent.Over the past 10 years, Bioware has perfected the art of emotional story telling in games. Starting out in 1995, the company became known for earnest fantasy role-playing titles like Baldur's Gate and Neverwinter Nights. But a decade later it released Jade Empire, a complex, highly original action RPG, set in an intricately developed universe of contrasting martial arts philosophies and conspiring characters. Importantly, it introduced romance into a previously asexual genre, allowing the player to form relationships with lead characters that had an impact on the plot. The concept was perfected in 2007 with the release of Mass Effect, a defining narrative adventure of the current console era. And through the subsequent sequel, as well as fantasy series Dragon Agem Bioware developed its concept of combining epic action with truly rounded characters and intimate interpersonal stories."Looking at a game and thinking 'how does it make you feel' is a thoughtful way to approach design," says Bioware co-founder, Ray Muzyka on his company's design philosophy. "You need to consider what you're building in terms of the impact on player emotion. We're all human, we're all driven by emotion – that's what entertainment is for – it allows us to pursue aspirations, dreams, to experience the thrill of combat, of victory. Hate, love, every combination of those… that's what we try to put in our games. Genuine emotion."Fellow founder, Greg Zeschuk, is keen to stress how Bioware has evolved its approach to characterisation with each new platform. "What's happened over time is that we've refined the technology that presents the characters. For ten years we've been attempting to improve the acting quality in our games. It's a combination of technology and desire – historically, games were very much about the gameplay, now they're about the experience – and sometimes the narrative experience is an important part of that."Mass Effect 3, which brings the action to Earth for the very first time, is a continuation – and a culmination – of these themes and techniques. "The reapers have invaded, Earth has fallen," explains Muzyka. "All the people you know and love are in jeopardy. It's up to you to carry out the actions and make the choices to take it back. It's personal, it's your home and if you don't win, the survival of the galaxy is in question. It's a pretty epic conclusion to the trilogy, but it's also a beginning of a new adventure – the whole galaxy's at war."It's a good entry point to the series if you're only going to play one Mass Effect title. It's going to be the most intense, action-filled and emotionally driven; this is also the most tactical in terms of combat choice and progression options. It's got everything…"The big message since E3 has been the way in which the game has evolved into a much more action-orientated proposition. "We got good feedback on the intensity of Mass Effect 2," says Zeschuk. "People really liked the fact that we refined the action, made it punchier, added stealth elements… it's about continually refining the formula." Here Shepard is able to leap and duck between and over scenic objects, as well as employing much more robust stealth tactics to creep up on enemies. He has a new deadly melee weapon, the omni-blade, which acts like a sort of futuristic switch blade, taking down enemies with one vicious thrust. But there's also an increased armoury of ranged weapons, all of which can be customised and upgraded via mod tables placed throughout each environment.Reflecting this greater emphasis on tactical combat, enemy AI has also been improved. Reaper soldiers will attempt to dominate and control each battle space, using differing tactics to flank you, or employing shields to protect themselves from your firepower. In the background however, there are still squad command options for RPG-orientated players, and characters can be upgraded through various ability and equipment trees. Mass Effect 3 may be drawing toward some of the action excesses of Gears of War, but it is still a game about strategy and role-playing.Another galaxy far, far awayAnd this is not Bioware's only attempt to filter familiar genre traits through its own design prism. The company's Austin studio is also putting the finishing touches to the staggeringly ambitiousStar Wars: The Old Republic, a massively-multiplayer online RPG set 3000 years before the rise of Darth Vader. Although the game is set to be structured similarly to well-established big-hitters like World of Warcraft, with quests, player vs player battle zones, guilds and crafting, the aim is to instil the title with the gameplay elements that have defined Bioware's output so far."We've been making RPGs for a number of years and we believe that every truly great RPG has four basic components: exploration, progression, combat and story," says director of production, Dallas Dickinson. "We think that if you have all four of those at a very high level of quality, that's what creates the world's great RPGs – the ones you come back to again and again. In the massively multiplayer space – we believe that so far one of those elements has been missing, and that's story. Well, that's what Bioware does - we create the world's greatest story-driven games."Hence, The Old Republic has a vast roster of player and non-player characters each of which will be entirely voice acted throughout the game – a first for the genre. Players can choose from two factions – the Sith Empire and the Republic – and from eight different classes of character, including Jedi Knights, bounty hunters, smugglers and Imperial agent – and each has their own selectable specialisms and complex levelling routes.Furthermore, choices that players make as they progress have far-reaching ramifications. At E3, Bioware shows one section where the player's Jedi knight defeats a Sith agent Lord Praven and has the option to execute him or let him free. Opt for the latter and he goes on to convert to the light side and become a valuable ally.Vitally, every class also gets different missions and very different over-arching plotlines. As Dickinson, explains, "If you start as a Jedi Knight and play through the entire thing – that's is several hundred hours of gameplay – then you start again and play as a bounty hunter, you will not see one single piece of duplicate content. The entire experience will be epic and unique; every player gets their own personal Star Wars trilogy, something like Luke experiences in Star Wars IV-VI." And this being an MMORPG, players can take on quests with groups of friends, all taking on different roles, from sneaky smugglers to tank-like Sith warriors with gigantic melee attacks.The sense of environmental scale also seems to be there. Players are able to take their spaceships and visit Hoth, Tatooine, Coruscant, and Alderaan (which going by the level I saw during E3 was a rather austere and beautiful place before Peter Cushing had it blown up). There are blasters and lightsabers, there are Emperor-style lighting attacks and force powers, there are complex multi-stage quests – all of it taking place on the cusp of galactic war between the Sith and Jedi forces. It is not a light undertaking.And this is all new territory for the Star Wars canon. Bioware has been trusted to extend the carefully guarded backstory, to invent new characters and sub-plots that link the company's previous Star Wars title Knights of the Old Republic, with the events of the Star Wars movie prequels. It's now part of the enormous Star Wars mythology.Elsewhere, Bioware is looking into new technologies and platforms. It has dabbled in smartphone and even social games, and it is supporting Kinect with Mass Effect 3, allowing players to speak Shepard's lines in the conversation sections, rather than selecting onscreen text. The company founders also seem intrigued by the possibilities of Wii U."I like the idea that you can use the television screen and the controller screen as separate interfaces," says Muzyka. "If you want to enjoy a purely cinematic experience on the big screen, you can do that while viewing information on the small screen. We hear stories about people playing our games as a family, with one person using the controller, the rest observing – so perhaps it's more engaging if they can watch the cinematic experience on screen, while the player is controlling and selection options via the handheld tablet; they get to experiences the choices as a movie – it's valid way to enjoy the types of games we make."Sitting with Greg and Ray at this year's E3, I asked them what Bioware was doing right; how has it come to dominate the action RPG genre through Mass Effect and Dragon Age? "It's two decades of focusing on our core values," says Ray Muzyka quickly. "And we're unrelenting and uncompromising in how we deliver against those. We need quality in our products for the consumers, quality in our workplace for the employees and entrepreneurship for our investors – those are the three guiding principles which we run on."There's also humility – being able to listen to feedback, quite harsh feedback at times and react to it, adjust and make things better. And you've got to have integrity – being honest with your customers, your shareholders, yourselves, about what's going on so you keep them all aligned. The vision is consistent too - creating and evolving the most emotionally engaging games in the world – that's what we're aiming it. But you've got to focus on all the key stakeholders equally – the consumers, the investors, the employees – none of them can ever take priority. For us it's about creating a sustainable business that will last long afterwe'regone. We want this thing to be running in a 100 years time. That's the vision."Mass Effect 3 is released in March 2012 on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360. Star Wars: The Old Republic is set to launch on PC in November
The Metropolitan police has quadrupled its cybercrime unit to 85 officers in just two months as the investigation into so-called "hacktivist" groups, LulzSec and Anonymous, gathers pace.Scotland Yard issueda fresh warningto computer hackers following the high-profile arrests of three British teenagers accused of having links to the groups.Detective Superintendent Charlie McMurdie, the head of the Met's e-Crime unit, said on Thursday that the cybercrime division has benefited from a recent £30m boost to its budget.The Met has helped coordinate an international investigation into the hackers linked to attacks on gaming firms and government agencies, including the UK Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca and the US Congress.Jake Davis, an 18-year-old from the Shetland Islands, wasreleased on bailon Monday after being charged with five offences under the Computer Misuse Act, the Serious Crime Act and the Criminal Law Act. Davis is accused of gathering data from NHS computers, being involved withattacks on News Internationaland being part of an attack that crippled Soca's website.The arrest of Davis, who allegedly used the online alias "Topiary", follows that of Essex teenager Ryan Cleary in June and the arrest and release of an unnamed 16-year-old from London two weeks ago. The apparent ringleader of LulzSec, known as "Sabu", remains at large.Police have warned that anyone using a computer unlawfully – which includes online denial of service (DoS) attacks, used frequently by the hacker collectives – faces up to 10 years in prison.Det Supt McMurdiewarned: "What they're doing isn't civil disobedience, it's serious crime."The Met said in a statement: "Under UK legislation, it is an offence if a person acts from within the UK upon a computer anywhere else in the world. It is also an offence if someone anywhere else in the world to criminally affect a computer within the UK."
Our Canon IXUS has started to make grinding noises, and we'd like to replace it with something better. We're interested in a camera with a 10x zoom. The IXUS often comes up short when we're taking scenes on holidays.Nonsuch coupleBefore you asked, I hadn't realised there was a new class of compact cameras known as Travel Zooms, almost all of which have 10x or even greater zoom lenses. DP Review, an influential Amazon-owned website, has published an 18-page group review,Compact Camera Group Test: Travel Zooms, which says: "The so-called 'Travel Zoom' category was effectively invented by Panasonic, with the Lumix DMC-TZ1" launched in 2006. Now, it seems, almost every brand offers similar models.The problem with Travel Zooms is that you are trading portability and versatility – a compact camera that covers everything from wide-angle to telephoto photography – for image quality. These cameras' compact 10x-20x zoom lenses are only possible because they use small image sensors to capture scenes. In DP Review's test, all six models have 1/2.3in sensors measuring about 6.1 x 4.6mm, from which the manufacturers are somehow wringing 12, 14 or even 16 megapixels. (Wikipedia has adiagramto show the different sensor sizes, along with atable and an explanation.)This suggests manufacturers are pitching Travel Zooms at people who think bigger numbers are better, whereas they are quite often worse. Or as DP Review puts it: "We know from previous group tests that putting complex zooms of this type into such small bodies can lead to compromises in critical image quality."You'd get better quality results from a camera with a bigger sensor, or possibly from a camera with the same size sensor but a less extravagant zoom lens, such as theSamsung WB2000. This has a 5x zoom, which is the equivalent of a 24-120mm zoom on a 35mm film camera. (The focal length depends on the sensor size. Since cameras have different size sensors, we convert them all to 35mm equivalents for comparison purposes.)If you were happy with the pictures you were getting from your outgoing Canon IXUS, the closest upgrade would be aCanon IXUS 1000 HS. This has a 6.3mm to 63mm zoom lens, which is equivalent to a 36-360mm on a 35mm camera: it's not very wide at the wide-angle end. The image sensor is a 1/2.3 CMOS type, which is presumably much like the one used in Canon's Travel Zoom, the PowerShot SX230 HS. However, the SX230 pushes the zoom even further, to the equivalent of a 28-392mm (ie 14x) zoom.Alternatives to the Canon IXUS 1000 HS include the olderNikon Coolpix S8100and theSony Cyber-shot DSC-H55. These also have 10x zoom lenses. The much cheaperCanon PowerShot SX130 ISis a solid alternative with a 12x (28-336mm) zoom, and this model offers a CCD instead of a CMOS sensor. However, it takes two AA batteries and has a slightly bulkier camera body.If you decide you'd rather have a smaller zoom range but better image quality, the most obvious choice is the 10-megapixelCanon PowerShot S95. This has a collapsible lens like the IXUS, which makes it similarly small and easy to carry. Its superior image quality derives mainly from the bigger and better 1/1.7in CCD sensor, but it also has other features that make it appeal to the more serious photographer. These include an automated high dynamic range (HDR) shooting mode, and the ability to capture the RAW sensor data in some modes. Larger sensors also perform better in low light.The S95's major drawback – apart from its price – is that the optical zoom only covers 6-22.5 mm, which is around 4x. It's equivalent to a 28-105mm lens on a 35mm camera, but it's less than most people now expect of digital cameras. If your current IXUS is a model 90 or 95 with a 3x zoom, you will not see a lot of difference.You can get a high quality 1/1.7in CCD sensor in a camera with a longer zoom range if you go for theNikon Coolpix P7000instead. This has a 7.1x zoom lens, equivalent to a 28-200mm on a 35mm camera. Unusually, it also has an optical viewfinder, which I find much easier to use in sunlight that the LCD screen on the camera back. However, it is quite a bit bulkier than the Canon S95, and more like the higher-pricedCanon G12. It's not the sort of camera that you can slip into a back pocket, like the IXUS models or an S95.To summarise, if you think you fit the Travel Zoom profile, then DP Review's top picks are the Canon PowerShot SX230 HS and the Nikon Coolpix S9100. (There's also a cheaper PowerShot SX220 HS, which is the same camera without the built-in GPS.) However, the Canon IXUS 1000 HS and Nikon Coolpix S8100 are good choices with slightly less extreme (10x) zooms, while the PowerShot SX130 IS has a 12x zoom in a less-pocket friendly body. If you want the small size but much better image quality, the Canon PowerShot S95 is just about unbeatable, but you're sacrificing a lot in zoom range. The Nikon Coolpix P7000 provides high quality results and a great zoom range, but not the same very compact size. All of these cameras will give you "something better", but not all in the same direction.I have fairly extensive experience of travel photography, and I find that having a better wide angle lens – a zoom that starts at 28mm or preferably 24mm – is much more useful than having a zoom that goes much beyond 150mm or 200mm (in terms of 35mm equivalents). The wide-angle lets you photograph large buildings without walking miles, and is a huge advantage when taking interior shots of cathedrals and so on. The telephoto end of the zoom suffers diminishing returns because it's harder to hold the camera steady (the zoom doesn't just magnify the image, it also magnifies camera shake) and because you tend to lose contrast and sharpness with atmospheric haze, or sometimes heat haze. If a subject is too far away, you'll generally get a better picture not by extreme zooming but by getting closer.
The Smurfs: Dance Party…Wii; £19.99; cert 3+; UbisoftThe Smurfs Dance Party is a shameless movie tie-in aimed squarely at younger children. There's a perfunctory story mode consisting of a series of songs from the film, linked by Papa Smurf narrating an incomprehensibly truncated version of its plot. The Dance mode is slightly easier on the ear, as it includes covers of classic tracks with vital lyrics replaced with the word "Smurf". However, a warning to parents: there's a non-stop shuffle mode, for days when you'd like your eardrums to bleed. The Smurfs Dance Party is surprisingly difficult – detailed instructions for repeated moves are displayed only once, and the scoring seems entirely arbitrary. Since there are no real penalties for failure, this only becomes a problem in multi-player mode, where it's easier to win by luck than by effort or skill. Young children may well have difficulty following the on-screen instructions, but if all they really want is to jump up and down in time to the Smurfs' latest musical output, this is the perfect way to do so.Mary HamiltonInsanely Twisted Shadow PlanetXbox Live; cert 7+; 1200 MS points; Shadow Planet ProductionsThat's a hat-trick: after the excellent Bastion and From Dust, Xbox Live's Summer of Arcade – Microsoft's annual off-season push for downloadable games – now delivers this terrific 2D puzzler/shooter, which cherry-picks a generous variety of established gaming tropes and adds a few new ones, too. Guiding a classically 1950s-style UFO through a series of side-scrolling caverns, you must explore every nook and cranny, dispatching the beasties within and regularly acquiring new tools (missiles, mechanical arms, rotating saws etc) that help you forge deeper into the map, "Metroidvania"-style. The spooky, cartoony art style is charming enough, but it's the ingenious, tactile puzzles that set off little fireworks of delight in your brain, somehow made all the more satisfying by an almost complete lack of text, instructional or narrative: figure it out yourself, it's more fun that way. Perhaps it could have been longer, but it packs a ton of ideas in while it lasts, many executed brilliantly.Tom HughesTouch 'n' Play Collection…DS; £19.99; cert 12+; O-GamesRemember those board game compendiums that we all had as kids? You know the ones – they collected together games such as chess, checkers, Ludo and more into one handy box. Well, now someone has assembled 50 such games onto one handy DS cartridge. The games are broken up into four categories – Classic, Puzzle, Arcade and Cards, with titles including Breakout, solitaire, snakes and ladders, blackjack, mahjong, dominoes and more. Well, 43 more, including variations on Tetris, Simon, Space Invaders, Yahtzee and Galaga. Some of the games work well on the small screen; many don't – such as  mahjong, dominoes, and most of the card games. On the plus side, most of the games have a multi-player option; on the minus side, there's the odd glitch here and there. But at less than 20 quid for 50 games, this is pretty decent value – there are bound to be a few here that you'll enjoy over and over.Stuart O'ConnorCaptain America: Super Soldier…Xbox 360/PS3/3DS; £49.99; cert 16+; SegaFor those who saw in Captain America: The First Avenger a gentle ribbing of the American military's overseas expeditions, the video game adaptation is out to set you straight. No sly mockery of US propaganda here: in fact, the plot is essentially non-existent. You take the role of unironically heroic Captain America as he plummets from a plane into various Nazi-infested sets from the film.  Using your shield in a variety of special moves, all of which are lifted straight from the action montages in the movie proper, you roam around beating up electrified Hydra employees, gymnastically swooping around poles and collecting, um, ceramic eggs? The hand-to-hand fighting is elaborate and very addictive: you can dodge, disarm, vault, block bullets with your shield (and ricochet them back) and let loose slow-motion critical blows. And it's really refreshing not to have a gun. In the pursuit of being "well-rounded", however, the game loses some momentum. You end up spending literally half the time looking behind crates to pick up dossiers. Blame Red Dead Redemption – more kung-fu next time, please.Chris MichaelinFAMOUS 2…PS3; £49.99; cert 16+; SonyA contemporary take on the classic superhero origin story, inFAMOUS 2 picks up where its predecessor left off with Cole MacGraith, bitten by a radioactive spider in the first game ... no wait, sorry, hit by a mysterious electrical explosion in the first game, navigating his way through a series of sandbox environments to develop new zappy powers and, ultimately, defeat a big scary boss. The game's offbeat sense of humour will draw you in, but its the sense of freedom that really impresses – with heaps of side missions, fun diversions, and moral choices affecting how the plot develops at every turn. Fans of the original will delight in the new range of powers on offer – including the ability to summon lightning storms and giant electrical twisters – while the simple fun of tossing cars around or grinding along telephone wires mean newcomers won't take long to find their feet. An occasionally iffy camera and some control issues means this might not be a must for all gamers, but developer Sucker Punch has somehow mixed the best bits of Assassin's Creed, Grand Theft Auto, Arkham Asylum and Tony Hawks to create something interesting, different – and above all, fun.Jack Arnott
The Financial Times' web app for iPhone and iPad is already attracting substantially more traffic than its native apps for those devices according to Rob Grimshaw, managing director of FT.com."350,000 people have used the web app now, and more than half of them have bookmarked it to their homescreens," he says. "In the first week, we saw more traffic coming from the web app than from the native app, and that has been sustained: the traffic to the web app far exceeds traffic to the native app."When the web applaunched in early June, it was seen within the industry as a direct response to new rules on iOS subscriptions. That was certainly part of the story, but Grimshaw says browser-based mobile access is about more than giving Apple a bloody nose."Everyone focuses on the scrap with Apple, but the origins of the web app come from thinking more broadly about our mobile strategy, and particularly how we are going to cope with developing for numerous different platforms," he says. "There are at least five out there that you reasonably have to cover, and a web app is the obvious solution. We just accelerated it because of some of the things Apple did with their subscriptions."An Android version of the web app is almost up and running, with BlackBerry Playbook next on the priority list. Grimshaw says that the key strength of the web app is that it can be rapidly tweaked and launched for new devices as they appear.The FT had been dabbling in mobile for a while when its FT Mobile iPhone app launched in July 2009, but that proved to be something of a tipping point for thr company, and wasfollowed by an iPad versionin May 2010. According to Grimshaw, the latter has been downloaded around 650,000 times, with "more than that" for the iPhone edition. These have also been joined by an Android version and a separate mobile website.Around 15% of new digital subscriptions every week come from mobile devices, says Grimshaw. In July, the FT announced that digital subscriptions to FT.comrose 34%in the second quarter of 2011 to almost 230,000.The strong uptake of both apps and the new iOS web app have strongly influenced the FT's investment into mobile, buoyed by the wider trends that he sees in the market."When you look at the rates of adoption, it's very clear that mobile is going to be the major channel for news consumption within a relatively short time," he says. "We think that within three years, we will have more than half of our digital access through mobile devices. Right now, 23% of our page views are coming from mobile."This is why that scrap with Apple – which wants 30% of the revenues from subscriptions initiated within iOS apps, but also to retain control of subscriber data – is seen as so important by the FT and its print media compatriots."It is very important that publishers seize the initiative on this stuff. Apple's desire to own the customer and the channel to marketplace is not unique: there are many other technology and platform providers out there who would like to do the same thing," says Grimshaw."We can sit around and whine about it, but it is more positive for publishers to take the initiative and show there's a different way to do business. And by doing that, we change the terms of our conversations with technology providers. The balance shifts. It's not that we don't want to work with third parties, but we want to do so on more favourable terms."For now, the content for the FT's apps and mobile sites is all drawn from its main website, and that is likely to continue. However, the company has just appointed its first mobile editorial head, with Grimshaw saying he can foresee certain situations where the FT's editorial team might want to edit mobile content separately.The company is already noticing some interesting usage habits among its mobile and tablet readers. In the case of the iPad, usage remains consistent throughout the week and into the weekend for example, rather than dipping markedly on Saturday and Sunday as the website traffic does. The FT's weekend content is thus being brought to the fore in its tablet apps in a way that it isn't on the site.Mobile has been the FT's big push in 2011, but Grimshaw is already mulling the evolution of that strategy. "In 2012, we'll be adding a real focus around personalisation, thinking about how we can use the insight we have into our audience to start delivering the content that we know they want," he says."We are taking a lot of lessons from the retail industry, who are better than this than almost everybody else. Many publishers are light years behind companies like Amazon, Zappos and other successful internet retailers. It is entirely appropriate to look at what they do, and adopt the same tools, techniques and culture."However, personalisation requires rich data on a service's subscribers, which brings us back to the situation on iOS, not to mention the strategies of Apple's rivals in the smartphone and tablet space. From a publisher's point of view, Grimshaw thinks the important thing is to have a diversity of devices and platforms: he praises Samsung's new Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet as the "the first one that really comes close to rivalling the iPad in terms of form"."Publishers have to take steps to help themselves," he says. "There is a channel here that has always been neutral: the browser. It's been neglected in some ways in the mobile world by publishers, but not by the audience. Even before we launched the web app, 50% of our [iPad] traffic was coming from the iPad browser rather than the native app. The browser is sacred territory: it's neutral and anybody in the world can use it to reach their audience. The more publishers do to secure that neutral channel to market, the stronger position they will be in when talking to technology providers."
LinkedIn, thefast-growing social network for business professionals, reported a 120% leap in revenues between April and June this year inits first resultsas a public company.Revenues at LinkedIn reached $121m (£74m) and net profit rose to $4.5m from $4.3m in the second quarter of 2010, according to results published on Thursday.The site founded by Reid Hoffman, who is also its biggest shareholder, made its stock market debut in May, one of the first of the new generation of highly valued social media firms to go public.Shares surged to $90 apiece– almost double their opening price – on their debut, and last night closed at $95 each. LinkedIn is valued at close to $10bn, based on after-hours trading.In results that will inspire yet more investor confidence in the young – and mostly loss-making – internet firms, LinkedIn forecast third-quarter revenue of $475m to $485m, ahead of analysts' expectations.Its membership base climbed to almost 116 million people at the end of June, up 61% on the same time last year. The LinkedIn chief executive, Jeff Weiner, said the site is adding about two members every second.Weiner has warned that the company will not turn a profit in 2011 as a whole, as it looks to invest in an international expansion.A string of other social media firms – including daily deals firm Groupon, social gaming company Zynga, and social networks Twitter and Facebook – are set to go public in the next 12 to 18 months.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
A burst of 11 apps for your considerationTap Tap GleeThere's already a rather fine karaoke app for US TV drama Glee on iPhone. Now it's been joined by a rhythm music game created by the company behind Tap Tap Revenge. Three songs are included for free – yes, including Don't Stop Believin' – with more than 50 available to buy in-app in packs of two, four or six.iPhoneEyeEmEyeEm is the latest social photo-sharing app to launch on iPhone, with hopes of taking on Instagram and the rest. The app includes nine visual filters and sharing on Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, Foursquare and Tumblr. Its key feature is its promise to learn what sort of photos you like, and point you in the direction of like-minded people around the world.iPhoneGLMPSIt must be the day for whizzy new social photography apps. GLMPS is out for iPhone, with its USP being the way it records a short video clip to accompany every photo that's taken and shared. Users sign in via Facebook and Twitter, with Foursquare and Tumblr also supported as places to share photos.iPhoneRdio for iPadUS streaming music service Rdio now has an iPad app – one of the first in its category. The user interface has been revamped for the larger screen, while people can sign up for a monthly subscription from within the app. However, it costs $14.99 a month to cover Apple's 30% revenue share, whereas a Rdio account (including mobile/tablet access) costs just $9.99 a month if signed up for directly on Rdio's website.iPadFieldrunners HDFieldrunners was one of the first popular tower defence games on iOS, and has since made the leap to Android. Now it's also been bumped up for Android tablets with HD graphics.AndroidClickySticky SuperheroesMerge Mobile has released a new iOS app in its series of virtual stickerbooks, this time focused on superheroes. The idea: children slap virtual stickers into four scenes to tell their own stories.iPhone / iPadLa Roche-Posay My UV AlertSuncare brand La Roche-Posay wants people to think more about skin protection, unsurprisingly. Its new iPhone app helps calculate what level of protection to slap on, as well as providing UV warning notifications and weather forecasts for the UK.iPhoneGetJar ClientIndependent app store GetJar has notched up more than two billion downloads, with Android one of its key categories. Now it seems the company has launched its own Android app to help people browse and download from its catalogue.AndroidWolfram Travel Assistant AppThe latest statfest app from the Wolfram Alpha stable is a travel-focused iOS app, offering flight details, currency calculations, tourist information and time-zone computation.iPhone / iPadBrad Faxon - ShotVision GolfGolfing coach Brad Faxon has put his name to this new instructional iOS app by ShotVision, which has more than 70 videos explaining how to putt and chip like a pro. Players can also upload their swing to compare.iPhone / iPadCabulous for FacebookIt only works in selected US cities for now, but the Cabulous for Facebook iPhone app is an intriguing idea. It gets people to hire taxis using their Facebook accounts, then share the experience with friends. Currently available in San Francisco, Anchorage, Cleveland and Naples (the Florida one, obviously).iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamLinkedIn Beats The Street In First Quarter As A Public Company; Revenue Up 120 Percent To $121M &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"For the first time as a public company, professional social network LinkedIn is reporting its second quarter results today. LinkedIn's revenue for the quarter came in at $121 million, which is an increase of 120% compared to $54.9 million for the second quarter of 2010. Net income for the second quarter was $4.5 million, compared to $4.3 million for the second quarter of 2010; Non-GAAP net income for the second quarter was $10.8 million, compared to $6.4 million for the second quarter of 2010. The company blew away analayst estimates the quarter. Analysts expected a loss of 4 cents per share on revenue of $104.5 million."View deleted tweets &gt;&gt; UndetweetableDid monitor feeds to see if tweets had vanished. No longer: "Unfortunately, Undetweetable has been asked to shut down and we can no longer function without Twitter's support. This project was meant to begin a discussion about privacy and digital identity and, thanks to the overwhelming response from users like yourself, we hope that we have accomplished that goal. For now, you may continue browsing Undetweetable, but we will no longer gather deleted tweets."How Secure Is My Password?Simple, really. Tells you how long it would take the average desktop machine to crack your password. Or if you're one of the most popular passwords (in which case, change it). No usernames or emails taken, so it's safe.The mystery man behind Megaupload piracy fight &gt;&gt; CNET News"MegaPorn, MegaVideo, MegaLive, MegaPix, and Megaupload are all Kim Schmitz: entrepreneur, father, former hacker, former street racer, and former outlaw."Depending on who you ask, all of these sites and brands created by Schmitz--a well-known hacker in Germany who is said to have officially changed his name to Kim Dotcom--are either part of the simple and successful Internet file-storage business he founded in 2005, or they're an extension of a vast online piracy empire that includes some of the most visited video sites on the Web--right there along with YouTube and Hulu."Ah, Kim Schmitz. Again.Wayback Machine: Righting The Wrongs: Van Halen and M&amp;Ms &gt;&gt; Jim CoferVia the (wonderful) Wayback Machine, the original Jim Cofer blogpost that led to yesterday's link. Worth reading, because it makes you realise that including a "brown M&amp;Ms" clause in a big contract is really very good idea. Consider it next time you have something important to sort.Was Aaron Swartz Stealing? &gt;&gt; The Awl"Once Swartz had been collared, JSTOR declined to pursue charges against him... Indeed JSTOR immediately made a public statement to the effect that they have no beef with Swartz. There are two obvious reasons why the Feds decided to pursue criminal charges anyway. The first is that the Feds were already pissed off at Swartz and were just waiting for a chance to go after him."In 2008, Swartz, taking advantage of a free trial of PACER, a government database of court records, cleverly automated a download of nearly 20 million documents. This was in response to the call of information activist Carl Malamud for donations of downloaded PACER documents, which ordinarily cost eight cents per page. Malamud's position is that since the public owns these documents, access to them should be easy and free of charge online. In the event, Swartz hadn't broken any laws, so the Feds were forced to drop their investigation. Perhaps a certain resentment lingered."Distribution of capacity of PR thumb drives &gt;&gt; Dan FrakesDan Frakes had the smart idea of creating a physical graph of the capacities of thumb drives in his possession. Where's yours?Hidden local backups with Mac OS X Lion filling up your MacBook hard disk! &gt;&gt; 0x4e71"- You have a MacBook or MacBook Air running Mac OS X Lion?"- Ever wondered why you are losing GB worth of hard disk space every day? "- Using Time Machine?"It's making local backups while you're away from your Time Machine disk. Never fear, there's a Terminal command to diable it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Phew, it's Friday! Buying any games for the weekend?
Young Rewired State has been hard at it all week, with100teenage coders working on43projects at14centres around the UK.This is the thirdYoung Rewired State, which specifically aims to make offer powerful, important public data available to imaginative young developers for one week. At the end of that, the developers should have improved their skills while showing government and the older dev community some fresh new ideas.Brighton's two YRS teams: MyNHS and mycouncil. Photo bychrisleydonandOlly Newporton Flickr.Some rights reservedAfter devising a project and building it all week, the developers will gather at Microsoft's London HQ on Friday afternoon to do a two-minute presentation of their project. Various prizes are offered for best in show, best developer and best hack. Though obviously it's the taking part that counts.I spoke to two teams working from theNixon McInnesoffice in Brighton today. The three designers working on the MyCouncil project explained that it's an interface that lets the public ask simple questions to their council, bypassing the complex and impenetrably dense council websites where it can be hard to find the information you need, MP's surgery or unnecessarily lengthy phone call. (That's something more than a little resonant of work that theAlpha Govteam has been doing with government websites, though that first phase hasnow come to a close.) The team: Damon Hayhurst, Online Parish Board and concept; Sean Spooner, SMS integration and iPhone web application; Louis Porter, Twitter integration and SMS backend.How the NHS might look?The second team were building MyNHS using a combination of current NHS data and 'imagined' data, such as patient records and prescription histories. Patients could use the site to find their nearest hospital, GP or pharmacy, then book a GP appointment or arrange a repeat prescription online. Really, these aren't complex functions, but the combination of historic shamefully expensive external contracts for government IT systems and lack of security with public data doesn't inspire confidence that anything this 'radical' would or could happen soon.Both teams were being mentored by Chris Thorpe this week, formerly of Moshi, the Guardian and ArtFinder amongst other things, who has been advising on what data to use and how to use it, as well as helping the developers keep their code clean. Within ten years - normally a ridiculously long-term range for anything tech related - it is realistic to think that government will have restructured its online services this way, said Thorpe.Young Rewired Staters in London. Photo bymatt-luchton Flickr.Some rights reserved"When you use services such as Facebook, Twitter and any social service you have an expectation of these services being about you and around you - and that's not how government has traditionally been," he said. "Government provides services that you can use, rather than those that fit your needs and there's a vast difference between those things."But the generation that are here have grown up with those web 2.0 services centred around you as a person, and they expect that government services do the same thing.Chuck Norris on the teamThe MyNHS team developers are all 14 and 15. Lewis Bryant, Tyler Green and James Thompson are from Crawley and are here because their school's IT teacher encouraged them to get involved, while Harry Rickards from Uckfield has already been to two Rewired State events. Bryant, who'd been doing background research and cleaning up some of the data, told me he thinks YRS is important because it gives young people the chance "to have a go at real-life scenarios and try to invent something for the future".Rickards said he first started programming by learning Java, moved on to PHP and is has been teaching himself Ruby this week. He definitely wants to work as a developer - and for GCHQ. "This has been a good learning experience - I've become much more aware of what kind of data is released and also how much of it is badly formatted. And I've learnt that for hacks you don't have to come up with a polished product - you can have static pages just to show the idea."James Thompson, once he'd got over insisting that his name was Chuck Norris, showed me how he'd been trying to put together a Windows Mobile demo of the MyNHS app usingVisual StudioandExpression Blend, and learningC#. He's not phased by the prospect of presenting the MyNHS demo tomorrow in front of more than 100 people, despite the challenge of presenting a concise, compelling explanation of a complex app in just 120 seconds: "I've never been scared by presenting. I'm pretty confident like that."More on the winners fromRewired Statetomorrow - follow#yrs2011on Twitter from 2pm.• If you were curious to know how young the devs are - the answer ispretty young. Check this out this group of Young Rewired Staters at Ipswich's Chantry Library. They really do get younger every year:An update on prizes, to be dished out after the presentations atMicrosoft's HQlater today: They have been donated by Nokia, Microsoft, Google and Rewired State. And even the lovely Stephen Fry himself, who's quite a fan. Judges include Mike Butcher of TechCrunch Europe, Google's Chewy Trewhella, Jonathan Luff from the Prime Minister's Office at Number Ten.How did this all start? "Young Rewired State was started because we could see developers everywhere getting excited about government starting to open its data, but no one under the age of 25 seemed to be engaging," said Young Rewired State founder Emma Mulqueeny."We thought we'd try to call out for socially conscious young coders and give them an exciting host venue and a challenge, with prizes, to see if we could light the fire in their bellies. It worked! Young Rewired State is now more than an annual event, it is a network of coders aged 18 or under and it is growing and giving these young people experiences, mentoring and opportunities never before seen amongst this community."One YRSer's Mum, Kerry Peers, had this to say about the project earlier this week: "I think this is going to change his life," she said. "I know that sounds like a huge statement, but just knowing that there are other kids out there with the same interests as him and people he can now email and chat to about his ideas and learn from, will make a massive difference to him. He can now see the path ahead and already that is giving him confidence."
You may recall Richard Gaywood's intriguing postasking "where is the Mac malware explosion, then?"on 21 July - where he pointed out that there hadn't been any updates to the MacDefender virus definitions on the Mac since 18 June.This may be the answer.Hop over to Brian Krebs's excellent Krebs On Security, where he notes that the "Fake antivirus industry is down, but not out":Many fake antivirus businesses that paid hackers to foist junk security software on PC users have closed up shop in recent weeks. The wave of closures comes amid heightened scrutiny by the industry from security experts and a host of international law enforcement officials. But it's probably too soon to break out the bubbly: The inordinate profits that drive fake AV peddlers guarantee the market will soon rebound.What's happened is that the payment companies that the fake AV companies used have seen clampdowns which have stopped them from making payments to their would-be clients. When the money doesn't flow, the payments don't get taken.Krebs also says that "There may be another reason for the disruption: On June 23, Russian police arrested the co-founder of Russian online payment giant ChronoPay and a major player in the fake AV market." Krebs hadwritten in Maythat there seemed to be a connection between ChronoPay and the appearance of MacDefender; he suggested that it was employees of ChronoPay who were pushing it. ChronoPay had issued a statement denying it.This is where it gets interesting: inside the Chronopay offices in Moscow, Krebs says police found "mountains of evidence that ChronoPay employees were running technical and customer support for a variety of fake AV programs, including MacDefender." (There's aphoto from the offices; though much of it is in Russian, it does have the names of various fake AV products.)So, Saturday 18 June, last new version of MacDefender; Thursday 23 June, raid on offices. Quite possibly things just got a bit tight at ChronoPay and so they couldn't do the new updates.But Krebs does point to one problem: fake AV is "ridiculously profitable". Once you get a few thousand installs, you're basically printing money. So even though MacDefender is (probably) gone, the possibility - probability? - remains that fake AV scams, and possibly worse, are being cooked up by people looking to cash in on Apple users as well as Windows ones.
If you're not a fan of freemium gaming models, you might want to look away now. Smartphone publisher Glu Mobile is selling a gun in its Gun Bros game for the virtual currency equivalent of $500 (£306). Not much less than the price of the top-end 64GB iPod touch.This is no joke. The gun is The Kraken, which according to mobile gaming siteTouchArcadeis "the mack daddy of all premium unlockable guns... which promises to instantly vaporize all nearby enemies". It costs 3,499 of Gun Bros' war bucks currency, which sells in packs of 710 for $99 via in-app payment: hence the $500 figure.Money well spent for a gun that makes you essentially unbeatable? Or simply an expensive way to make the game no fun at all? As the heated debate onthis Apps Blog postabout freemium gaming shows, plenty of people are puzzled at the notion of - in the words of Guardian community member R042 - "simply paying to remove what little gameplay there is by immediately getting everything".The phenomenon of so-called whales who pay lots of money within freemium games is well known, but charging $500 for a virtual item is a rarity. Social location game Gbangacaused a stirin March 2011 when it unveiled a $99 World Domination Satellite item (and sold one within a few hours), but you could buy five of those for one Kraken gun.By contrast, Square Enix's pricing for its new Final Fantasy Tactics: The War of the Lions iPhone game is relatively restrained. Even so, here too is an example of a publisher looking to stretch the generally accepted boundaries for iOS game pricing.The game - a tactical RPG based on the publisher's famous fantasy franchise - went live today on the App Store as a paid app costing £10.99.At the time of writing, it's the eighth Top Grossing iPhone game in the UK App Store, two places ahead of the 69p Angry Birds, although behind freemium titles Zynga Poker, Smurfs' Village, Tap Pet Hotel, Tap Zoo, Zombie Gunship and Tiny Tower.£10.99, though. It feels like a stretch given the history of the title. It was first released on PlayStation in 1997, then re-released in 2007 for Sony's PSP handheld with the War of the Lions subtitle. It's that game which has now been released for iPhone, albeit with touchscreen controls, faster loading times and tweaked graphics.You don't have to be a cheapskate to wonder if both Glu and Square Enix are, frankly, pushing it with their pricing strategies. But it's their right to set whatever price they like for their games and items, and either reap the commmercial rewards, or swiftly bring the costs down if players keep their (virtual) wallets in their pockets.Part of the fascination of mobile gaming in 2011 is that there is still an immense amount of experimentation going on around pricing. A marketplace where companies like EA routinely drop the cost of their biggest brands to 69p, yet where virtual guns are offered for 443 times that price, could at least never be accused of being boring.
ThePlayStation Vitahandheld console will not be launching this year – at least outside of Japan. When the device was showcased at E3 this year, many pundits expected a 'phased roll-out' to conclude at the end of 2011. However, according toan Associated Press report, Sony Executive Vice President Kazuo Hirai has told reporters that the device would be released in Japan by the end of the year, and 'early next year' in the UK and United States.It's an uncertain time in the handheld gaming market. Nintendo has recently been forced to cut the price of its 3DS console after disappointing sales – Nintendo president Satoru Iwata evenapologisedto early adopters of the technology for the move.According to AP, Hirai asserted that Sony needs to be ready with a strong software line-up in time for the hardware launch. It is a comment perhaps inspired by theories that the 3DS's underwhelming software library has been to blame for its lacklustre performance.The Vita is Sony's follow-up to the PSP handheld. Featuring a five-inch OLED screen, touch-sensitive panels, motion controls and a powerful quad-core processor, the device can also function as a PlayStation 3 controller, opening up new interface possibilities for the console. Vita is set to retail for £230.
There are plans afoot at Facebook to rejig the news feed again, which, if you remember, was the source of the first ever user protests (and oh, there have been many since then!). AWall Street Journalreport claims that Facebook is looking at an unfiltered news feed that would significantly expand the amount of content in the feed. Not good for those of us who've spent valuable hours curating and culling content to make that less noisy, but possibly a sign of encroaching commercial features in the feed. Facebook toldCNETthe plans were actually about including 'like' activity from your friends, but the feature will be tested first.Other plans involve opening out the 'like' icon to include other symbols that third-party developers could add in, which might look like small icons. Brands will love that, of course. It's the Facebook equivalent ofJibbitz, the plastic buttons that accessorise Crocs.Expect more on this during F8, the Facebook developer conference, likely to belater this month.Photo bywilgengebroedon Flickr.Some rights reserved• Also: Mark Zuckerberg's sister Randi is leaving Facebook after six years to start her own social media company, RtoZ Media focusing on "the exciting trends underway in the media industry". She'd been on maternity leave for a few months and decided to move on;Kara Swisherhas her full resignation letter. Randi Zuckerberg was very far from core to Facebook's engineering mission, and became the face of Facebook's more philanthropic, fluffierprojectsaround campaigning and user engagement. Still, that surname won't hurt as she sets up her own project.
For a company that gave itself a traditionallymis-speltweb-style pseudonym to make it stand out online, Google is handling the issue of monikers rather badly when it comes to Google+.The list of blocked users is what is now being referred to as theNymWarsextends to some fairly influential users. Most embarrassingly for Google, the latest isBlake Ross, co-founder of Firefox, who was inexplicably blocked from the service on Wednesday night.  He trumps evenWilliam Shatner.Photo bybirgerkingon Flickr.Some rights reservedBlocked users are told: "After reviewing your profile, we determined that the name you provided violates our Community Standards." Standards that are being used to ensure that everyone using Google+ is signed up using their real name. It doesn't take much imagination to work up a fewconspiracy theoriesabout why Google should be so insistent on a real-name policy, alongside some more rational, soft-policy theories on encouraging a more, mature constructive level of engagement that reflects how we best communicate in the real world – ie, when we know who we're talking to.But online identity is more nuanced than that. Though the roots of pseudonyms may have been in the murky, early web days when users may have felt safer protecting their identity when exploring this new world – and though anonymity certainly has an important place in protecting identities in particular cases – pseudonyms are not necessarily about identity. For many web users, a nickname is more like an online brand, something that makes them stand out from the others with the same name, something that brands their work across multiple sites, and something they use in conjunction with their real name. (SeeKrishnan Guru Murthy's poston anonymity and managing social networks.)Just who is being banned?Kirrily "Skud" Roberthas been collecting cases studies of users with suspended accounts. She found that:• 74% of the 119 reports she collected said they had been using the name that most people knew them by online.• 18% used the name they were known exclusively by online.• 13% said they were banned for using the name despite the fact it appears on some form of government-issued ID. (Of particular interest to the conspiracy theorists...)• Users that had signed up with pen or stage names.• Reasons for using a pseudonym varied from teachers protecting their identity from their schoolkids, rape and stalking victims (one suggested the real name policy is more risky to women), disguising religious/political views from extended family and using a more distinctive name that is easier to find online. In short – a wide range of well-justified and "human" explanations for using alternative names.While some users might not want their real name to appear at all, others, like Documentally, would prefer an extra name field to allow for monikers too."It's a private company and they have the right to set their own policies. But I have loads of people following me and have no idea who they are, because they're not using the names I know them by. I have a whole circle called 'who?'. They are trying to rewrite internet law."Brand and company pages are being plannedGoogle+ project leadVic Gundotrahas been one of several Google engineers asking users for feedback within Google+, and has told several users that nickname support will be added, along with dedicated pages for brands and organisations.Where some suggestions have been reviewed and implemented overnight, support for alternative names seems to be stalling, while the very strict interpretation of Google's policy is making some very negative ripples – despite an attempt at clarification from senior GooglerBradley Horowitz. He explains that users can add "other names" to their profile, but that's still not as flexible as allowing users to make their "other name" their primary ID on the service. That should surely be the choice of the user?Risking growth and goodwillcomScore estimates that invite-only Google+ has now reached25 million usersin just over one month –faster growththan Facebook of Twitter.But of course Google+ will grow faster than those services, because it is moving into an established market where users understand the basic proposition. Facebook and Twitter had to work harder to prove themselves and get that growth. Facebook does "evict" users who don't appear to use real names, but didn't seem to prioritise that until it had a huge userbase.It's risky for Google to take what feels like a hardline approach, for two reasons. Firstly, many of the users it is now penalising for using online monikers are valuable, influential early adopters – and Googlereallyneeds them to be on side. Secondly, given the battle for this space, and how Google+ needs to prove itself by getting to a critical mass of people as quickly as possible, it can't afford to lose momentum.I can't sum it up better thanbennycrime. His video illustrates how much work Google has to do to take Google+ to the mainstream ("Google Plus? Is that better than Google Google?" but also how being banned is fast becoming a geek badge of cool.Being banned from Google+ might just be the new beingbanned from the ranch.
It has been exactly three weeks since Spotify launched in the US, and the jury is still out on whether it will be a success or not.Initial signs are looking good, however - if social media is anything to go by.Brandwatch, which monitors trends and sentiment on networks, has picked up an overwhelmingly positive response so far. During the first week, 37% of mentions were positive and 4% negative, with the remainder neutral.Photo byJay Kogamion Flickr.Some rights reservedSpotify fairly majorly tweaked its terms of use before theUS launchand restricted free accounts somewhat - changes widely thought to be in response to record label demands. But its priority is to attract enough paying users that it can convincingly compete in the more competitive US market where Pandora, Rdio and Rhapsody are already established.Those essential paid subscriptions account for 16% of overall Spotify accounts, though there were also reports that 70,000 paid users had signed up during the first week of operation in the US, according to aBillboardreport. Spotify wouldn't confirm the number at the time but said the response had exceeded expectation.Brandwatch assessed mentions of 'pay for Spotify' this and estimated that 47% of sentiment was positive, down from 60% in the first week after launch. Users are more positive about Spotify than its rivals in their online discussions, though more vocal about their opinions generally:• Spotify: 39% positive, 4% negative• Pandora: 26% positive, 1% negative• Rhapsody: 21% positive, 1% negative• Rdio: 29% positive, 3% negative
Google has accused Apple, Microsoft, Oracle and "other companies" of trying to make Android smartphones more expensive to consumers by running a "hostile, organised campaign" against it by using "bogus patents" acquired from the bankrupt Canadian company Nortel and their existing patent holdings.Its chief legal officer, David Drummond, alleges that the companies are effectively imposing a "tax" to push up the price of Android devices. "Microsoft and Apple have always been at each other's throats, so when they get into bed together you have to start wondering what's going on,"Drummond wrote in a blog post.But Microsoft has hit back, with itsgeneral counsel Brad Smith claiming on Twitterthat Microsoft invited Google to bid jointly for the Nortel patents – and was turned down. Representatives from Apple and Oracle declined to comment.Drummond alleges that the rival companies are using an "anti-competitive strategy [which] is also escalating the cost of patents way beyond what they're actually worth" and using them to stifle innovation.Drummond writes that "in this instance we thought it was important to speak out and make it clear that we're determined to preserve Android as a competitive choice for consumers, by stopping those who are trying to strangle it".He asserts: "Microsoft and Apple's winning $4.5bn (£2.7bn) for Nortel's patent portfolio was nearly five times larger than the pre-auction estimate of $1bn. Fortunately, the law frowns on the accumulation of dubious patents for anti-competitive means – which means these deals are likely to draw regulatory scrutiny, and this patent bubble will pop."A consortium includingMicrosoft, Apple and RIM won the bid for the Nortel patents, which cover a number of communications technologies, against a consortium of Google and Intel. Google had made a preliminary bid of $900m before the auction, but was eventually outbid despite having large reserves of cash.Drummond says: "A smartphone might involve as many as 250,000 (largely questionable) patent claims, and our competitors want to impose a 'tax' for these dubious patents that makes Android devices more expensive for consumers. They want to make it harder for manufacturers to sell Android devices. Instead of competing by building new features or devices, they are fighting through litigation."Microsoft has sued Motorola and Barnes &amp; Noble, claiming that their use of Android infringes patents that it holds, while Apple has filed a number of similar suits asserting patent claims against other companies.HTC has admitted that it is paying Microsoft a set amount for each Android device it sells. The amount has not been disclosed but it is believed to be between $5 and $15.Apple recently won a ruling in the US that HTC infringes patents covering the iPhone. And Oracle is currently suing Google in a multibillion-dollar lawsuit alleging that Android infringes copyright relating to its Java programming language, acquired through the purchase of Sun Microsystems.Google launched its Android mobile operating system at the end of 2007, with the first phones appearing about a year later. It makes it available for free to handset makers, unlike companies like Microsoft which charges around $15 per handset using its Windows Phone software.Android phones have exploded in popularity, making more than a third of all smartphones sold around the world. The platform has displaced the former leader Nokia, which is abandoning its Symbian operating system in favour of Windows Phone. Apple and RIM have their own mobile operating systems which they do not license.Google has been hampered by a lack of intellectual property in wireless telephony, which has exposed it to patent-infringement lawsuits from rivals such as Oracle.Drummond says Google is looking to strengthen its patent portfolio; it recently bought more than 1,000 patents from IBM. It is also in talks to buy InterDigital, a key holder of wireless patents valued at more than $3bn, according to the Wall Street Journal.The most valuable patent it uses covers its "PageRank" search algorithm used for organising its search results: it has an exclusive licence on that from Stanford University, where Sergey Brin and Larry Page developed it. Though the PageRank patent is now available for licensing, Google has the rights to determine who can license it.Patent acquisitions are expected to accelerate, with IBM and Kodak often mentioned as shopping for intellectual property on the market.
I'm sorry, but I had to blog about this. Namco Bandai has released a new international version of itsPac-Man Twitter client, originally launched in Japan earlier this year. Featuring all the standard Twitter functions, it comes with skins resembling the classic 1981 maze game as well as legendary shooter, Galaga, celebrating its 30th anniversary this year."When you update your timeline, characters on the screen move around to classic PAC-MAN and Galaga melodies," explains the press release. Furthermore, each time you reach a certain number of outgoing tweets, an onscreen roulette wheel spins, giving you the chance to win a puzzle piece; collect all the pieces and you're awarded with a Pac-Man or Galaga wallpaper.Of course, they could have gone further, playing the classic Pac-Man waka-waka noise every time you tap in a letter, finally delivering the death sound when you reach 140 characters – perhaps they're saving that for the next update.So which classic game wouldyoulike to see reborn as a social media novelty? A Metal Gear Solid codec would be nice, or a LucasArts adventure client that forces you to construct all your tweets using a SCUMM interface... Failing that, Horace Goes Tweeting? Once again, I'm sorry.
A burst of 13 apps for your considerationFinal Fantasy TacticsSquare Enix has brought its Final Fantasy Tactics franchise to iPhone, with an episode subtitled The War Of The Lions – previously released on PSP in 2007. There are new touchscreen controls and boosted loading times, with tarted-up graphics too. Rival games publishers will be keenly watching to see if the £10.99 price sinks or swims on the App Store.iPhonePeppa Pig's Party TimeP2 Games has released the first Peppa Pig app for iPad. Party Time offers a mixture of mini-games and creative activities starring Peppa, family and friends. Stickers, cake-decoration and musical chairs all feature.iPadCut the Rope: ExperimentsCasual iOS hit Cut the Rope has a sequel for iPhone and iPad, which sees hero Om Nom taking on another succession of physics puzzles. From an industry standpoint, the interesting thing is that developer ZeptoLab is self-publishing this time round, rather than working with the original game's publisher Chillingo – thus following in the footsteps of Angry Birds firm Rovio.iPhone / iPadHP CodescanHP has released a barcode-reading app for Android, which it's suggesting can be used to scan codes on products including computers, printers, ink, DVDs, books and food to return reviews, accessory information and nutritional data. We're guessing printer ink isn't too calorific.AndroidShift 2 UnleashedEA's Need for Speed franchise has taken its latest twist, with a new episode for iPhone that sees gamers racing through exotic locations upgrading their car along the way. A key feature is EA's new Origin community, with high-score tables, exclusive cups and "free NFS cash".iPhoneBeep Beep Coloring BooksCorel is busy this week on the apps front, with Beep Beep Coloring Book its attempt to target the booming kid-apps market. The iPad app is a virtual colouring book, with the ability to share the results on Facebook.iPadPac'n Twit for TwitterYes, what you're thinking is right: there's a Pac-Man-themed Twitter app for iPhone. What's more, it's official: this is the work of publisher Namco Bandai. It does all the basic Twitter stuff, with a Pac-themed skin. Galaga skins are also included for gamers who get bored of the little yella fella.iPhoneMusiMobMusiMob is a streaming music app for Android serving up 20,000 channels of radio and music videos, sorted by genre and artist. It works over 3G and Wi-Fi, and includes social features and integration with the Amazon MP3 store.AndroidMirror Football Story of ManchesterThe Daily Mirror's second club-specific football app for iOS isn't about both Manchester clubs: it focuses in on Manchester United. Fronted by journalist Oliver Holt, the app offers photos from the Mirror archives, as well as audio and video with Holt talking fans through the club's history.iPhone / iPadSave DodoAnother day, another cutesy-looking casual iPhone game based around birds flying. These birds are dodos, mind, while Save Dodo has an attractive visual style that could help it soar above the crowds of competitors.iPhoneGameBox for FacebookThis is an iPad browser app that lets people play Facebook social games – yes, even those developed in Flash. That's its big selling point, taking on existing app iSwifter in that field. For now, only two games are supported: Army Attack and CityVille, although the latter's availability as a native iPad app reduces the appeal for now.iPadMy Daily DealMy Daily Deal aggregates offers from services including Groupon, Wahanda Mob, Dealtastic and KGB Deals, serving up local deals for UK users categorised by city and type.iPhoneVonage Time to CallVoice-over-IP firm Vonage has launched a new iPhone app touting low-cost international calls, but the big feature is the ability to pay those low costs using an iTunes account. Presumably this means Apple is taking 30% of the revenues, too.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhen patents attack Android &gt;&gt; Official Google Blog"...But Android's success has yielded something else: a hostile, organized campaign against Android by Microsoft, Oracle, Apple and other companies, waged through bogus patents."They're doing this by banding together to acquire Novell's old patents (the "CPTN" group including Microsoft and Apple) and Nortel's old patents (the "Rockstar" group including Microsoft and Apple), to make sure Google didn't get them; seeking $15 licensing fees for every Android device; attempting to make it more expensive for phone manufacturers to license Android (which we provide free of charge) than Windows Phone 7; and even suing Barnes &amp; Noble, HTC, Motorola, and Samsung. Patents were meant to encourage innovation, but lately they are being used as a weapon to stop it."Google: Patently Absurd &gt;&gt; Daring Fireball"How is Google's argument here different than simply demanding that Apple, Microsoft, Oracle, et al should simply sit back and let Google do whatever it wants with Android, regardless of the patents they hold? And, let's not forget, give Android away for free."Forrester: Windows 7 powering 21 percent of corporate desktops; XP still at 60% &gt;&gt; ZDNetA little late, but: "By the end of March 2011, Windows 7 was powering 20.9 percent of corporate PCs, according to a new Forrester Research report, while Windows XP was on 60% of business PCs -- down from 69% a year ago."Forrester's report, "Corporate Desktop Operating System And Browser Trends, Q2 2010 To Q2 2011? included results from Forrester's analysis of more than 400,000 client PCs at 2,500 companies. The June 16 report includes 12 months of data collected between the start of the second calendar quarter of 2010 through the end of the first calendar quarter of 2011."The table is interesting: well worth the clickthrough.Online dating in 2011: The most niche sites for love on the Internet &gt;&gt; The Next WebSimply brilliant. Is it just us laughing at the picture that goes with the "Yes! Mrs Robinson" [sic] site, or is everyone enjoying it too? "For pairing cougars with their prey". Indeed. And plenty more that still manage to stay SFW.Site Blocking: What the UK Government would prefer you not to see &gt;&gt; TJ McintyreSo the DCMS put out a redacted PDF. Turned out the redaction was easy to reverse. "The full, unredacted version now appears on Scribd. As can be seen from that document, the material which was redacted was all improperly removed. The tactics discussed to circumvent blocking are all well-known, even to a mere lawyer such as myself, and the redactions appear to be motivated more by considerations of security theatre than anything else."Good news, IE users: Media flunked IQ test, not you &gt;&gt; GeekWireTodd Bishop: "More evidence: AptiQuant's site was registered on July 14, less than a month ago, despite the company's statement that it was founded in 2006. This morning I called the phone number associated with AptiQuant's domain registration, but the man who answered started speaking another language after I identified myself as a reporter, and he ultimately hung up after we weren't able to communicate."News outlets that reported on the study -- including the BBC, Business Insider, CNN and many others -- are now reporting it was a hoax."Oh, hell. Who's going to tell the Opera users?Aaron Swartz / JSTOR case has State felony charges, not just Federal &gt;&gt; Seth Finkelstein"Many, many, years ago, back before Twitter and blogs, when USENET was one of the centers of net.influence, I argued about the David LaMacchia case. I eventually turned out to be right about the legal outcome. But personally, it wasn't worth all the flaming over "theft" and similar. I don't need to relive that experience, I'm trying to learn from my mistakes."Anyway, to say something people haven't heard, news only started to circulate last Friday that in addition to the Federal government charges of "Wire Fraud", "Computer Fraud", "Unlawfully Obtaining Information from a Protected Computer", "Recklessly Damaging a Protected Computer", there are also two State government charges."Hacker stock art &gt;&gt; Boing BoingNobody knows how to illustrate stories about hacking. In fact, they struggle a lot with stories about technology generally.Why brown M&amp;Ms were Van Halen's real-life checksum &gt;&gt; Chris DicksonClever: why would you specify such an arcane and trivial element as "no brown M&amp;Ms" in your contract? Think about it for a bit. (Original article that he links to is gone, but he does explain it himself.)And you thought they were dumb rock musicians.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Thursday – time to start thinking about your gaming weekend...
Britons' appetite for Facebook and social networks on the go is driving a huge demand for smartphones – with 60% of teenagers describing themselves as "highly addicted" to their device – according to new research by the media regulator, Ofcom.Almost half of teenagers and more than a quarter of adults now own a smartphone, with most using their iPhone or BlackBerry to browse Facebook and email.The study,published on Thursday, also shows that smartphones have begun to intrude on our most private moments, with 47% of teenagers admitting to using their device in the toilet. Only 22% of adults confessed to the same habit. Unsurprisingly, mobile-addicted teens are more likely than adults to be distracted by their phones over dinner and in the cinema – and more would answer their phone if it woke them up.Separate figures shared exclusively with the Guardian show that, for the first time, smartphone sales outstripped sales of regular mobiles in the first half of this year as the enormous demand continues to rise. Just over half of the total 13.6m mobile sales from January to June 2011 were smartphones, according to research by GfK Retail and Technology UK.Of the new generation of smartphone users, 60% of teenagers classed themselves as "highly addicted" to their device, compared to 37% of adults.Ofcom surveyed 2,073 adults and 521 children and teenagers in March this year. The regulator defines teenagers as aged between 12 and 15, with adults 16-years-old and above."Ofcom's report shows the influence that communications technology now has on our daily lives, and on the way we behave and communicate with each other," said James Thickett, Ofcom's director of research."Our research into the use of smartphones, in particular, reveals how quickly people become reliant on new technology – to the point of feeling addicted. As more and more people acquire smartphones, they are becoming an essential tool in peoples' social lives whether they are out with friends socialising or using Facebook on the move."Facebook remains far and away the most popular website for mobile users, with users spending almost four times the amount of time socialising online than using Google or any other website. Unsurprisingly, multi-tasking teenagers said they were less likely to read books if they owned a smartphone. But they also said that owning a smartphone made them more likely to ditch games consoles like the PS3 and the computer, in favour of their pocket-sized handset.The huge boost in smartphone sales has led to a 67% increase in mobile data use as phone users watched videos and sent emails on the go. Mobile operators, such as O2 and Vodafone, have been put under huge strain by the new load. But Thickett said the carriers are coping with the enormous demand."The research is saying that people are keeping their phones on longer and becoming addicted to them. This isn't a problem now but something we need to be aware of. Operators have responded by upgrading their networks so it is being coped with," Thickett said.Despite being a nation of mobile addicts, Ofcom found that truisms still apply when it comes to traditional media like TV and radio. Other findings show:• Britons are spending more time in front of the TV (four hours a day last year, compared to 3.8 hours in 2009). This is partly due to the rise of on-demand viewing, most notably Sky+, and an increase in the number of homes with high-definition TVs. Two newcomers to the HD market, Freeview HD and Freesat HD, have established themselves as more-affordable competitors to Virgin Media and Sky.• The new generation of broadband, delivered by fibre-optic cables, is now available for 57% of UK households – though just 500,000 have adopted it. Four in five of those with superfast broadband said they were satisfied with the service, compared to 57% satisfaction with their previous broadband.• Aside from offline gaming, Brits who own games consoles are most likely to use it for watching video content (22%), online gaming (22%), and watching DVDs (19%). Just over one in 10 said they browse the web via their games console, while 9% use it to watch BBC iPlayer.• Britons sent an average of five text messages a day last year, contributing to a total of 129bn texts sent – up by 24% in 2009.• Nearly 10m TV sets were sold in 2010, almost all of which were HD ready. The rise of internet-enabled TVs continued, with 1m sales last year, and 3D living room viewing remained a marginal activity, with 125,000 sales of 3D TVs.However, Ofcom warned that older Britons risked being left behind in the "digital revolution". While 90% of adults aged 35-44 have the internet at home, this falls to just a quarter of over 75s. The survey showed that 51% of over 75s own a mobile phone, compared to 99% of 25-34-year-olds. Ofcom said that, for the first time, more than half of 65- to 74-year-olds have access to the internet at home, while just over three quarters own a mobile phone.More findings: mobile phones• 47% of British teenagers and 27% of adults own a smartphone• Sixty per cent of adults and 37% percent of smartphone owners describe themselves as "highly addicted" to their device• Nearly half (47%) of teenage smartphone owners admit using their device in the toilet, compared to 22% of adults.TV• Brits watched an average of four hours of TV a day last year, up from 3.8 hours in 2009.• Almost all (93%) of homes had multi-channel TV, with 4% sticking to analogue terrestrial TV.• Nearly 10m TVs were sold in 2010, almost all of which were HD ready. There were 1m internet-enabled TV sales during 2010, and 125,000 sales of 3D TVs.Radio• 91.6% of Brits listened to the radio in the first quarter of 2011 – up from 90.6% in 2010.• Just over a quarter (26.5%) of radio listening is digital, while analogue accounts for 65% of all listening.• One in five households (18%) households use the internet to listen to the radio.Internet• Around 57% of UK households had access to superfast broadband by the end of June 2011.• Nearly half (48%) of UK adults said they used social networking sites in first three months of 2011 – up from 40% in 2010.• On average, internet users spent around 50 hours at their computer in April 2011, equivalent to 1 hours and 40 minutes a day.
We are all media junkies now. We Britons spend more than four hours a day watching television, the highest level of consumption for at least five years, which is probably good news given that there are 510 channels to choose from. We bought 9.55m television sets last year, fewer than in 2009, but twice the number sold back in 2002. Of those 9.55m sets nearly a third were larger than 33in. Let the boasting begin.Radio listening has never been greater either – a record 91.6% of us listen to at least 15 minutes in a week. Then there's internet use, up in 2010 by 17 minutes a day, to just over two hours a day. And then there's talking – well, on the telephone – which has become 20% more popular on the Ofcom measure since  2000. One might be forgiven for wondering how we fit it all in.This wasn't what was supposed to happen. The rising popularity of digital technology was, so the theory went, intended to displace traditional media. But while Facebook may be so addictive, as Ofcom notes, that it takes up five times the amount of our time as the next most popular website, the impact of the internet is, if anything, economic. Piracy has hit recorded music sales – down 8.6% to £1.2bn – and now DVDs, whose sales fell by 5.7% to £1bn, even with the help of the first half of the last part of Harry Potter. Newspaper sales are down, but online audiences are up. Overall our desire to consume media has never been greater.Ofcom, though, gives us some clues as to the secrets of the new British efficiency. So hopeless, for example, is our addiction to smartphones that it turns out that a fifth of adults are prepared to admit they use their iPhone or BlackBerry on the toilet. Nearly four in 10 of us will answer the phone if it wakes us while we are sleeping. We have become the generation that is comfortable consuming two media at once: answering emails while watching the television. So much, indeed, for British manners.What the deluge of official data also shows is how we come to expect technological change. The faster-faster model of media and technology consumption is demonstrated by the fact that while it took 15 years for mobile phone ownership to reach half the population, it is expected that internet-capable smartphones will reach the same proportion in just five years. It took 13 years for radio to reach half the population when the National Programme (today's Radio 4) came on the wireless, 10 years for colour television in the era of Pot Black, and, Ofcom estimates, it will take about six years for the same to apply to Kindles and iPads. After all, 1.5m of these devices have already been sold in the UK.Perhaps at some point the frantic pace of consumption and computing will stop, but probably only after the last unwatched television programme has been deleted from the last Sky+ box. Which will be on at least 3D.
Dozens of countries, companies and organisations, ranging from the US government to the UN and the Olympic movement, have had their computers systematically hacked over the past five years by one country, according to a report by a leading US internet security company.The report, by McAfee, did not openly blame any country but hinted strongly that China was the most likely culprit, a view endorsed by analysts.China has previouslybeen implicated in a range of alleged incidents of cyberspying – a practice Beijing vehemently denies – including a concerted attack on Google and several attempts to prise secrets from computers at the Foreign Office. But the McAfeereportis among the most thorough attempts yet to map the scale and range of such data-theft efforts.The study traced the spread of one particular spying malware, usually spread by a "phishing" email which, if opened, downloaded a hidden programme on to the computer network. Through tracing this malware and also gaining access to a "command and control" computer server used by the intruders, McAfee identified 72 compromised companies and organisations. Many more had been hacked but could not be identified from the logs."After painstaking analysis of the logs, even we were surprised by the enormous diversity of the victim organisations and were taken aback by the audacity of the perpetrators," said Dmitri Alperovitch, the company's head of threat research and the author of the report.Of the hacking victims 49 were US-based, among them various arms of federal, state and local government, as well as defence contractors and other industries. There were two targets in the UK, a defence company and a computer security firm, while other governments included those of Taiwan, South Korea, and India.Also found on the logs were records from the United Nations, the International Olympic Committee and two national Olympic committees – one of which was accessed by the hackers for more than two years continuously.McAfee was at pains not to identify the suspected culprit. However, it did little to disguise its suspicions, noting that the targeting of the Olympic groups, and the sport's anti-doping agency, immediately before and after the 2008 Beijing Games was "particularly intriguing" and pointed to a country being to blame.China has been accused in the past. After Google came under a so-called "advanced persistent attack" in 2009 which it said originated in China, the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton,asked Beijing for an explanation. This yearWilliam Hague said a "hostile state intelligence agency"– identified by UK sources as China – had penetrated the Foreign Office's internal communications system.While a high proportion of media attention on cybersecurity focuses on the loss of personal data, such as therecent security breaches at Sony, and the activities of hacking collectivessuch as LulzSec, analysts say this is often minor when compared with the methodical, industrial-scale attempts to seize commercial and state secrets, presumed to be carried out by many countries, chief among them China. Alperovitch said state-orchestrated hacking was so endemic and ambitious it could reshape the workings of the global economy."What we have witnessed over the past five to six years has been nothing short of a historically unprecedented transfer of wealth," he said. If only a fraction of the stolen data was used to gain commercial or technological advantage "the loss represents a massive economic threat not just to individual companies and industries but to entire countries that face the prospect of decreased economic growth in a suddenly more competitive landscape and the loss of jobs in industries that lose out to unscrupulous competitors in another part of the world".Beyond even this, he added, were the national security implications of stolen intelligence or defence files. Such was the endemic scale of this problem, Alperovitch said, that he divided large corporations into two camps: "Those that know they've been compromised and those that don't yet know."He said: "This is a problem of massive scale that affects nearly every industry and sector of the economies of numerous countries, and the only organisations that are exempt from this threat are those that don't have anything valuable or interesting worth stealing."When Google accused China last year the ministry of industry and information technology told the state news agency Xinhua: "Any accusation that the Chinese government participated in cyber-attacks, either in an explicit or indirect way, is groundless and aims to denigrate China. We are firmly opposed to that."No one was available for comment at the foreign ministry in Beijing. Chinese officials have previously said that China has strict laws against hacking and is itself one of the biggest victims.Dave Clemente, a cybersecurity analyst from the Chatham House thinktank, said it was likely China was also targeted by hackers acting on behalf of other countries."It's going in both directions, but probably not to the same extent," he said. "China has a real motivation to gain these types of industrial secrets, to make that leapfrog. There's probably less motivation for the US to look to China for industrial secrets or high technology. But certainly there's things China has which they're interested in, maybe not for commercial advantage but in a geopolitical sense."Clemente said McAfee's characterisation of such hacking efforts as a wholesale theft of intellectual property and secrets was "fairly reasonable": "It's confirmed not just by this report but by so many dozens of other incidents which build up to an overall picture."The effects, however, were harder to quantify: "The blueprints are only part of the picture. The technology for, say, how to build a sophisticated jet engine is one thing, but there's a whole set of other processes – the logistics, how to manage the supply chain to build more than one, the long-term management of a really advanced manufacturing process."While basic security or human errors often made hacking easier than it should be, Clemente said, even the biggest organisations struggle to stop sophisticated attacks: "There's not much even Google can do if China's really determined to get inside its networks. It's not a fair fight in that sense."
'I will tell you what stands out to me from all these attacks," says Rik Ferguson, a consultant at the security company Trend Micro, who has with long experience of countermanding hacking and malware. "They may use the most sophisticated malware which attacks computers in ways that haven't been seen before, but they always start with social engineering."That, he explains, is the computer hacker's equivalent of a con trick: making people think someone or something is safe or familiar when it is not.Thus, many of the attacks against the 72 targets identified by McAfee, another security company, began with "spear phishing" – an email sent to a particular person inside an organisation and tailored to appear as though it had come from a contractor or government source, and so trustworthy.Instead, such emails would contain a link which, when clicked on, would lead to malware that would in turn be downloaded on to the user's machine. From there the remote access tool – or RAT – would be employed to hunt through the computer network or even infect other people's computers.While social engineering was always the successful spy's stock-in-trade (in the old days they were always the gregarious ones at ambassadors' parties, charming indiscretion out of their opposite numbers), the internet has transformed espionage into something that can be done from the comfort of one's home, and home country.As long as you can be sure that your target will be sitting in front of a computer somewhere, you have a good chance of getting some useful information out of them, ideally without their knowledge. The modern internet is in fact a blizzard of operation and counter-operation at every level: governments attack others (so the US and Israel almost certainly cooperated to build the Stuxnet worm which put Iran's nuclear ambitions two years behind schedule – much cleaner than a bombing raid), commercial hacker groups wage war with each other to control giant botnets of malware-infected PCs, while at the ground floor factions inside collectives, such as Anonymous, bait and taunt each other while defacing sites. If you think the internet is peaceful or safe, you are looking in the wrong direction.But are we generally at risk from these attacks by the biggest players? Yes, says Dmitri Alperovitch, McAfee's vice-president of threat research, who collated the data about Shady RAT: "Having investigated intrusions such as Operation Aurora and Night Dragon (systemic long-term compromise of western oil and gas industries), as well as numerous others that have not been disclosed publicly, I am convinced that every company in every conceivable industry with significant size and valuable intellectual property and trade secrets has been compromised (or will be shortly), with the great majority of the victims rarely discovering the intrusion or its impact. In fact, I divide the entire set of Fortune Global 2000 firms into two categories: those that know they've been compromised and those that don't yet know."
Given that Apple now has more money than the US federal reserve, the fine of 3m won ($2,855) is hardly going to break the iBank. But the ruling by South Korea's communications regulator, which has fined Apple for collecting users' location data without permission, could set a worrying precedent for the tech giant.Photo byEric Fischeron Flickr.Some rights reservedAs the Guardian reported in April, security researchers discovered a file on iPhones using iOS4 that apparently recorded location with timestamp for up to one year, even when phones were switched off.Whereas mobile location records, at least in the UK, could previously only be retrieved by police under a court order, this file could be extracted by anyone who jailbroke the phone. Apple would not comment on the claims at the time but subsequently released a patch that stopped the phones writing location data in this form.South Korea's Communications Commission,Reutersreports, had found loopholes in how both Apple and Google protected user location data, ordering both to encrypt data. But it could have fined as much as 3% of location-related revenues or charged 10m won for collecting personal data without permission.It's not the first obstacle either company has encountered in South Korea. Apple had to pay out 1m won in June to a lawyer who won a court ruling over Apple's location data storage, and that lawyer went on to lead a suit representing 27,800 iPad and iPhone users who have taken out a class action lawsuit against the firm, which may file next week.An Apple spokesman in Korea toldReuters: "Apple is not tracking the location of your iPhone. Apple has never done so and has no plans to ever do so."Google has insisted that location data sharing through Android is opt-in, saying in a statement that it is reviewing the KCC's decision.Police had alreadyraided the South Korean officesof Google subsidiary AdMob back in May as part of the investigation.
The news was leaked yesterday, but today it's been officially announced: Borderlands 2 is in development. Launched in 2009, the original title featured Mad Max-style nomad weirdos battling over artefacts on the stark planet of Pandora. Players could upgrade their characters and customise their weapons in the manner of an RPG game, as well as take part in four-player co-op missions.Apparently the sequel, set for release next winter, will boast 'new characters, skills, environments, enemies, weapons and equipment, which come together in an ambitiously crafted story.' Publisher 2K Games will be showing it off at Gamescom later this month.It's good news for those gamers growing slightly tired of identikit military shooters. Borderlands wasn't perfect, but its unapologetically bloody action, cast of bizarre cast and compelling upgrade system brought a few neat touches to the genre.We'll be in Cologne for Gamescom, so expect more details within a fortnight.
Facebook is threatened with legal action in Germany over its facial recognition software, which critics say violates privacy and data protection laws.The tool runs all photos uploaded to the social networking site through a programme and identifies the user's friends on each picture. There was an outcry whenit was rolled out in June to more than 500m members worldwide,  though users can opt out of the automatic tagging, Facebook can still gather and store (indefinitely) all photos added to the site.Now Hamburg's data protection official has written to Facebook to demand it stops running the facial recognition programme on German users and deletes any related data. Johannes Caspar said the German authorities would take action if Facebook did not comply and could face fines of up to €300,000 (£262,000)."Should Facebook maintain the function, it must ensure that only data from persons who have declared consent to the storage of their biometric facial profiles be stored in the database," he said. The software offered potential for "considerable abuse" and was illegal.It's not the first time multinational technology firms have hit problems in Germany, which takes online privacy much more seriously than many other countries. In April,Google said it would not be collecting any more pictures for its German Street View project. The decision followed a series of objections after the mapping of 20 German cities for the service, which takes pictures of every street and property within a municipality. Germany's privacy laws generally restrict photographs of people and property except in public places, such as a sporting event, without a person's consent."The legal situation is clear in my opinion," Caspar told Wednesday's Hamburger Abendblatt. "If the data were to get into the wrong hands, then someone with a picture taken on a mobile phone could use biometrics to compare the pictures and make an identification," he said. Such a system could be used by undemocratic governments to spy on the opposition or by security services around the world. "The right to anonymity is in danger," he said.Caspar is backed by the federal consumer protection ministry. "We expect Facebook to comply with all European and German data protection standards and for it to respond to the request from the Hamburg regional data protection officer," said a spokeswoman.A Facebook spokeswoman told Spiegel Online the company was looking at Caspar's request, but that it "firmly rejected any accusations that we are not complying with our obligations to European Union data protection laws".An estimated 75bn photos have been uploaded to Facebook since it was set up by Mark Zuckerberg as an online directory for Harvard University students in 2004.
Leading trade bodies for the film and music industries have warned the government that it must move quickly to implement an effective system to crack down on pirate websites,after Vince Cable announced that plans to block illegal file-sharing websites have been scrapped.Geoff Taylor, chief executive of music industry body the BPI, said the government must urgently broker a deal between internet companies and rights holders to implement a fast-track procedure to crackdown on piracy or "a failure to do so will see some of this country's world-leading industries irreparably damaged on this government's watch"."Every day blatantly illegal foreign sites flout our laws, rip off consumers and musicians and wreak huge damage on our creative sector," he said. "Government must now act urgently to put in place effective means to protect consumers, creators and UK jobs from the impact of illegal foreign sites".The creative industries have broadly welcomed the business secretary's proposals to relax the UK's intellectual property regime although some measures, such as vague proposals to free up rules around making digital copies of CDs and DVDs for viewing music and films on devices such as laptops and smartphones, has caused consternation in some quarters."A blanket implementation of some of the general recommendations [such as site blocking and format shifting] without clear evidence that they will stimulate the British creative sector, is not the best approach and a great deal of work is required to refine some of these ideas," said Lavinia Carey, director general of the British Video Association.However Neil Mohring, partner at law firm Eversheds, said that format shifting is an anachronistic law whose removal will make very little difference."Although the announcement regarding format shifting has received a great deal of press coverage, the proposed measures will have little substantive effect overall," he said. "Format shifting has been occurring for many years without action by the copyright owners, so the proposed changes will merely formalise the current position."The government's proposals, which back all 10 of the recommendations put forward byProfessor Ian Hargreaves's report on intellectual property in May, also include a one-stop Amazon-style digital copyright exchange to make the selling of content easier and more profitable.Some trade bodies, including the MPA which represents the major film studios, said they "remain concerned" about the ramifications of the exchange on how they sell their rights.Internet service providers have long railed against the prospect of legislation being introduced to force them to block alleged illegal-filesharing websites."[The industry] has long argued that blocking is an ineffective and regressive means to address online copyright infringement," said Nicholas Lansman, general secretary of the Internet Service Providers Association.More reactionChris Marcich, managing director of the Motion Picture Association, which represents the major film studios"We remain concerned about a number of recommendations which could have a negative impact on the film industry including format shifting for film and how the digital copyright exchange would work in practice. We hope that the government will work with us to ensure that any negative commercial consequences are minimised."Lavinia Carey, director general of the British Video Association"The Hargreaves review contains a number of proposals which could, if implemented without thorough consideration, be damaging to Britain's audiovisual industry, which must surely be unintentional. A blanket implementation of some of the general recommendations [such as site blocking and format shifting] without clear evidence that they will stimulate the British creative sector, is not the best approach and a great deal of work is required to refine some of these ideas".Geoff Taylor, chief executive of music industry body the BPI"Government has recognised that blocking such sites could help to reduce levels of infringement, but that there needs to be a more effective framework that enables speedier action than would be possible under the relevant DEA provisions. Government must now act urgently to put in place effective means to protect consumers, creators and UK jobs from the impact of illegal foreign sites.  A failure to do so will see some of this country's world-leading industries irreparably damaged on this government's watch."Feargal Sharkey, chief executive of UK Music"Rogue sites that operate with impunity and without licences are a barrier to growth of a legitimate market for creative works. Ultimately, their existence is to the detriment of UK jobs and the UK economy."Peter Bradwell, campaigner at the Open Rights Group&nbsp;&nbsp;"There are some discordant notes in plans for the Digital Economy Act. In particular charging people £20 to appeal against copyright warnings is unfair. The evidence against alleged infringers is likely to be unreliable. The government should follow the Intellectual Property Office's new IP crime strategy and rebuild its copyright enforcement policy from scratch, driven by evidence and a proper public consultation."Don Foster, Liberal Democrat media and culture co-chair"Ofcom should be praised for consigning Labour's site-blocking laws to the bin. Site blocking may sometimes be necessary, but that doesn't excuse the Digital Economy Act's sorry attempt to enable it. Internet providers and rights holders must now devise a simple solution. Those offending on a massive scale should be stopped without threatening every website under the sun."Ivan Lewis, Labour shadow culture secretary"There are still more questions than answers for a Conservative-led government which has taken more than a year to come forward with proposals which are essential for jobs and growth. The government's decision not to proceed with site-blocking regulations in the Digital Economy Act leaves considerable uncertainty about the future. The government is now under pressure to show leadership and ensure there are effective and efficient measures put in place to stop sites from infringing copyright."Nicholas Lansman, general secretary of the Internet Service Providers Association"To really address the issue of online copyright infringement, ISPA maintains that the content industry needs to develop attractive new business models taking into account developments that the internet has brought, rather than reproducing existing models. The commitment to press ahead with DEA implementation, despite the flawed evidence base underpinning it, is disappointing. ISPA strongly welcomes the conclusion of independent work by Ofcom which has found that the blocking aspects of the DEA are problematic and ineffective. ISPA has long argued that blocking is an ineffective and regressive means to address online copyright infringement".Neil Mohring, partner at law firm Eversheds"The government has to deal with the issue of unauthorised copying if it is committed to the growth of the creative industries. There is little incentive for creators, particularly those in small businesses, if unauthorised copying is not addressed and measures such as the relaxation of the rules regarding parody are merely scratching at the surface. Although the announcement regarding format shifting has received a great deal of press coverage, the proposed measures will have little substantive effect overall. Format shifting has been occurring for many years without action by the copyright owners, so the proposed changes will merely formalise the current position."
It has become routine now. A few weeks after the announcement of any big new game release, there will be another thrilling revelation: a tie-in comic book series, a novel, a made-for-TV movie.Inevitably, it will be a prequel, released a few weeks ahead of the game it accompanies, or it will slot into the timeline between subsequent titles in a major franchise. "We're excited by the opportunity to flesh out our backstory and give our fans more of an insight into the deep narrative," a producer will robotically intone. When of course, much of the excitement revolves around the marketing potential of the linear tie-in: every new story platform is an advert.This used to be called merchandising, but now we must use the term "transmedia storytelling". Nowadays, developers are aiming to produce narratives so compelling that they transcend platform limitations; a high-tech realisation of Wagner's Gesamtkunstwerk concept. Ina recent interview with GamesIndustry.biz, however, Epic's European territory manager, Mike Gamble, warned studios away from becoming obsessed with crossovers projects:It's really easy to be distracted by shiny baubles, whether that be pre-vis on films, doing stuff for car manufacturers, whatever it happens to be. In the end you can end up chasing these things and your core business is then neglected.But there are deeper problems beyond merely getting a bit distracted. A key issue is that the linear content is rarely of a similar quality to the source material. Assassin's Creed the game is an astonishingly rich and detailed interactive universe, but the novelisation, Assassin's Creed: Renaissance, is lumbering, stilted and repetitive.THQ's cable TV movie Red Faction: Origins is okay, but the lower production values create a huge aesthetic rift between the linear and video game interpretations. The Mortal Kombat webisodes were a bit of fun (and certainly popular, the first attracting more than 5m views in a week), but how much do we really need to know about a bunch of characters who exist merely to kick each other's heads in and rip out a few spines?Certainly there have been examples where reasonably well-known authors and filmmakers have been drafted in to produce tie-ins that kind of work. Renowned sci-fi writer Greg Bear provided Microsoft with Halo: Cryptum, while EA used Chris Ryan for its Medal of Honor book, similarly bringing in SAS oldboy Andy McNabb to pen the Battlefield novelisation.At least they have form and status in the military thriller genre. On the way, there's a movie conversion of Heavy Rain, scripted by Deadwood and NYPD Blue writer David Milch – and, of course, THQ has Guillermo del Toro overseeing forthcoming survival horror title inSANE, and he could well direct a movie tie-in.Plus, like THQ, publishers Ubisoft and Namco Bandai are now taking more creative control over tie-ins, setting up their own movie production arms to ensure more symmetry between linear and interactive interpretations.But so far, another core failing has been the sense of platform dissonance. Transmedia is supposed to be about telling a story seamlessly across multiple formats – this is the vision that guided, say, Tim Kring's fascinating project Conspiracy For Good, and the ARGs accompanying the likes of Portal 2 and TV series Numb3rs.But in the mainstream video game sector, novelisations and movie tie-ins tend merely to extend background narrative detail – nice for hardcore fans, but never a fundamental element of some over-arching story experience. There is also rarely a sense of interaction between gamers and adaptations.The Pottermore concept, which provides a creative community for fans of the Harry Potter universe, could well evolve into the most advanced and significant transmedia concept yet. Discussing it inan interview with Forbes magazinerecently, Jeff Gomez, President and CEO of Starlight Entertainment, said:What Pottermore.com does is that, for the first time it brings the Harry Potter brand from its basis in being a repurposed or repeated story world, into being a true transmedia brand. Transmedia is signified by interactivity: the audience feeling not only an intense relationship with the storyteller (they already have this with JK Rowling), but a feeling that their input will have some kind of impact on the story world itself. That's what I believe is happening with Pottermore. It is designed to be a two-way portal between all of us and the Harry Potter universe. It will promote participation by validating and celebrating community, dialogue and user-generated content. It exists not just to sell ebooks, but to nurture and ultimately expand the canon of Harry Potter itself. That's historic in many ways."Frankly, if you don'tneedto read the books or watch the webisodes it's not transmedia.What also frustrates is that linear media interpretations of games rarely challenge or explore the source material in interesting ways. There's something to be learned here from the world of big consumer brands. The likes of Coca-Cola, Levi's and MTV regularly use the concept of "chameleon branding", radically re-exploring their image and messaging for different audiences. So, for example, Coke has worked with Karl Lagerfeld and Daft Punk on design projects, while Levi's brought in feted fashion designer Billy Reid to reinterpret its staple wares for a limited edition menswear collection last year.This is almost certainly a budget issue, but at the very least, the concept of transmedia will only become truly interesting when singular creative visionaries are brought onboard. A Grand Theft Auto novel penned by Bret Easton Ellis, or a Grant Morrison Dark Souls comic book; hand Dead Space to Neil Marshall, or Mass Effect to Matthew Vaughn. The last person a video game tie-in should be given to is a meek and respectful freelance hack, just glad of the chance to meet the guys who made his favourite sci-fi game series.But it's not allhisfault. How can I put this? Game narratives rarely stand up to close, undivided scrutiny. They're often hackneyed, generic, aimless even. Producing hundreds of pages of chronology, dozens of characters and a few intertwining conflicts does not make a rich, complex story. Those are foundations, they are not the building.A lot of publishers – or at least their marketing people - seem unable to grasp that. Of course, this isn't a problem at all when interactivity is part of the entertainment – I'm more than happy to paper over the cracks in Heavy Rain or Red Dead Redemption because the plot is subservient to the action. But why would I read the novelisation of Quantic Dreams' psychological thriller, when I could read Jim Thompson, John Connolly or Thomas Harris?Ultimately, there may be an insurmountable issue at the heart of the whole cross-platform phenomenon: the nature of storytelling within an interactive medium is unique and untransferable. When I play a game such as LA Noire or Bulletstorm, the story laid out by the designers and illustrated through cut-scenes is only part of the narrative equation – I do the rest of the work. My Cole Phelps is fundamentally different to yours; he reasons differently, he reacts differently, he has contrasting methods, routines and motivations.Game designers must never lose sight of the fact that the gamer, through applying his or her own wit, knowledge and abilities to a game world, fundamentally shapes that world for themselves.If transmedia is really going to work as a mainstream consumer concept rather than a marketing endeavour or a cult experiment, it will have to involve stories designed from the ground up to be both interactive and platform agnostic. Otherwise, all we're really doing is selling comic books to completists.
Red alert for publishers:Facebook has just acquiredPush Pop Press, an ebook publisher and app maker. Stuart over on ourApps Bloghas the skinny, but the interesting point here is what this talent-acquisition could point to in Facebook's strategy.Push Pop Press is a contemporary of social magazine Flipboard. Photo byJohan Larssonon Flickr.Some rights reservedThe talent in question is the two founders, Mike Matas and Kimon Tsinteris, but looking through their past work gives an intriguing hint to the influence they might have at Facebook on storytelling. As they say in theirfarewell statementon the Push Pop Press site: "Now we're taking our publishing technology and everything we've learned and are setting off to help design the world's largest book, Facebook."In an earlier interview with the Apps Blog,Tsinteris explainedhow Push Pop Press aimed to reimagine the book using the interactivity made possible by apps."We really focused on... the relationship between the viewer and the  content. After that, social is a great way to let  those viewers share the content with their friends. We see social as the next step on top of a great interactive consumer experience."Our Choice, the app Push Pop Press made for Al Gore as the ebook version of his sequel for An Inconvenient Truth, is a truly phat app and one that has taken a huge amount of material - text, some glorious images and video - and, particularly on iPad, made them navigable in a compelling way that doesn't feel overwhelming, despite the volume of content.Matas runs through the Our Choice app in this Ted talk from earlier this year.Assuming their skills will be used beyond a kick-ass Facebook app itself, applying those kind of principles and aesthetics to Facebook starts to get very interesting. There have been limited experiments with presentation on Facebook; a fewamateur photographers playedwith the new profile layout introduced late last year, and some photojournalists have tried storytelling on Facebook - see theBasetrackproject.Public 'Facebook Pages' intended for brands or organisations can be seen by anyone, as opposed to personal profile pages for individuals where readers would (usually) need to be a friend to get full access.But the dynamics aren't really set up for storytelling, or even selecting the best content. There are virtually no design options (come backMySpace, with your creaky skin-HTML-pasted-into-the-body-field workarounds), so no way of designing to suit your project, limited ways of flagging up older content and crucially, no way of reorganising content like photos, which means it's not possible to favourite or filter. Tags only extend to people with Facebook profiles.One of the Basetrack project's photojournalism pieces, taken in Afghanistan and published on FacebookWhat would Facebook need to offer truly comprehensive storytelling tools? Look at ourVimeo storythis week on how the video site fenced off an artier audience and better quality content by offering slick, design focused tools. Facebook's interface is, understandably, designed to be as simple and consistent as possible when handling such a large volume of data. Compromising some of that to offer more flexible, creative tools for audio slideshows, variable photo and video sizes, and perhaps skins that allow stronger identities for projects is an exciting project, but one that could have implications for news publishers.Facebook would never pretend to be anything other than an engineering company (and a look through the quality of the photos its users typically upload would confirm the priority is quantity over quality) but if Facebook could start to get serious about an interface that provided creative tools, from ecard makers and light video editing for consumers to a customisable, magazine-style layout for professional publishers. Think of aStorify-style interface even.No-one is suggesting that Facebook is about to start publishing ebooks, but with expertise like Push Pop Press coming on board, significant foundations forpublic-facing journalists' pagesdescribed as 'a social newspaper' already established, and a vast global audience... publishers shouldn't take this one lying down.
Research in Motion (RIM), the maker of the BlackBerry smartphone and PlayBook tablet, has launched three new phones worldwide as it tries to claw back share from Google's Android and Apple's iPhone.The phones will all run RIM's new BlackBerry 7 operating system, the next generation from the existing BB6 OS used by other BlackBerrys, but different from the QNX OS used on the PlayBook.Though RIM has announced five devices, two of them are simply CDMA versions of the three GSM models announced. Patrick Spence, the managing director of global sales and regional marketing, told the Guardian that there are a further two BlackBerry devices yet to be launched this year. It is not clear whether that will comprise two different phones, or a GSM and CDMA version of the same handset.RIM has been steadily losing market share over the past two yearsto phones using Google's Android OS and Apple's iPhone, especially in the US, once its largest market. But it has been gaining share in other countries, notably in Europe, China and parts of Africa: in the latter two it says it has overtaken former market leader Nokia for smartphone sales.But although RIM profits rose in the most recent quarter, the number of handsets sold fell sequentially, suggesting customers were not renewing contracts and were instead buying touch-based phones from companies such as Samsung, HTC and Apple.Among the devices unveiled on Wednesday was an all-touch screen without a QWERTY keyboard, marking RIM's move back into all-touch displays by RIM after its efforts with the BlackBerry Storm series, which was poorly received by buyers. Spence said that all-touch devices had become an important market: "in western Europe between 60% and 70% of smartphones sold are all-touch."RIM's customers split roughly 50-50 between business users and consumers, where the general smartphone market is split 30-70. The consumer market is larger, which has created problems for RIM in trying to expand its customer base as the iPhone and Android phones have so far proved more popular with the first wave of consumer smartphone buyers.The devices are the BlackBerry Bold 9900 and 9930, which feature QWERTY keyboards; the BlackBerry Torch 9810, which has a touch display and slide-out keyboard; and the Torch 9850 and 9860, which has a 3.7in all-touch display."This is the largest global launch of BlackBerry smartphones in our history," said RIM's co-chief executive Mike Lazaridis in a statement. "We think customers will be thrilled by the improved performance and enriched mobile experiences delivered by these powerful new smartphones."The phones have 1.2GHz ARM architecture processors, 768MB of RAM and near-field communications built in.BB OS7 is claimed to be up to 40% faster than BB OS6 smartphones and up to 100% faster than those using BB OS5. The displays also feature "Liquid Graphics" technology with a high pixel density of more than 250dpi.Spence said that RIM had emphasised the browsing experience on the phones, with the inbuilt web browser optimised for speed and HTML5 handling. Unlike the PlayBook, the phones do not have any capability to play back Flash content: Spence said that "you need dual-core processors to render Flash in the way that we would want to do it. The processing power isn't there yet."He said that the transition from BB OS6 to BB OS7 would be smooth because the newer version had been put into the hands of developers "months ago" and that making apps available on the new version would only require a recompilation in most cases.But some businesses may hold off from committing to the new devices because RIM is expected to bring its products into line by releasing smartphones using QNX next year.• Three, Vodafone and Virgin Media will sell the BlackBerry Torch 9810• Vodafone will be selling the Torch 9860.• Three will sell the BlackBerry Bold 9900: £449 PAYG or £35 per month.More details via theRIM BB7 newsroom:BlackBerry Bold 9900/9930:2.8in display, 640x480, 287ppi; BB7; 8GB on-board memory; up to 40GB with micro-SD; 5MP camera, digital zoom, 720p HD video recording; Wi-Fi.BlackBerry Torch 9810:3.2in display, BB7, 5MP camera HD video recording, GPS, Wi-Fi, slide-out QWERTY keyboard.BlackBerry Torch 9850/9860:3.7in touch display with Liquid Graphics technology, BB7, 4GB memory onboard expandable up to 36GB with micro-SD. 5MP camera, HD video recording. GPS. Wi-Fi.
Vince Cable on Wednesday scrapped plans to introduce the blocking of illegal filesharing websites, arguing the scheme proposed by last year's Digital Economy Act is too cumbersome and unworkable, but said that some form of plan to bring down piracy sites is still being worked on.A consultation document, launched by Cable, said that ministers intend to do more work on what other measures can be pursued to tackle online copyright infringement in an effort to stop widespread music piracy, which is increasingly spreading to television and film.The business secretary said that people will also be able to make copies of music and other media for personal use, confirming well-leaked plans to relax the current law that makes it illegal to copy the contents of a CD they own onto an iPod or other digital device."This brings the law into line with, frankly, common sense," said Cable, responding tothe Hargreaves report on the future of UK copyright law, which recommended the changes back in May 2011."A lot of this has to do with consumer freeedom. We need to have a legal framework that supports consumer use rather than treat it as regrettable. We can't say that businesses should embrace technology but say to consumers they can't use technology for products they have paid for."However, Cable was not able to give details on whether the new rules would apply to consumers using cloud services to store digital content on their portable media players, such as those launched by Google and Amazon in the US, adding that it would only apply for devices on a limited basis without infringing European law.Cable recognised that more needs to be done to crack down on illegal filesharing to protect the copyright holders, but nevertheless backed down on introducing site-blocking legislation to the DEA. "Music and film-makers have to be able to take effective and justified measures," he said. "The basic philosophy is we do recognise the need for protection, but it has to be protection that's proportionate to needs and based on evidence."Ed Vaizey, the communications minister, said existing measures were too cumbersome and unworkable to have a real impact. He said that a specially commmissioned Ofcom report into the feasibility of site-blocking legislation proved that it was too elaborate and complicated to go through, adding: "We haven't said no to site blocking per se, forever."Rights holders have heavily lobbied for the introduction of site-blocking legislation to curb digital piracy. However, Vaizey said that last week's landmark high court ruling,which forced BT to cut off access to mass-piracy site Newzbin2, showed that there is a route forward if rights holders want to take it.But he acknowledged that the court process can take a long time, pointing out that the system can never cope with an illegal website launching on a Friday to cash in on a live sport event and then disappearing on Sunday. "One of the things that is frustrating for rights holders is the length of time it takes for a court process," he conceded.Vaizey has been aiming to broker a fast-track legal process for site blocking by holding a series of meetings between rights holders. The talks aim to find common ground so both sides can agree in advance if a website is in fact infringing copyright – as well as protect ISPs from any repercussions if rights holders are wrong in their allegations – so that long-winded and costly court cases can be avoided."One of the things I've enabled is conversations between ISPs and rights holders," he said. "I want to see if ISPs and rights holders can come to agree a process to get facts together before going to court. The key point is up to court to make a [final] decision".Ministers still have available the ultimate sanction of disconnecting serial pirates, although under the DEA, they have to examine a variety of lesser penalties before they can introduce disconnection.Initially, alleged pirates will be sent warning letters that identify them as being serial illegal downloaders from the second half of 2012 – more than a year later than originally anticipated.Fearful that there could be thousands of time-consuming appeals by recipients of the letters, ministers said that consumers who wish to appeal will have to pay £20, in an effort to deter frivolous claims. The amount will be refundable if somebody receiving a letter can prove their innocence.The government has also asked Ofcom to begin establishing benchmarks and data on trends in online infringement as soon as possible.Cable also said that plans for an Amazon-style digital copyright exchange, to create a kind of one-stop shop for easily buying and selling rights, have been accepted in principle. The government has launched a feasibility study to see how the exchange will work."[It will] serve as a genuine marketplace independent of sellers and purchasers, for example on the model of independent traders using Amazon.co.uk to sell goods, rather than simply being an aggregated rights database," the government said in its response to Hargreaves's recommendations.The government allayed a number of the fears that rights holders have raised, such as that forcing them to join may break European regulations, saying it will be a compelling proposition to rights holders but not compulsory.Intellectual property laws around parody, which are considerably more stringent than in countries such as the US, have also been relaxed to allow comedians, broadcasters and other content creators more scope – ensuring that spoofs such as the YouTube hitNewport State of Mindare no longer removed.
A burst of 12 apps for your considerationSkype for iPadAfter a bungled launch that saw the app go live a couple of times before it was ready, Skype is finally officially available for the iPad. A tablet-friendly interface and free video-calling are the key selling points, while users can also pay for premium features to call landlines and mobiles.iPadGarmin UK &amp; IrelandDespite competition from free satnav apps, Garmin is holding on to its premium price with a new £44.99 GPS app for the UK and Ireland. It includes free speed camera data, photos of complicated junctions, and live traffic info paid for via in-app payment.iPhoneEditions by AOLAOL is taking on Flipboard with its own personalised magazine app for iPad. Editions grabs news stories in categories including entertainment, tech and fashion, enabling users to personalise the categories and sources, while also sharing stories to Facebook and Twitter. At the time of writing it's US-only.iPadOnkyo RemoteHi-fi firm Onkyo has launched its official remote control app for Android. It's used to stream music from the device to a wireless-friendly Onkyo system, while also controlling multi-zone audio. It works on all the company's network A/V receivers released this year, as well as the TX-8050.AndroidCorel's SlingshotGraphics firm Corel is getting into the social photo-sharing game. Slingshot is an iPhone app that promises speedy sharing of photos to online albums, while backing them up in a private Facebook album.iPhoneStar Legends BetaSpacetime Studios' Star Legends is a sci-fi-themed massively multiplayer online game for Android, which has just gone live in its beta form. The game is free to play, and funded by in-game purchases for items. It's also on the way for iOS.AndroidExfoliateExfoliate is an intriguing Android app: it automates the process of removing old content from your Facebook profile. The idea being you set a time period – older than six months, one year, two years or three years for example – and then set it to work. Why? Privacy paranoia presumably.AndroidRackspaceRackspace's official Android app enables users to administer their cloud servers and files from their smartphone, with support for multiple accounts and US, UK and custom API endpoints.AndroidAppTasticAppTastic is one of the first app-discovery apps for Windows Phone 7, although the genre is popular on iPhone and Android. It aims to help WP7 users find interesting apps, searching by keywords, category, price, Xbox Live features, price changes and minimum ratings among others.Windows PhoneDebtonatoriPhone game Debtonator is certainly timely, offering a casual take on the US debt crisis. What's more, the developer is promising to donate 14% of the proceeds to the US Treasury Department. Cheeky, but topical.iPhoneEgenciaExpedia's corporate travel arm Egencia has released an iPhone app for its users, including a journey itinerary, flight and destination alerts and online check-in.iPhoneImfuna Let LiteProperty app Imfuna Let now has a Lite version aimed at tenants, helping them to create an inventory of their rental property, and protect themselves if their deposit is ever subject to a dispute with their landlord.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAmazon App Store: Rotten To The Core &gt;&gt; Shifty Jelly's blog of mysteryThis is a big problem for Amazon: "Amazon's biggest feature by far, has been their Free App Of The Day promotion. Publicly their terms say that they pay developers 20% of the asking price of an app, even when they give it away free. To both consumers and naive developers alike, this seems like a big chance to make something rare in the Android world: real money. But here's the dirty secret Amazon don't want you to know, they don't pay developers a single cent."Biggest-ever series of cyber attacks uncovered, U.N. hit &gt;&gt; Reuters"Security experts have discovered the biggest series of cyber attacks to date, involving the infiltration of the networks of 72 organizations including the United Nations, governments and companies around the world."McAfee said there was just one state behind all of the attacks, but declined to point the finger. A security researcher apparently briefed on the study said that the evidence points to China. Over to you, China.Why Did Facebook Buy an e-Book Publisher? &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThe most plausible theory is, as ever, that it's more about the talent behind the product than the product itself.We've been acquired by Facebook &gt;&gt; Push Pop Press"Although Facebook isn't planning to start publishing digital books, the ideas and technology behind Push Pop Press will be integrated with Facebook, giving people even richer ways to share their stories. With millions of people publishing to Facebook each day, we think it's going to be a great home for Push Pop Press."Zero-day vulnerability in many Wordpress themes &gt;&gt; Mark Maunder"The Exec summary: An image resizing utility called timthumb.php is widely used by many WordPress themes. Google shows over 39 million results for the script name. If your WordPress theme is bundled with an unmodified timthumb.php as many commercial and free themes are, then you should immediately either remove it or edit it and set the $allowedSites array to be empty."Internet Explorer users have lower IQ says study &gt;&gt; BBC News"The results suggested that Internet Explorer surfers had an average IQ in the low eighties. Chrome, Firefox and Safari rated over 100, while minority browsers Opera and Camino had an "exceptionally higher" score of over 120."AptiQuant stressed that using IE doesn't mean you have low intelligence. "What it really says is that if you have a low IQ then there are high chances that you use Internet Explorer," said AptiQuant CEO Leonard Howard."No, don't ask him to explain it again.Health warning: thisturned out to be a bogus story.Bing's battle with Google: how long is "long term"? &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandPoints out that Microsoft's protestations that it's into Bing for the long term (a good thing, since it really started in 2005; all that's happened since then has been two rebrandings) don't mean much if you don't define "success" or quite when you have entered the "long term".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
