UK top 10 video games, week ending 12 June 2020PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Red Dead Redemption(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (40)42 (–)Super Mario Galaxy 2(3+)Wii (100)13 (2)2010 Fifa World Cup South Africa(3+)PS3 (44)Xbox 360 (42)Wii (8)PSP (6)74 (12)Rooms: The Main Building (3+)DS (100)25 (4)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)276 (5)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)337 (7)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2(18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (28)PC (7)DS (1)318 (6)The Sims 3: Ambitions(12+)PC (100)29 (3)Ufc 2010: Undisputed(15+)PS3 (53)Xbox 360 (47)310 (8)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)47Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2009ELSPA(UK) Ltd
Famously, amid Tiger Woods' recent woes, his brand-partners abandoned him in droves – but at least EA Sports stuck by him. And the latest version of the golf game that bears his name should provide him with some consolation, as it's very good. Although one aspect which, on the face of it, might add to his creeping paranoia strikes you when you see the packaging: for the first time, Tiger is joined on the cover by another pro golfer, Northern Irish hot-shot Rory McIlroy.McIlroy's presence shouldn't be seen as evidence that EA Sports is hedging its bets on Brand Woods, though. Rather, it reflects the fact that Tiger Woods PGA Tour 11 contains a virtual facsimile of the Ryder Cup which will run this October at Celtic Manor in Wales, so a European poster-boy is required along with an American. The game's inclusion of the Ryder Cup should provide fans of the franchise with all the motivation they need to buy the latest iteration, and it is implemented in a commendably flexible manner: you can pretend to be Colin Montgomerie and pick a squad, then jump into whatever ongoing match takes your fancy after each hole. If you opt for the defaults (but choose the European team), you will be paired with McIlroy against Woods and Jim Furyk, at least in the initial stages of the tournament – a daunting proposition.However tempting, it's best not to jump straight into a Ryder Cup, as Tiger Woods PGA Tour 11 has a new RPG-style Experience Points (XP) mechanism. You earn XP for things like hitting fairways and greens in regulation, plus sinking birdies and eagles. But great chunks of XP can be liberated by taking on Skills Challenges, fronted by various pros, in which, for example, you might have to match noted short-iron specialist Boo Weekley around the greens. You can then cash in your XP on a bewildering array of attributes (or virtual items in the Pro Shop), and it makes sense to improve your golfing skills before taking on the hopes of a continent in the Ryder Cup.You can also play an entire PGA Tour season, emphasising that this is a very meaty game. Along with the XP, there is another new gameplay mechanic called Shot Focus, which lets you improve length and accuracy by adding power-boost to your shots, imparting spin in mid-air or seeing a preview of your putt's likely course. But this is finite, so you must use it sparingly (although it recharges over the course of a few holes).Tiger Woods PGA Tour 11 looks absolutely stunning: at last, there is a clearly visible demarcation between fairway and rough, and the cloud-studded skies and camera angles are great to behold. There are also plenty of engine tweaks that make the game more true-to-life: the wind can now swing around from shot to shot, for example, and your ball will no longer automatically be dead in the centre of your aiming circle, even if you catch it perfectly. Hitting from the rough is more unpredictable. Two teams of 12 people can contest a Ryder Cup online, and there's a slightly gimmicky mode called True Aim, which gives you a view close to what a real golfer would see and makes you think more about yardages. A very classy effort, which should bring a rare smile to Tiger Woods' lips.
By now you may have read the tweets and seen the news. Microsoft renamed Project Natal at an incredible launch event in LA last night, eventually revealing the name Kinect, midway through a performance by Cirque du Soleil that may well go down in history as one of the most bizarre video game presentations of all time.On arriving at the University of California's Galen Centre, hundreds of journalists and developers were required to don white capes with huge shoulder pads before entering an auditorium designed to resemble a sort of tribal forest village – part Avatar, part Ferngully. Here, Cirque dancers with flowers in their hair performed dances and mimes, as attendees milled aorund them and a family (actors, I hope) sat watching on a sofa suspended about 70 feet above us from thin wires. Eventually a revolving stage opened up at one end, where another family of actors tried out a series of short demos of forthcoming Kinect games. Oh, and at key moments during the presentation, the shoulder pads of every audience member lit up in different colours.Although high on hubris, the event was short on revelation, with no release date, or confirmation of the suspected slimline Xbox 360 launch. However, Microsoft made it clear that this was always designed as an entertainment spectacle rather than a press conference (which is happening later today – check out our live blog).The brief demos shown were of several known titles including a multi-event sports sim, an "adventure" title complete with white-water rafting, a dancing tuition sim, a racer and a pet title.USA Today revealedthe names of the games as Kinect Sports, Kinect Adventures, Dance Central, Joyride and Kinectimals. A short video of Tinkerbell flying past the Disney castle suggested that the animation giant will be involved in some kind of Kinect project, while a snippet from a Star Wars title, in which you compete in lightsabre fights with Darth Vader, got the largest cheer. It looked a lot like Force Unleashed, especially as it would appear to feature a selection of Force powers (which you operate by performing actions like scrunching up into a ball then flinging your arms out).So, lots to think about before the press conference. But for now, what do you think of the name?
Microsoft has finally unveiled the real name of its motion sensing video game device, previously known as Project Natal: Kinect.Kinect, which plugs into the Xbox 360 console, uses a video camera and an infrared sensor to track the players' actions and convert them into onscreen movement.Microsoft showed clips from several Kinect games during a lavish pre-E3 2010 event at The University of California's enormous Galen Center, including an athletics sim in which participants run and jump to compete in the hurdles, throw an imaginary javelin, and play football with kicking actions. There was also a yoga simulation, some white-water rafting, and a dancing tuition game, which gets users to perform a series of steps and moves in time with licensed pop tracks.Several Kinect games will be closely compatible with social networking sites Twitter and Facebook, allowing users to send screenshots of themselves playing the games to friends and family members. Microsoft has so far delayed providing a retail price for the device, but has scheduled a release date for this autumn, and is expected to support the launch with a redesigned slimline version of the Xbox 360 console.Kinect is an attempt to complete directly with the massively successful Nintendo Wii console, which has now sold around 70m units, 30m more than the Xbox 360. Wii technology allows players to control games by waving and shaking a special controller, but Kinect goes one step further, by removing the need for any sort of handheld input.Once considered a transitory pursuit for teenage boys, gaming has now become a mainstream entertainment medium, with games like Wii Fit, Rock Band and Professor Layton and the Curious Village attracting a vast new family audience. So far, however, these so-called casual gamers have been put off by the Xbox, with its reliance on hardcore shooters like Gears of War and Halo. But Microsoft didn't completely ignore its traditional audience at the event; perhaps the loudest cheer of the night erupted when a demo was shown of a Kinect-compatible Star Wars game, in which players will be able to flail their arms around in order to compete in lightsabre duels with Darth Vader and his Storm Troopers.Kinect is likely to enjoy a multi-million pound marketing push in the run up to Christmas – but Microsoft is not alone in its desire to steal Nintendo's audience. Sony is set to provide the PlayStation 3 console with its own motion controller, named PlayStation Move. The wand-like device, which more closely resembles the Wii's remote controller, is also due out in the autumn, putting it in direct competition with Kinect.The Kinect announcement is also set to be only one of many video game revelations this week. Today sees the beginning of the E3 games exhibition at the LA Convention centre, an annual event in which all the major games industry companies show off their new releases to thousands of journalists, bloggers and game fans who've been able to blag their way into the trade-only bonanza. The big games are likely to be first-person shooters Halo: Reach and Killzone 3, historical assassination adventure Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood, and the intriguingly dark Disney title, Epic Mickey.Some pundits, however, reckon the focus of the three-day exhibition could be another emerging technology: 3D visuals. Nintendo will be showing its new 3D capable handheld console, the Nintendo 3DS, while Sony is expected to have a selection of 3D-compatible PlayStation titles on show, including the long-awaited driving sim, Gran Turismo 5. This year, it's perhaps not about what we're going to play, it's about HOW we're going to play: by jumping about, or by putting on a pair of special glasses and revelling in three-dimensional graphics. One thing is clear, after the massive investment Sony and Microsoft have put into their respective consoles, neither is in a hurry to announce a new platform just yet.The audience at the launch event was also treated to an astonishing performance by Cirque du Soleil, who used dance, lights and special effects to communicate Microsoft's brand vision – a far cry from the usual recipe of awkward upper ranking execs lurking on stage while game demos play to deafening rock music. Unfortunately, the impact of the event was slightly undermined when an Italian advert for the Xbox 360 was put online too early, revealing the new name for Natal hours before the official announcement. Although the ad was quickly withdrawn, news of the blunder spread across Twitter in a matter of minutes.
So how your weekend gaming then? Dominated by Super Mario Galaxy 2? Or are you still knee deep in Red Dead Redemption? I'm on holiday the rest of this week so what time I had was spent on the promising International Cricket 2010. Anyway, how was your weekend gaming?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Great Wall of China. Photo byStudio494 (Simon)on Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWorld Cup 2010 Twitter replay &gt;&gt; Guardian footballA Twitter visualisation of how the matches went. Requires Flash.BBC Internet Blog: World Cup match visualisation module &gt;&gt; BBCAs a comparison to the Guardian visualisation.iPad 3G Leak Flaw More Common than You Think &gt;&gt; PCWorld Business CenterIt seems odd that people aren't that worried about their email addresses being spread around by the telephone company they signed up with. Doesn't it?Download the data behind Sarah Boseley's surgery statistics investigation &gt;&gt; Guardian DatablogReally calling out for your stunning visualisations.Monitor: Stay on target &gt;&gt; The EconomistSingletasking is the new multitasking.The French medical system, in your pocket &gt;&gt; Dave Farber's IP list"The Carte  Vitale is a green plastic credit card with a small&#10;gold memory chip in the middle.  Each of the 61 million residents of&#10;France carries it all the time.  Embedded in the gold metallic square&#10;is a digital record of every doctor visit, referral, injection,&#10;operation, x-ray, diagnostic test, prescription, warning, etc together&#10;with a report on how much the doctor billed and how much was paid, by&#10;the insurance funds and by the patient." Is that good or bad? What if you lose it?Debugging URLs with the Facebook URL Linter &gt;&gt; Facebook DevelopersYou thought your code was being written for the web. Facebook knows otherwise: you're writing for the Social Graph.Start Panicking! &gt;&gt; Start PanicShows that your browser can, indeed, give up lots of information to sites you visit - via a weakness that's been there since CSS 2.1 (readthisfor more).Annoy Your Friends During the 2010 World Cup with the iVuvuzela iPhone App &gt;&gt; WalyouShurely "Delight Your Friends..."?Why file-sharing has killed 'unlimited' mobile data contracts &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukIf you haven't read the comments, you should: there's simply everything in there: competing programs from R, people from O2, people who disbelieve it all, people who say they download that much in a day or two... a revised version may be in order.The most advanced Twittersphere in the world: China &gt;&gt; Nomadically Curious Visual ThoughtsOnly 150,000 out of 400m, but they're the superusers because they know how to route around the Chinese government blocks on its useYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
When Steve Jobs launched his latest must-have computer to the world, he might not have been thinking about the dolphin market. But, at the Dolphin Discovery swim facility in Puerto Aventuras, Mexico, Apple's groundbreaking iPad is engaged in some remarkable groundbreaking inter-species research.Scientists there are using a waterproofed version of the iPad to help them communicate with a bottlenose dolphin called Merlin. "Merlin is quite curious, like most dolphins, and he showed a complete willingness to examine the iPad," according to Jack Kassewitz of Miami-basedSpeakDolphin.com, who is looking for ways to allow dolphins to better express themselves around humans.Two-year-old Merlin can tap symbols on the waterproofed iPad and Kassewitz reckons the dolphin will be able to get the hang of a wide assortment of symbols."The use of the iPad is part of our continuing search to find a suitable touchscreen technology which the dolphins can activate with the tip of their rostrums or beaks," says Kassewitz. "After extensive searching and product review, it looks like our choice is between the Panasonic Toughbook and the Apple iPad."We think that once the dolphins get the hang of the touchscreen, we can let them choose from a wide assortment of symbols to represent objects, actions and even emotions."The work with Merlin is part of a long line of research examining dolphin intelligence. At the Institute for Marine Mammal Studies in Mississippi,Kelly the dolphinlearned to trade bits of paper for fish every time a trainer passed her tank. Dolphins are known to be able to keep track of many different relationships within a large social group and have an efficient communication system of clicks and whistles to keep in touch. They also communicate using touch and body postures, but there is no evidence  they have anything we could call a language.Kassewitz already has some suggestions for the next generations of the tablet computers that could help him with his work. "Waterproofing, processor speed, touch-sensitivity, anti-glare screens and dolphin-friendly programs are essential," he says. "We'll need fast technology to help us respond appropriately and quickly to the dolphins."
"Blair to join venture firm as adviser on technology"said the headline in theNew York Times. Eh? The first thing that came to mind is the celebrated story of the emperor Caligula and his attempts to have his horse, Incitatus, appointed as a consul. Anyone familiar with our former prime minister's encounters with technology (one thinks, for example, of the time he tried to order flowers for Cherie over the web) will have been puzzled by this development. Tony has many talents, but the one thing he doesn't do is technology.So who's playing Caligula in this particular farce? Answer: Vinod Khosla, an Indian-American venture capitalist with impeccable academic and technology credentials, who now runs a $1bn fund that invests in "green" technology (aka cleantech) and IT. Mr Khosla, 55, trod the classical path – electrical engineering at IIT Delhi (India's version of MIT), masters at Carnegie Mellon in Pittsburgh and an MBA from Stanford. In 1982, he was one of the founders of Sun Microsystems and served as its first chairman and CEO. He then stepped down to join Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, Silicon Valley's premier venture capital firm. In 2004, he foundedKhosla Ventureswhose credo is that "innovative, bottom-up methods will solve problems that now seem intractable – from energy to poverty to disease. Science and technology, powered by the fuel of entrepreneurial energy, are the largest multipliers of resources we have to solve our many social problems".Now, you might have thought that our technophobic and scientifically illiterate former PM wouldn't be much help in these areas. But you'd be wrong. "The more I studied the whole climate change issue and linking it with energy security and development issues," Blair told theNew York Times, "I became absolutely convinced that the answer is in the technology." So he has signed up with Khosla Ventures to provide "strategic advice on public policy" to the firm's portfolio of green companies, which include Calera, a company that uses carbon dioxide to make cement products, and Pax Streamline, which aims to make air conditioning less environmentally hostile."Tony is going to help us in many areas that techie nerds like us don't understand," burbled Mr Khosla. "We are trying to create an ecosystem that works all over the world without subsidies. The markets we're dealing with are intertwined with politics and other things that I know nothing about."With Tony's advice and influence," he continued, "we will create opportunities for entrepreneurs and innovators to devise practical solutions that can solve today's most pressing crisis at a global scale while creating new jobs, new businesses and new sources of sustainable growth. Many more Google, Apple and Facebook-like companies will be created in the environmental space based on breakthrough black swan technologies."Quite so. But what will Tony Blair actually do for his (undisclosed) fee? You know the answer as well as I do: he will open doors to the corridors of power and make sure that Khosla investors' phone calls are answered by ministers and senior civil servants. He will make introductions and oil the contractual wheels. He will be a high-level fixer and a "meeter and greeter" at major corporate events, lending a touch of class to what might otherwise be seen as grubby commercial occasions.What's interesting about this is not that it goes on, but that it's technology companies as well as brewers and defence contractors which deem it essential to retain prominent ex-politicians as "strategic advisers". In retaining Tony Blair, Khosla Ventures is adhering to the emerging convention: Apple has Al Gore on its board, for example; Autonomy, the British search-technology firm, has hadRichard Perle, America's very own Prince of Darkness, as a non-exec director for the last decade; and even Mr Khosla's old firm, Kleiner Perkins, has retained Al Gore and former US secretary of state, Colin Powell, as "advisers".It's nice work if you can get it. To qualify, you only need to have held high public office and to be completely shameless. Taking your country to war under false pretences (and US auspices) also helps.The fee that Tony Blair Associates (motto: "No job too big") will extract from Mr Khosla will go nicely with the £4.6m advance the former PM got for his memoirs, not to mention the £2.5m he got from advisory roles with JP Morgan Chase and Zurich Financial Services. And then there's the lecture fees (reportedly around £150,000 a pop), the (taxpayer-funded) pension of £63,468 per year and the annual £84,000 allowance torun his private office.So if you've been wondering why anyone in their right mind would want to be prime minister, now you know.
Downloadable stunt-racerJoe Dangerfeels like a classic from the very beginning. It isn't just the playful retro template that makes this simple side-scrolling motorbike romp feel so good and so timeless, but also both its finesse for gameplay and simplicity – within moments of the first flutter of a chequered flag, the urge to have another go is irresistible.The titular Danger is a retired Evel Knievel character returning to his motorbike to leap barrels of sharks, giant boxing gloves and other comically dangerous obstacles. Assuming responsibility for the daredevil's midlife crisis, the player has the task of clearing a range of increasingly eccentric, yet perfectly succinct stunt courses. Each is realised on what is effectively a 2D-plane, where an instinctive set of controls lets users toy with some suitably bouncy physics, allowing Joe to somersault and spin through the air.Aside from the course design, most inspired is the wide range of objectives each level hosts, which encourage revisiting completed tracks and tackling them in utterly different ways. There's even a hint of Mario's early 2D-platform jumping career in the atmosphere, along with a competent level editor and some tidy multiplayer support. Great stuff right from the word go,Joegoes on to deliver danger, brilliant fun and thrills throughout.
Cricket continues to resist all those who would bring a crickety console game to market. It doesn't work as a straight simulation, because actually playing cricket is pretty tedious and playing simulated cricket is the preserve of madmen. It can't be Nintendoed into cartoonishness or powered-up with lasers and explosions. It remains defiant, it remains cricket.Not that Codemasters haven't tried. Concentrating on the minutiae will certainlyplease cricketing devotees, and preaching to the converted is surelyInternational Cricket 2010's only hope. The big innovation is the power stick feature that offers precise analogue control of your batsman's strokeplay and allows all the impenetrable argot of the game free rein. Fine cut to mid-on to your heart's content. Batsmen are now also governed to a great extent by their emotions – confidence is key and, unless you're biffing each and every delivery to the boundary, it will suffer. Quite like Kevin Pietersen, then.Bowling also has its own finesse – cutters are available to those pace bowlers with the chops, and the most dedicated can summon a bit of reverse swing, while spinners can progress via the slider to flippers or doosras. Which is the game in a nutshell – it'll make perfect sense if you're a cricketing type, but be as baffling as the game itself if you're not.
Metal Gear Solid: Peace Walkeris serious business. You can tell by the 15-minute installation it recommends you undergo to enjoy the full voice-acting, the uninterrupted minutes of cut-scenes and the fully featured online and offline co-op and competitive multiplayer. It's on a small format, but in terms of content and self-image,Peace Walkeris a full-sized blockbuster. It'sMetal Gear Solid 5in all but name.The plot, in trueMGStradition, is detailed yet impenetrable to the point where you suspect that it may be a massive joke at your expense. A melodramatic military opera loosely anchored in the cold war, you play as Big Boss – Solid Snake's older clone, for the benefit of anyone not versed inMetal Gear'sconvoluted backstory. BB is leading his self-created mercenary army, Militaires Sans Frontières, through leafy Costa Rica at the behest of an undercover KGB agent who claims to be a professor at the "University of Peace". Frankly, it's best not to think about it too much.As with the beautiful outdoor mission environments, the cut-scenes in between them are gorgeous. 3D models melt into mottled comic-book graphics; onomatopoeic letters punctuate the screen as a character flicks a cigarette lighter with a "ssshk" or punches with a "thwack". You can zoom and pan around them and occasionally participate.But the balance is firmly towards stealth rather than violence. It's always been too easy to blunder your way throughMGS,butPeace Walkerdemands that you incapacitate rather than kill and avoid detection rather than take on reinforcements. Once you've tranquillised a foe, you can disappear his sleeping form with a hilarious evacuation balloon, which adds him to the Militaires Sans Frontières ranks. Between the tightly designed missions, there's an army micro-management sub-game that proves weirdly compelling.For all its ambition, however,Peace Walkerreally struggles with the PSP's limited controls; the absence of a second analogue stick makes aiming feel awkward and the absence of mid-mission checkpoints can exacerbate the frustration. Playing in co-op makes the story missions considerably less frustrating to play, allowing you to compensate for each other's mistakes. Co-op also allowsMGS's bizarre sense of humour to stretch its legs outside of the confines of the plot cut-scenes, as you sneak around in a two-person cardboard-box-disguised convoy.None the less,Peace Walkeris undoubtedly the most ambitious game on the PSP by far, and one of the best. But while playing, you can't help wishing that, being such serious business, it were on a more powerful platform, allowing more space to breathe.
While game soundtracks may have garnered some respectability, with the LA Philharmonic performingFinal Fantasyrecitals, the idea of video games inspiring the content of an entire album is easy to write off as a curio.Fortunately, Rebecca Mayes comes at it with a wry wit and an affectionate, informed voice, making the long-formThe Epic Winand shorterSongs From the Garage(Peppy Records, mp3 download, out now) not only enjoyable listens, but witty testaments to how far gaming culture has come in the past few decades.Mayes effortlessly combines lyrics pleading for peaceable treatment of zombies inResident Evil 5("Don't shoot them, try to hug them and hold them instead") with a folksy style that challenges gaming stereotypes.She performed "Chainsaws and Swearwords" on Charlie Brooker'sGameswipeto acclaim and the song's attack on gaming's all-too-common infantile obsessions is mirrored by her eulogy toBatman: Arkham Asylum, rejoicing in an award-winning game that leaves "no blood on your hands this time".Most tracks offer a musical critique of a single game. The weary refrain on "Who You Gonna Call?" artfully highlights the flaws of the recentGhostbustersgame with lines such as: "I couldn't stand the indignity on the face of the Giant Stay Puft Marshmallow Man." If only all reviews could be just so.
Rory McIlroy is looking uncomfortable. Two weeks ago, the hugely promising young golfer from Northern Irelandset the world alight by playing a course-record 62 in the last round of the Quail Hollow Championshipin Charlotte, North Carolina. Today he is standing in the clubhouse at Celtic Manor golf course near Newport in the Usk Valley, wearing a skintight bodysuit covered in small balls. Mercifully, this isn't a cutting-edge new direction for golf fashion; McIlroy is taking part in a motion capture session for the forthcomingTiger Woods PGA Tour 11video game. Having grown up playing these ultra-realistic simulations, he will now appear on the cover alongside his lifelong hero. And when this game is released, on 2 July, gamers will get to enjoy a perfect digital copy of what some reckon is the best swing in the sport today.Superstar mo-cap sessions like this are not unusual in modern sports games. The graphics processors in the latest consoles are capable of rendering environments of almost photorealistic quality, but it's the integration of real human movement into computer animation that has really driven the genre. Every major sports title will now capture data from leading players, both as a way to add authenticity and as part of the marketing campaign. Wayne Rooney, Ronaldinho and Lionel Messi have all had their signature moves digitised into games – not only is it a handy source of extra income, but as most footballers are fans of games such asFifaandPro Evolution Soccerit's also a badge of honour among peers.Of course, mo-cap technology is not new. Optical motion capture systems were first developed in the 70s, primarily for use in clinical gait analysis, and they have been a part of video game development for more than 15 years. During that time the principles have remained remarkably consistent. An actor or athlete dons a skintight suit covered in reflective markers and performs a sequence of actions. The movement of the markers is recorded by a series of specialist video cameras placed around the performer and the data is spat out as a set of 3D co-ordinates. This data is then checked and cleaned up before being fed into the game to generate the animation of the character model.Beyond these essential components, however, the detail and accuracy of the mo-cap process has evolved hugely."In 1995 we'd use seven cameras, each with an effective resolution of 150k pixels, or 0.15 of a megapixel," explains Nick Bolton, CEO of Vicon, a UK company that makes motion capture equipment for the games and movie industries. "Those cameras were running at somewhere between 30 and 60 frames per second, and we could capture about 25 markers at a time. Today, we use 200 16-megapixel cameras in our LA studio and we're up to 2,000 frames per second. We can also capture 3,000 markers at once."The process is also much more portable. In the 90s, mo-cap was confined to specialist studios, but now Audiomotion can grab an array of cameras and a few computers to work in any interior location. Matt Rank, systems manager at Audiomotion, which is handling today's shoot for EA Sports, explains: "We've been to Manchester for Rooney, equestrian centres to capture horses, ice rinks for skaters… We took over 60 cameras to Barcelona for Messi. It takes a lot of planning and co-ordination but we can do anything-ish!"The result of these technological improvements is an exponential rise in scale and ambition. Ten years ago, game developers could only hope to record basic movements, but nowadays they can capture the most intricate nuances. This might mean the way that David Beckham leans back when delivering a set-piece ball, or the way Tiger Woods shields his eyes to watch his ball take flight over the 8th hole at Augusta National.Rory McIlroy as he appears in Tiger Woods PGA Tour 11In today's session with 21-year-old Rory McIlroy, Brian Mitchell, director of Audiomotion, is arranging takes of the golfer simply approaching the ball, then reacting to several scenarios: a disastrous slice, a moderately successful shot and, amusingly, a hole in one, with McIlroy raising his fists to the sky in glory. Mitchell even asks for separate takes with different clubs, because McIlroy's action differs slightly between a wood and an iron. Of course, none of this has an effect on the gameplay, but it means enhancing the fiction.With more cameras and markers available, the complexity of each take can also grow. Ten years ago, the game makers would have concerned themselves with a single athlete performing a few basic moves. Now, mo-cap teams will capture several players interacting with each other, tussling, tackling and jockeying for the ball. For each Fifa football game, EA Sports' mo-cap producers run a film-style schedule, capturing 150 moves a day over a five-day period. The studio now has a database of 12,000 animations to which it will add about 1,500 new clips a year. Motion capture staff also have to be flexible to meet the unique demands of each sport."The playing surface has always posed a bit of a challenge," says Craig Koehn, a mo-cap specialist at EA Sports' vast studio in Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada. "The studio floor is concrete with rubber mats – that works fine for games like basketball but it's not great for performing sliding tackles. The original artificial turf was horrible stuff to work on so we tried installing live turf for shoots, which was fantastic but expensive. Today, we use the latest type of synthetic turf with a sand and rubber pellet base. We had custom square pallets of the stuff made that can be interlocked together to any configuration we want."Audiomotion is equally ready to improvise as and when the sport dictates. "We captured the decathlete Dean Macey a little while ago, doing sprints, hammer throws, etc," says Rank. "We had to hire a larger facility because we needed the extra length to capture his javelin throw. And the long jump involved bringing in four tons of sand to create a pit. Some of them are just plain dangerous to capture. You can't fully enclose a hammer thrower because the cameras need to see Macey from all angles – you just have to hope he hits his target. It's a bit worrying when the cameras cost £15,000 each, and we can be using up to 80 of them at any one time. I won't tell you which sportsman has hit the most number of cameras, just that he plays football…"Importantly, though, modern video games do not rely solely on motion capture data to produce ever-more realistic human movement. The problem is, while the resulting animations look authentic, as pre-built loops they can't react in real time to unique events. In recent years, however, developers have begun merging mo-cap data with increasingly complex "procedural animation", which uses physics calculations and biomechanical detail to generate authentic movement on the fly. In a football sim, for example, this might mean a player being tackled, then tripping over and colliding awkwardly with a nearby team-mate – a string of events that would be impossible to anticipate in a motion capture session. The trick is in segueing seamlessly from mo-cap loops into physics-based animations – it's something that developers such as EA Sports are continually refining.Some turn to third-party solutions. A leading example is Oxford-based software company NaturalMotion, whose physics-based animation engine, Euphoria, is used by dozens of game developers seeking to build characters with more realistic in-game reactions. According to NaturalMotion CEO Torsten Reil, the technology was originally developed within Oxford University's School of Zoology to study animal movement. "We simulated simple stick figures on the computer and hooked their muscles up to randomly generated neural networks. The best of these, in terms of performing a task such as walking, were selected by an algorithm and allowed to reproduce, with variation. These were evaluated again, and so forth. This artificial evolution process resulted in biomechanically simulated stick figures that actually learned how&nbsp;to walk."Applied to video games, this is leading to computer-controlled characters with genuine muscle and motor nervous systems, who are able to make their own in-game movement decisions. NaturalMotion has now developed its own American football sim,Backbreaker, that makes full use of this system. "Previously, athletes and their actions weren't simulated at all," says Reil. "They were just hollow skeletons playing back animation data. Our technology gives these athletes a physical body, awareness and motor control. InBackbreaker, players autonomously decide how to take their target down – we don't control it. One interesting consequence is that we've had to implement a real-world penalty system, which analyses the game as it unfolds because the computer players will try illegally to grab the facemasks of their opponents."Meanwhile, back in the more serene atmosphere of Celtic Manor, what's interesting is how comfortable Rory McIlroy is with the mo-cap technology – if not the suit itself. Over multiple takes he's able, perfectly, and beautifully, to replicate his trademark swing, even though he doesn't usually compete in full Lycra bodysuits. Partly, this is down to training and muscle memory – the need to mechanically recall the perfect swing as a matter of routine. But there's something else: over the past decade, motion capture has also become a vital element of professional sport itself.Nick Bolton explains: "We've got three systems up at Loughborough which are used by the sports science group and by the England Cricket Board – they're trying to achieve two things: performance optimisation, making sure you get every bit of kinetic energy transmitted through to the ball, and rehab or injury prevention. Also, baseball's National Pitching Association in the States is very concerned with how a player rolls his shoulder to avoid rotator cuff injury." It turns out McIlroy has just returned from a specialist mo-cap centre in the US, where his swing was being analysed for even the tiniest&nbsp;inefficiencies.This, in some ways, harks back to the origins of optical motion capture technology – as a clinical tool for gait analysis – but it may also hint at a possible future use in video games. With camera-based control systems such as the Wii Remote and the forthcoming PlayStation Move and Microsoft Natal devices, games consoles can now view and record the users' own movements. Due out this Christmas for the Xbox 360 console,Natal is perhaps the most ambitious, consisting of an array of sensors (including a camera and an infrared lens for depth perception) that sit below your TV and track your physical actions without the need for a handheld controller or joypad. You'll be able to actually kick the ball in football sims, or cast a line in a fishing game, and, of course, you'll swing an imaginary golf club at a virtual ball. It's basic stuff beside what the Vicon cameras can capture, but comparisons between the two data sets are possible. It's likely, then, that we'll see games that take stats from McIlroy's swing and compare them with your own, showing where your technique is falling short, and allowing you to improve your real game while taking on the likes of Tiger Woods.In the meantime, sports mo-cap continues to evolve. The current key trend in action games is full performance capture, in which the actor's movement, voiceandfacial expressions are all captured simultaneously. It provides data that is much more natural, convincing and resolutely human, and it is already filtering into the sports sector."It's about capturing a directorial performance," says Bolton. "So you're less worried about the mechanisms of the technology and you start thinking about capturing the emotion, the anger of a player when an opponent takes the ball off him. We've got to bring emotion into performance, because you can see that in the motion capture data. You can attain emotional fidelity."Craig Koehn predicts that EA will soon be dressing athletes in suits that collect the motion data themselves, without the need for cameras. "Eventually I would like to see a bunch of players suited up playing a proper game on the pitch outside here at EAC and we are able to capture their every move," he says.Torsten Reil, perhaps naturally, sees a different future. "The overall trend is towards less data playback, and more data generation in real-time," he says. "It makes games interactive and truly live; it makes them more realistic; and it cuts down on asset production costs. What's not to like?" He envisions a time when his physics-based animation systems will watch data drawn from star players and learn from them, figuring out for itself how to replicate their moves.Like everyone else, the team at NaturalMotion is also looking into the concept of emotional animation. They are already able to make Euphoria-based characters mimic a range of emotions, but the aim is to seed data from real people, to actually train the engine to procedurally generate emotional actions and reactions such as hunched shoulders for sadness, or a puffed out chest for aggression. Gazza's tears, Zidane's butt, McEnroe's tantrums, these are sport's memorable moments, yet they couldn't be predicted or effectively motion-captured. For the golf game of the future, McIlroy will perhaps provide some raw data from his swings, plus a quick personality test, and this will inform his in-game character how to play and how to react just like him. He'll never have to wear that Lycra bodysuit again.
If you have ever driven a remote-control toy car, you will have experienced – in miniature –  the pros and cons of driving  a full-scale, grown-up electric vehicle (EV). You'll have appreciated the  instant, clean power harnessed to  the exhilarating performance of the high-revving, very quiet and surprisingly powerful engine. You'll also have developed a loathing for batteries. Too many, too big, too expenisve, too weak…The battery problem has been such a sticking point that many manufacturers have put all their eggs in the petrol-hybrid basket as an eco solution to the future of motoring. Hybrids, such as the Toyota Prius and Honda Insight, have both an electric and a back-up petrol engine.A few makers, however, have been plugging away at a purely electric solution, and the fruit of their labour is appearing on our roads. The breakthrough came  a few years ago with the introduction of the lithium-ion battery. These already power your mobile phone and laptop. They are powerful, relatively light, have a high energy-to-weight ratio, recharge quickly and hold their charge when not in use.Among the EVs leading the charge are Mini's E, Smart's ED, Mitsubishi's i-MIEV and Nissan's Leaf – only the Nissan hasn't opted for a giveaway  "E" in its naming convention,  sticking instead with the green theme. I suspect we'll soon have a raft of Charges, Zaps, Amps and maybe even Leccys arriving in our showrooms.All these cars look like the cars we now drive (well, the Mitsubishi does if you drive a fencing mask with wheels). They aren't weird, futuristic vehicles. They are comfortable, safe and practical – so long as you have access to a mains plug.There is one major drawback, however: you can't actually buy one – yet. The models are still prototypes undergoing real-world tests. With the Mini E, for instance, 600 "pioneers" in Germany, the US and the UK have been involved in a long-term lease experiment. They pay £330 a month, but the cars belong to BMW, which uses the data it collects from the cars to fine-tune the vehicles for release at some point in the future. The Smart operates a similar leasing scheme. You should, however, be able to buy the Mitsubishi i-MIEV next year for around £33,000. But the Leaf will be a much better bet. It goes into mass production at Nissan's award-winning Sunderland plant at the end of this year, with Leafs (Leaves?) on sale from February 2011, priced at £23,350 –  10 grand cheaper than the Mitsubishi.Of the four, the only one I have so far driven is Mini's E. It looks identical to the Mini One  – though the foot-high letters shouting MINI E down the sides give the game away. The car is quick and disconcertingly silent. The power is immediate. The electric engine produces a spectacular 150kW, the equivalent of a 204hp petrol engine. It's only a two-seater, as the 260kg battery languishes where the back seat would normally be. The car will hit 62mph in 8.5 seconds, has a top speed of 95mph and (under optimum driving conditions) a range of 156 miles – though about 100 miles is the norm for the 4.5-hour charge time.  At that point "range anxiety" sets in.So… clean, cheap, quiet and quick. Eco-minded drivers may have got the green light they've been waiting for.Electric cars: the facts• An EV running on electricity from a coal-fired generator produces a third of the emissions of a conventional petrol car (64g of CO2 per km compared to 176g CO2 per km).• The average EV travels 60 miles per charge. The average commute by car is 17 miles, while a quarter of all journeys made in the UK are less than two miles.• Electric motoring costs an average of 11p per mile.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
Super Mario Galaxy 2, Nintendo WiiAfter last year's mildly disappointing Super Mario Bros Wii, Super Mario Galaxy 2 is a return to the astounding form you can expect from Nintendo at its best. Mario is back in his stellar playground of planetoids, asteroids and fields of shifting, tilting tiles suspended over infinite precipices. Leavened with a constant sprinkling of fresh ideas that effortlessly blend traditions dating back 25 years with joyous new inventions, the shifts between 2D and 3D, toying with gravity, and dozens of other big and small diversions make this a continual delight. You can now invite a friend to help you vacuum up "star bits" and knock down enemies, and the world map is back so you can move among worlds and galaxies without any tedious mucking about, letting you get straight back to the palm-sweating moments of blissful agony that make this game so magical.Nintendo, £31.99-£39.99Clash Of The Titans: The Video Game, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Clash Of The Titans: The Video Game.If you'd just bought the licence to make a videogame based on the film Clash Of The Titans, the choice of titles of which you might consider making a two bob rip-off would most certainly include the superb God Of War III. This is that rip-off; a shameless and oddly lifeless slasher that sees Perseus hack a swathe through Greek mythology, slaughtering reanimated skeletons and ludicrously sized monsters using equally outlandishly proportioned weapons. You simply hammer the attack buttons to dice all-comers, then hammer another button if you get knocked over; it's all about rapidly pressing buttons, which provides just as much joy and frivolity as it sounds, its endless, artless battles counterpointed by wooden voice acting and characterless graphics. Unlike God Of War's epic gore-soaked rollercoaster, this is sterile feature film byproduct of the most offensive sort.Namco Bandai, £23-£29.99Cat Physics, iPhone &amp; iPod TouchCat Physics.The irrational pull of a name like Cat Physics can be followed by the gut punch of something dreadful that's been given a superficially appealing title. That is certainly not the case here: Cat Physics is a charming and beautifully designed puzzle game in which you guide a ball from one cat's curled tail to another on the other side of the screen, via increasingly testing obstacle courses. The catch is that you only have a limited number of directional arrows you can use to guide the ball, making for moments of intense satisfaction when you overcome its sometimes intractable challenges. The shorter the route to the second cat, the higher your score, adding a dimension for perfectionists to explore every last wrinkle of that character flaw. It's great, and for less than the price of a Mars bar represents outrageously good value for money.Donut Games, 59p
This Is For You, Michael BayHeidi Montag is America's version of Katie Price: a mega-breasted reality star who has turned her talents to pop (she makes Ke$ha look talented), fashion and acting, but mainly lots more reality TV and even more plastic surgery. When she heard that Megan Fox had quit Michael Bay's babes'n'explosions sequel Transformers 3, she decided to rustle together an audition tape for the vacant part. Here Montag's audition – which basically involves the line "this is for you, Michael Bay" and the shooting of targets from two feet away – is all the inspiration the internet needs to get busy with a project. The site includes countless piss-takes of wannabe Heidis in fabulously lame style as well as proper thesp Sir Ben Kingsley, who joins the gag teacup in hand.How I Met Your MotherboardHow I Met Your MotherboardToday computer technology is second nature and we've become accustomed to having a real life and an online one. But it wasn't always this way. Designed in the style of a long surpassed Macintosh operating system, this site brings together personal tales of early computing. Guardian writer Laura Barton contributes her childhood experiences with a ZX Spectrum-addicted brother and a daring attack of sabotage. Elsewhere there is nostalgia for the primitive dawn of the internet and a friendship forged on a Counting Crows messageboard; photographs of pale youths with the curtains drawn in the daytime so they can enjoy the delights of a PacMan clone; and the tragic tale of a schoolboy's first attempt at computer animation.Blog roll: SuperheroesBlack Jesus.Museum Of Black SuperheroesBlack superhero history from Whitewash to Captain Africa.SuperdickeryEvidence from vintage comic strips that Superman was a bit of a dick.Growing Up HeroesA reflective look on how wearing Batman pyjamas as a kid made us feel fantastic.Superheroes-R-UsTop 10 Iron Man 2 villains, the voice of Batman, and film and gaming news.Super Not So SuperA look into the super ordinary lives of Catwoman, Batman and The Flash.Shirtless SuperheroesMagneto in a loin cloth and other moments of comic-book torso flashing.What we learned on the web this weekTotal Recall Photograph: Rex20 years onand Total Recall is still brilliantThe Bay City Rollersgot the greatest rock'n'roll audience you will ever seeWhich bits of Londonget photographed the mostHow to tellif your workmates hate youTetris iseverywhereHow tore-establish a vodka empireWhy the east sideis always poorer than the westWhat happened tothe Star Wars KidWhat Russian shop windowslooked like in the communist 80sThe lyricsto the Portuguese Eurovision entry
Seat Ibiza 5dr FR TDIPrice£16,840Top speed130mphAcceleration0-62mph in 8.2 secondsAverage consumption60.1mpgCO2 emissions123g/kmEco rating8/10Bound forStarbucksIn a wordAgreeableSometimes – although not that often – one does have to feel a little sympathy for the car industry. Not only does everyone identify the car as the main cause of urban congestion and pollution, as well as&nbsp;a major contributor to global warming, but nearly everyone wants&nbsp;one, if they haven't already got one (in which case they probably want two).And what many of us want is a small car with plenty of space, that doesn't burn much fuel but is also powerful and speedy, that feels fun to drive while being serious about carbon emissions, and looks good without appearing too conspicuous. Oh, and affordable, too.Just a few years ago, those kinds of demands would have inspired nervous breakdowns in the most innovative designers, but now cars that go a long way to fitting that conflicting bill are in some sense a reality.Take, for example, theSeat Ibiza FR TDI. A couple of years ago I drove an Ibiza 1.6 with a 0-62mph acceleration of 10.5 seconds and fuel consumption of 42.8mpg. The new Ibiza FR TDI, with an admittedly larger two-litre engine, gets to 62mph in 8.2 seconds and has an average fuel consumption of 60.1mpg. OK, it's true that it's almost six grand more expensive, but still, that's a pretty dramatic improvement in statistics.But stepping back from the figures, what about its figure? The Ibiza tries hard but no one would accuse it of being a thing of great beauty. It conforms to the standard hatchback shape, and while there is a lot to recommend that shape in terms of ergonomics and ease, it is now rivalled only by the facade of Starbucks and the generic roundabout as the dullest form of design on the planet.Still, most of us are willing to tolerate its ubiquity as a payoff for its convenience. And the interior offers its own laudable attempt at compensation. It's clean, unfussy, with a pleasing attention to detail, and there's plenty of light, thanks to the sunroof. That said, you're not going to invite the neighbours to sit in it for the pure joy of the experience.You might, though, invite them for a drive, because the Ibiza FR TDI is a surprisingly frisky little ride that should surpass most cars in its class and hold up against plenty of so-called hot hatches. The Ibiza is more a cool hatch, which is of course a contradiction in terms, in particular when the hatch in question is a diesel. Perhaps better to say there are a great many hatches, including those with petrol engines, that are far less cool.So if you want a car, but you're lost in a sea of irreconcilable needs,&nbsp;the Ibiza might be the compromising island for which you've been searching.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?It's very boring, and everyone's said it, but it has to be my iPod. I travel a lot, and being on my own for hours for hours and hours on a train or a plane, it's something to keep me company.When was the last time you used it, and what for?This morning on my way to work. I'm doing some rehearsals for the RSC, so it was good to get some kind of music into my system.What additional features would you add if you could?It's already been invented – the iPod pillow speaker, which I got as a Christmas present. I like to listen to my iPod when I go to sleep, but I always get tangled up in the wires. My boyfriend got it for me so that I didn't kill myself.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I'm sure it will. I'm sure there will be this tiny chip that you can just put in your ear, and anything you think you want to listen to will appear.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I'm very impatient, and if I get a new piece of technology, no matter what it is – I recently got the iPhone, which is very exciting – I can't be doing with reading manuals. I want it to work immediately and to do what I want it to do.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Yes. I had a tape thing for drama school, to record the singing lessons and voice lessons. I hated it, it never worked properly and I think it's at the bottom of a drawer somewhere. I was a student – I couldn't afford a good one.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Ask Dad! If something doesn't work in my house – TV, phone, stereo, anything – I just call my dad, and he knows the answer.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Somewhere in between, I think. I don't know very much – I'm not very technically minded – but I love my laptop, and all the things I can do on it, and I love my iPod, it's amazing.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My car. When I did Angus, Thongs [and Perfect Snogging], I finally had a little bit of money to buy myself a car – just a Ford Focus, nothing flashy! You know you're an adult when you're handing over a lot of money.Mac or PC, and why?I have a PC because I don't know how to use a Mac. Actors always have Macs with them, and when I try to use someone else's, I can't get the hang of it. It's very strange, I don't like it.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I buy DVDs almost every week. I'm more of a film buff, so I usually buy more DVDs than CDs, but if I like someone's album I will by the CD of it. I had a bit of a geek splurge recently, so I bought Private Benjamin, Monk – the detective thing, cos it's fantastic – and Black Book.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I don't like that idea. I've seen Bicentennial Man, and I don't think it ended well. It didn't end well in AI, either. I think they're bad, bad ideas.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I think I'd like my own plane, stacked with all my favourite films.•Kimberley Nixonstars inBlack Death, out now in UK cinemas
Google ended its experiment toput a picture on its front page– whether you wanted one or not – only 14 hours into its 24-hour experiment, blaming the decision on a bug which meant that an explanatory link wasn't included.The problem was caused when it added a World Cup doodle - which of course would look like a mess of pottage if you had chosen a picture for your background.Really, Google? A bug meant you didn't include a link? And you didn't spot that during testing? Mmm.In theblogpost originally posted to explain the use of the image, an update by Marissa Mayer, the head of search products and user experience, now notes:Update June 10, 11:31AM: Last week, we launched the ability to set an image of users' choosing as the background for the Google homepage. Today, we ran a special 'doodle' that showcased this functionality by featuring a series of images as the background for our homepage. We had planned to run an explanation of the showcase alongside it – in the form of a link on our homepage. Due to a bug, the explanatory link did not appear for most users. As a result, many people thought we had permanently changed our homepage, so we decided to stop today's series early. We appreciate your feedback and patience as we experiment and iterate.Judging by the number (and negative attitude) of the comments that we saw on our own post, and the fact that for some time "remove google background image" was appearing on Google Trends, this looks like an experiment that just went wrong. Either that, or asSimon Jary suggests over at PC Advisor, it was a means of making people think, when they went to look at Microsoft's Bing, that it was just horrible.Either way, Google has probably got a few more people to sign up with it (to change the awful images), and perhaps made them think Bing isn't the thing. Or it has driven them into the arms of Safari or Opera, which didn't display the image for us. (Thankfully.) Chalk it up to experience, Marissa. Andnever do it again.
So the free lunch - otherwise known as the unlimited data tariff - is over. O2 said on Thursday that itwill no longer be offering new or upgrading customers its "unlimited" tariff for smartphone users- principally, it's believed, the iPhone users, whose numbers connected to O2 have grown from 1m to 2m in a year.O2 isn't the first: Vodafone ended its "unlimited" offering last month, and Steve Jobs had barely sat down after delivering his WWDC speech before AT&amp;T announced that it too was ending its "unlimited" offering, replacing it with a tiered set - $15/month for 200MB, $25/month for 2GB. Orange is expected to follow suit in the next few weeks, though when asked the company simply says that it "constantly reviews its pricing". However the noises we're hearing from parts of the company suggest that a review will see it follow O2 to dump the "unlimited" offering.Why? Because a tiny number of users are slurping huge amounts of data. And because the mass of users are demanding more and more data (though lots less than the real slurpers). There's all sorts of interesting information that we can pull out of this - especially with the help of O2's chief executive Ronan Dunne, who signed alengthy post at the company's blogwith a tortuous justification for why the company has changed its rules. The strange thing is why he hasn't come out with the simple reason - because it would make O2 a lot more popular at a stroke.He goes over thepoints that were made in yesterday- that 97% of O2 smartphone users use less than 500MB, and that only a tiny number use more than 1GB. (Interesting to note that Apple-watcher John Gruber, someone who I'd expect to be a heavy user,sayshe uses about 500MB per month. So he's clearly just one of the 97%, even if an outlier there.) Even so, smartphone users are a problem:"one streamed YouTube video has the same effect on the network as half a million text messages sent simultaneously, the equivalent of everybody in Newcastle sending a text at once."Well, yes, but nobodymadeyou offer the iPhone, Mr Dunne. You were the ones who wanted it so much. This makes it sound as though you like getting peoples' money, but don't like offering them a concomitant service to go with it.However it's more complicated than O2 getting a bit whiney. What we're hearing here at the Guardian though is that Apple itself helped to kill off the "unlimited" tag, because it doesn't like it being used with services that call it "unlimited*" and then explain further down the page in tiny print that that actually*means "subject to 'fair usage'". (We understand that Apple vetoed Vodafone's initial pricing for the iPad data plans for just that reason.) It seems that just as broadband ISPs became addicted, when the race to sign up customers was on a few years ago, to the phrase "up to..." for their line speeds, so mobile data networks have gotten too comfy with the "unlimited*" word - where the asterisk is all-important. You could even call it Unlimited&trade; - which has quite a different meaning from unlimited.Apple's weight isn't the real reason for the change, though. Stay with us.There's other interesting stuff in that blogpost: O2 says there that the average user uses 200MB per month; that FaceTime, the video calling offering introduced by Apple with the iPhone 4, will only be available on Wi-Fi (at least from O2); and there will be regular texts to let you know how you're doing on your data allowance. And if you go over it without buying more, you'll see your data speed slow down.Given those numbers, let's make some assumptions. There are 2m iPhone users (and even more if you add in Android users). That's a large enough population that you can treat it as a random sample. I'm told by one of the networks that data use follows the normal distribution (aka the bell curve - that mathematical prediction of where the members of a random population will be: it applies for things like height, for example). It's probably not a perfect normal distribution - there will be a low-end cutoff, because any device connected to the network will use a least a little data. But for modelling, it's a start.So: 200MB average; 97% use less than 500MB. Plus those numbers into anormal distribution calculatorand you discover that those 0.1% who are annoying O2 so much consume more than 690MB of data per month. That's about 23MB per day - roughly a megabyte every single hour. What, you think, are those folks doing? In fact, one network tells me that those people are downloading many gigabytes per month. That's quite hard to do on a smartphone.Is it because of music streaming services like Spotify or We7 or (in the US) Pandora? The networks say no: audio doesn't take up that much bandwidth (certainly compared to video), and they haven't seen much takeup. So those gigabyte users aren't listening to streams. (The iPlayer is only available via Wi-Fi on most networks.) Yet O2 says that while it has doubled the number of iPhone users, mobile data use is doubling every 4 months, equivalent to an eightfold growth every year.So: lots of growth, but some real extremes. What is causing it? Closer investigation suggests that this is a sort of collateral damage from the rumblings that preceded the Digital Economy Act - that it's caused by peer-to-peer users who were perhaps worried about the "three strikes" talk, and figured that their landlines (if they have them) might be monitored or throttled if they download a lot of P2P data; or they might be surcharged. For as we've pointed out before,"unlimited" doesn't mean unlimited on landline broadband.So those wary folk - put by one network as numbering "in the few hundreds" out of millions - have signed up on "unlimited" plans, taken the SIM out of the phone, and then use it in a 3G dongle to download stuff. Because it's unlimited, they can get what they want. And as they don't mind how quickly it arrives, the speed isn't a particular issue; they're just after volume. O2 says that 0.1% of its smartphone users - that's about 2,000 people - are consuming 36% of its data. Other networks indicate the same.It's also a bit foolish on the part of the downloaders, because the Digital Economy Act does actually allow for measures to be taken over illicit filesharing over mobile networks. But possibly the people doing it don't think they'll be noticed.Here's news: the mobile networks have noticed.So it's not really down to the iPhone or Android phones, which are more of an annoyance to the networks, because they make multiple, frequent requests to the network - but those are small amounts; those aren't the reason why O2 is ending the unlimited package. It's because some people took it at its word when it said data access was unlimited.At this point, your - and our - reaction is "so tell that 0.1% to stop being data hogs - shape their bandwidth, send them letters, that sort of thing. Because obviously you're not going to want to burden yourself with having to set up new billing for millions of customers just because you've got 0.1% who are a bit annoying. No, that would be silly."It's certainly puzzling that O2 isn't being clearer about the reasons. But the networks say they don't want to annoy those big downloaders. That's because they want to keep them as customers; but as paying customers. Yet the unlimited contracts aren't being withdrawn; they'll simply not be renewed. "At some stage, people will want a new handset or a new contract," an O2 spokesperson said yesterday.I wouldn't be so sure: someone who's using their iPhone SIM as a dongle really isn't worried about upgrading; they've probably got a PAYG SIM stuffed into their iPhone for their phone calls. They're not stupid. Unless O2 - and the other networks - start taking some aggressive action, such as throttling their connections, then the faux-iPhoners will carry on. It's a tragedy of the commons, mobile data-style. Just like spam and comment bots, the tiny number of P2P mobile downloaders are screwing it up for everyone else.It's odd that internet evolution is going in reverse here: I thought that ISPs had learnt that offering broadband was far better for retaining customers than the penny-per-minute dialup nightmare of 1990s internet connectivity (yes, children, we used to have dialup modems, and paid per minute we were connected. And you couldn't use make a phone call while you did).It's a retrograde move - and even though the networks insist that most people won't be affected, the fact is that we're data-hungry. Eventually, we'll all be over the limit. Will the P2P donglers still be on their unlimited contracts even then? One feels that it's time for the networks, if they're really serious about offering a good service to all their customers, to have a think about that "fair use" clause.Meanwhile, the 97% get a little inconvenienced, plus the constant worry that they'll go over their limit. That's actually the worst thing about what's happening here: that the confidence that you can use the mobile internet anywhere is suddenly gone, replaced by a nagging worry that this page or that service will land you with a big bill. The mobile internet shouldn't be like that: it should be like the landline version, where you don't worry about the megabytes. It's not a free lunch - but it's not a system where the person in front is treating the buffet as an all-you-can-eat either.
Video games, at least the most interesting video games, are all about those moments when something utterly unexpected happens. Sure, set-piece shoot-outs are fun and it's always satisfying to beat a well-designed end-of-level boss by learning and exploiting its codified weaknesses. But the moments that really lodge in the mind are those that you create yourself, or that happen around you spontaneously, moments brought to life within an intelligent and truly adaptive system.Dave Jones, the founder ofRealtime Worlds, has envisagedAPBas a game built solely around those experiences. The project, a vast online cops and robbers shooter, started out five years ago, and builds on everything Jones has learned about sand box game design since greenlighting Grand Theft Auto in the mid-90s. With that title, he oversaw the birth of the open world crime adventure. With this one, perhaps, he aims to usher it into a crazed sort of adulthood.To begin with, the basics. In the fictional city of San Paro, two factions – the enforcers and the criminals – fight for control of the streets. Behind them lurks a stratum of corporate giants and underworld organisations, manipulating the action, profiting from the chaos. Those are the guys you'll work for as the overarching story of APB unravels.The game operates in uncharted territory somewhere between an MMOG and an online multiplayer shooter. When you enter, you choose whether you want to be a good guy or bad guy, you build your own avatar using the astonishingly powerful character creation system (everyone in the game can look utterly unique), then you jump into a district containing up to 100 other gamers. From here, it's up to you. You can meet a bunch of friends or use the seamlessly integrated matchmaking system to hook up with some likeminded strangers. Whatever you do, you need to get into a group – this is not a game for loners. You'll play in squads of four, and it's smart to mix things up a bit – have a good driver, a good sniper and someone who can rush in with a semi-automatic and cause mayhem.The action is essentially based around a string of missions handed out by contacts – non-player characters who represent the city's warring organisations. Groups need to locate and pledge allegiance to a contact who'll then start providing them with tasks. These are usually multi-phase: as an enforcer, you might need to pick up a VIP from a safe house and get him across town. As a criminal, you could be breaking into a building, blagging its contents, then driving the loot over to your fence for distribution across the city's blackmarket. At every stage in the mission, the game system will calculate your group's skill level, then search the district for an opposing squad of similar abilities. It then matches you up and the fun starts – now it's up to the other guys to thwart you.Recently, during a Realtime Worlds press day, I played as a criminal for several hours, piling through dozens of hectic mission objectives. What the game feels like most is Counterstrike with vehicles and a huuuuuge map. Whatever the missions consist of, whether it's tagging buildings with your gang logo, or helping a corrupt politico snag a replacement liver, the action is invariably built around the FPS staples – capture the flag, team deathmatch, conquest, etc – it's just that here they segue into each other on the fly, creating a breathless symphony of action and destruction. One minute we're driving a truck containing a donor body part, the next we're trapped in a rat run of alleys by the cops, trying desperately to reach our delivery point in time.There are lots of tasks that end either in a car chase (criminals are often given five minutes to evade the police) or in chokepoint face-offs as one team is required to defend a certain area from the other side. This is when the game feels most like a traditional FPS, albeit a traditional FPS playing out within an open world with miles of roadways to escape down. Familiar tactics immediately slink into play – the snipers camping on distance rooftops, the heavy weapons crew moseying in and strafing the area. It's as far from the ponderous world of the MMORPG as you could conceivably wander within the same loose genre pigeonhole.But of course, what APB adds to the first-person shoot-'em-up experience is the 'living breathing city' element; the fact that the streets are filled with 3,000 intelligent pedestrians, and at least 200 cars. So suddenly your firefight is broken up when an enemy is run over by a truck, or you steal a passing motor and bundle away to lick your wounds. Again, the interesting part of the game is the way it seamlessly switches genres and tropes – five seconds ago you were in Modern Warfare, now you're in GTA, burning rubber as you escape a deadly exchange of fire before scoping the block for a better vantage point on your enemies.I was playing with several members of the dev team, as well as three of the guys from US-based fansiteAPB Evolved– and they've all developed a symbiotic understanding of the game environment and the rhythms of combat. There were several occasions where I was pinned down in the middle of a major battle, when suddenly a member of my group spins round the corner in some customised muscle car and escorts me from the danger zone. Hitting the direction key, I'd then lean out the window and take a few celebratory pot shots at my aggressors.APB, then, is free-form, yet somehow epically staged violence, like a Michael Mann shoot-out sequence filmed as a piece of shaky cam reportage. This, you may not need me to inform you, is enormous fun. Adding to it is the concept of 'escalation'. If one side is being massively out-finessed, they can call for back up and the system pulls in another group in the same district to help out. If this tips the balance too far in their favour, the other faction gets to call for back up, too. And so on. Eventually you're in a mass battle with 20 people on each side – and all the while the city goes about its business in the background.The game contains two distinct 'action' districts, where all the missions take place. The Financial District is a mass of skyscrapers, neon signs, animating billboards and swooping overpasses; the Waterfront is more of a relaxed tourist zone, with plazas, outdoor cafes and docklands. "We have a huge team of guys here who've worked on nothing but architecture," says community manager, Chris Collins. "The cities are loosely based on real-life layouts, but they're designed specifically so that you have an easy transit system, you can get to the objectives quickly and in a way that feels action-packed."But then during all of the objectives you can break away from that main road into back alleys, into shopping malls and little residential areas, and those in themselves are, I guess, shooter maps; they're areas with choke points and architectural features that allow you to control the zone well. But because the action is generated in a quasi-procedural way, you can never useeverythingto your advantage."On the streets, there are 30 basic vehicle types, but groups get to customise their own signature cars, which can be spawned during any mission. Each type has up to four slots for upgrades, ranging from steel plating to nitro boosters. It's up to you whether you want to cruise the streets in a tank, or blast down them in a super-charged sports car. There are no manufacturer brands in here, but there are obvious allusions to Hummers, Dodge Vipers, Jeeps, etc.There are also around 100 basic weapons, a cavalcade of familiar favourites from shotguns, rifles and semi-autos to rocket launchers. Some of them are specific to one faction: for example, officially only the enforcers get stun guns and other non-lethal weapons. However, apparently it's possible for criminals to forge deals with enforcer crews to get hold of these rather amusing devices. As you'd expect, they leave players lying on the ground entirely incapcitated for up to 30 seconds. And thanks to a range of customisable taunts and victory moves, that whole time might be spent watching your attacker performing a moonwalk in front of your prone character.Certainly, the variety of weapons is impressive, but right now, it feels as though there are some slight balancing issues, especially when you play as a low-level character. The default semi-automatics have a decent fire rate, but pitiful damage, while the heavier weapons take an age to load and leave you horribly stranded in a gunfight. Sure, these can all be modded, but newcomers should be handed at least one piece of entry-level all-round hardware that can do a reasonable amount of damage without requiring a PhD in marksmanship. Another thing some beta testers are complaining about is the lack of head shots; you can't bring a character down with a single well-aimed trigger pull. The dev team is still tweaking, though, so let's see how it goes.Fortunately, as in any role-playing game, your character levels up with every mission, unlocking new upgrades and items all the time. Like cars, characters have up to four slots for upgrades, including stuff like faster health regeneration, greater resistance to damage and the ability to set up mobile ammo stores so your group can load up without having to find a nearby bullet shop. Realtime Worlds has also created an acheivement system in which players are rewarded for fulfilling certain pre-described roles – so providing supporting fire in a number of face-offs gets you a 'Wing man' award, while foiiing enough criminal missions earns the Detective badge. All of these come with their own perks and can all be levelled up as you go.And this, really, is just skating along the surface of what APB represents. After five years in development it has evolved almost beyond recognition, from a rather traditional MMOG (it was originally to be published by specialist MMO company Webzen, before Realtime Worlds bought back the brand) to today's frantic hybrid experience. "If you look at the game, look at the number of features, I think we have the best customisation system in the world," says technical lead Rob Anderberg. "I mean, it's got a music sequencer in it! We've created a system where every single character and vehicle is unique, but on top of that, we've decided to have 100 people in the same area, and have an open world… And yes, the game has changed over time, it started as one type of thing and changed fairly dramatically. We didn't have this fully featured idea of what APB was when we began, we just started coding!"We've taken complete features out of the game, absolutely, from the ground up, and we've just started again. We'll review it and say, 'you know, it's just not working.' And rather than just try to cobble it together somehow, we start again from scratch. That's an incredibly painful thing to do, but we have that commitment to get it right."And naturally, those growing pains have resonanted through the beta testing process. According to Stephen Lynch, the founder of APB Evolved, the original closed betas suffered horrendous lag as players in the States were forced to take part via European servers. Now there are servers and data centres in the US and Europe, and Lynch insists they're getting a smooth, almost lag-free experience. The matchmaking systems have also vastly improved, allowing friends to find each other easily within the backend structure of severs, realms and districts.I suppose what I haven't experienced yet is the sense of 'belonging' that comes with an MMOG like World of Warcraft. Of course, I'll need many more hours of play to get there, but I'm not sure that APB will build – or evenwantsto build – that same sense of being utterly swallowed up in a gigantic fantasy fiction. Perhaps it's the breathless nature of the action or the emphasis on PvsP, or it might be because at most you only have 100 people in your district; whatever it is, beyond the (significant) customisation element and the open world structure, the game experience feels so much more like an online shooter than it does an MMOG. It will be interesting to see if and how this changes when the full experience goes live and we start to see a narrative emerge from the maelstrom of shoot-outs and car chases.What's clear is that the evolutionary process won't end when the game launches. The team has masses of plans for specialist areas where fans of particular game types will be able to congregate. Realtime Worlds is thinking about territorial battles, where clans get to fight over – and own – areas of the map; there will be chaos districts where all 100 residents can fight each other (at the moment, you can only actively engage with players or teams who you've been matched against by the game). There's talk of having a district where all the cars are removed which will allow perhaps a hundred more players to take part in city-wide wars.Really, that's what APB is about – flexibility and potential. It is about allowing the users to build their own stories; it's about the quote that Dave Jones chose to introduce the game back in 2005: theplayeris the content. You will get out of this game, what you put in – maybe that'll mean a few hours a week of errant blasting, maybe it'll mean joining a gang with a rigid identity, with its own branded clothing, music and vehicles, and immersing yourself in that culture. Weirdly, with its fast-paced cyclical structure, the sense of imaginative ownership, the passionate fanbase, in some ways what APB most resembles is Football Manager. It has that same rolling addictive quality – just one more match, one more mission. You don't know why you're playing for hours on end, you just are.And for a game that will live and die by its community, it seems already to have built a passionate following. The closed beta has just come to an end, attracting over 96,000 users, who indulged in over 3,500,000 battles in a combined game time of 75.5 years. "APB has a great PvsP base," says 'Din' a moderator on APB Evolved. "There is a bit of grinding, but it's not in the traditional sense of 'get quest, kill mob, return to quest giver'. You're against other players ALL the time, you're not sitting there thinking 'I've got to kill nine million more goblins before I get this sword'. You're going up against a constantly changing pool, you never know what the competition is going to be – that changes things completely."So much is riding on the technical elements of the game, and how player communities choose to mould the worlds on offer. But if this works, it's going to be something else. Truly, something else.APB is released on July 2. There are three payment models: players can subscribe, they can buy chunks of game time, or they can produce and sell customised goods in the game world, thereby earning extra play hours.
Assuming the gods of wireless internet access are looking down on us kindly, Gamesblog will be live blogging from all the major press conferences taking place in the run up to theE3 video games exhibition. But we don't want to do it alone – we needYOURexpert opinion and analysis. (Or your sarcastic quips and glib asides – we're not fussy.)The E3 press conference timetable looks like thisMonday June 14Microsoft – 10am (UK – 6pm)EA – 2pm (UK – 10pm) You'll find the official live streamhere.Ubisoft  – 5pm (UK – Tuesday, 1am)Tuesday June 15Nintendo –  9am (UK – 5pm) The Big N will have its own live streamhere.Sony – 12pm (UK – 8pm)All of these will also be streamed live over the web by the big game news sites. Check out:IGNGamespotGametrailersSimply pick the media outlet you want to go with, then join us! While you're watching, you can contact Gamesblog via our email address (gamesblog at gmail dot com), or you can followour Twitter feed. We'll also use the hashtag gdne3 so you can include that in any pertinent (or impertinent) missives.With some massive announcements and loads of Natal/Move details, it's going to be an epoch-shattering two days!
The first trailer for the new Final Fantasy DS game - Final Fantasy: The 4 Heroes of Light. What do you think? Excited by the retro-style action? Or bemused by the series' enduring appeal?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
The Grand Opening. Photo byTheTruthAbout...on Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA timeline of Open Data impacts on UK  Government &gt;&gt; Tim DaviesSomehow he left a date in March 2006 out, but otherwise fascinating.Chaart: iPad Browser Share Already Beating Android, BlackBerry &gt;&gt; BusinessInsiderInteresting analysis from Katy Huberty at Morgan Stanley, saying iPad browser usage is closer to that of a PC than a smartphone. Makes sense when you think about it.Last Week in HTML5 &gt;&gt; BloggerOK, so there's a blog which follows the ins and outs of the WHATWG and W3C shenanigans over HTML5. Read at your leisure.Microsoft hides mystery Firefox extension in toolbar update &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaWe're pretty sure that Microsoft shouldn't be doing this.Resolving the iPhone resolution &gt;&gt; Bad Astronomy @ Discover MagazineInteresting examination on whether claims about the new iPhone's "eye-fooling" resolution make sense or not.A Tablet to Let Students Replace Notebooks and Textbooks &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comOf this product, analyst Michael Gartenberg said "It's dead before it arrives".Reactable Live &gt;&gt; PixelsumoAn intriguing device: use it to make music.EU mobile roaming caps legal and fair, says court &gt;&gt; ZDNet UKInterestingly, on the same day that this came out, O2 abandoned its uncapped policy for iPhone users.iPhone 4 Glass – Will it break? &gt;&gt; iFix your i BlogI bet it blends too.Building for your Future &gt;&gt; BCSThings are brewing at the British Computer Society.The Demographics of Facebook's Top 15 Country Markets &gt;&gt; Inside FacebookInteresting views on the demographics. The UK has a lot of older users.Apple's worst security breach, or a great big hyperbole? &gt;&gt; Paul Ducklin's blogAt security company Sophos, Paul Ducklin says "this story is a great big hyperbole, and misleading to boot", since your email address is revealed on the internet every time you use it to send email.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
On this rainy day (in London anyway) what we really need is some retro-gaming news to warm us up. Luckily Sega have delivered byannouncingthat classic Dreamcast titles Sonic Adventure and Crazy Taxi will be released for Xbox Live Arcade and PSN later this year. Ok, what we really want is Shenmue but these two are a good start. Sega exec Haruki Satomi is as excited as – I imagine – Keith will be when he hears the news.The Dreamcast is fondly remembered by a large community of dedicated fans as a console that was ahead of its time in terms of graphics, quality and online gaming. There are few things that are more requested from us than making Dreamcast classics available for download in today's digital market place. We're very excited to begin offering gamers our beloved Dreamcast titles again on the current console systems.The Dreamcast will always hold a special place in my pixxelated gaming heart, if only because it was the first console I ever wrote about professionally. More importantly it felt like a huge step forward from Playstation and N64. The graphical prowess was worth the purchase price alone but it was the nascent online service that really pointed out where console gaming was heading. The problem was – as most people know – the imminent arrival of PS2 and the subsequent caution this engendered in publishers and purchasers alike. In hindsight the DC probably suffered from being too firmly aimed at the "hardcore" gamer too. For example it lacked the DVD drive which did so much to attract less committed gamers to the PS2. Plus, let's be honest, the Playstation was always the stronger sexier brand at the time.Should we be excited by digital versions of Sonic Adventure and Crazy Taxi then or will it be a short-lived retro thrill? For me it depends on what they add to the titles in the way of new features – the original game plus a leaderboard will not be enough. But what do you think? Excited by this news? And if so, what DC games would you want to see delivered after Sonic and Crazy Taxi?
O2 is telling its smartphone customers – notably including users of Apple's iPhone – that it is ending its "unlimited" data plans, and that those who use a lot of data will have to pay up in time.Unveiling its new data tariffs ahead of the launch of the iPhone 4 on 24 June, the mobile operator insisted that 97% of users will not notice the difference – and that its changes were really aimed at about 2,000 users who use extraordinarily high amounts of data every month.Instead, it said that a tiny number – just1%0.1%(corrected: incorrect figure given by O2 initially) of smartphone users – are using 36% of its total mobile data traffic, and that they needed to be encouraged to change their behaviour.Thenew tariffsreplace the "unlimited" data tariffs offered with the iPhone on O2 in 2007 with a new tiered set, including 500MB, 750MB and 1GB data packages, along with unlimited Wi-Fi time via The Cloud and BT's OpenZone services. However existing users with iPhone contracts will still be able to use "unlimited" amounts of data, O2 said."97% of our smartphone users use less than 500MB per month, so they won't notice a difference," said a spokeswoman for O2. Existing O2 customers canfind out their data consumption on the O2 site.She said that O2 was seeing dramatic growth in the number of smartphone users, especially iPhone users, but even more rapid growth in mobile data usage. "Total mobile data consumption on our network is doubling every four months," she said. "And the number of iPhone users on O2 has grown in a year from 1m to 2m."That suggests that individual smartphone users' data consumption is growing rapidly and that O2 is now trying to slow it down by putting up barriers to greater use. "At the moment the tap is running all the time and we don't know where," suggested the spokeswoman. "The model for data provision is broken, and data consumption is growing. We're looking at ways of how to charge people for data."O2's spokeswoman said that rebalancing the tariffs would mean that the company could plan its network capacity: "as soon as people know how much data they're consuming, they can make a decision about whether to use their phone." But that is not borne out if 97% of users will see no change – because their surfing habits will persist as before.Some have suggested that O2 is worried about the growth of music streaming services such as Spotify, which is now available for the iPhone and other smartphones: if more people adopt it, that will put a heavier load on the phone network, yet O2 receives no money from Spotify for providing the service. O2 denied this, though. "If people have a phone, they can use it for whatever they like," said the spokeswoman.Instead, O2 suggested, it is trying to change the behaviour of a tiny number of users – reckoned to be just 1% of iPhone users – who use very large amounts of data. "There's only 3% [of smartphone users] who use more than 1GB of mobile data per month. But actually it's just 1% [of smartphone users] who use about one third – to be precise, 36% – of the network data traffic. I suppose they must be streaming all the time or something."Asked whether the move away from the unlimited to new data tariffs for all forthcoming iPhone 4 users would have been more simply managed by contacting that 1% – about 2,000 people – and asking them to change their behaviour, rather than introducing entirely new billing systems for all future owners, O2's spokeswoman said: "It's about educating people. We have 24m customers. But this change doesn't affect any existing customers."Asked what O2 will do if those data-hungry 2,000 do not upgrade to the new limited tariffs, the spokeswoman said: "Eventually they will come to the end of their contract, or they will want a new handset."Correction:changed 1% of users using 36% of data to 0.1%; wrong figure provided by O2 initially, but correct number inO2 blogpost.
With World Cup fever about to engulf the land just as Freeview HD launches, you can expect a flood of devices that pump Freeview HD to your telly in the next few weeks. One of the first is the nice but clunkily named i-CAN Easy HD, a small white plastic box (wait, white? Isn't white a bit last-century?) that includes not only that Freeview HD tuner, but what is also for me its killer app: the BBC iPlayer.The Freeview stuff first: the HD picture seemed really not bad at all to my untrained eye on my 32in Full-HD Panasonic telly. At the moment, of course, HD content is limited to a couple of channels (BBC HD, Channel 4 HD and ITV 1 HD) and it's only available in some parts of the country. However, most of the time you'll be watching standard-def pictures, and I found those a bit soft and occasionally blocky. Sit far enough away from your telly, though, and that won't be a problem.There's a comprehensive EPG and the onscreen menus are clear, though I thought the graphics were rather cartoon-like. However, they walk you clearly through the set-up and the box is up and running quickly. I had one minor irritation which was that I couldn't find how to turn off the default setting for subtitles, which is that they are on, and had to turn them off every single time I changed the channel. Apparently that's easy to fix – a pity I didn't find that setting, though.Where this box really shines, though, is with the iPlayer, which feels as though it's been set free by being beamed straight to your telly rather than you having to watch EastEnders on your laptop. The interface is easy to navigate and – assuming your broadband connection can cope with it – it will also deliver high-def content. It stuttered a bit for me, which I put down to the flakiness of wireless streaming, but it was really very good overall.Mind you, you have to connect it to your router, and therein lies something I find infuriating. Why aren't devices like this equipped with Wi-Fi? This box, like every other piece of internet-capable TV equipment, comes with an Ethernet port. Now, I don't know about you, but my telly is nowhere near my router; and I do not want to sling great lengths of CAT-5 cable around my flat. Which means that you have to buy a wireless bridge –Belkin does one for about £35– and set that up. I havea D-Link bridge with four portsbut that is both expensive and surprisingly tricky to put on your network.The remote is a bit confusing as it has various buttons that don't yet have a function, suggesting further clever tricks to come. And it, like a couple of other things about this box (like turning off the subtitles), isn't very intuitive – you'll need to refer to the manual more times than you might like.The biggest niggle of this box is that isn't a PVR – if you want to record or archive material you'll need to add another piece of kit to the collection under your television. But if you want HD Freeview for a reasonable price (£129), then this is a very good option. And having the iPlayer on it is just sublime.Pros:HD content, the iPlayer, small and neatCons:Not a PVR, cartoony graphics, annoying remote, no Wi-Fi, not always intuitiveAdvanced Digital BroadcastThe i-CAN Easy HD Freeview box is about the size of a Wi-Fi router
Is this the end of the Google Doodle - and of Google's classic, clean lines? If you go to the company's home page today, you'll find that you're greeted with a huge image (except if you use Apple's Safari or the Opera browser, for reasons we'll come to).The feature -announced last weekas an option, where you could add an image to the page - is now forced onto you: visit the page, and you're greeted, or maybe confronted, with a whacking great image of a lily pond, or a field of flowers, or all sorts of things.Why? What is Google trying to do? Google said of the feature (which at the time required you to sign in to a Google account) that it "brings a whole new level of personalization to Google by letting you add a favorite photo or image to the background of the Google homepage." Well, if that's what turns you on..What's mystifying, at first, is what Google thinks it's getting out of this. The image adds to the time required to load the page (even if it's only 11K, that's still 11K that didn't have to come otherwise), and while you can change the background image to white, that means that you'll only be able to see the text on the page through its shadow - which doesn't work well in Internet Explorer, if at all. So Internet Explorer users might as well use Microsoft'sBing, which has been doing this sort of thing since its relaunch.So, why? Larry Page and Sergey Brin used to be adamant that nothing should spoil the clean lines of the Google page: when it first appeared, it dazzled compared to the rest of the web, where the major search engine was AltaVista, which was succumbing at just that time to a serious bout of portal-itis, in which the page becomes inflamed with flim-flam.In those early years, they even turned down a very large sum from Visa, which wanted to have an advert - the only advert - on that front page. This, when they were a company with no revenue, and lots of outgoings.But the no-advert policy has been repealed. That is, adverts by Google itself - for its Chrome browser, or its business solutions - have been included (third parties are still locked out). The idea that the front page is sacrosanct has been abandoned.What's happening with the pictures, then? It looks as though Google is trying to reach the huge mass of people who like some sort of personalisation. The idea of the image is to show you that youcando this to the home page; if you click on the bottom-left link to "Change background image", you get taken to a page where you have to log in - or create - a Google account.So in that sense, this is another, subtle advert to get people to sign up to Google accounts, while putting Google on an equal footing with Bing in terms of how the page looks generally.Don't forget that Google will have tested this extensively: it's the sort of company which once tried out 40 very slightly different shades of blue for link text, each on 2.5% of its users, to see which colour would generate the most clickthroughs. The idea of a picture on your search page probably looks foolish to experienced web users. To a lot of people, though, it looks like the best way to experience the web.Ah, yes. The Safari thing. Viewing Google in Safari 4 or 5 (I haven't tested on earlier), you don't get the image. There's clearly browser sniffing going on here (comparing the code that's generated for Safari with that for another Webkit-based browser, Chrome, shows tons of differences).Is it Google continuing some little acts of revenge on Apple for blocking access by AdMob, the Google subsidiary, on the iPhone? Possibly. Though I think the reason is much simpler, and comes down to mobile access.Here's why: Google is the default search page for iPhone users. And it's the most-used search page, online or on mobile. If you're on a mobile phone and you have to wait for an extra 11KB of data to download, it's not going to go well. So the blank page is a simple way for Google to keep giving mobile users a good experience.Yes, Google could check for access by MobileSafari, which is the browser used on the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. Accessing the page via those devices gives the plain page too. Possibly that's too much work - or possibly they really are being difficult.Except there's also the Opera thing. (Thanks John Lettice at The Register on pointing that out.) Does that still stand up? Well, a lot of mobiles also use Opera: it's surprisingly popular, and used on many Nokia smartphones. That tends to bolster that idea.So is the image-based search page with us forever? One argument why it might be: it lets you know that you really are signed in to Google - not a fake. Only Google will know how your page should look; it's a form of identification that works even better than a password.One argument why it might not: because it means it's hard to distinguish it from Bing, and it means that Google can't do Google Doodles any more. And you have to agree that the latter would be a loss - far more so, in their educational and amusement value, than the gain to be had from an image.
Alien Breed evoked a time when developers really pushed the abilities of hardware. And yet, last year's update of the franchise failed to set gamers alight in the way the Amiga original did. So full marks to Team 17 for putting the second episode of AB:Evolution on hold and trying to reboot the reboot instead. The question is, have they done enough?AB: Impact does boast a few improvements to the last effort. You can now spend credits on new weapons or upgrading your favourite ones – a welcome addition that means you have more to look out for in the maze-like levels other than health or ammo packs. The control system has also been tweaked, now working perfectly to steer your hero with the direction keys, using the mouse to and aim and fire your weapon. Once you get used to moving quickly while panning the camera with the mouse, it makes for some exhilarating run-and-gun gameplay – especially when monsters start crawling out of the ship in significant numbers.Which makes it all the more disappointing that the gameplay remains a curiously cold and uninviting affair. Despite some attractive effects (the random explosions that rip through the ship, for instance) the levels are long and far too formulaic to either surprise or truly involve. It's usually a case of searching for a keycard to unlock a door, fighting off the enemies that pour out and then doing it all again at each new bottleneck.Another disappointment are the aliens themselves – once the game's highlight due to their impressive (albeit borderline litigious) similarity to HR Geiger's seminal designs for Alien. Apparently, these have been tweaked to make them more distinctive, but the result is still underwhelming given the capabilities of the Unreal engine used to render them – something not helped by the top-down perspective, which doesn't make for any great level of texture or detail.As an effort in nostalgia, AB: Impact has much to commend it. It's keenly priced, the sound is excellent and the frenetic gameplay and sheer number of onscreen enemies makes for some thrilling rearguard actions in tight, moodily lit corridors. However, as an illustration of what today's PC is capable of, it fails to impress. Gamers of a certain age may warm to its old-skool charm, but others may end up wondering what the all the fuss was about in the first place.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
For her 12th birthday my daughter would like a simple (cheapish!) digital camera that she can mainly use to take pictures of friends and get them onto Facebook. I assume this means loading pics onto the PC first and then transferring them to Facebook – she has her own laptop connected to our wireless broadband. Have you any suggestions? I notice that a Fujifilm AX245W Pink digital camera is on offer at Tesco, down from £119.97 to £69.97. Tesco also has the Fujifilm FinePix Z70, down from £119 to £99, which can upload pics/video to Facebook and YouTube, though it's a bit more expensive than I'd like.Jill LlewellynA good camera for young daughters, which I included in the Technology section'sChristmas gift guide, is the pinkSamsung ES55, which Amazon.co.uk is selling for £64.90. It's 13th on Amazon's bestsellers list for compacts, and ranks about 19,000 places higher than theFujifilm AX245Win Electronics &amp; Photo. (You can buy from other sources, of course.)One of the Samsung ES55's advantages is the lithium ion battery, and the camera can optionally be recharged from a PC's USB port. The Fujifilm AX245W and many other compacts use AA batteries, which adds to the running costs.Note that in both cases you will need to add an SD (Secure Digital) memory card. There are lots of cheap 2GB SDHD cards available, if you don't already have a spare.Another disadvantage of both cameras – and of most compacts nowadays – is the lack of an optical viewfinder. Pictures have to be framed using the screen on the back, and this can be hard to see in sunlight.Your daughter will need to transfer the pictures from the SD card to her computer before uploading them to an online service. Many laptops now have an SD card slot to make this easier. If not, she could use a small plug-in USB adaptor.TheFujifilm Finepix Z70aims to make it simpler to upload photos to Facebook and other sites. What you do is select images for uploading while they are still in the camera. Then,says Fujifilm's site, "When the FinePix Z70 is connected to a PC, the marked images are uploaded to the designated site, eliminating the need for time-consuming PC-based image processing or selection." For this to work, the PC has to be running the MyFinePix Studio software supplied with the camera.But you're paying quite a lot for the convenience (compared with £65 for the ES55). For that sort of money, theCanon PowerShot A1100is a better camera, and it has a viewfinder. Amazon.co.uk has it in pink for £103.92, reduced from £219.You don't say if your daughter already has a Facebook account: many children do. However,Facebook's privacy policystates that users must be aged 13 or older, adding: "If we learn that we have collected personal information from a child under age 13, we will delete that information as quickly as possible." That could be a bit devastating for a child who has put a lot of effort into building up a profile and network of friends.Either way, you must make sure that your daughter understands that Facebook does not store her original photos, and that she must not delete them from her PC. If she uploads a high resolution image measuring 3648 x 2736 pixels, Facebook will reduce it to about 720 x 540 pixels. In other words, it will throw away the 10MP image and show a 0.3MP image instead. This makes sense to Facebook because it stores billions of photos. However, it does mean that Facebook images are useless for making prints.(Facebook users could resize their own prints to 720 pixels wide then upload the smaller versions, but I don't know anyone who does this manually.)The low quality of Facebook photos is a great leveller, and many people send photos directly from their camera phones, without using a PC. The drawbacks are that smartphones can be expensive to buy and even more expensive to run, and even the best cannot match good cameras for flexibility and image quality. But it might be worth considering a cheaper touchscreen cameraphone such as thePink Samsung Genio S3650, which costs £59.50 on Vodafone PAYG from Amazon.co.uk.The Genio S3650 or Corby takes 2MP photos and has software to connect to Facebook, MySpace and Twitter. It also has an FM radio, and it works as a video recorder, MP3 player, and games machine. Again, you will need to add an SD card for storage.Finally, there's also another way of cutting out the PC stage: just add Wi-Fi to the camera. This can be done by usingan Eye-Fi card, which combines wireless with 2GB to 8GB of memory in a tiny SD card. This is not a cheap option, at the moment, but I expect more cameras to have built-in Wi-Fi in the future.
Where locals and tourists took photos in San Francisco: blue by locals, red by tourists, yellow by either. (Original on Flickr has rollovers too.) Visualisation byEric Fischeron Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWWDC Claim Exposed: Apple Safari 5 Not Fastest &gt;&gt; PCWorldColour us unsurprised.How a decade of antitrust oversight has changed your PC &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott takes an interesting stance on then and now. The comments are interesting too. The point, though: Microsoft was prosecuted not because it was a monopoly, but because it used its monopoly in the OS to squeeze out a rival in another market, browsers. And that's illegal.Today's Guardian &gt;&gt; Phil GyfordA really simple way to read, online, the paper contents of the Guardian. Done using the Guardian Open API.Why I built Today's Guardian &gt;&gt; Phil Gyford's website"I wanted something with reduced friction. There should be as few difficult decisions as possible, nothing harder than "shall I turn the page?". I wanted to avoid having to make a big decision before reading an article. It should be as quick and effortless as possible, as close to how easy it is to start reading an article in a newspaper.&#10;&#10;"This meant, for me, ditching any kind of conventional news website front page, or contents page. No lists of headlines, no decisions about which article to visit. Unusually, perhaps uniquely, for a news website the front page is a single story.."Thom Yorke Warns the Music Business "Will Fold in Months" &gt;&gt; Spinner UKBut his music is always so happy!Links and Twitter: Length Shouldn't Matter &gt;&gt; Twitter Blog"When this is rolled out more broadly to users this summer, all links shared on Twitter.com or third-party apps will be wrapped with a t.co URL. A really long link such as http://www.amazon.com/Delivering-Happiness-Profits-Passion-Purpose/dp/0446563048 might be wrapped as http://t.co/DRo0trj for display on SMS, but it could be displayed to web or application users as amazon.com/Delivering- or as the whole URL or page title. Ultimately, we want to display links in a way that removes the obscurity of shortened link and lets you know where a link will take you." &#10;&#10;Though if you read too hard, it's confusing as hell. Which leads us to..Twitter's new link shortener give you fewer characters but more security &gt;&gt; TweetsmarterTrying to get to the bottom of what the hell that Twitter blog link shortening post actually meant. (We corrected the grammar.) This may be closer to it, but we suspect a flow diagram is needed.Online petitions documents from PICT &gt;&gt; WhatDoTheyKnowOnly two years to be told by the Information Commissioner that you should release the information that you refused to release? Can you guess that the House of Commons is involved?How to Manage Your News Consumption in the Real-Time Web Era &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebYou are *not* allowed to say "TL:DR".friedberg_sourcecode_analysis &gt;&gt; GoogleThe very detailed examination of Google's Wi-Fi slip-up. These external investigators say that everything is great, really...Google Wi-Fi audit reveals criminal intent by the company &gt;&gt; Privacy International...but Privacy International isn't buying it.Web video showdown: Flash vs. QuickTime vs. Windows Media &gt;&gt; ZDNetCompared to Flash, Quicktime does badly on Windows; but Flash does badly on OSX. More surprisingly, the latest beta of Flash uses more battery on Mac OSX than the present one.If San Francisco Crime were Elevation &gt;&gt; Doug McCuneFantastic visualisation of crime stats in San Francisco, but giving it a mountains-and-hills effect. Stunning. Meanwhile in the UK, our crime maps... oh, it's too frustrating.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The White House chief of staff is believed to be among 114,000 iPad owners, including chief executives and military officials, whose personal details have been exposed through a breach of the website of the US phone network AT&amp;T.AT&amp;T acknowledged the leak but said the risk was limited to the subscriber's email address and that the issue had been "escalated to the highest levels of the company". UK customers are not thought to have been affected or to be vulnerable to the same attack.The names and email addresses of those involved apparently includes Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, members of the US Senate and House of Representatives, staff at Nasa and the department of homeland security, the New York Times, Viacom, Time Warner, bankers and venture capitalists.It will be an embarrassment to Apple, which has sold more than 2m of the tablet computers since they went on sale in the US at the start of April, and late last month internationally. The iPad comes in two main versions, one with 3G and one without. The news that the 3G version could have been liable to hacking could depress sales of the more profitable version. It will also increase friction between Apple and AT&amp;T, which has had the exclusive rights to sell the iPhone since 2007, and now the 3G-enabled iPad in the US. The exclusivity is believed to be a five-year deal but many Apple fans have accused AT&amp;T's network of being unable to support their growing demand for bandwidth.TheGawker website, which says it has seen details of the email addresses – provided in a foot-high printout – suggests that the flaw makes any of those people vulnerable to spam marketing and malicious hacking. The breach was demonstrated by a team of hackers calling themselves Goatse Security, who have previously pointed to weaknesses in web browsers. They were able to use a flaw in the AT&amp;T website to get the email address of any AT&amp;T subscriber by providing a piece of data called an ICC-IDS, used to identify the SIM card belonging to that subscriber.The team sent data to the site pretending to be each of a huge sequence of ICC-IDS devices, and requested the email address. They say they also shared the knowledge of the hack with others, until AT&amp;T closed the breach a few days ago.An AT&amp;T spokesman said: "AT&amp;T was informed by a business customer on Monday of the potential exposure of their iPad ICC-IDS. The only information that can be derived from the ICC-IDS is the e-mail address attached to that device. This issue was escalated to the highest levels of the company and was corrected by Tuesday; and we have essentially turned off the feature [on the website] that provided the e-mail addresses."The person or group who discovered this gap did not contact AT&amp;T. We are continuing to investigate and will inform all customers whose e-mail addresses and ICC-IDS may have been obtained.""We take customer privacy very seriously and while we have fixed this problem, we apologise to our customers who were impacted."Apple did not have any statement.If the hackers have discovered a flaw that was widespread in AT&amp;T's handling of the ICC-ID system, then it is possible that every owner in the US with an iPhone 3GS or a 3G iPad may have had their email address lifted by the group, and possibly others.Only iPads which use 3G networking would be vulnerable to the hack, and although any device which uses a SIM will have an ICC-ID, it is not known whether the British networks which provide connectivity for the iPad would have the same flaw as AT&amp;T's website.
I love video games, but sometimes – especially when the sun is shining – it's good to put down the controller. So, I spent last week in Devon with no electronic entertainment. Returning home, it suddenly became obvious that I had been using these distractions for specific purposes: when exhausted, I zone out with TV; when I feel isolated the internet gives me a sense of connection. And games? They're for when work has gone badly, I'm getting nowhere and need an instant hit of achievement.Game designers know this, of course. Role-playing games such as World of Warcraft are carefully calibrated so the player is working towards achieving a new level of skill. Console games include lists of achievements to unlock – though sometimes they're meaningless, as satirised by the flash gameAchievement Unlockedwhich gives you credit for achievements such as "scroll the achievements section" and "unlock 10 achievements". But they're part of what makes a game attractive: research in 2008 by EEDAR noted thatgames with more achievementstend to sell better.When non-gamers criticise gaming,  I think it's often this ersatz sense of achievement that troubles them: the idea thattime is being wastedpursuing imaginary goals. As in philosopher Robert Nozick's famous thought experimentThe Experience Machine, most people instinctively feel it's wrong to spend our whole lives in a simulation.But there's another way to view this. Most people don't give up their jobs or families to game. For most, games are not a replacement for life. It's not that endless leisure is threatening our usefulness; it could be that our Protestant work ethic leads us to seek a sense of achievement even in our pastimes.
My interest was sparked recently by news of aUS-based market research reporton the habits of gamers across the pond.Although there are enough cultural differences between the UK and US to fill asinkhole, it's fair say that the data gathered is largely indicative of our gaming market as well. And although I haven't paid to access the full report, the selection of statistics teased in the press release make for interesting reading.According to the research, the average gamer in the US now spends 13 hours per week playing games - just under two hours a day. Which seems about right for those playing regularly during evenings and weekends.Meanwhile, the average age of a US gamer is now 32 - up a year from the previous year's study. The misguided perception that video games are a children's folly should now well and truly be put to bed.What interested me most though was the report's grouping of gamers into seperate categories: "Extreme Gamers, Avid PC Gamers, Heavy Portable Gamers, Console Gamers, Online PC Gamers, Offline PC Gamers, and Secondary Gamers."'Extreme' gamers represented 4% of the survey participants and clocked up an average 48.5 hours a week gaming - a stat which grabbed most of the headlines surrounding the report.The release doesn't go into too much detail about the criteria for each category, but its fair to assume there's a strong corollary between the groupings and the time and money spent on gaming.While marketing demographics like these are always somewhat unwieldy, it made me wonder - at what point does someone become an 'extreme' gamer?There seems to be a subtle prejudice to the term - I doubt you could find someone who read books and newspapers for 7 hours a day being called an 'extreme' reader.But for you, Games blog readers, how much is too much? At what point would you label someone's gaming to be 'extreme'?
Google has completed anew web indexing system that it calls Caffeine, which "provides 50% fresher results for web searches than our last index" and is the largest collection of web content ever.Basically, Google is linking into real-time feeds: those from Twitter (with which it signed a deal late last year) and now also from blogs, such as Wordpress, which haveimplemented real-time (pushed) RSS feedsknown as RSSCloud.The key difference is that the web index isn't now stratified; Google updates chunks of it all the time.Or as Google puts it:"Caffeine lets us index web pages on an enormous scale. In fact, every second Caffeine processes hundreds of thousands of pages in parallel. If this were a pile of paper it would grow three miles taller every second. Caffeine takes up nearly 100 million gigabytes of storage in one database and adds new information at a rate of hundreds of thousands of gigabytes per day. You would need 625,000 of the largest iPods to store that much information; if these were stacked end-to-end they would go for more than 40 miles."Wait - are those the 120GB iPods that you can't buy any more? Or...It's interesting to see that Google is focussing again on the element of its offering where it does lead the pack: search. That's what made its name, but it's clear that even if Microsoft's Bing hasn't (yet?) won the market share, it has got Google thinking about how it can improve what it does.Mashable has tested the system(which is still in the developer stages: it was available earlier today, but is now showing anerror page) and found that it's faster, arguably about the same in terms of "accuracy" (though it didn't at their tests have the blended results of news and pictures and videos added, which presently you get with the existing Google), has a larger (apparently) index than the old Google but smaller than the existing Bing - though one can claim to be searching a gazillion web pages; nobody really knows.But there's one test Mashable did which seemed to produce an odd result: for "temporal accuracy" - that is, how timely the results are - it reckoned they were about the same."How good is each at breaking news? The answer: about the same. FriendFeed results were identical, including the top news items. Searches for "Hall of Fame Game" got better news results on the new search. A search for "China Landslide" also got the same Yahoo and BBC news articles – although we did notice that the new search seems to change faster with new articles."That's a bit surprising, though possibly until (unless?) publishers start implementing RSSCloud, that will remain much the same.But the other takeaway is that the Caffeine version will be much more SEO-heavy: "SEO professionals, your job just got a lot harder", says Mashable. "The algorithm's definitely different. It has more reliance on keyword strings to produce better results."At SearchEngineLand, where they watch such things,Vanessa Fox says howeverthat "it is not a change to Google's ranking algorithms": it's just that "the introduction of Caffeine doesn't necessarily mean that pages will be crawled on a faster schedule than before. It simply means that once those pages are crawled, they are made available to searchers much more quickly."So: it's quicker, and it does, or possibly doesn't, have some effect on the black arts of SEO. Watch for the latter group to go around mumbling for the next few weeks about how Caffeine has completely upset their rankings and careful work - even while Google protests that it's changed nothing at all.And in case you'd forgotten how Google's search works, here's a video explaining it. While you watch it, just think of how you'd scale it to the entire web, rather than the few pages it shows. Got a handle on how big Google is yet?
Andrew WK at the LimeWire Party, March 2010. Photo byjasonlamon Flickr.Some rights reservedHere's a solution to the budget deficit: get LimeWire to pay it.That's because a calculation by a lawyer acting for the US's record label representative, the RIAA, is that LimeWire - found guilty earlier this year of knowingly abetting the infringement of copyright through its peer-to-peer service - owes the RIAA some restitution for the 200m downloads of the software.And at your standard $750 per infringement, that means that LimeWire owes $150,000m (£104bn). (Although the folks at p2p.net have managed to break their calculator, andreckon that 750x200m = 1.5 trillion, so they've found an extra zero somewhere.)For comparison: theUK's budget deficit last year was £156bn, so maybe we could get the RIAA to send us some of the money? It would certainly be a start. Though with our luck they'll just send Miley Cyrus. Oh, look.More to the point, the RIAA (perhaps understandably, havingwon a four-year court caseagainst the company behind the product) wants to get LimeWire shut down. Here it runs into the real problem with trying to stop a pure peer-to-peer service (unlike The Pirate Bay, which uses BitTorrent, which isn't pure P2P): there's no central control.But Limewire is definitely popular: A survey by the NDP Group found that LimeWire was used by 58% of people who have downloaded music from a peer-to-peer network in the last year.TheRecording Industry vs. The People blognotes that the RIAA is looking for a permanent injunction against the company.Now, LimeWire has two weeks to appeal against the RIAA's request filed in the Southern New York US District Court which seeks the injunction. It doesn't like the idea: ""We feel a permanent injunction could hold back the development of new digital music technologies that LimeWire is in the process of developing and does not benefit the industry," a spokesman said.LimeWire, the company, was founded by Mark Gorton, and together they have made millions of dollars (through selling "pro" versions of the software, though free versions could be found through, well, file-sharing services and download sites). If the RIAA does succeed in getting Limewire, the company, shut down, it's quite possible the resulting fines will take Gorton pretty much back to zero - which has to be seen as a failure by both sides: the music industry for not being able to take advantage of peer-to-peer filesharing as a way of making its own money, and LimeWire for not being more careful about keeping a greater distance between itself and accusations of enabling illicit downloads.The latest incarnation of the "Pro" version apparently includes AVG anti-virus protection, added in March, and promises the ability to "search through billions of files" and work with BitTorrent or Gnutella. Oddly, itspress areadoesn't mention all that unpleasant stuff with the courts.
After the success – and all-round brilliance – of Beatles Rock Band, it was inevitable that another popular beat combo would see their back catalogue converted to console gaming. It's not like we're short of acts with the necessary back catalogue and fan base. Queen, for example. The Stones. U2. Kiss. Or, for those less dexterous souls, perhaps, the two-chord delights of Status Quo. But Green Day? Really?Although they don't seem an obvious choice, the Californian sort-of-punks hit the right buttons. Eight studio albums across 20 years. The sort of actually-quite-melodic tunes that work in this format. A demographic that, frankly, has "gamer" written all across it. While the game is, undeniably, a less-than-essential purchase for non Green Day fans, you will also know more of the songs here than you realise.Predictably, Green Day Rock Band is Beatles Rock Band with a punk lite makeover and lower production values. The basic details are fine – the band, I'm assured, look like their real-life counterparts – but while the Beatles came with exquisite animations, Green Day get a considerably less fancy treatment.The game itself is solid though, and follows the Beatles' structure closely. Career mode is the main event, tracing the band's rise via their three biggest albums and three key venues, from dive to stadium. Thrillingly, one of these is Milton Keynes (stadium, that is, not dive) – surely the first time that town's rock heritage has been celebrated in game form?Play well and you earn stars. These, as with the Fab Four's version, unlock photos and videos and additional content, and earn Cred points which you can use to unlock further challenges. As with all Rock Band incarnations, you can play along on guitar (lead or bass), drums or vocals. As with the Beatles, you can also score points here with vocal harmonies, and for the more experienced player teaming up with a novice or two, the very handy "no fail" mode can be assigned to individuals. Given the challenge of some of the guitar lines – anything above Easy is surprisingly testing – this is a very good thing.Elsewhere, it's rhythm-based business as usual, with a Quickplay mode, Duel and decent online play and an efficient training set-up. There's still no Guitar Hero-esque drop in/drop out facility, however. It's only a small thing, but for gamers who need to take the odd phone call or get the beers in, it's damned useful.All told, Green Day Rock Band is another solidly executed chapter in the series and, with 47 songs – fully exportable to other Rock Band titles – it's not bad value either. Business as usual then.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur welcome Tom Watson MP in this week's lively Tech Weekly discussion about open data, the newest iPhone announcement from Apple, and the most recent problems plaguing social network Facebook.Watson, who was instrumental in helping the previous Labour government understand the value of opening up its public records, shares his view on the reasons why openness should be valued – and what he had to do to convince his political colleagues. Charles Arthur speaks with Wolfram Alpha creator Conrad Wolfram about one of the potential applications of the government data, and how more like this should be released for the benefit of his service – and of mankind.Charles also reveals the specs of the newest handset in the Apple iPhone lineup, announced on Monday. But how did the leak of a prototype affect the launch? The team also discusses Steve Jobs' visions of the future, and how similar they are to Microsoft.Finally, we hear how to avoid being "likejacked", or scammed by hackers who've taken hold of a new Facebook feature that allows you to share where on the web you've been with your social network friends.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
EA boss John Riccitiello hasbeen talking about 3D, online pass and why PC gaming is still going strong. As you'd expect he also talks up EA's upcoming titles. Yes, the E3 build-up is gathering pace. First up then, what does he think of 3D gaming?The first thing you need for a large installed base is 3D televisions and 3D PCs. I think they'll come over the course of the next two to three years in large numbers. Samsung and Sony are certainly putting a lot of weight behind that and you'll see that play itself out. I don't think it's going to be a big story this year for games; some particular titles are going to play it out. I am a little nervous that some game companies will put out poorly authored 3D content, sort of just put it together, because look, all games, most nearly all games are 3D already. It doesn't take that much to separate, you know, two and a half inches and sort of redraw the entire frame and have it run through any of the various polarization or the primary blinking system between the right and left eye. It's quite a different thing to author it in such a way that the "Z-dimension," the third dimension, is really well done. When it's not really well done, it's a new kind of headache that you haven't ever experienced. So I'm actually a little afraid this year that we're going to get less than well-authored content and it's going to be one of those stories: video games give me a migraine. I think that over time, probably in the course of 2011, 2012, the strongest publishers will author some great content, the installed base will be there, and there will be a good positive growth spurt. I just don't think it will be this year.And yes, he has seen Nintendo's upcoming 3DS.It's like one of these things here where with Nintendo where you've got to be very careful here because they've got a lot to say at E3, and I want to be careful to not accidentally transgress an NDA. I will tell you, I've seen it; it's cool.Riccitello also talked about online pass - EA's new plan to charge people who buy their used games to play them online.Ten years ago, five years ago, we'd gold master a game, the dev team would move on to something else and no one was there. Today, what happens with a game is a team is there where you [use data] to improve it, provide great post-release content, new services like we did with FIFA and Madden recently with Ultimate Team. I mean the project is only half done when we ship it. It keeps going. We're selling services. And we're going to continue to experiment with smart models to support the heavy, heavy use that people are giving our games, not for two weeks like they used to be, but for a year or more post-release. And you know, the fact we're providing a service you can expect ongoing evolution of the business model in ways that best support that service.Finally, as you'd expect, Riccitello was keen to talk up EA's upcoming releases.I'll tell you some things I'm excited about at E3: One of them is the fact that MOH, Medal of Honor, is coming back so strong. In many ways, I feel like we invented the sector with Medal of Honor. Steven Spielberg invented it. Steven's the guy that originally designed the game with us. It's a great franchise. We spent three years reworking this one and it's going to be big and people are going to really like what they see and I'm sure you've seen the trailers and things for it. I think that's going to be very important.I'm personally a nut about Dead Space. Rare is it for me to finish a game on more than one platform, but I did in the case of Dead Space, and Dead Space 2 is more than a worthy sequel; it's going to be a monster. So I'm really, really pleased with that. It's got some really innovative online gameplay and... frankly, what made our lead character so interesting to begin with… it seems like everyone's been Duke Nukem since the beginning of time, you know? Give me a bigger gun and I'll march my way through. I think that that's the way people have been building Bond games and most FPS games. What Dead Space does is it's a thinking man's game in addition to being a great action adventure title. So, we get the action in the game, lot of shooting, really different weapons…I love the puzzles. I love that to conquer this game you have to use your brain. One of our partners [Valve] built a game that I liked that did something very similar, which was Portal. You see you really have to think about the game; I like that kind of stuff. I really hope that at E3 everybody shares our enthusiasm, my personal enthusiasm.I think one that's going to really surprise people, but you're going to have to get in behind closed doors to see it, is NBA Elite. People don't change game engines on sports titles or sequel titles in-cycle. This is a brand new game and it's a leap forward in basketball. I think it's going to surprise people. I was up in Vancouver – I played it yesterday for about a half an hour – it's a kick and a half. It's a different way to play. It's fun to see the industry innovate in the middle of a cycle in such a fundamental way in terms of how it works. I'd describe more about that, but we're sort of embargoed on that until E3. But it's really different.So what do you think then? Excited by EA's lineup? Think Riccitello is right about 3D and online pass?
Little boy celebrates liberation of Holland with a cigarette. Photo byDutch National Archiveon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 15 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWTF is HTML5 (Infographic) &gt;&gt; Focus.comPrint it out and keep it.The two-sides of Wikipedia &gt;&gt; Martin Belam's currybetdotnet blogSometimes it creates content ahead of you, and sometimes it deletes content ahead of you. And see if you can reinstate that content.ES: Zaragoza's move to complete open source desktop going to plan &gt;&gt; osor"The move by the city of Zaragoza to an open source desktop is making good progress. All of the city's civil servants now use open source tools including Thunderbird, VLC, Firefox and OpenOffice. And this year some seven hundred of the city's 2800 desktop PCs will have seen their proprietary operating system replaced by the Linux open source alternative."How to Make a Heatmap – a Quick and Easy Solution &gt;&gt; FlowingdataUses R, the statistical tool. Warning: ridiculously easy.Liberating Data from the Guardian… Has it Really Come to This? &gt;&gt; OUseful.InfoHe dared us to include it, so we have.Readability &gt;&gt; Arc90 Lab"Readability is a simple tool that makes reading on the Web more enjoyable by removing the clutter around what you're reading." Hmm.David Foster Wallace on iPhone 4's FaceTime &gt;&gt; kottke.orgWhat's not to like about video calls? "The answer, in a kind of trivalent nutshell, is: (1) emotional stress, (2) physical vanity, and (3) a certain queer kind of self-obliterating logic in the microeconomics of consumer high-tech."PC market hits record growth in 1Q10, says iSuppli &gt;&gt; DigitimesMarket growth: 22.7% year-on-year. Those outside the top 7 only grew by 10.6% - so the top 7 brands are taking more market share. Asus grew 136.2% Lenovo 58.5%, Acer 47.1%. Apple, as you ask, 32.4%.Analyst: IPad on track to become one of the most popular mobile devices in history &gt;&gt; AllThingsDKaty Huberty of Morgan Stanley is in raptures: "Huberty's analysis suggests the iPad has already surpassed the Web browsing market share of Android and Blackberry. "Why is this important?" Huberty writes. "Web browsing is arguably the most important computing task for the average user and early adopters are realizing similar productivity levels relative to traditional PCs. Based on our experience with iPad Web browsing, we would not be surprised to see tablet daily Internet usage exceed traditional PC Internet usage in the coming years.""HP Launches Web Printers Accessed Through Email &gt;&gt; AllThingsDThe printers have their own email addresses. "For those who prefer their spam in hard copy," as AllThingsD observes.Windows Phone 7 devices in developers' hands July &gt;&gt; istartedsomething"Interested developers should reach out to Microsofties through any of the Windows Phone 7 developer channels to register their interest. Microsoft will determine each request on a case-by-case basis." Off you go..George Osborne: COINS will be made simpler &gt;&gt; guardian.co.uk"For everyone who thinks Coins is the world's hardest to use database, the government has gone some way to admitting that today. George Osborne announced in parliament that a more user-friendly version will be made available soon." Phew.Side-by-side: new iPhone 4 screen with the old iPhone 3GS screen &gt;&gt; TechCrunchLooks really quite good.iPhone 4? Let's have 3G first &gt;&gt; BBC - dot.RoryThe BBC's technology correspondent is unimpressed with the UK's 3G network outside London. And remember, the UK's networks are better than the US's.Is it a game? Budget Simulator &gt;&gt; Committee for a Responsible Federal BudgetSee if you can balance the US budget. Warning: not easy. The boss level is insanely hard.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The new culture secretary Jeremy Hunt has said that he wants - in the lifetime of this parliament (that's five years maximum) - toroll out broadband to remote areas which do not have high-speed internet access.Here's what he said, again: "We are now ranked 33rd in the world when it comes to broadband speed, with an average that is nearly five times slower than South Korea", he said. "Within this parliament we want Britain to have the best superfast broadband network in Europe."I'm sure that he's absolutely honest in that desire; note that he's expressing a want, not an objective. However, I'll bet you dollars to doughnuts that by the end of this parliament we will not have the best superfast broadband network in Europe, no matter how much we might want one.Presently, the best superfast broadband network - defined as the country which has the largest number of homes with fibre connections "to the home", aka FTTH - is (drum roll)Lithuania.Eh? Yes, Lithuania is in the lead of the FTTH race at present, with 18% penetration. Sweden, Norway and Slovenia are above 10%. There's also Italy, France, the Netherlands and Denmark all making waves in FTTH. Quoth FTTH council Europe president Karel Helsen: "It is up to Germany and [the] UK to increase their efforts to follow as soon as possible."Still, there is some good news from Fibrecity Holdings, which announced in May that "it intends to build the next Fibrecity networks, which will result in more than one million homes and businesses being connected to its fibre optic network over the next four years – delivering standard speeds of 100Mbps and boosts of up to 1Gbps through the largest fibre to the home initiative in the UK."Note that "intends". And note that it's not saying quite how much it might cost. Or how it's going to be paid for. Nor where the 1m homes are.This is the crux with high-speed broadband: it's easiest to build it in cities, but the people who will really benefit from it are the people in rural constituencies.The former fact means that telecoms companies are happy to pay for the building of the urban FTTH (and FTTC - fibre to the cabinet, the box on your street where the line are routed) networks, because they can charge people for the higher speeds they offer; you don't have to lay a lot of cable to get the payback. By contrast in rural areas, you have to lay a lot of cable (which is very labour-intensive, as well as capital-intensive) to pass relatively few homes. That means that rural areas don't get high-speed broadband (or even in some cases broadband) because it's not economic for the networks to build out to them. After all, if you had a choice of laying 500m of cable and passing 50 homes, or 500m of cable and not even passing 1 home, which would you go for in running your business?Certainly Hunt's heart is in the right place.In the speech, he says: "It is a scandal that nearly 3 million households in this country still cannot access 2 Mbps broadband speeds, and less than 1% of the country is able to access the internet using modern fibre optic technology – compared to an OECD average of around 10%. Some people ask why we need these speeds when the iPlayer can manage on less than one Mpbs. They are missing the point. Superfast broadband is not simply about doing the same things faster. It's about doing totally new things – creating a platform on which a whole generation of new businesses can thrive. The Federation of Small Businesses has estimated that a superfast network could add £18 billion to GDP and create 60,000 jobs. NESTA thinks it could be ten times that – 600,000 new jobs."And a lot of those probably in rural locations - or at least not requiring people to shift from their present location, as superfast connections can let you collaborate remotely, rather than having to slow in all the time.But that choice for telcos - 500m past 50 homes, or past one? - is an obvious one.That's why building rural broadband, and especially building high-speed networks in rural constituencies, requires subsidy of some sort. The irony was that the Labour administration was prepared to fund this from the "outside in" - paying for those at the extremes of the network (basically, the Tory constituencies) to get connected, and so getting the telcos to pay for the bridging cost. The Tories, by contrast, were happy to push from the limits of the build (basically, Labour constituencies) outwards - but didn't, and I suspect still don't, like the idea of subsidies.As we noted in March, theTories' manifesto commitments weren't very helpful for rural communities.Quite which model Hunt is looking for isn't clear. He said: "Government must ensure we do not open up a new digital divide between the urban areas most attractive to infrastructure providers and rural communities were superfast broadband may never be viable." OK, fair enough. Afterwards he added: "These rural broadband pilots will help us understand the level of government support that is necessary."That's going to be quite a lot. The broadband consultancy Point Topic did a calculation which we wrote about earlier in the year: it reckoned it would require a subsidy of about £130m every year. Hunt says that the £250m "digital switchover" money from the BBC is going to be available for this. That would cover the bill; but is it going to be enough to get telecoms companies (actually, BT, because the capital and operational expenditure involved in rolling out fibre through over such large distances requires the sort of organisation that only BT can presently call on) to install it?The comparison with South Korea, too, is false. That's a highly urban country, with the population very concentrated into cities, while the UK is (by comparison) far more evenly spread.Broadband coverage map from Broadband Notspot. As many as 3m UK homes can't get a 2Mbps broadband connection Photograph: Public DomainStill, it's good for Hunt to have ambitions. He says that "Broadband Delivery UK – the organisation which will be the delivery vehicle for these policies and accountable to me – will hold an industry event on 15th July to provide further details, and to describe how the procurement of these testing projects will be achieved." We'll certainly look to be there and find out more - especially to see how many "notspots" (above) can be filled in by 2015.
Next week, the global video game industry converges on downtown LA for the annual E3 event, a glittering showcase of forthcoming interactive treats. While many of the titles on show will already be vaguely familiar to gamers, it's here that publishers – and console manufacturers – tend to make all their excitingnewannouncements, often spending the days beforehand whipping the specialist press up into an unseemly tizzy with veiled hints, teaser websites and the promise of 'behind-closed-doors' demos.I'll be at the event and am planning to, yes, 'live blog' the press conferences as well as 'Tweet' from the showfloor and also 'blog' from my hotel room late into the night! But for now, here are five of the big rumours/teasers heading into E3 week...Rare has a surprise readyThe veteran UK developer has just celebrated its 25th birthday by excitingly rebranding. But is this just the beginning of the company's leap back into the industry limelight? Itsofficial websiteis currently showing a countdown to some unknown event, along with the phrase, 'one in a million'. Okay, so it's got to be some sort of E3 announcement, but what? The cheeky scamps are not giving much away on theirTwitter Feed, apart from 'dismissing' a couple of guesses, including a new Bond game and a Rare-developed Halo title. I'm guessing... a Sabre Wulf MMOG? Or something to do with Xbox Live avatars? Anyone?Intrigue-o-meter: 3.5/5Valve has a surprise readyThe Half-Life developer recently cancelled its expected Portal 2 press conference and promised to replace it with a 'surprise'. But what could that mean?Apparently, it won't be Half Life 2, Episode 3. So what does the Washington-based studio have up its sleeve? Could it be Left4Dead or even Counter Strike flavoured? Hmm.UPDATE:Valve hasnow confirmedthat the surprise will be Portal 2 related, although the game has been pushed back til next year.Intrigue-o-meter: 3/5The Nintendo 3DS console will be as powerful as the Xbox 360 and PS3For the last decade the big N has pursued a business model in which it produces comparatively underpowered hardware, but augments its proposition with interesting user interfaces. However,according to news source IGN, unnamed developers are claming that the forthcoming 3D-capable handheld console currently known as theNintendo 3DSwill have graphical and processing capabilities far in excess of the Wii, and perhaps even knocking at the door of the Xbox 360 and PS3. Seems unlikely, but Nintendo will surely reveal all at its press conference on June 15.Intrigue-o-meter: 4/5Respawn to make big E3 announcementYou may remember that earlier this year, Infinity Ward studio heads Jason West and Vince Zampella were relieved of their duties, triggering the series of events that inevitably became known as Infinity-gate. The duo quickly announced their plans to set up a new developer, Respawn Entertainment, and inked a distribution deal with EA. At this point, we assumed they'd still be constructing their Ikea desks and picking out some nice tiles for the kitchen area, andUPDATEit turns out we were right! Thethe duo's Facebook pagewhich led the industry to believe an announcemnt was pending has been outed as a fake. It always did look a but suspicious, but then, who knows with these guys? They're bound to be at the event, however, speaking in hushed tones about their project, refered to inan LA Times interviewback in April as a 'summer blockbuster'-sized behemoth competing directly with Call of Duty...Intrigue-o-meter: 2.989/5Sony to announce PSP 2Okay, this one has been rumbling on for some time now, but industry oracle Michael Pachter believes – nay,states– that Sony will finally play its PSP 2 hand at E3. The latest speculation,courtesy of VG247, is that it'll have two cameras and a touch screen.Twocameras!Intrigue-o-meter: 2.764/5More on E3 after I touchdown in LA later this week!
Apple has taken more than $60m in bookings for its new iAd mobile advertising network – weeks before its scheduled launch on 1 July.The service – which will offer advertising inside mobile apps, initially on the iPhone and iPod Touch – promises to combine the emotion of TV advertising with the interactivity of internet advertising. Apple says the deals it has already secured represent almost half of the total forecasted mobile ad spend in the US for the second half of 2010.In the UK, according to a recent report by the Internet Advertising Bureau, mobile advertising spend last year was £37.6m, a 32% year-on-year increase.Apple, whichlaunched the fourth generation of the iPhone yesterday, has attracted brands including Unilever – which said today that it would be running a campaign for Dove for Men – AT&amp;T, Best Buy, Campbell Soup, Chanel, Citi, Nissan, Walt Disney and Turner Broadcasting.Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, said: "iAd offers advertisers the emotion of TV with the interactivity of the web, and offers users a new way to explore ads without being hijacked out of their favourite apps. iAds will reach millions of iPhone and iPod Touch users, a highly desirable demographic for advertisers, and provide developers [with] a new way to earn money so they can continue developing free and low-cost applications."Apple will sell and serve the ads, and developers will receive 60% of their iAd revenue.The new mobile advertising platform is designed to allow app developers to create in-app advertising. Currently anyone who clicks on an advert in a downloadable app is bounced out of it and on to the advertiser's webpage.As a result, Apple reckons many users are put off clicking on adverts. By contrast,iAd will allow full-screen video and interactive advertising content to be served within an application.
Yes, it's another exciting double bill of Chatterbox action as Umboros and Office Pest take turns at the helm. If you were concerned that the previous ten days of 'box banter was a lot of nonsense about beards, Blur and bullets - you'd be right! But hop in anyway!Best of Chatterbox 24-28 MayEditor: UmborosUnsurprisingly, Monday set a rootin' tootin' cowboy tone for the week with plenty of chat about Red Dead Redemption. Most of the bloggers were more than happy with the hype and agreed the game lives up to what was promised, at least in single player. While the multiplayer has issues, it also provided some fun and no doubt there will be plenty more NaN clan sessions on both PS3 and 360 for anyone wanting to shake down their duster coat, straighten up their Stetson and swagger out of the saloon for a duel on the main street of Armadillo.Bertjansch offered up this unsettling insight: "I am finding hunting ridiculously compelling considering I'm a veggie. I appear to have turned into a kind of cyber-Ted Nugent and am terrorising the wildlife of the West. I even shoot my victims' horses and skin them."Stilted offered a more balanced judgement: "If the premise doesn't twist your nipples to begin with though, then the rest of it probably won't." It's just like listening to Tom Paulin on Newsnight Review.Not everyone on the 'box had spent all weekend playing Red Dead Redemption however (SerenVickity only managed to put in 30 hours or so). Supersmashin played host to random internet strangers with his Pro Evolution Soccer football tournament for the London bloggers. The day went well with plenty of players showing up. It's rather unclear from the comments regarding the tournament precisely what the alcohol to football ratio was, but I'm sure George Best would have approved. Congrats to Sheep who won out on the day, and thanks from all those who attended to Supersmashin for being such a generous host.Uncle3en had post of the day: "Think we've got new people living above us. Pretty quiet, but definitely a noticeable change of routine. Haven't met them as yet. Anyhoo... In bed last night, just drifting off and got woken up by a woman upstairs very much enjoying herself. Thought we might even learn their names before we meet them... Then abruptly, a very loud grunt from the chap, then silence. The wife and I both burst out laughing. Hope they didn't hear us…"Another thread to surface again on the 'box was parenting. Many congratulations to UnbelievableJeff on a new sprog! Gettingnervous gave us his advice on playing the long game: "I'm yearning for 2013, when he's 16 and I can bugger off and achieve my life's dream, becoming a tramp."Be4ch on the other hand had a horror story of why gaming can be such a bad influence on family life: "The worst thing by far is that I was in such a rage after the games that when my boy got out of bed, I went upstairs and raged at him about going to sleep and not messing about. Through the tears he told me he needed the toilet. Parent of the year I am not!"Fantomex posted an excellent (2 full comment boxes long) review of horror B (Z?) movie The Human Caterpillar.  If you haven't heard the plot of this insanely neurotic piece of film-making, you can count yourself lucky.  The full review, with (exceptionally) gory details, is in Tuesday's box, but it was summed up beautifully with Fantomex's closing sentence: "I want my 90 minutes back.".  You really took one for the team there.Tuesday dived into truly tragic territory in the afternoon, as, somehow, a scandal erupted over resident right-winger RobLindsay's new avatar.  Some sensitive souls managed to take offence to the insignia of the Norsefire Coalition amongst our community.  Who are the Norsefire Coalition I hear you ask?  A new underground movement joining the worst elements of Millwall fans, the English Defence League and the National Front?  No!  They are the evil totalitarian government from the comic "V for Vendetta".  Luckily for us all, Rob has rescinded and replaced his avatar with a nice fluffy bunny.  Just in case any family members of the Norsefire Coalition's cartoon victims were reading and were offended.Wednesday saw the blog debate religion versus science. There aren't too many overtly religious posters on the blog (not that we have too many scientists either) and relative newcomer HerselftheMonkey holds some rather traditional Christian views which were brought into question. Nothing particularly new was said by either side and to make matters worse much of the conversation was taken seriously.Following on from the now traditional Thursday Modern Warfare 2 PS3 NaN session, it is clear this is a game that has never been far from the blog's heart, despite the best intentions of Battlefield Bad Company 2.  While some had to polish cobwebs from their sidearms before getting back into the action, SirGiggidy reminded them, "MW2 is a tough mistress. If you've been away for a bit she'll let you know all about it."With three couples posting in the chatterbox these days, Cmidrifti was shocked by the answer when he asked what had been happening after a year's absence. "Couples? Seriously? How in Gods name was that allowed to happen?".  FerrisSaved decided to leave before the repercussions could arrive after dropping this line on the topic:"Part of me still thinks the Cunning / Auto thing is a wind up. Was it love at first type.?"Friday saw the release of the iPad, but with the hype now concentrating on Blur none of us seemed to care. Excitement had been building around the Bizarre Creations racing game after some 360 boxers spent rather a lot of time going on about how good the Beta was: "We're buying it on their say so. Collective 'box opinion is rarely wrong, if ever." said Uncle3en.  He means when the 'box can actually come to a collective opinion of course, which is a rare thing indeed.  I hope he isn't too disappointed in his purchase, as I was more than partly responsibly for praising the title after having fun weekends on the Blur Beta.It was pointed out that our little Chatterbox does seem to be one of the least moderated sections of the Guardian website.  This is undoubtedly true, with the C word being bandied around every few posts some days. None the less, SageSmith had the privilege of a rare modding on Friday's box.  I seem to remember it involved some extremely misogynistic slander which was stolen from the film Blade Trinity.  In fact, it was probably the best part of that film.  Perhaps suitable for use against undead succubus vampires, but best not used as part of your chat up lines for church.Friday's main topic in the afternoon was favourite vocalists.  While some bloggers couldn't understand why people would like a vocalist who isn't necessarily the most technically proficient, some good points were made.  BigWorv nicely summed up why some of us like some quite atrocious singers: "…the singer is simply emoting the story of the song, if that strikes a chord with someone and makes them feel then that makes them a good vocalist to that person.".Friday's chat actually went on for a few posts over the bank holiday weekend, but that counts as overtime and I didn't volunteer forthat.Quote of the week"You could of course just walk round a maternity ward picking up kids and yelling 'Gran!' at them to see if any of them recognise you."Herself the Monkey doesn't follow the traditional Catholic line on reincarnation.TV:Money, every Sci-Fi series ever, The Wire (again)Films:Four Lions, Drag Me To Hell, Let The Right One InChatterbox June 1-4Editor: Office PestToo little to do and too much time"Hurrah" I thought on Tuesday morning. "Only a four day week – this Best Of should be a breeze".  I thought that up until Tuesday evening when the 'slackers that be' submitted 588 comments. I've said it before and I'll say it again – we have too much time on our hands!  Well, onto the blagging… I mean blogging.You're either Red or DeadRed Dead Redemption was on most people's minds on Monday morning[Am I getting deja vu? - Keef].  It certainly appeared to be the game of choice for weekend shenanigans and prompted many positive and negative comments, such as:"I've enjoyed wandering around the wilderness killing and looting."Pdmalcolm doing what we all enjoy."Had a hooker try and steal my horse, so I whistled and he bucked her off, directly under a fast-travelling carriage coming the opposite way. Beautiful poetic justice."Fantomex the evil."I know it's the Wild West but give me a break."SuperSmashIn on the frustrations of constantly being ambushed."Boars? Where the f*ck are they hanging out?"FerrisSaved – asking the question we all want answering."…how the f***ing hell am i meant to kill two cougars with a knife?"My suggestion to KayJayM would be…quickly."Anyone who doesn't like RDR is odd"Matt123 fails to realise that we're all quite odd regardless."Is it worth my while breaking in another wild horse?"On that note from smellavision, I think it would be best if we moved on.Guardian Gamesblog vs The Other PlaceYes, a battle between the two great powers of the Gamesblog and The Other Place was arranged for 9pm on Tuesday night.  Well… in the medium of Super Street Fighter IV at least.  Did the NAN contingent win through and achieve glory?  Well… kind of, as the other lot didn't turn up.  We can only assume through abject terror.Gamesblog: 1The Other Place: 0Anyone else – come and have a go if you think you're geek enough![What?! - Keef]Bullet TimeCountGinula threw this statement into the ether on Tuesday morning:"A bullet fired horizontally from a gun, and a second bullet dropped by hand from the same height as the gun, will both hit the ground at the same time. The forward motion of an object has no effect on the pull of gravity."This led to a very long and painful discussion involving gravity, wind resistance and bandits' skulls.  Here are some of the more stimulating highlights:Simian:"…the forward motion would mean that the bullet would have moved around the curvature of the earth and therefore would have further to fall."FerrisSaved:"…plus the ricocheting (sp?) around the bandit's skull that the horizontal bullet was aimed at is sure to add a little time."Amipal:"I think the whole argument is a theoretical one i.e. on a hypothetical completely flat plain, the bullets will fall at the same rate. This also takes into account no lift generated by the bullet (which shouldn't anyway since it's not a lifting-body design)."RobLinsday: "The coriolis effect introduces too many variables to make it a reasonable exercise, the statement is based on a theoretical model, like Hawkings' model of the ball on a train."PicPicPic:"Bullet Time: Calculating the time it takes a bullet to fall horizontally, using the equation x = (gt_)/2, I find that the time it takes an object to fall from a height of 2 metres is around about 0.64 seconds.  Then, assuming a muzzle velocity of 400m/s, this means that the bullet fired horizontally will travel ~255m before it hits the ground. At this distance, the curvature of the earth is not a factor.  I add the caveat that this is all off the top of my head and very likely wrong."Simian:"Good stuff, however the earth curves 8 inches per mile (I believe), so even if a bullet only travels 300 meters it will drop 1.5 inches (approx) over the course of the distance travelled, shirley needing to drop an extra thre inches would make a difference. Of course, as gravity is exerting downwards force during the entire distance the bullet travels, the difference in time between the dropped bullet hitting and the fired bullet hitting would be not discernable to the human eye!"Ye Gods!  With such great minds, we could no doubt band together to eliminate famine or create world peace. Actually, considering the things that happened in the last few meat ups (smashed teeth, trains going the wrong way, etc), this probably isn't likely.[I agree: you're all much more likely to eliminate peace and create world famine - Keef]BestSongEverBlogWe all love a good list and EasilyLead's confession that he was listening to Dusty Springfield (and his subsequent boast that this made him the most camp music fan on the blog that day) led to BestSongEverBlog. A new low for many of us[I seriously doubt it - Keef].  Here are some of the suggestions:Dusty Springfield – Son of a Preacher ManSmokey Robinson – Heard it through the GrapevineBlondie – Hanging on the TelephoneVarious artists – Stand By MeThe Beach Boys – God Only KnowsOtis Reading – Sittin' on the Dock of the BayWu-Tang Clan – TriumphThe Doors – LA WomanQueen – Bohemian RhapsodyEric Clapton – Tears in HeavenNickelback – RockstarVillage People – YMCASam Cooke – Wonderful WorldStackhaus, back from his short absence, commented – "Best song? I see little has changed."  Come on now – you'd be disappointed if it had. This topic also led onto another about whether whistling in songs is acceptable.  That was actually quite interesting when compared to SandwichBlog, AleBlog and (that old classic) DiceBlog. Limni posted a worrying possibility – "D3 blog is literally the blog that will not die. I think it could be our first actual zombie blog."  The End Is Nigh.Just For MenShadowmind admitted on Thursday morning: "Shaved my beard off yesterday after work, but for the evening I kept the moustache, it made me look like a 40yr-old gay US cop."  It turns out that many of us are, in fact, facial hair aficionados.Simian apparently has a "Robert Downey Jnr in Ironman…"FerrisSaved doesn't see the point of sculpting beards: "Surely the main reason for having a beard is that it is zero admin. I trim every other week. Five minutes done."RobLindsay's beard is something along the lines of, "Blackadder's beard in the second series."One of EnglishRed's friends had long hair and once did himself a 'Nutkins' for the night – "…much hilarity ensued."[Should I have censored that? I'm confused - Keef]RedDread has his own "Beard Genius…" in London who is the only person allowed to touch his beard.Stackhaus favours "Dennis Hopper's (RIP) supreme style from 'Easyrider'."And you think you know people, eh?  BeardOfBees refused to comment…Pet Hate BlogI'm not sure how this topic got going, but Thursday afternoon was pretty much taken up with it.  This made me realise just how angry and repressed we all are.  Here are some of the tamer choices:Mollocate on pensioners:"They are limpet mines to people in a hurry"CunningStunt:"People carefully reading the T&amp;Cs of their ticket on the only working ticket machine in the station when I'm in a rush to catch my train does my nut in!"HereComesTreble:"People who get on the bus, then open their purse/bag, start searching for their wallet, then start looking through their wallet for the ticket."Robotron2000:"People with no spatial awareness who drift about like a fart in a trance are my particular bugbear. I am hungry, and I have a mere 30 minutes to grab lunch. GTFO."SageSmith6079:"Women with double-buggy prams. The rudest people on the planet. They'd be f***ing awesome in multiplayer Blur though, the destructive b*stards!"TigerGenocide:"The everyday sunday drivers who p*ss about doing 20 in a 30 and then don't see that the speed limit has been increased to 40."SandySleaze:"The public in general irritate me."VictoriousCupid:"People who get on the tube before anyone has gotten off. People who don't respect the right hand rule on the tube escalators. Aforementioned 20 in a 40 drivers. Old people and self service checkouts..."SageSmith6079:"Cyclists who ride two abreast on narrow roads."BeardOfBees:"People who break apart their food and eat the components separately. If you want some sponge followed by some orange jam followed by some chocolate, buy those things. If you buy a jaffa cake eat it sensibly, you deranged foodfreak."BLC07:"People who bring in their babies and parade them around the office."AngryMan13 (surprised to see him on this topic):"People who pretend to be religious so they can get married in a church."RobLindsay:"People on the train who think that everyone else needs to listen to the music they have on their phone."It's a good thing we have the Chatterbox to siphon some of our rage, otherwise things could get hairy!BestTVShowEverBlogClearly Wednesday 'BestSongEverBlog' wasn't enough for those list lovers among us and therefore we ended up in a spritely discussion on the best TV show ever.  Jihad was to blame as he claimed that BSG is "as good as the Wire, definitely better than the Sopranos."  This was also posted along with his MASSIVE and hopefully false 24 spoiler (I've yet to watch the finale).Anyway, here are some of the suggestions:The SopranosCurb Your EnthusiasmArrested DevelopmentBabylon 5FireflyThe WireThis branched off to a couple of separate debates. One over whether Firefly, BSG or Babylon 5 was the better series. Another over which Star Trek series was best. Good philosophical conversations.Other HighlightsA debate over what should and shouldn't go onto a BBQ. CunningStunt's suggestion of "Streaky bacon wrapped around slices of bananas" sounds like it should be avoided at all costs.'Caught In The Act' stories (e.g. see SageSmith's quote below).  These were awful and fascinating in equal measure.  See Friday's chatterbox for details.Whether shorts are acceptable attire for the office. No. No they're not.The death of eight hour gaming sessions when you move in with your girlfriend (sorry dylillama).Quotes of the week:"I was filing my copy from the phone box when I suddenly became aware I was no longer on my own. The phone box had been surrounded by a pack of the local dogs. They may as well have been foaming at the mouth wolves."SageSmith6079 on his first-job-dog-incident.  He's not been the same since."I have a big ginger one."RedDread on beards apparently."If someone came up to me in the street, and pressed some soiled toilet paper in my face - that would be a spoiler."LazyBones – I have no idea what he's trying to get across here…"I've never watched 24. It looks like classic septic arse gravy"Alimantado fails in his application to become the Daily Telegraph's TV critic."I once hid behind a very thin tree with my kecks around my ankles in the full beam of my mum's car headlights"You'll have to seek out SageSmith6079's original comment to learn the context of this unusual confession..."When you saw Gok Wan in Ku Bar - was he in a mirror?"SageSmith6079 outing RustyJames.Games:Red Dead Redemption, BFBC2, PES, SSF4, Blood BowlFilms &amp; TV:24, Precious, Battlestar Galactica, The WireMusic:lots – see above, AlestormWelcome to:crazytifosiAnd don't forget...Check out theChatterbox wikifor gamer tags and more!And enjoy theGamesblog Spotify list!
Yahoo has signed David Beckham as its first "global sports ambassador" to front an international ad campaign ahead of the World Cup and provide exclusive content.The campaign, which kicks off in more than 20 countries tomorrow, is the latest extension of the$100m brand marketing push unveiled by Yahoo last Septemberas part of a fightback against rivals including Google.Beckham, initially signed to work with Yahoo until September, will start appearing in a major ad campaign. He is currently in South Africa with the England team in a non-playing role.In the UK it will use poster sites, the London Underground and newspapers including Metro and London Evening Standard, but does not include TV commercials.Beckham will also provide a range of exclusive content to Yahoo during the World Cup. None of it, however, will be delivered live, meaning no views on England games or wider performances; Yahoo said it had all been developed in advance of the tournament.Yahoo will feature a David Beckham online channel where he will share experiences of playing in three World Cups.After the World Cup he will start to deliver rolling content, including a weekly video and a number of chat sessions with users of Yahoo services such as messenger and Yahoo Answers."Yahoo has a true personal relationship with its users and is an online leader in sports content across the globe," said Beckham."Yahoo will allow me to interact one-on-one with as many football fans as possible talking about the game I love."In April, Yahoo signed a deal to show highlights of the English Premier League online for the next three seasons, 2010-13.Yesterday it announced a major social-media integration programme, including a tie-in with Facebook.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Another day, another Freedom of Information (FOI) request revealing a quite extraordinary spend on a government website.The latest one: the site for the Crown Prosecution Service for England and Wales, where development and running costs amounted to £370,000 in its five years, from launch (relaunch?) in 2004/5 up to 2008/9 - including £121,965 in the 2008/09 year alone.That's to add to the discovery that the website for the new UK Supreme Court cost - which,as we noted late last week, cost a total of £360,000.Kudos to Henry Kitt, who has been putting down a series of FOI requests along these lines to try to shine some light on what looks like a murky mess of the commissioning, building and running of government websites.As Simon Dickson (who has done some website development for the UK government)points out, for the Supreme Court contract, fulfilled by Logicawithout a tender, you get a website with "pretty basic errors" in its HTML, no RSS feed, and which seems to consist almost entirely of PDFs - without even a basic press notice.As Dickson comments, "You need to ask yourself whether £360,000 seems like a fair price for such a website. I'd suggest it isn't. Even with a significant allocation for design, I'd have thought you could produce a similar result - with better functionality - for 95% less. If there's more going on behind the scenes than is obvious from the front end, perhaps they might like to explain what. This is a perfect example of why I'm not scared of all the talk about massive public sector spending cuts."So now we move on to the CPS site. What do we find inthat FOI response? First, the costs breakdown:&bull; 2004/05 - £70,020.60&bull; 2005/06 - £49,407.55&bull; 2006/07 - £70,626.16&bull; 2007/08 - £58,016.85&bull; 2008/09 - £121,965.19Well. That's a lot of money. Keep reading on, though, because you haven't found out yet how much the original tender was for. It'll make your jaw drop."Q: Where the costs have been incurred with external providers, please list the companies in question.""A: The CPS IT Business partner Logica UK Ltd provides hosting and support of the CPS corporate website whilst ECRU provide web publishing support."Logica, eh?So how did Logica get that gig? Kitt asks:"Q: I would also be grateful to receive full disclosure of the tendering process including proposals of all unsuccessful bidders. Please also detail future budget allocations for public websites where these have been considered.""A: The information you have requested in questions five and six are exempt from disclosure by virtue of sections 41 and 43 (2) of the Act.""Information provided in confidence is exempt information if it was obtained by the public authority from any other person (including another public authority) and the disclosure of the information to the public (otherwise under this Act) by the public authority holding it would constitute a breach of confidence by that or any other person..... Section 43 (2) of the Act provides that, information is exempt information if its disclosure under this Act would, or would be likely to, prejudice the commercial interests of any person (including the public authority holding it). This is a qualified exemption and will require the balance of the public interest test."Indeed it will. Surely the CPS needs to show that there's a public interest in *not* revealing more details about the tendering process. That is, there was one, right?Back to the FOI result:"The CPS acknowledges that there is a strong public interest in the need for transparency in the accountability of public funds and the way in which public money is being used effectively. In addition, to ensure that government departments are getting value for money when purchasing goods and services. However, the CPS considers that the public interest factors against disclosure outweigh the public interest for disclosing."Show your working, then, CPS, for considering that:"Releasing information may have a detrimental impact on the ability of the CPS to obtain the appropriate suppliers to cater for the specialist needs and requirements of the organisation. Further more the CPS position could be weakened when buying from a competitive environment if it were to reveal information falling within the procurement process. Such information could be potentially useful to future suppliers when proposing services to the CPS, which would adversely affect the effective use of public money. Disclosure could make companies or individuals reluctant to provide the CPS with commercially sensitive information in the future and consequently undermine the ability of the department to fulfil its role."So the CPS is saying that if future companies put in a tender to do the work, they might not like the idea that others could see what they're bidding, or what they're bidding for, and how they allocated resources.Hang on, though, there's more:"You may be interested that a tendering exercise was carried out for a three year contract, estimated total value £45,000. Due to the value, a full Official Journal of the European Union (OJEU) exercise was not undertaken. Seven suppliers were asked to bid after being identified as potentially suitable by the Central Office of Information (COI) and the CPS Communications Directorate. Only two bids were received and the contract was awarded to ECRU. "Er, just a minute. A £45,000 three-year contract thatspent more than that in every single year for the past five years?That sounds like project management gone horribly wrong at the very least.We'd love to know who the failed bidder was - any clues?In the meantime, we'll ask Logica if it can explain how the numbers grew so far, so fast.Update:Afua Hirsch, our legal affairs correspondent, points out that theUK Supreme Court blog, which isnotaffiliated with the UK Supreme Court (it's actually run by the lawyers Olswang), provides far more useful coverage. And it has an RSS feed, too.
