"Bill Joy, one of the four founders of Sun Microsystems and a major computer industry innovator, said Tuesday that he is leaving the company. Joy, who intends to return to his roots as a programmer, said he may focus on viruses and Internet security, and may eventually start his own company," reportsThe Merc. "For many years, Joy has lived in Aspen, Colo., and run his projects far from Sun's Silicon Valley offices."
"Total shipments worldwide of Sony Computer Entertainment's PlayStation 2 console hit 60 million at the weekend," reportsIDG News, but "the pace at which units are leaving the company's factories is falling."
A group representing major US record labels today reached a $2,000 (£1,250) settlement with the mother of a 12-year-old girl accused of downloading illegal music files.It is the first and most high-profile case to be settled since the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) launched 261 music piracy suits against individual internet users yesterday.Sylvia Torres, mother of Brianna Lahara, a New York schoolgirl who had illegally offered more than 1,000 copyrighted songs on the family's personal computer using the Kazaa file-sharing service, said: "We understand now that file-sharing the music was illegal. You can be sure Brianna won't be doing it any more."Brianna added: "I am sorry for what I have done. I love music and don't want to hurt the artists I love."The RIAA's suits against Brianna and 260 other computer users saw it take its battle against online piracy into the homes of individuals who copy music online - having already targeted file-sharing service providers such as Napster.The organisation has promised to sue hundreds more people in the coming weeks as it strives to stamp out music piracy it blames for a three-year slump in CD sales.     Critics say the tough crackdown may prove ineffective. "The real hope here is that people will return to the record store," said Eric Garland, CEO of BigCampagne LLC, which tracks peer-to-peer internet trends."The biggest question is whether singling out a handful of copyright infringers will invigorate business or drive file-sharing further underground, further out of reach."The RIAA itself was sued today by a California attorney, who accused the music trade group of "unfair, misleading and fraudulent business practices" for promoting an amnesty program aimed at music file-shares.The RIAA's "Clean Slate" program would allow file-sharers who step forward and pledge to cease downloading files illegally to avoid being sued. An RIAA spokesman declined to comment directly on the suit.But RIAA vice-president Matt Oppenheim defended its policy of legal action against individuals and said it would continue to pursue users, no matter how young.Mr Oppenheim said: "We know that there are a lot of young people who are using these services and we totally expected that we would end up targeting them. As we have said from the beginning ... there is no free pass to engage in music piracy just because you haven't come of age. We're not surprised and we're not deterred.""As this case illustrates, parents need to be aware of what their children are doing on their computers," added Mitch Bainwol, RIAA chairman and chief executive officer.US laws allow for damages of between $750 and $150,000 for each song offered illegally on a person's computer.In Britain, the British Phonographic Industry has indicated it is unlikely to follow the US example of pushing for prosecution of music file-sharers. Its strategy will instead focus on "educating" people to use legitimate downloading sites that paid royalties to artists.
A 12-year-old girl in New York, a professor at Yale University and an elderly man in Texas who rarely uses his computer have been included in the first wave of civil actions against people accused of illegally sharing songs on the internet.The Recording Industry Association of America, which is bringing the cases, said yesterday that the 261 people it was suing were "major offenders" who had illegally distributed an average of more than 1,000 copyrighted music files.But some of them insisted yesterday they had been wrongly accused.Durwood Pickle, 71, from Richardson, Texas, said his teenage grandchildren had downloaded the music on to his computer during visits to his home."I didn't do it, and I don't feel like I'm responsible," he said. Mr Pickle found out that he was being sued from the press."I'm not a computer type   person. They come in and get on the computer. How do I get out of this?"Brianna LaHara, a 12-year-old on the Upper West Side, discovered she was being sued on Monday as she prepared for her first day back at school.Her mother paid a $29.99 (&#163;20) monthly service charge three months ago for a music swapping service call Kazaa."I got really scared. My stomach is all turning," said Brianna. "I thought it was OK to download music because my mom paid a service fee for it. Out of all people, why did they pick me?"It is believed that the music industry is bringing the cases to show music sharers that it is prepared to get tough."Nobody likes playing the heavy and having to resort to litigation," said Cary Sherman, the RIAA's president."But when your product is being regularly stolen there comes a time when you have to take appropriate action."The RIAA picked the most   prolific sharers rather than those who download the music, in an attempt to strike at the core of the network.US copyright laws allow for damages of between $750 and $150,000 for each song offered illegally on a person's computer. Roughly 60 million Americans, half of whom are thought to be teenagers, take part in file-sharing networks using software that makes it simple for computer users to locate and retrieve almost any song for free.Norm Coleman, the Republican senator for Minnesota, has promised congressional hearings on the issue.He suggested that the industry was being heavy-handed. "They have a legitimate interest that needs to be protected, but are they protecting it in a way that's too broad and overreaching?"I don't want to make criminals out of 60 million kids, even though kids and grandkids are doing things they shouldn't be doing."
Just had a call from an IT trade body touting some new research on business broadband. "It's found that SMEs [small to medium-sized businesses] are adopting, not adapting to, broadband," says the PR. "Rather than using [broadband] for competitive advantage, they're using it just for speed." Umm... isn't speed (of response, of learning, of communication) regarded as competitive advantage these days? If not, why not? And when did this happen?
Salem Paxwrites the cover story for G2 today, describing his experiences blogging from Baghdad. "I still don't really understand how it became what it is now," he says.
On the occasion of Google's fifth birthday, aGuardian leadersuggests today the company should "turn itself into a mutual company, a living monument to the founding principles of the internet".
The American music industry yesterday filed the first 250 lawsuits against consumers for allegedly breaking copyright laws online, while offering an amnesty to other file sharers if they promise never to swap music over the internet again.The Recording Industry Association of America said the lawsuits were the first wave of what could ultimately be thousands of civil suits."We've been telling people for a long time that file sharing   copyrighted music is illegal, that you are not anonymous when you do it, and that engaging in it can have real consequences," said RIAA president Cary Sherman."Nobody likes playing the heavy and having to resort to litigation," he added. "But when your product is being regularly stolen, there comes a time when you have to take appropriate action."The RIAA announced the planned legal action in June, shifting the focus from the file sharing sites to the individuals who use them. People allegedly caught distributing music on the networks Kazaa, Grokster, Imesh, Gnutella and Blubster were targeted to begin with.The RIAA said it would grant amnesty to people swapping songs online if they come forward and sign an affidavit pledging to respect copyright laws in future while destroying any material they have already downloaded for free."For those who want to wipe the slate clean and to avoid a potential lawsuit, this is the way to go," said Mitch Bainwol, RIAA chairman and chief executive. The organisation said it had offered the amnesty after receiving calls from anxious file sharers, asking what they could do to avoid being sued.The lawsuits have been viewed as a mark of the desperation facing the music industry in the face of widespread online piracy.Universal Music last week embarked on a different strategy and announced plans to cut the price of compact discs in north America by almost a third in an effort to get young music buyers back into stores.
"The most dramatically smaller aspect of these new releases are their prices. While the top-of-the-line Itanium with a 6MB cache sells for $4,227 in quantities of 1,000, the Deerfield sells for $744, and the 1.4GHz Itanium costs $1,172. Intel hopes these chips' lower prices and pared-down specifications will give Itanium a presence in the low-end server market, which research firm IDC identified as enjoying double-digit growth in the last two quarters," reportsNewsFactor
Apple's just announced speed-bumpediMacsand bigger-capacityiPods. The move comes exactly a week before Apple Expo in Paris, where I'm convinced that Apple will announce more stuff. My bet? PowerBooks, and software - including the next version of Mac OSX.Macrumorsis certainly getting all excited: they think there are software announcements to come tomorrowandnext Tuesday, but suggest hitches with iTunes for Windows which may delay its release. That last point, if true, is the most strategically significant piece of news of the lot, although it may not stop some kind of announcement next week, with the software following later.
The views from the top of the BT tower, in central London, were as extraordinary as ever. However, to some of those present last week, what we had really come to see - the launch of a new web portal from BT and Yahoo! - seemed rather less remarkable."Haven't we been here before?" asked one bemused hack. Certainly, we had all written about portals before and, since 1999, read plenty of pieces predicting their immanent demise (you'll find a particularly fine example, from 1999,here, complete with pre-dot.com collapse lingo).The launch made it clear that BT and its new partner were deadly serious about the importance of their new joint offering, with the web portal at its heart.We can brace ourselves for a high-profile £10m advertising campaign (although, I dare say that most £10m campaigns are high profile) featuring two 70s-throwback IT geeks from California.The advertising suggests that, while the internet has been around a while, it is only now that it is realising its potential, thanks to the efforts of BT (which supplies the connections) and Yahoo! (which supplies the content).But is this really such a dramatic experience?What lies at the heart of the partnership is great. When you get connected to ADSL or cable internet, the first experience of a high-speed broadband connection makes you feel things have changed for the better.It is fair to say that the increasing take-up of broadband is attributable, in large part, to the word of mouth effect as people brag about their new, super-fast net connections.Broadband is great for internet users who are already committed to the net and are frequent users of email, the web, instant messaging and multimedia. These are people who already have an online life, know the places they want to visit and would like to get there more quickly.So, given that the audience in the BT tower was made up of technology journalists, it was hardly surprising that few were bowled over by the content being offered by the new service.The delights of web portals - news, personalised content, showbiz gossip, email - with a few stuck-on bits of broadband content such as movie trailers and increasingly vital services including spam filtering and virus protection - were nothing new for them.By dint of being old net hands, they already knew where to pick up that kind of content. They already knew that Yahoo has been offing a personalised home page at my.yahoo.com since the year dot. They (should) already know about anti-spam and virus arrangements.In other words, they were not the target market for this offering. It seems an obvious statement, but it is something that tech pundits have often forgotten in the writing of portals' obituaries over the years.The question the BT/Yahoo! deal is attempting to answer is this: what happens when the most committed internet users are all signed up? How is the rest of the market attracted to a relatively expensive (£29.99 per month) service?The answer appears to be that these portals are a popular solution, just as they have been popular for dial-up users.According to the most recent stats from Nielsen Netratings, five of the top ten most popular sites in the UK are portals, beating the likes of Amazon (10th), eBay (sixth), the BBC (fifth) and Microsoft (fourth). The MSN portal tops the lot, with a home audience of 8.8 million unique users.That rams home the point that portals clearly still matter, both to the companies concerned as much as to the consumers. BT can now do something to fight back against AOL - a company with a vast amount of well-produced broadband content and a great consumer brand, all sold for £2 a month less than BT (£27.99).Meanwhile, Yahoo! reinforces its image as a launch pad for people who want to explore the internet.Whether, of course, the new portal does that job well is another question. From the demonstrations we were given last week, the offering looks a bit thin, like something that has been put together - as this was - in a couple of weeks.It will be interesting to see how the service develops: will Yahoo! offer more user-generated content such as, perhaps, weblog-building software, as is now being touted by AOL in the US?The irony could be that, despite all the rich TV-style content that could be pumped down the line to users, the oldest internet application - simple, human interaction - could be what really makes BT and Yahoo!'s big-money partnership worthwhile, and be what really attracts the majority of net users to broadband.
Internet users will continue to be plagued by unwanted pop-up adverts after a US judge ruled websites can do nothing to prevent companies placing ads on their pages without permission."Alas, we computer users must endure pop-up advertising," district judge Gerald Bruce Lee ruled in a US court in Virginia.While this ruling applies only to America, other US-based web judgments have tended to set a precedent on this side of the Atlantic.The decision is a blow to the owners of websites that have been plagued by rogue advertising.Over the past two years online publishers have filed more than a dozen lawsuits against internet advertising firms Gator Corporation and WhenU.com.The companies operate by offering web surfers free software or downloads, such as video players or screen savers, that come with ad serving programmes attached.Once downloaded they will then be shown pop-up adverts independent of the website they are visiting.While many of the online publishers complaining about Gator and WhenU.com also deliver pop-up ads to their users, they argue they can limit the number of times they are shown and ensure the adverts are suitable for their audience.Dotcoms are also concerned the pop-ups offered by companies such as Gator may advertise products and websites that rival their own."Computer users, like this trial judge, may wonder what we have done to warrant the punishment of seizure of our computer screens by pop-up advertisements for secret web cameras, insurance, travel values and fad diets," Mr Lee said.However, he ruled that, while annoying, the adverts did not break any trademark or copyrights laws and consumers had generally agreed to download the ad serving software."Ultimately it is the computer user who controls the windows displayed on the computer desktop," he said.However, many users complain is often far from obvious that they are agreeing to install the "spyware" software on their computers and that, once installed, it is difficult to remove.The suit was brought by removal company U-Haul International, which said it was considering an appeal.Last year Gator reached an out of court settlement with a dozen media companies, including the Washington Post and Dow Jones, over similar complaints.Gator also faces outstanding suits from other online publishers.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
' It is important," said Lord Hutton when he was appointed as head of the inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the death of David Kelly, "that the public should know every word of evidence which is spoken at this inquiry and should know the full contents of every document which is referred to in evidence."Judging by the acres of information released online, he's unlikely to have been disappointed. An incredible 1,000 documents, faxes, emails, notes, memos and reports have so far made their way into the public domain via the Hutton inquiry's website. Hundreds of journalists, political junkies and wannabe investigators have trawled their way through an estimated 10,000 pages of submitted evidence - a level of access to information that is truly unprecedented in British politics.It's all part of a complex and time-consuming effort by the Department for Constitutional Affairs (DCA), which is handling the inquiry itself."When documentary evidence is received by the team," says Mike Wicksteed, the DCA's head of external communications, "they need to edit out any personal information before the files are scanned. These are then passed to the web team to upload."The team, consisting of about eight people from the Royal Courts of Justice, the DCA and the inquiry itself are involved in the process, working swiftly to publish every twist and turn of the hearing."The edited version of the session is passed to the inquiry web team for coding and posting onto the website. At the same time the documentary evidence is passed to the web team. They collate and code the relevant files and aim to post up the transcript and any documentary evidence referred to during the session, within three hours."This dedication to speed and openness has proved a surprise hit with the public. During the past four weeks, the inquiry's site has become the most popular political website in the country, outstripping political parties, media outlets and campaign organisations alike."I think it's a really good thing," says David Hencke, the Guardian Westminster correspondent. "The result of releasing these documents is that the public can see there's a far more complicated story here than it may have first appeared. People can see the different levels operating inside the story - there are no automatic goodies and baddies, just a series of shades of grey."Certainly, the inquiry's insistence on publishing as much submitted evidence as possible has unveiled some of the complicated decision-making processes usually locked away behind the closed doors of Whitehall.Advocates of open government believe there is huge potential for the inquiry to set an online precedent for government communication. And that, it seems, is thanks to the internet's power for publishing with speed, accuracy and accessibility. Gone are the days of painstaking library research and poring through hundreds of pages of Hansard - now so many things are available at the click of a mouse.The government's original plan was to make 100% of government services available electronically by 2005, and - on the back of successful American projects such as MIT's Open Government Information Awareness - it remains optimistic that this target remains achievable, with Hutton proving there is a public appetite for online information."We have transformed the provision of information," said the DTI's last annual report on the progress of e-government. "Instead of mass information only available on paper, information is now easily and freely available on the internet, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week."Maurice Frankel, the director of the Campaign for Freedom of Information, is more cynical about whether the British government can learn the real lessons offered by the success of the Hutton inquiry website."Whether the cure is to shuffle people around in No 10, or whether it requires a deeper change is something we've yet to see," he says. "Until we've got evidence that they are really changing things, we have to assume that the mindset remains the same."Different words of caution come from James Crabtree, the iSociety research director at the Work Foundation, a thinktank that looks at the impact of technology on people's lives. He believes calls for total transparency are misplaced."It's been intriguing to see the internal mechanics of government. Transparency has always been taken to be an unquestionably good thing - but it's a double-edged sword. If a civil servant knows every memo they send is going to be published two days later, they'll never get anything done.""Whitehall would love to use that argument," agrees Hencke. Politicians and civil servants faced with an electronic paper trail of the kind disclosed by Hutton would have to overcome their fear of transparent decision-making.But there remains a chance for government to restore lost trust by using the web to appear more open and accessible, perhaps revealing more information on the process behind the decisions made in Downing Street and departments of state."We haven't found out how the government handles information on Iraq," says Frankel. "We've seen how it handles information full stop. Freedom of information is symbolic of honesty in government. If the public can see information in its original, unvarnished state, then perhaps it can help bring back some of the public's confidence."Officials warn that the Hutton website is unlikely to mark a change in government strategy, however. "The inquiry is fast-running and its website is adapted for that," says the DCA's Mike Wicksteed. It is, he thinks, "rather different to maintaining departmental websites, containing possibly thousands of information files on a wide range of topics for use by a large number of groups".But, despite this warning against optimism, Hutton does offer a chance for change - and, acting through fear of exposure, a golden opportunity could be missed."If they actually grasp the nettle, there is a lot on offer," says Hencke. "In the US, a lot of information is released after six months. Of course, sometimes this can be embarrassing, or even damaging. But it hasn't led to the collapse of the administration."Ultimately, though, a government famed for exercising an iron grip over information is unlikely to give up its control readily - even when the web, the media and the public at large all demand change.&#183;The Hutton inquiry website is atthe-hutton-inquiry.org.uk
Telewest's internet service, Blueyonder, revamped its portal on Friday - that's the front page on which surfers land whenever they log on to the net through the BlueYonder service, unless they have manually altered their settings. Earlier last week the BT Yahoo! broadband site went live - becoming BTOpenworld's de facto home on the net following its acquisition of the search engine and directory specialist.Meanwhile a straw poll of seasoned internet users on a bulletin board (so the sample may be totally unrepresentative) elicited a few interesting comments about internet service providers' portals:"All I want on the ISP's pages are contact details, FAQs and settings, and details of any known faults.""From my point of view, my ISP should be completely invisible. The only time I'm concerned about it is when I want to extend/cancel services or fix a problem.""I'd prefer my ISP to make its service as cheap as possible and not to provide anything else other than connectivity and mail servers because it's mainly the connectivity I need.""Once connected to the internet, I can choose the best site for each need and not rely on an inferior all-inclusive solution from my ISP.""I have never bothered with the portal page - I use an ISP simply as a way of getting on to the internet."And so forth. Possibly alarmingly for the ISPs and the people who provide their content, the nearest to an endorsement that came from any correspondent was when someone said that many people never changed their initial log-on site, but tempered this by suggesting they probably did not know how.Mark Mulder, head of content and services at BlueYonder, concedes that the demographic of the internet consumer is changing, so the services as presented to them need to change. "We've spent the past six months talking to customers and finding out what they really wanted," he says. "We found out about the services they expect from their ISP - we don't call it a portal. The value is in the services we can offer our clients."So visitors to the newly revamped site atblueyonder.co.ukwill find access to online email (assuming they have an account), information on antivirus, tutorials on digital photography and other computer-related skills and links to partners offering news items, film previews and other content. Nick Hazell, director of Online at BTOpenworld, acknowledges that some loggers-on are becoming more sophisticated. "There are people who will go to one specialist for news and another to do a search, but to an extent there always has been. The percentage of people who go straight to a site they want is probably higher than it was a year ago, and that's as much to do with more people feeling comfortable finding their own way around as anything."There is enough custom out there that still wants a little hand-holding to justify the continued existence of a number of competing services in the area, it appears. Microsoft's MSN service noted an increase of a third of a million this July as compared to the same period last year, and has increased its numbers by 11.9 million unique users looking at one of its services, according to Nielsen."I heard the 'portal is dead' story last year and the year before and our reach just doesn't bear it out," says Matt Wittingham, head of marketing for MSN. People keep asking why someone should come to a portal, he says, but they keep coming. The trick for the portal companies is inevitably to give their customers a reason to keep coming back. This has meant, for example, the severe illness if not actual death of banner advertising. There are fewer adverts around - and BTOpenworld's Hazell suggests things haven't changed enough. "It should be about the quality of the customer rather than the quantity, so advertisers don't get the 16m page impressions from a single advert but they get a higher percentage of people responding."Mulder also notes a change: "The old model, of getting people to stay on your site for as long as possible and monetising them, has gone." Making this work will mean tapping into what the internet has promised since day one but which it has yet to deliver bar the odd example - personalisation. "We really liked the way that Yahoo! delivered what the customer was actually likely to want rather than just pushing loads of adverts into their face," says Hazell. He believes, though, that personalisation will become more to do with intelligent websites observing their users' behaviour than users selecting and building their own portal by requesting specific content, as was envisaged a few years ago.Wittingham also remains confident that portals will continue to evolve and will have a secure future. "I think you're going to start seeing specialities," he says. "People will come to us expecting to see expertise on computing and software, they'll go to BTOpenworld for their strengths and so forth."Perhaps, oddly, this sounds less like going to a portal and more like going to a preferred site for a preferred service, which runs contrary to the philosophy that underpinned the setting up of so many portals in the first place.There is a side issue, addressed by BlueYonder with its revamp - an underlying assumption that customers will be on a broadband connection. MSN, for example, pushes Instant Messenger as one of its value-added services, so members can send a message to anyone who is logged on; this only works if both parties are connected for some time. BlueYonder's relaunch, for the first time, brings together the jumping-off point for broadband and for dial-up customers, whose connections will be far slower and put some of the content - music, movies - beyond their comfortable reach. Mulder denies, though, that this means the dial-up customer will receive less attention."I felt that when we had the two sites we weren't doing enough for our dial-up customers. This way everyone will get the same attention, so it'll be better for them." He concedes that once the dial-up community see what they're missing they're likely to start wanting broadband.There's no doubt that there are customers out there who still want someone to show them around the internet when they first log on, and in that respect there is likely to be a future for portals in some form. But the proportion of people who don't feel the need is increasing.
Internet shoppers have doubled their spending over the past year to more than £10bn as the e-commerce companies that survived the dotcom bust start to prosper.The most popular online purchases remain CDs, DVDs and books but the figures also show the web is increasingly the most popular way of buying travel, theatre, concert and cinema tickets.A third of internet users has used the web to buy an airline ticket over the past year and low cost carriers such as EasyJet and Ryanair now take most of their bookings this way.Over a fifth of internet users has booked a holiday online, while a similar number has used the web to reserve a hotel room.More surprisingly, a sixth of those online has bought clothes over the web, while 14% regularly do their supermarket shopping online.According to research more than £10bn was spent online by consumers during the past 12 months, an average of £470 a year for each of the UK's 21.5 million adult internet users.While the figures are good news for online retailers that have kept faith with the medium, they will make worrying reading for high street stores that have abandoned their web presence.The biannual Continental Research survey showed the total amount spent online has almost doubled from £5.5bn in the corresponding period a year ago.Only a handful of the large online retailers that spent hundreds of millions on marketing at the height of the dotcom boom are still operating.As a result, analysts expect the likes of Amazon and Tesco.com to reap the rewards for their staying power.However, now that the security and delivery concerns of most online consumers have been allayed, dozens of smaller retailers are also benefiting."Confidence has returned to the sector and companies offering online services are starting to reap the rewards," said Colin Shaddick, a director at Continental Research.The research also showed that, despite predictions that the growth in internet users would begin to level off, the number of adults using the web on a regular basis has continued to increase.According to the figures, the number of regular adult internet users now stands at 21.5 million, up from 18.5 million last year and 14.6 million in 2001.The research also found people are spending longer online than ever before as the popularity of high speed broadband connections continues to rise.There are now more than 2.2 million broadband connections in the UK.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
During the early 70s, in the wealthy commuter backwater of West Byfleet in Surrey, a small but rather remarkable experiment took place. In the potting shed of a house called Firkins, a teenager named Simon Beer, using bits of radios and pieces of pink and green cardboard, built a series of electrical meters for measuring public opinion. His concept - users of his meters would turn a dial to indicate how happy or unhappy they were with any political proposal - was strange and ambitious enough. And it worked. Yet what was even more jolting was his intended market: not Britain, but Chile.Unlike West Byfleet, Chile was in revolutionary ferment. In the capital Santiago, the beleaguered but radical marxist government of Salvador Allende, hungry for innovations of all kinds, was employing Simon Beer's father, Stafford, to conduct a much larger technological experiment of which the meters were only a part. This was known as Project Cybersyn, and nothing like it had been tried before, or has been tried since.Stafford Beer attempted, in his words, to "implant" an electronic "nervous system" in Chilean society. Voters, workplaces and the government were to be linked together by a new, interactive national communications network, which would transform their relationship into something profoundly more equal and responsive than before - a sort of socialist internet, decades ahead of its time.When the Allende administration was deposed in a military coup, the 30th anniversary of which falls this Thursday, exactly how far Beer and his British and Chilean collaborators had got in constructing their hi-tech utopia was soon forgotten. In the many histories of the endlessly debated, frequently mythologised Allende period, Project Cybersyn hardly gets a footnote. Yet the personalities involved, the amount they achieved, the scheme's optimism and ambition and perhaps, in the end, its impracticality, contain important truths about the most tantalising leftwing government of the late 20th century.Stafford Beer, who died last year, was a restless and idealistic British adventurer who had long been drawn to Chile. Part scientist, part management guru, part social and political theorist, he had grown rich but increasingly frustrated in Britain during the 50s and 60s. His ideas about the similarities between biological and man-made systems, most famously expressed in his later book, The Brain of the Firm, made him an in-demand consultant with British businesses and politicians. Yet these clients did not adopt the solutions he recommended as often as he would have liked, so Beer began taking more contracts abroad.In the early 60s, his company did some work for the Chilean railways. Beer did not go there himself, but one of the Chileans involved, an engineering student called Fernando Flores, began reading Beer's books and was captivated by their originality and energy. By the time the Allende government was elected in 1970, a group of Beer disciples had formed in Chile. Flores became a minister in the new administration, with responsibility for nationalising great swathes of industry. As in many areas, the Allende government wanted to do things differently from traditional marxist regimes. "I was very much against the Soviet model of centralisation," says Raul Espejo, one of Flores's senior advisers and another Beer disciple. "My gut feeling was that it was unviable."But how should the Chilean economy be run instead? By 1971, the initial euphoria of Allende's democratic, non-authoritarian revolution was beginning to fade; Flores and Espejo realised that their ministry had acquired a disorganised empire of mines and factories, some occupied by their employees, others still controlled by their original managers, few of them operating with complete efficiency. In July, they wrote to Beer for help.They knew that he had leftwing sympathies, but also that he was very busy. "Our expectation was to hire someone from his team," says Espejo. But after getting the letter, Beer quickly grew fascinated by the Chilean situation. He decided to drop his other contracts and fly there. In West Byfleet, the reaction was mixed: "We thought, 'Stafford's going mad again,' " says Simon Beer.When Stafford arrived in Santiago, the Chileans were more impressed. "He was huge," Espejo remembers, "and extraordinarily exuberant. From every pore of his skin you knew he was thinking big." Beer asked for a daily fee of $500 - less than he usually charged, but an enormous sum for a government being starved of US dollars by its enemies in Washington - and a constant supply of chocolate, wine and cigars.For the next two years, as subordinates searched for these amid the food shortages, and the local press compared him to Orson Welles and Socrates, Beer worked in Chile in frenetic bursts, returning every few months to England, where a British team was also labouring over Cybersyn. What this collaboration produced was startling: a new communications system reaching the whole spindly length of Chile, from the deserts of the north to the icy grasslands of the south, carrying daily information about the output of individual factories, about the flow of important raw materials, about rates of absenteeism and other economic problems.Until now, obtaining and processing such valuable information - even in richer, more stable countries - had taken governments at least six months. But Project Cybersyn found ways round the technical obstacles. In a forgotten warehouse, 500 telex machines were discovered which had been bought by the previous Chilean government but left unused because nobody knew what to do with them. These were distributed to factories, and linked to two control rooms in Santiago. There a small staff gathered the economic statistics as they arrived, officially at five o'clock every afternoon, and boiled them down using a single precious computer into a briefing that was dropped off daily at La Moneda, the presidential palace.Allende himself was enthusiastic about the scheme. Beer explained it to him on scraps of paper. Allende had once been a doctor and, Beer felt, instinctively understood his notions about the biological characteristics of networks and institutions. Just as significantly, the two men shared a belief that Cybersyn was not about the government spying on and controlling people. On the contrary, it was hoped that the system would allow workers to manage, or at least take part in the management of their workplaces, and that the daily exchange of information between the shop floor and Santiago would create trust and genuine cooperation - and the combination of individual freedom and collective achievement that had always been the political holy grail for many leftwing thinkers.It did not always work out like that. "Some people I've talked to," says Eden Miller, an American who is writing a PhD thesis partly about Cybersyn, "said it was like pulling teeth getting the factories to send these statistics." In the feverish Chile of 1972 and 1973, with its shortages and strikes and jostling government initiatives, there were often other priorities. And often the workers were not willing or able to run their plants: "The people Beer's scientists dealt with," says Miller, "were primarily management."But there were successes. In many factories, Espejo says, "Workers started to allocate a space on their own shop floor to have the same kind of graphics that we had in Santiago." Factories used their telexes to send requests and complaints back to the government, as well as vice versa. And in October 1972, when Allende faced his biggest crisis so far, Beer's invention became vital.Across Chile, with secret support from the CIA, conservative small businessmen went on strike. Food and fuel supplies threatened to run out. Then the government realised that Cybersyn offered a way of outflanking the strikers. The telexes could be used to obtain intelligence about where scarcities were worst, and where people were still working who could alleviate them. The control rooms in Santiago were staffed day and night. People slept in them - even government ministers. "The rooms came alive in the most extraordinary way," says Espejo. "We felt that we were in the centre of the universe." The strike failed to bring down Allende.In some ways, this was the high point for Cybersyn. The following year, like the government in general, it began to encounter insoluble problems. By 1973, the sheer size of the project, involving somewhere between a quarter and half of the entire nationalised economy, meant that Beer's original band of disciples had been diluted by other, less idealistic scientists. There was constant friction between the two groups. Meanwhile, Beer himself started to focus on other schemes: using painters and folk singers to publicise the principles of high-tech socialism; testing his son's electrical public-opinion meters, which never actually saw service; and even organising anchovy-fishing expeditions to earn the government some desperately needed foreign currency.All the while, the rightwing plotting against Allende grew more blatant and the economy began to suffocate as other countries, encouraged by the Americans, cut off aid and investment. Beer was accused in parts of the international press of creating a Big Brother-style system of administration in South America. "There was plenty of stress in Chile," he wrote afterwards. "I could have pulled out at any time, and often considered doing so."In June 1973, after being advised to leave Santiago, he rented an anonymous house on the coast from a relative of Espejo. For a few weeks, he wrote and stared at the sea and travelled to government meetings under cover of darkness. On September 10, a room was measured in La Moneda for the installation of an updated Cybersyn control centre, complete with futuristic control panels in the arms of chairs and walls of winking screens. The next day, the palace was bombed by the coup's plotters. Beer was in London, lobbying for the Chilean government, when he left his final meeting before intending to fly back to Santiago and saw a newspaper billboard that read, "Allende assassinated."The Chilean military found the Cybersyn network intact, and called in Espejo and others to explain it to them. But they found the open, egalitarian aspects of the system unattractive and destroyed it. Espejo fled. Some of his colleagues were not so lucky. Soon after the coup, Beer left West Byfleet, his wife, and most of his possessions to live in a cottage in Wales. "He had survivor guilt, unquestionably," says Simon.Cybersyn and Stafford's subsequent, more esoteric inventions live on in obscure socialist websites and, more surprisingly, modern business school teachings about the importance of economic information and informal working practices. David Bowie, Brian Eno and Tony Blair's new head of policy, Geoff Mulgan, have all cited Beer as an influence.But perhaps more importantly, his work in Chile affected those who participated. Espejo has made a good career since as an inter- national management consultant. He has been settled in Britain for decades. He chuckles urbanely at the mention of Pinochet's arrest in London five years ago. Yet when, after a long lunch in a pub near his home in Lincoln, I ask whether Cybersyn changed him, his playful, slightly professorial gaze turns quite serious. "Oh yes," he says. "Completely."&#183;Andy Beckett's book Pinochet in Piccadilly is published by Faber.
"In the latest example of the cell phone industry's 'anything goes' attitude, Japan's NTT DoCoMo and chipmaker Texas Instruments are planning to produce a device with the built-in ability to record phone calls. The recording capability gives further proof of cell phone developers' ingenuity. But its development also serves as an illustration of the industry's tin ear when it comes to the legal and social effects of what experts call the most widely adopted and disruptive technologies ever created," reportsCNet.Comment: Useful feature! I sometimes have to ask people to ring me back on my landline so I can record it....
"Microsoft announced late Friday that it will pay more than $23 million to settle an antitrust suit filed by onetime operating system rival Be. Microsoft did not admit wrongdoing in the settlement, in which Be will receive $23.2 million after attorneys' fees. The total amount Microsoft will pay was not immediately clear from a joint statement by the two companies," reportsCNet.Comment: Be's lawsuit alleged that Microsoft closed it out of the PC market after it proved unable to get many OEMs to bundle it. It's not mentioned that Apple closed Be out of the Mac market, by eliminating the Mac-clone makers who did bundle BeOS for a while. But Be's best chance went when Apple (Amelio and Hancock) decided not to buy Be to form the basis of the Mac's new operating system, and instead bought Next Technology, for its NextStep version of Unix.BeOS was first launched on the BeBox, a PC with two PowerPC processors, in 1995, though it was originally written for the AT&amp;T Hobbit processor (which the Apple Newton was originally going to use -- Steve Sakoman, head of Apple's Newton Group, worked on both machines). If Be Inc had started writing it for Intel PCs in 1990, before Windows took off, it might well have done much better ... but with most of Be's early staff being refugees from Apple, it's very unlikely they'd have done that.CNet has a brief history of the amazingly unprofitable Be Inc,here.You can download BeOS 5 Personal Editionhere.
Just as Hollywood is looking back to the halcyon days of 70s and 80s horror films to provide new audiences with old concepts, through movies like House of a Thousand Corpses and the remake of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, games developers are also sifting through the past to find their inspiration.Last week's ECTS played host to two games in particular, Prince of Persia: Sands of Time and Robin Hood: Defender of the Crown that are both providing a new generation of gamers with two classic games which have been given 21st century technology twists.Back in 1989, the original Prince of Persia captivated gamers with its side-scrolling graphics depicting a young Prince battling his way through an evil Vizier's castle on the standard fantasy quest to rescue a fair maiden.What made the game particularly innovative at the time was the beautifully fluid and realistic movements of the Prince as he leapt and bounded his way through the game. These effects were achieved through innovative use of early motion capture technology - and the lead programmer Jordan Mechner's younger brother, whose acrobatic stunts turned him into the real world body-double for the Prince.There was a well-received sequel, followed by a third, rather disappointing, foray into 3D graphics. Many have argued, with hindsight, that when Prince of Persia 3D was released (in 1999), 3D graphics hadn't advanced enough for the game to make the impact that the original did.But now it's a different story, and the Prince is once again testing his flexibility in a very different world in Ubi Soft's upcoming Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time.Although the "Prince versus the evil Vizier" theme is back, the 3D environment allows you to run across and jump off walls, swing from flag poles, slide down curtains and manipulate the powerful sands of time to freeze, fast forward and rewind the action."The team went back to scratch," Mechner tells PC Zone magazine, "and asked what was so much fun about the original Prince of Persia? What was it like to play that game? So the idea behind Sands of Time was to bring back that fluid gameplay in a beautiful next-generation 3D world."The second game from ECTS, Robin Hood: Defender of the Crown is literally a world away from the Arabian setting of Prince of Persia and takes place amid the leafy canopies of Sherwood Forest. The original Defender of the Crown was developed by Cinemaware and released in 1986 on the Commodore Amiga.Its blend of strategic gameplay and medieval action, from jousting and swordfights to saving captured maidens, captivated audiences and the game sold over a million copies worldwide.Now Cinemaware have gone on to resurrect the spirit of the original game in Robin Hood: Defender of the Crown for the PlayStation 2, Xbox and PC.As with Prince of Persia, there's been a concerted effort with the new Defender game to try and recapture elements of what made the original game so appealing. The sword fights and jousting tournaments are still there, along with looting and castle sieges, but this time the action takes place in a full 3D world.Nostalgia maybe a wonderful thing, but it's no substitute for original ideas. Both Prince of Persia and Robin Hood: Defender of the Crown do come from illustrious pedigrees, but the original games were products of their time.They enthralled audiences with their innovations in gameplay as much as they delighted them with what we now see as very basic graphics.But, just as technology changes, so too do the tastes and make-up of the desired audience. Will 21st century gamers, an important portion of whom now include women, really want to rescue yet another damsel in distress, after more than 15 years of doing so? Will games like Enter the Matrix and Max Payne mean that we're no longer as impressed with flashy, acrobatic graphics?With production cycles lasting anywhere from a year to six years, finding the right game at the right time requires developers to understand not just who their audience are, but who they're going to be.Only time will tell just how well the developers of Prince of Persia: Sands of Time and Robin Hood: Defender of the Crown have read their future audience.Charts - full price softwareOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts(c) ELSPA - compiled by Chart-Track1) Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £39.992) Beyblade: Let it Rip! (PL) - £19.993) Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness (PS2, PC) Eidos Interactive £29.994) Pokemon Sapphire (GBA) Nintendo - £29.995) The Great Escape (PS2, Xbox) SCI - £39.996) Pokemon Ruby (GBA) Nintendo - £29.997) The Sims (PC, PS2, Xbox, GM) Electronic Arts - £32.998) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.999) The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.9910) Harry Potter: The Chamber of Secrets (GBA, PS2, PL, PC) - £17.99
"Japan, China and South Korea have agreed to cooperate in a project to boost research and development of software for operating systems other than industry leader Microsoft's Windows, a Japanese trade ministry official said Friday. The project, proposed by Japan's Trade Minister Takeo Hiranuma at a conference in Phnom Penh, Cambodia on Wednesday, is intended to bolster the popularity of Windows' rivals, such as Linux, and boost their share in such markets as digital cameras, mobile phones and car navigation systems," reportsAP.Comment: although this is most likely to benefit Linux, it will be interesting to see whether the project is also used to promote TRON (The Real-time Operating system Nucleus), which was launched by Professor Ken Sakamura in 1984. TRON -- available in numerous versions -- was part of the Japanese plan to take over the world, crushing American microprocessor manufacturers and software developers along the way. (AsThe Japan Lawletternoted at the time, foreigners were not welcome to join in.)This year, Japanese sources reckon that TRON is used in about half Japan's digital appliance products, such as phones, which would mean it already ships far more copies than Windows. According toTrends in Japan: "in terms of machine numbers, TRON is the most widely used OS in the world."
A low budget British movie from the Oscar-nominated writer of The Full Monty will today be the first in the world to be given a premiere on the internet.This Is Not A Love Song,  a gritty Deliverance-style film, was shot in less than a fortnight.The thriller will be streamed online today at 6pm, as well as simultaneously being shown in a handful of cinemas.It stars David Bradley - best known for his roles in Our Friends In The North and as Argus Filch in the Harry Potter films - and John Henshaw from BBC2's The Cops and Early Doors.Filmmakers will take note. One of the major downfalls of the UK film industry is the difficulty of getting distribution for the movies that are produced. It means often their only outlet is to go straight to video.But now British movie bosses are keen to see how much interest there is in watching movies on the internet as it could become a way of making them more widely screened.Paul Trijbits of the UK Film Council,  which funded the movie, said: "We are keen to use it as a test bed now the technology is there."The cat and mouse film sees two fugitives on the run from a group of vigilante farmers after an accidental killing on a remote farm. It was made for under £500,000.     Simon Beaufoy, who created The Full Monty, wrote the screenplay in a matter of days and it was shot at breakneck speed in 12 days.Director Bille Eltringham shot the film digitally rather than using film, a technique used on recent hit the apocalyptic 28 Days Later, which has become one of the UK's biggest hits in the US.Mr Trijbits said: "To give the public the opportunity to be part of this groundbreaking event is fantastic."Viewers logging will be able to witness a world first in web-based film viewing, whilst those who can get tickets to the cinema premiere will be watching the latest digital film technology in all its glory on the big screen."Most of all, it's a real rollercoaster thriller, reminiscent of Deliverance or Straw Dogs."Guardian Unlimited film editor Xan Brooks awarded This is Not a Love Song three out of five stars. Brooks described the film as a "bracing B-movie thriller with a dash of repressed male-on-male romance" that was "let down by its "over-egged direction".The film will be premiered atwww.thisisnotalovesong.comand will be streamed and available for download.It will be simultaneously screened at these cinemas: The Watershed, Bristol; The Cornerhouse, Manchester; The Showroom, Sheffield; The Other Cinema, London.
Have you heard the one about the generous donor who packed up a cargo planeload of food parcels containing soft cheese portions for Kosovar refugees during the 1999 NATO airstrikes?  "Camembert wasn't part of the refugees' normal diet," said a wry Mike Goodhand, head of logistics for the British Red Cross and the man on the ground in Albania who had to deal with the consignment. The food parcels blocked Tirana airport for several days, stinking to high heaven in the summer heat and delaying more useful donations such as blankets, rice and tents.Every aid organisation has similar tales to tell. Lorry loads of chocolate melting in the African sun while starving people need rice and beans; warehouses full of nothing but tomato puree.They are not tales of incompetence, Mr Goodhand said, but rather demonstrate the highly complex nature of getting the aid that is needed to the right place at the right time in the middle of a catastrophe. And with a record 256 million people affected by natural disasters alone last year, the business of logistics is one that aid agencies are keen to get right.That is where new web-based software developed by one the world's richest men comes in. Launched this week by the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, for the first time it will link everyone in the chain to a single, transparent system.The system was developed by Lynn Fritz, a San Francisco-based businessman who developed his family's truck delivery business into a multinational empire. When he sold the business in 1997 for $500m (£320m), it had offices in 120 countries and 11,000 employees.He has since devoted his energies and cash to bringing commercial expertise and solutions to humanitarian aid."Every year people in our offices were impacted by disasters," he said. "Not only were we unable to do business but more importantly we couldn't support our employees. We found repeatedly that we were not able to contact the humanitarian organisations and governments in time to be of assistance."And the reason for this? While aid agencies can raise money for food and blankets, it is much more difficult to get cash to pay for operational systems to deliver them efficiently.As Mr Fritz put it: "The operational side of humanitarian aid is very needful."It is also very complex. "The skeleton of requirements is the same in aid as in the commercial world, but the dynamics of humanitarian aid are extraordinarily different," he added.Aid agencies do, afterall, work in areas hit by floods, famine, war, earthquakes and the like where normal communications don't work."Commercial companies know what they are delivering and to whom. They have developed software packages that will track a lorry or design a delivery route," Mr Goodhand said. "But there is nothing in the commercial world that will cover a delivery route that goes from large cargo plane to small plane to the back of a donkey in Afghanistan."The web-based system now on trial at the International Red Cross Geneva headquarters was designed with this in mind. As Mr Fritz said: "It doesn't matter whether you're in Iraq or Liberia. All you need is a PC and a satellite phone."For Mr Goodhand the single most important benefit is that it will provide real time information in a single source. "This is going to be a real lifeline: for the first time we will have a transparent pipeline," he said."It will save us hours by providing a single information source that donors can look at to see what's needed, we can see what's been promised and what's in the pipeline and when it's arriving."It will also allow aid agencies to track what went where and report that back to their donors.It will take some time to roll out, first across regions and then to individual national Red Cross and Red Crescent societies. Eventually it could become a standard tool for all agencies."This was developed in consultation with the world's 20 biggest aid agencies and is being made available free," Mr Fritz said.But will it save lives? "We don't expect it to solve all our problems," Mr Goodhand said. "It's not going to stop people getting hungry or a hurricane from battering Hong Kong."But anything that allows us to save time and do things quicker and stop us having to sift through paperwork means we can spend more time distributing relief supplies to the people who need it."And on the cheese, he added: "The donor who sent it out would have been able to look at our needs - and see that Camembert was not one of them. If they'd sent it anyway we would have seen it coming and been able to send it back before it hit the tarmac."
If you need proof that the world economy is on the road to recovery,  you'll find it in Paris this week.Sony'sDream Worldexhibition is giving Europeans their first glimpse of its innovative new range of  mega-expensive high-end consumer electronics goodies.So far, four products have been unveiled, although as many as 17  are said to be in an advanced stage of development.The highlight is likely to be  one of the world's smallest digital cameras, the Qualia 016, a snip at around  £2,000. If that's not pricey enough for you, then Sony also has a Super Audio CD  player/surround sound system, the Qualia 007, which retails for around £10,000, or  a 36in LCD monitor Qualia 15 for £8,000.
Top of the range is a new  high-definition video projector, the Qualia 004, which will set die-hard home  cinephiles back around £14,000.While the products are not expected to ship in any great numbers, their  very existence underlines the fact that, after a year or two of stagnation, Sony  senses that the market for high-end consumer electronics is once again on the  move.It's not just Sony either. At theIFA showheld last week in Berlin,  Japanese company Denon, best known for producing excellent quality AV amps and  DVD players that retail for around the £1,000 mark, let fly with a new top-end  home entertainment system which will sell for £20,000 when it is launched in  the UK in April 2004.Even British companies are sensing that the golden goose has remembered  how to lay eggs, with Cambridgeshire-based high-end AV company Meridian Audio  offering its is its first new range in over a decade.Such optimism about the future was also prevalent at the rest of IFA, with  Korean companies LG and Samsung competing to offer the largest Plasma and LCD  screens (with huge price tags to match) while several big consumer electronics (CE) names unveiled hard  disk MP3 players - a market that they'd previously been happy to concede to Apple and its iPod player.While there's undoubtedly potential for a huge growth in sales of  consumer electronics products during the next few years, there are also thorny  issues to be dealt with.Microsoft is looming like a dark shadow over the industry. The company  has made forays into the CE world before, but none has been quite as realised as its  Windows XP Media Centre operating system, which is set to launch in Europe later  this year.Essentially, it grafts a second interface on to the existing XP  platform, offering users easy control over entertainment functions such as video and  audio via a remote handset. Each PC comes with an integrated TV tuner that works  in tandem with a free electronic programming guide to record programmes onto  the PC's hard disk. Connect one of these PCs to an LCD or plasma screen and  you might not need another consumer electronics device in your home.It's not just Microsoft. Having delivered what's being called the Walkman of the  21st century in the iPod, you can bet Apple is already sizing up  other consumer electronics markets. Then there are the start-ups, such as Sweden's  Broadband Box, which are customising PCs, giving them very attractive and easy to  use consumer electronics-style interfaces.There's another problem, which was alluded to by Philips  CEO Gerard Kleisterlee in his keynote speech at IFA. "There has been a step-change  in the pace of competition: the landscape has been fundamentally altered to the  point where true innovators investing heavily in R&amp;D &#91;research and development&#93; have less and less time  to enjoy the fruits of their labours before 'me too' producers catch up," he argued.To illustrate his point Kleisterlee mentioned the fact that DVD,  not CD, has been the fastest growing and most successful consumer electronics  product of the last 50 years. Yet already its days are numbered as  manufacturers experiment with both hard disk technology and other optical discs  that offer significantly more storage."Since 2001 the price (of DVD  players) has collapsed by a factor of ten," he added, "and in some  markets they are today given away free with other  products".There's clearly a new era dawning in consumer electronics. Thanks to  broadband internet connections and wireless systems, everything from the method  of delivery of content to the type of devices we have in our home is up for  grabs.Somebody is clearly set to make a lot of money from consumer electronics  in the next five years. Who it will be is anyone's guess.
Companies running websites that throw up barriers to disabled users could soon receive a startling reminder of their responsibilities - in the form of a lawsuit demanding they defend their designs in court.The requirement for companies to have accessible websites has been enshrined in UK law since 1995, as part of the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 (DDA). But the law has received little attention - until now, as a number of individuals prepare to launch legal action against websites that they claim flout the law.The act is wide ranging, but Part III specifically deals with "discrimination in relation to goods, facilities and services". The reference to "goods and services" was sufficiently vague that few companies realised it included their websites. But, claim campaigners, if your organisation has a website available to the public, then you are providing a service, and must ensure your site is fully accessible to people with disabilities."We've got a big job on our hands in raising awareness," says Julie Howell, digital development officer at the Royal National Institute of the Blind. "The public sector is aware, but less so the private sector. Part of the problem is there's no case law."The UK legal system works on the basis of precedent. A new law will often have little impact until there have been some successful prosecutions - a classic legal Catch-22.,Thus, the RNIB is backing legal action against a set of companies which, so far, have not been named.The action is not without precedent. Howell points to a successful   prosecution in Australia, which has a very similar act, three years ago.Bruce Maguire, who is blind, took the Sydney Organising Committee for the Olympic Games to court on a number of charges, including failure to provide a website that was accessible and that he could explore with his sighted children. Maguire won and was awarded A$20,000 in damages.The RNIB is hoping for a similar result. The UK act states that a successful prosecution "may include compensation for injury to feelings". This means that any organisation with a website could be liable for damages if its site doesn't properly cater to people with disabilities.There will be those who argue that this is another example of political correctness gone mad. After all, how can a visual medium be made acces sible to a blind person? In fact, there are many things you can do to make your site more accessible for people with a wide range of disabilities.One weakness of the UK legislation is that it is vague, merely suggesting that companies make "reasonable efforts" to improve their services. It's hard to translate that into practical advice for web designers, but there are two important sets of guidelines.In the US, there is a law known as Section 508, which is accompanied by detailed technical guidelines for accessible web design. However, European governments tend to frame their legislation around the web accessibility initiative developed by the World Wide Web Consortium, which sets technical standards for the web.The two have much in common. They both discuss the use of specific   HTML commands such as Alt Text, which is used to provide alternate text that describes the content of elements such as graphics or video clips. A visually impaired user can then use a special piece of speech software known as a screen reader, which will read out the Alt Text and describe the contents of the image.Both sets of guidelines are complicated, but some shortcuts provide a relatively painless introduction to accessible web design. The RNIB provides advice on itswebsite, as does theDisability Rights Commission. The RNIB also provides a consultancy service for companies that want to reassess their web sites.Some web design programs have accessibility features built in. Macromedia's DreamWeaver program can    automatically check your web pages to see if they comply with the guidelines, and there's a piece of software calledLift, which performs a similar function and will work in conjunction with most web design programs.The RNIB also recommends a free, online accessibility test calledBobbywhich offers a check on any web page simply by typing in its URL. Usablenet runs a similar free testing service.But many web designers - and marketing departments - fear that having to follow accessibility guidelines will restrict creativity, forcing them to produce sites that look dull."The answer to that is a big 'no'," argues Margaret Manning, chief executive of Reading Room, a design agency specialising in accessibility. Manning believes many companies make the mistake of treating their site like a TV ad, concentrating on visual impact rather than usefulness."Many people design sites that look good if you hang them on a wall," she says, "but they're no good if you want to buy things online". The difference between a website and an advert is that your site has to be interactive. People can't buy things if they can't find them, or if there's no Alt Text to list the price.That's the bottom line, of course. A website may look good, but it is useless unless it helps your organisation sell its products or services. As Manning says: "The accessibility guidelines address the most important issue, which is that the site is useful."
Normally we say Online'sonlineon a Thursday, but at the time of writing it's... er... not.(1630 update:the site's back up). Our colleagues over at Guardian Unlimited are having a bit of a nightmare, it seems, with tech difficulties bringing the entire network down (except our little free republic here, which is hosted externally). No, I don't know what's caused it, yet. So you'll all just have to do the old-fashioned thing, and pop out to a newsagent to buy a Guardian. Inside Online today: Jim McClellan on the online supermarket battle, lots of stuff from the ECTS games show, and the interesting news that if your website isn't viewable to disabled users, you might get sued. Which, before anyone else says it, is probably rather bad news for Onlineblog...
"A rogue Web meister was arrested Wednesday for using misspelled domain names to send children and teens to graphic porn sites, making him the first charged in such a case under the federal 'Amber Alert' law, federal prosecutors said."According to a federal complaint, Zuccarini lured young computer users to pornographic Web sites by misspelling Web addresses of pages that appealed to children and teens, including pages for the Teletubbies, Britney Spears and Harry Potter."New York Newsdayhas the story
"The Coalition on Online Identity Fraud was launched Tuesday by the Information Technology Association of America (ITAA) IT industry trade group, which will act as the coalition's secretariat," reportsIDG News. "The founding members of the coalition are Microsoft, eBay, Amazon.com and the ITAA, plus the Business Software Alliance, Cyveillance Inc., McAfee Security, RSA Security Inc. TechNet Inc., Verisign Inc. Visa U.S.A. Inc., WholeSecurity Inc. and Zone Labs Inc.""Identity fraud is a bigger problem than generally acknowledged, with an estimated 10 million Americans becoming victims in the last year, according to a new Federal Trade Commission survey," according toCNet. "But identity fraudsters appear to be traditionalists. The survey, released Wednesday, found that only a small percentage of identity fraud appeared to involve personal information gleaned from the Internet."
You might be forgiven for thinking that technology and government do not go together. The history of government IT projects is, after all, one of failure. Remember the passport crisis, when desperate holidaymakers queued on the street as a new IT system failed to take the strain?Only around one in 10 citizens is actively using an e-government service despite the millions being spent to get all services online by 2005. However, technology is beginning to have profound and beneficial effects across the fields of education, transport and health. There is some good news, as well as plenty of bad.First, the problems. The government still suffers skill shortages and has a bad track record in IT project management. More fundamentally, however, it suffers weaknesses in policy leadership. The office of the e-envoy has failed both to exert influence across Whitehall and to demonstrate sufficient public value added through the application of digital technology. It has also been focused too much on online service delivery and not enough on the wider aim of demonstrating positive impact on service experiences and outcomes through   subtle and innovative uses of technology. The expected departure of Andrew Pinder next year will provide an opportunity for a much-needed rethink of the role of the office.Second, the relationship between the public sector and the IT industry is also in serious trouble, and there are signs that some of the lessons from failures have not been learned. On the one hand, the national programme for IT in the NHS (NPfIT), a &#163;2.3bn procurement designed to provide more effective, efficient and seamless services, is being widely criticised for not doing enough to win the hearts and minds of the frontline health workers who will need to embrace the system.On the other hand, the government's framework for relations with IT companies appears to be in a state of confusion. The Treasury recently announced the end of PFI for IT projects, blaming earlier failures. Across town at the office of the e-envoy, however, a consultation on the role of the private and voluntary sector in the delivery of electronic public services has just finished and IT industry bodies are busy consulting stakeholders on what they can do to change the nature of the current relationship with government.Never the less, against this less-than-promising background, there have been notable public sector successes in the use of technology.In education, research conducted by the British Educational Communications and Technology Agency (Becta) has shown a statistically significant relationship between pupil ICT use and educational attainment. In a study of more than 50 schools, in all but one case, Becta found evidence of a positive relationship between ICT use and achievement. In no cases was there any advantage to groups with lower ICT use. Moreover, ICT use actually appeared to speed up the learning process and led to better-than-expected attainment for many pupils, a point of huge potential significance in terms of human capital and workforce skill development.More recently, an evaluation of Learndirect, the online learning resource, by the Institute for Employment Studies, has shown that people from disadvantaged groups are being attracted back into education.Transport is not often talked about as an e-government success, but the London congestion charge scheme has shown what digital technology can do to produce new solutions to old policy problems. According to figures from Transport for London, the scheme has had a significant positive effect on congestion levels. This scheme could not have worked without digitally networked technology, which captures the number plates of vehicles entering the zone and makes payment easy. And the majority of payments are now made via the internet, SMS text messaging or via call   centres. A much wider technology and transport agenda now awaits exploration on issues such as substitutes for travel (video-conferencing and home working), and satellite tracking of vehicles for traffic management.And data from the Department for Health's digital interactive television pilots shows that more than 60% of users of the information and transactional services available through this channel believe there has been a beneficial impact on their health. They report better information on what steps to take to improve their condition and help in being better prepared for encounters with health professionals. The channels are becoming a tool of empowerment.In short, despite the problems, technology is helping the public sector to deliver things that really matter. Educational standards are rising and educational opportunity is being extended. Patients are being empowered in their dealings with health professionals. And movement around congested cities is becoming easier.Success, of course, brings its own problems, and chief among them is the continued failure to bridge the digital divide, the gap between those who do and do not have access to new technology and the internet. Often conceived of as a technology divide, this is now emerging as a real social justice issue when the evidence that educational outcomes and levels of citizen empowerment are being influenced by access to technology is set against the backdrop of continued failure to get the most excluded groups in society online.But that said, it is still time to get beyond the gloom on the public sector use of IT. A persuasive defence of the public services will not be possible in the 21st century without better public sector use of technology. While we need to focus on overcoming the problems, we also need to spell out aggressively what technology can and often does deliver. Too much ground has been ceded to the sceptics. Digital government is working.&#183;Dr Ian Kearns is associate director at the Institute for Public Policy Research
One early sign of a government IT project destined to go belly-up is when companies decline to bid for the work. Richard Granger, the NHS's IT generalissimo, knows this better than anyone, which is why he has spent the past year creating a global competition for contracts under his &#163;2.3bn modernisation project.Granger is particularly anxious to avoid allowing single bidders to emerge for any of the deals. Apart from being a warning sign, a "preferred bidder" has the taxpayer over a barrel in final contract negotiations. "That's when the salesmen start to explain what you're not going to get," Granger told a conference earlier this year. His solution: "Competition right through to financial close."Worryingly, the most important project in Granger's portfolio is now only an executive stomach-ulcer away from single-bidder status. This follows the decision by Lockheed Martin, one of three companies shortlisted for the contract to create the "spine" of a national electronic health-records system, to withdraw from the bidding. That leaves BT and IBM to fight it out for a contract to be awarded by the end of next month.Lockheed Martin's withdrawal is significant. Although best known as a US defence contractor, it is no cowboy outfit. The company, which boasts it employs more software engineers than Microsoft, is a major supplier of large government IT systems. Its team for the NHS bid included iSoft, the dominant incumbent supplier of NHS hospital systems.Lockheed won't go into details about why it withdrew, citing the gagging clause it signed to enter the procurement. (The clause even tried to prevent companies revealing when they are no longer in the running.) However, the main obstacle is understood to be the hefty penalty payments, running into hundreds of millions of pounds, that suppliers face in the event of failing to deliver the new systems.With Lockheed gone, the NHS procurement team will be coming under pressure from BT and IBM to soften these penalty clauses, under the threat of also walking away.They have a powerful card in their hands: although both companies want the business, the NHS is not the only government business on offer. Lockheed Martin   is already chasing a far bigger fish, a multibillion-pound contract to create a "defence information infrastructure", to be awarded in 2005. BT and IBM are members of other consortia in the running. Other government bodies dangling contracts in front of companies on the NHS shortlist are the Inland Revenue and the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, which will announce the winners of contracts worth &#163;4bn and &#163;850m respectively.Granger should, nevertheless, call the industry's bluff. The NHS IT programme isn't a relief scheme for the IT industry but part of a major modernisation of the NHS. If major IT multinationals are squealing at being forced to guarantee that their product does what it says on the tin, then the project must be doing something right.
Star Wars: Knights of the Old RepublicXbox, &#163;39.99 LucasArts/Activision,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Set 4,000 years before the events in the films, this is an RPG (role-playing game) of the finest pedigree. Both in plot and characterisation, there is nothing to touch this on any console.Starting with a single character, the game lets you build up a team that can take on the evil Sith. Using the time-honoured function of "levelling up" - done by killing baddies and solving puzzles - players can customise their characters to a ridiculous degree. Want to boost those persuasion powers, while upgrading droid repair skills? No problem, but these aren't your only choices. Everything you do has an impact on your Force rating. For example, what do you do if you see a defenceless alien getting attacked? Do you help out, or move on? The decisions you make really affect your character. Merciless killing and antagonising the locals mean you'll veer towards the dark side. This affects your appearance and the powers you learn, and means that playing the game again as a "good" Jedi is a viable and worthwhile endeavour.The downsides? The graphics are slightly disappointing, especially the recurring character models, and the AI of your teammates can be erratic as they block your path to combat. Also, the slow start and measured pace means fans of a quick blast will be disappointed. But you get out what you put in, and Kotor is the game of the year so far.Greg HowsonRepublic: The RevolutionPC, &#163;29.99 Elixir/Eidos,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;It's not often a studio's first game bags every PC magazine cover two years before release, but that's what happened to Demis Hassabis and his Elixir team. At one stage, Republic was being touted as the future of strategy gaming. Much delayed and dogged by rumour, what finally appears is flawed and inspired in equal measure.The idea is to extend your political control over the Republic of Novistrana. You do this by recruiting political followers and thugs, etc, securing key locations and buildings and slowly rising to a position where you can topple the game's other political factions. You have two perspectives to play from - a top-down city map and a close-in 3D view for direct interaction.One of the biggest problems with Republic is its vertical learning curve. You can wander around for hours at the start, not helped by a useless tutorial, a manual seemingly written by drones and an interface too cluttered to be fun. Despite such flaws, once you get the hang of things, a deep and subtle game emerges, with an impressive line in enemy AI. Yes, the 3D engine is unnecessary and often sub-standard, but it is a sign of how ambitious the design once was and the sequel might one day become.Elixir has proved itself to be a developer to watch. Republic is not the game we were hoping for, but in   view of other famously overdue titles, it's a lot better than we might have expected.Mike AnderieszThe Italian Job: LA HeistPlayStation 2, Xbox, GameCube, &#163;39.99 Climax/Eidos,&#42;&#42;&#42;Could there be a less promising basis for a game than a remake of a beloved, iconic, 1960s British film? Bearing that in mind, the developers have made the best of a potentially bad job.Echoes of Metropolis Street Racer can be detected, as you pilot a variety of vehicles (but primarily new Minis, as manufactured by BMW) through an agreeably large number of missions, stitched together by a narrative thread which, we imagine, follows the plot of the new film quite closely. You are graded at the end of each mission, and can win extra points for pulling off skids and driving over items such as traffic cones, cardboard boxes and tables and chairs. Points are docked, though, for collisions with other vehicles. A one or two-player street racing mode adds another dimension, in addition to a curious Stunt Driving mode, which rewards precision rather than speed.This game has been immaculately executed and impresses with its slickness. But it is also vacuous and derivative. A typical Hollywood remake, in other words - even though it was constructed this side of the Atlantic.Steve Boxer
Half-Life 2Valve, VU Games PC, Xbox. Out this monthHalf-Life 2 has to be one of the most anticipated games of the year. With an amazing graphics engine that allows realistic graphics both in the facial animation of the characters and the real-world style physics, it also looks like being one of the most spectacular. Five years ago, the original Half-Life changed the face of first person shooters, and the sequel looks set to do the same, so get ready to buy yourself a slice of gaming history.XIIIUbi Soft PS2, Xbox, GC and PC. Out next monthFollowing in the footsteps of Jet Set   Radio and, later, The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker, XIII uses cel-shading technology to create comic-style graphics for a distinctly unusual looking first-person shooter. Based on the French comic series, the game starts with you waking up on a desolate beach with amnesia, a bank box key and the number XIII tattooed on your chest, and soon you're up to your eyes in political intrigue. XIII unsurprisingly bagged both best overall game and best console game at ECTS.Final Fantasy: Crystal ChroniclesSquare Enix GC. Out in 2004The Final Fantasy series makes a welcome return to a Nintendo console with Final Fantasy: Crystal Chronicles for the GameCube. The game opts for a similar style of real-time combat as Kingdom Hearts, instead of using the traditional Final Fantasy turn-based system. The ability to link your GBA to Crystal Chronicles and use it to play the game multiplayer with up to three mates looks like being one of the biggest selling points of the game, along with Square Enix's illustrious pedigree.Judge Dredd: Dredd Vs. DeathRebellion, VU Games PS2, GC, Xbox and PC, SeptemberIt's not the first time that the star of the 2000AD comic book world has taken his particular brand of futuristic law enforcement into a game, but this is definitely his finest hour. With an impressive engine that renders Mega-City 1 in all its gritty glory and a host of perps and other nasties to hunt down (courtesy of the Dark Judges) it's a game you shouldn't be avoiding this Christmas, because Dredd is and always will be... the law!Billy Hatcher and the Giant EggSonic Team, Sega GC, NovemberIt's as surreal as it sounds. But when it comes to video games, surreal is rarely a bad thing, especially when destined for the GameCube. The titular character of this adventure, Billy must save the kingdom from the grip of a tyrannical ruler, by harnessing the power of his giant chicken suit and his unusual way with eggs. Expect high quality platform fun from the team that let Sonic the Hedgehog loose on the world.
Cunningly, CMP, the organiser of last week's European Computer Trade Show (ECTS) sought to disguise the shortcomings of the show by wrapping it in an artificial construct called London Games Week, which included the Game Developers Conference Europe, the Develop Industry Excellence Awards and The PlayStation Experience.Its ploy did not entirely succeed, with a disappointing list of exhibitors propped up, unwittingly, by Sony. Those who wished to exhibit at the publicly accessible PlayStation Experience were required to have some presence at ECTS next door.That gave up-and-coming publishers a chance to shine, and again Vivendi Universal Games generated enormous queues by showing a rolling demo of the wondrous Half-Life 2. Vivendi and Valve, the Half-Life 2 developer, are still maintaining that the game will be ready for a September 30 launch. Given the game's ambition, that seems far-fetched. Sadly, it looks as though we will have to wait until Christmasnext year for the Xbox version.Ubi Soft impressed with a stunning line-up of games due to arrive this Christmas. Its innovative cel-shaded first-person shoot-'em-up XIII scooped best console game in the ECTS awards, its gorgeous-looking PC first-person shooter Far Cry won best PC game, and its feverishly anticipated massively multiplayer online game Everquest II won the gong for best online game.With its 3D remake of the classic action-platform effort Prince Of   Persia also due this Christmas, Ubi Soft looks to be making progress towards its aim of becoming number two games publisher after Electronic Arts. The current number two, Activision, stayed away from the show.Elsewhere, Konami revved up for an almighty battle with EA Sports for supremacy in the football game sector. Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer 3 looks to have the upper hand over EA Sports' Fifa Football 2004 in terms of gameplay, although the latter appears to be the most credible Fifa Football game for four years. Konami also provided the most illustrious show visitor, in the form of Hideo Kojima, creator of the Metal Gear Solid games. Kojima, an anglophile, brought his young son over, as well as a new video trailer for Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater.In the hectic PlayStation Experience - populated by hordes of pre-teens - Sony had some interesting offerings on show for the first time. Sing (under development at the Team Soho studio responsible for the Eye Toy) is a karaoke game with a twist: it monitors your vocal performance for tunefulness and rhythmic accuracy, and players will not be able to progress through the game if they are tone deaf. Sony also showed Eye Toy: Groove - a dancing game that uses the Eye Toy's motion-tracking capabilities. Both games will be on sale this Christmas.It was clear that the days when the likes of Eidos, Electronic Arts and the now-defunct Virgin competed to field the largest and most lavish stand are long gone. The industry needs ECTS - if only to provide a one-stop shop for wheeling and deal-making.The organisers of the show must surely be feeling indebted to Nokia. The Finnish mobile phone giant was not only one of the few attendees there by choice, but it also had some significant news. Nokia has extracted a commitment from Electronic Arts, the biggest games publisher, to develop games for its N-Gage phone, which is due to reach shops on October 7. It will retail for around &#163;220.Sadly, neither EA nor Nokia specified which EA games would come to the N-Gage, but they did say that the first fruits of the deal would be on sale before the end of the year, and broadly hinted that Fifa Football would be one of the first EA games for the handheld console.Nokia emphasised the gaming possibilities offered by the N-Gage's   Bluetooth wireless networking and GPRS high-bandwidth communications. It showed a version of Ubi Soft's Splinter Cell for the first time, featuring two-player cooperative gameplay - a first for Splinter Cell which, despite its popularity, has hitherto been single-player only. At the E3 show in May, Nokia also demonstrated a downloadable level for Tomb Raider (another steadfastly single-player game), which will allow N-Gage owners to compete against ghost images of each other.Such trickery (not to mention the ability to process 3D graphics, seen to best effect in the N-Gage's versions of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater and Tomb Raider) is well beyond the capabilities of the N-Gage's obvious rival, the Game Boy Advance SP. But Nokia must be anxious about the imminent arrival of another competitor, Sony's PlayStation Portable (PSP).The PSP remains under wraps. But perhaps Nokia need not worry unduly. Despite the assertion by Sony that the PSP - which will run DVD-quality movies as well as games - will have a price "comparable" to that of the &#163;89.99 Game Boy Advance SP, it is not launching until "late 2004". Although it will be able to interface with mobile phones through a USB 2.0 port, it will have no built-in mobile phone functionality.It could also alienate the developer community. One British developer said that, because developing PSP games will require as much financial commitment as developing PlayStation 2 games, his company would never be able to afford to create original games for the PSP.And the winners are...The games industry, which loves a good round of back-slapping, is awash with awards ceremonies. But the first Develop Industry Excellence Awards ceremony, which took place on August 27 and was affiliated with the Game Developers Conference Europe (running concurrently with ECTS), proved a more than worthy addition to an often unworthy canon.Organised by Develop, the monthly magazine for developers, it was the first awards ceremony to honour a sector of the games industry in which British companies lead the way.The star of the show was Climax, currently working on the hotly antici pated Sudeki, MotoGP 2 and Warhammer Online, which scooped the technology and discretionary grand prix awards. Rockstar North, the Scottish outfit responsible for GTA: Vice City, won the best in-house development studio and creativity awards, while Pivotal Games, of Conflict: Desert Storm and The Great Escape fame, won the coveted and hotly contested best new studio award.Criterion, whose RenderWare package underpinned GTA Vice city, won best tools provider, while Digital Illusions took away the best online development studio award and received a gong for best new intellec tual property, earned by its stunning Battlefield 1942, developed for the mighty Electronic Arts. Meanwhile, Activision, EA's biggest rival, won the publishing hero award.Although these remain testing times for British developers - many of whom cite a lack of adventurousness among publishers - the Develop Industry Excellence Awards seemed to foster an air of optimism. Long may it continue.
Off GoogleI registered my URL weeks ago with a well-known website (rhymes with frugal), but when I enter keywords from my site, it does not seem to know what I'm talking about. How do I tell the world my website exists?Clive NashJack Schofield replies:Google uses a page ranking system. A site has merit, in Google's eyes, if lots of other important sites link to it. This matches the reality that people with good websites often provide links to other websites that they think are good. If no other websites point to yours, then it is going to get a bad page rank score and rapidly slip down and perhaps off the list, no matter how many times you register your address.You can find out which sites link to yours by searching Google with the link: command (eg  link: www.guardian.co.uk). You can get high-ranking links by having your site listed in some of the directories put together by humans, such asYahooand theOpen Directory.You can also exchange links with other relevant sites that are better connected than yours, or pay someone to publish your link. However, Google penalises sites that use "link farming" - masses of pages that are nothing but links to unrelated sites - and has reportedly removed sites that try to beat the system in this way. Google provides lots of information on these topics in itswebmasters section). There's also a good short article atwww.webhosting-warehouse.comNo updateWhen I try to access the Microsoft Windows Update site, I am unable to do so - an error message appears (0x800A138F).Joseph CreavenJS:The recent SoBig.F worm was scheduled to mount a "denial of service" attack by flooding the Windows Update site with unwanted traffic. Microsoft responded by changing the address and hiring one of its media streaming partners, Akamai, to use its global network to cache the traffic. (Akamai's machines run Linux, which has led to some false reports that Windows Update is "running on" Linux. It isn't.)There are caches all over the net, and in theory it should not have made any difference to users, but lots of people seem to have received the same error message. There is no single, reliable solution. However, Marc Liron has put together a collection of approaches that are worth trying, and a very useful table of the error codes that can help you find the real problem. Seewww.updatexp.com.The topic is also being discussed in the Microsoft support newsgroup Microsoft.public.windowsupdate, which you can read by selecting Google Groups and searching for the name.WhitelistI can block known email addresses, but is there a way to configure Outlook Express 6 to delete all emails except a listed few?Ronald PressJS:Outlook Express and many other popular mail clients don't have an easy way to create what you want: a "whitelist" of addresses. There are, however, add-on programs that seem to do the job, such asEmail Express,Spam Pal,Spam WeedandChoiceMail One. I have not used any of these. Several web-based mail services also offer whitelists. Generally, I find it's enough to runMailwasherbefore downloading email. This does involve an extra step, but means you can delete mail from the server, so it never reaches your inbox.Firewalls foreverI have a free Sygate Personal Firewall installed on my home PC, and can see no mechanism for updating it to guard against the latest viruses etc. Is it a once-for-all impermeable firewall or does it automatically update?(The Rev) Julian DunnJS:A firewall does not know anything about viruses: it simply checks and blocks network traffic entering and leaving your PC, so in theory it should work forever. It is up to you to investigate the programs that are generating that network traffic and either allow it or block it. If the traffic is coming from a virus or Trojan horse, you have to use an anti-virus program to remove it, or do it manually: the firewall will not do it for you. However, it is a good idea to check for updates to your firewall software. Updates and new versions are released to fix bugs, remove any security problems and add new features.Backchat&#183;Last week, Colin Barker asked about improving Windows XP's search facilities. Wisely he also asked on the web, at theWindows Annoyances site, where he "was supplied with two solutions, both of which were free and worked well, within a few hours". He is now using theAgent Ransackprogram recommended there by John Liebson, which "seems able to find anything".
Although it is fashionable to knock the PC market, PCs continue to sell at a prodigious rate. On average, more than four PCs are shipped every second. At the moment, the run rate is around 400,000 per day, or 140m units a year. Gartner Dataquest predicts this will grow to 176m in 2006.Obviously this provides rich pickings for multinational giants such as Dell and Hewlett-Packard. But the market is big enough to sustain thousands of smaller PC manufacturers, and growing numbers are catering for people who want something more specialised.The obvious way to do this is to focus on a particular type of product. Toshiba, for example, sold office and home computers before launching its first portable, but   achieved its overwhelming success with notebook PCs. More recently, Rackable Systems has become well known for rack-mounted servers.An alternative is to focus on a particular industry, such as education. Research Machines was one of the first examples in the PC market, having built a business supplying 8-bit computers to schools before the IBM PC arrived in the UK. This becomes attractive if you sell systems rather than boxes: a combination of desktops and servers, specialist software, networking and internet services, all backed up with the experience that only comes from installing many similar systems in similar situations.Many companies are targeting the market for digital content creation, the key areas being video (non-linear film editing, rendering and post-production) and sound   recording. For example, Boxx Technologies sells 3D Boxx and CineBoxx workstations with dual 64-bit AMD Opteron or 32-bit Intel Xeon processors, which can work with rack-mounted RenderBoxxes. Boxx offers many options - such as Wildcat graphics cards, for up to $2,854 extra - that appeal to people creating animated movies and HDTV programmes, though most PC manufacturers have never heard of them.Similarly, the sound market is catered for by companies such as Carillion Audio Systems, Inta Audio and Red Submarine. Carillon makes ultra low-noise systems and has specialist packages for recording guitarists and for "urban" musicians (beats and sampling). Red Submarine produces systems for home and professional recording studios, and also sells systems for video editing. Inta Audio offers,   among its many bundles, a pop production centre, which includes decent speakers and headphones, a studio mic and stand, and a Behringer UB802 mixer. Just add your own Simon Fuller...If you are, say, ex-Byrd Roger McGuinn, you can put together your own recording studio using a standard Dell laptop, but buying a pre-configured package can save a lot of time.Finally, there's a fast-growing market for souped-up PCs among people who want very high performance at a reasonable price: gamers. This business was pioneered in the US by firms such as Alienware, but it is now being targeted by the likes of Dell, with its new Dimension XPS. Gaming PCs are over-specified for general business use, but if you need a "hot box", you know where to look.LinksBOXXwww.boxxtech.comCarillonwww.carillondirect.comRoger McGuinn's Dellwww.ibiblio.org/jimmy/folkden/mcguinn.wmvInta Audiowww.inta-audio.co.ukRed Submarinewww.sub.co.ukAlienwarewww.alienware.co.uk
I hate passwords, and you should, too. They give a veneer of security without actually delivering any. No one should be allowed to call passwords "security" any more. When office workers at London's Waterloo station were asked a series of questions, which included "What is your password?", the full hopelessness of the password was revealed. Three in four immediately gave their password and of those, 12% said their password was "password". Two-thirds said they had given their password to a colleague and three-quarters knew their co-workers' passwords.Fraudsters may have devised some fiendishly complicated methods to get hold of passwords from people - so-called "social engineering" - but you have to   wonder why they bother. As the survey noted above indicates, if you want to know someone's password, then by far the easiest way to get it is to just ask them. Hence, the scamps who send out tens of millions of spam emails, purporting to come from Bank America or eBay etc, because they know that (by statistical chance) that some people will be fooled.The emails contain all the right graphics and links to look convincing and say something like: "This is Citibank's security system, we're just checking, can you type in your username and password so that we can be sure that you're protected," and so on.One of the PayPal frauds running recently (the "paypal.un-fraud.com" fraud) directed people unwise enough to click on the link in such a spam email to a "Personal Account Identity Verification" page that asked for their name, address, birth date, credit card numbers, social-security number, mother's maiden name, checking account numbers and ATM codes. Enough people click on the links and type in their names and passwords to make the whole thing worthwhile.The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has just brought its first case of this type of scheme against a Californian teenager who sent emails to people claiming there was a billing problem with their AOL account. They asked people to update their information (by, of course, entering their passwords, credit card numbers, bank account details, social security number and so forth) at his fake AOL billing site.He used the details to make more than $8,000 in online purchases.   It is also easy to defeat password "security" using simple software tools. For more than a year, PC users at 14 Kinko's stores in New York were having their every keystroke recorded by one Juju Jiang, who had installed secret logging software on the machines. He captured more than 450 user names, passwords and other details, which he then used to access online bank accounts. A similar fraud was uncovered in South Africa.Since, as with all of these kinds of criminal behaviour, we only get to know about the minority of cases that are uncovered (and banks are notoriously reluctant to give out details of frauds), it seems reasonable to assume that the days of the password are numbered - or at least lettered and numbered.
For what it's worthHave you ever gazed at the lists of the world's richest people and wondered what it would be like to have that sort of cash? Or even wondered where you would come on such a list? Well now you can find out.Launched on Monday, Globalrichlist.com is a new site, where all you do is input your annual wage and it shows you, in percentage terms, where you stand globally. The calculations, based on figures from the World Bank Development Research Group, are pretty astounding. According to the data, an average wage in the UK (&#163;24,000) would put you just outside the top 1% of the world's earners.The site reads: "We wanted to do something which would help people understand, in real terms, where they stand globally. And make us realise that in fact most of us (who are able to view this web page) are in the privileged minority."www.globalrichlist.comBaghdad bloggerFollowing in the steps of Salam Pax, Baghdad Burning is a weblog written by a fellow Iraqi who has an equally good command of English. Like Salam Pax, who writes a fortnightly column for the Guardian, the author writes under a pseudonym. Her daily blog tells of a life of petrol queues, chronic inflation and why most Iraqis still sleep in their clothes. As she says about life in the Iraqi capital: "Being out in the streets is like being caught in a tornado. You have to be alert and ready for anything every moment." Compelling stuff.http://riverbendblog.blogspot.comhttp://dearraed.blogspot.comStar manNext week, David Bowie takes to the stage again, but you've little chance of getting tickets for his "invitation only" show in London. No fear,   the concert, to promote his new album, Reality, will be screened simultaneously in cinemas throughout the world. What's more, hardcore fans can post questions to his website for him to answer before the concert.www.davidbowie.com/livefromLondonHow much?Did you know that the world produces between 1 and 2 exabytes (a billion gigabytes, or 10-to-the-power-of-18 bytes) of unique information per year? That's roughly 250MB for every man, woman, and child on earth. Researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, are attempting to measure how much information is produced each year, and they think printed documents comprise a minuscule 0.03% of the total. Magnetic storage is by far the largest medium for storing information, and the fastest growing, with the amount of hard drive capacity doubling every year.www.sims.berkeley.edu/research/projects/how-much-infoSOSThe director of the Edinburgh international book festival, Catharine Lockerbie, says "there are few more perfect pleasures than that of the well-turned short story". The trouble is we are not reading them as often as she would like. Step forward Saveourshortstory.org.uk, a website aimed at increasing "the number and visibility of high quality outlets for short fiction". It seems the literary journals and anthologies that supported the likes of Anton Chekhov, Arthur Conan Doyle and Flannery O'Connor have become an endangered species.The site, supported by the Arts Council, aims to reverse the trend by providing a platform for new and established writers.  You can also sign up to have short stories emailed to you from an online anthology that includes the likes of Denise Mina, Ian Rankin, Michel Faber, Ali Smith, Toby Litt, Helen Dunmore and Stella Duffy.www.saveourshortstory.org.ukVirtual serviceLast Sunday, St Philip and St James's church in Bath staged the UK's first virtual church service. Replacing the pew with the PC, worshippers with a broadband connection were able to watch the service in the comfort of their homes. More than 500 people watched the service online, and emails from as far as Uganda, Japan and Australia arrived within minutes of the service finishing. The service was just a pilot, but the site says that, if successful, the church might even consider "virtual weddings and broadband blessings" in the future. A case of holy ghost in the machine?www.broadbandreligion.co.ukwww.stphilipstjames.orgBar code artwww.barcodeart.comTowel amnesty daywww.priorityclubpromotion.com/hi/towelsKeep up with the blogswww.bloglines.comSix of the bestEco-travelResponsible travelwww.ecotourism.orgIndependent viewswww.c-e-r-t.orgOnline magazinewww.ecotravel.comOrganised tourswww.ecotour.orgAward winnerwww.tribes.co.ukSpecial reporthttp://travel.guardian.co.uk/ecotourism
Home entertainmentCD wirefreeNafNaf Electronique, the high-tech wing of the French fashion house, has announced a personal CD player that uses Bluetooth technology for wire-free audio playback. The device plays back both standard audio CDs and MP3-encoded CDs, transmitting audio signals to a Bluetooth headset. With a   10-metre radius, it's possible to listen to music even if the player is in your bag. Controls are integrated into the unit's headphones, while the rechargeable battery gives around four hours of playback. NafNaf Electronique hopes to launch the product in the UK before Christmas with the price around 20% more than high-end personal models.www.nafnaf.frIn controlNo more juggling handsets! At least that's the theory. At IFA, Philips demonstrated a new application that enables users to control wireless household products - including those boasting 802.11, infra-red and Zigbee technologies - via a Bluetooth-enabled mobile phone. A "connectivity mediator" device   automatically detects when a mobile phone is in its vicinity and sends an appropriate control menu to the handset.Commands are transmitted to the mediator via Bluetooth and then converted into the appropriate technology (for example Wi-Fi or infrared) to control the household device.www.philips.co.ukSamsung says YeppFollowing the likes of Apple, Philips, Rio and Creative Labs, Samsung has announced its entry into the portable audio jukebox market. Due in October, the YP-900 features a 20GB hard disk on a 1.8in Toshiba HDD (just like Apple's iPod), rechargeable batteries with a lifespan of around 10 hours, and PC connections via a USB2.0 socket. Capable of playing both MP3 and WMA format files, the Yepp also features an FM tuner for analogue radio. It will cost &#163;300 - the same as the 15GB Apple and Philips devices.www.samsung.comHardwareFortress PCMany PC buyers are naive when it comes to security, but most should have heard enough horror stories to be worried about it. Packard Bell hopes to attract them with its new Ixtreme Fortress PC, which comes bundled with several security programs and PC Clinic services from the Dixons-owned PC World chain. The software includes Norton Internet Security 2003, PC Health Tutorial, EasyCrypto and EverSafe software as standard. This saves users the effort of downloading free anti-virus and fire wall software such as AVG and Zone Alarm, if they even thought of doing it. The Ixtreme range is being sold by Dixons, Currys and PC World.Really mini disksPortable device users will soon be able to store JPeg images and video files on a coin-sized disc. Unveiled at IFA, Philips' Portable Blue is an optical storage device incorporating the latest Blu-Ray laser technology. Up to 1GB - 1.4 times as much as a CD-Rom - can be stored on a single layer, single sided disk measuring just 3cm across. Philips claims the tiny optical disk will be incorporated into portable audio devices, mobile phones, PDAs, notebooks and digital cameras. But the company hasn't yet given a launch date for specific products.www.research.philips.comShort memoryFrom Panasonic comes the world's first camcorder to record MPeg2 digital video on to an SD (Secure Digital) memory card. Due in October with a hefty &#163;1,000 price tag, the SV-AV100 features an 800,000 pixel CCD, MPeg4/still image capture, PC/TV hook-up and a 10x optical zoom.However, the bad news is that the 512MB SD card it's packaged with can only play back 20 minutes of video footage - hardly enough to record your child's performance in the school play. When the 1GB card comes later this year, capacity will be increased to 40 minutes, but the memory card will probably set you back another &#163;300!www.panasonic.co.ukOne box fits allFancy binning your DVD player, VCR, CD player and - while you are at it - your PC, and replacing them with one box that sits under your TV? The Broadband Box does all the above and more. Features include a full Windows XP Intel Pentium 4 PC, a 256GB hard disk, DVD player/CD-writer, digital or analogue TV tuner, hard disk video recorder (with two-week electronic programme guide and search facility) and FM radio tuner.It can also handle all the usual PC applications. However, it has an interface which gives it a proper consumer electronics feel and makes it a cinch to use. There's also the possibility of video-on-demand to complement its streaming facilities. It has wireless functionality, virtually every connector you can think of and is controlled via a wireless keyboard. It is compatible with all screens from plasmas to conventional cathode ray tube screens. Coming to the UK very soon, it is expected to retail for around &#163;1,800. Alternatively, it can be purchased in conjunction with a 42in plasma screen for &#163;4,000.www.broadbandbox.netSony's home hubWith PCs fast becoming part of home entertainment systems, Sony has announced a Network Media Receiver to "bridge the divide between PC-based audio and video entertainment" and the TV set. As well as watching their video files on TV, users will be able to play their music files via their hi-fi.The Network Media Receiver box will be bundled with some Sony PCs this autumn and included in the all-in-one STR-LV700R receiver, available separately. The NMR can be connected via Ethernet cable or a wireless network, and links to Sony's SonicStage, PictureGear Studio and Giga Pocket software. Sony's announcement comes before the UK launch of rival PCs running the entertainment-oriented Microsoft Windows XP Media Center Edition, and makes no mention of the device it had previously touted as a hub for home entertainment: the PlayStation 2.DAB handfulsThe British-based company Perstel is readying a device that will pick up video signals transmitted via DAB (digital audio broadcasting) or digital radio, as it is often called. Featuring a 7in LCD screen, an MP3 player and an MMC storage card, the DMR23 will receive DAB-delivered video when it's ready - possibly in time for the 2006 football World Cup. Perstel has also announced the DR 301, a portable digital radio receiver with FM radio tuner, MP3 player and voice/digital music recording facilities via MMC card. Expect to pay around &#163;150.Finally, Samsung has unveiled the HT-DB770, a compact home cinema model complete with digital radio tuner, DVD player and surround sound decoders/amplifiers. It is due on sale in September for &#163;400.www.perstel.co.ukwww.samsung.comSoftwareNew browser betasOpera and its open source rival Mozilla both last week released new beta, or test, versions of their browsers. Opera's version 7.20 for Windows promises to increase further the software's already fast download speed. Mozilla 1.5, available for Linux, Macintosh and Windows, includes upgrades such as spell-checking for emails and newsgroup posting.On the PC, the two represent the remaining challenge to Microsoft Internet Explorer, even though Opera has 0.6% of the market and Mozilla 1.6%, according to web tracking firm OneStat. However, this discounts Opera users who set their browsers to identify themselves as Internet Explorer, a strategy that makes some sites work better.www.opera.comwww.mozilla.orgMobileSmallest 3G phoneIf, like us, you think that 3G handsets are still way too large, the Korean manufacturer LG hopes to change that. At the Internationale Funkausstellung (IFA) in Berlin, it paraded the U8100, probably the smallest 3G phone to date. Due to arrive in Europe shortly, though not necessarily in the UK, the clamshell-design handset supports video calling and video capture facilities, which it displays on its 128 x 160 pixel screen. Also included is Java, Bluetooth, an MP3/AAC player and 64MB of storage. Other facilities include a music editor, voice recorder, SMS and MMS messaging, and a speakerphone. LG's first camera phone for the UK, the 7100, goes on sale in around a month.www.lg.co.kr
Access to AuntieI sincerely hope the text accompanying the headline Auntie's digital revelation, (Online, August 28) was incorrect.      "The BBC's director-general announced plans this week to embrace Napster-style file sharing to make its archives      free for licence payers."If this is the case, my family will lose out because we don't have a TV and we're certainly not going to buy a licence      just so we can poke around in the BBC's cellars until the novelty of watching Muffin the Mule wears off.Obviously this limitation will not be placed on potential downloads from the archives but I feel the article lacked a bit      of information. How many hours of video footage is likely to be made available? How much audio? Are we going all the      way back to the year dot?It is an interesting and fascinating idea, though, and the Beeb must be applauded for taking such an enlightened and      sensible approach.There's one final point. The article says: "The BBC's mission is to distribute its work as widely and as cheaply as      possible." I've got an idea to achieve that - dump the licence fee!Ketlan OssowskiLancasterWireless waysYour guide to broadband internet access (Start here, August 28) neglected to mention wireless broadband as an      alternative to ADSL and cable.       The article says that broadband coverage extends to 71% of the UK population, but in rural villages coverage is only      7%. Wireless broadband is a solution to this growing digital divide.Unfortunately, because of the focus on ADSL, many rural dwellers are under the impression that the only way to      bring broadband to their communities is to petition BT to upgrade local telephone exchanges to ADSL-enabled      infrastructure.Often, these campaigns to achieve BT's "trigger levels" are futile because the population density is simply not high      enough to make broadband economical for ADSL providers like BT.       Alternatives to ADSL and cable will be critical in making full broadband coverage a reality.Karl CrossmanChief executive, FDM BroadbandHungerfordFlaws? What flaws?With reference to Murray Althiem's letter Windows Only (Feedback, August 28); I am not a Microsoft apologist, but I      would like to point out that computer viruses have been around for much longer than Microsoft Windows.Before email became common, viruses used to spread on floppy disks or other portable media - I remember this and      I've only been in the industry 12 years.       Viruses can be trivially easy to write, for any operating system, and don't necessarily have to exploit any "flaws" in      the target operating system.When users open the attachment, the Sobig virus sends out emails to all addresses in the user's address book - this      is not exploiting a "flaw" as there are legitimate reasons why programs may need to read addresses from the user's      address book.Viruses are nearly always targeted to a particular operating system or program because it is much more difficult to      write cross-platform executables.Most viruses are targeted at Windows because most computers run Windows.      Linux viruses don't spread as fast because there are not nearly as many machines running it. And I think it is      probably fair to say that your average Linux user is more tech-savvy than your average Windows user, is more wary      of unsolicited or suspicious emails, and so less likely to run attachments.       There are not many viruses swarming around Unix/Linux systems because, from the virus-writer's perspective, they      would not spread very fast, but that does not mean that the Linux world is virus-free.Chris MorganSurreyHuman errorIn his letter (Feedback, August 28), Paul Tuckey is incorrect to say that Sobig.F uses Outlook to spread. It uses its      own code, and therefore does not require Outlook, or any other email system to work. Also, Sobig.F fails to spread      via network shares - because of a bug in its code.       Unlike viruses that have exploited Microsoft vulnerabilities such as Blaster, Sobig.F takes advantage of the bug in      people's brains that makes them unable to resist double-clicking on an email attachment. If anyone other than the      virus author is to blame for this worm spreading, it is whoever designed the human sense of curiosity.Graham CluleySenior technology consultant, SophosThe blame gameJack Schofield comments that "Rather than trying to limit what is bundled with Windows, the US justice department      and European Union should be insisting on built-in firewalls, anti-virus software and Trojan checking" Online, August      28).In light of recent email viruses, it has dawned on me that someone should be suing Microsoft over the damage that      viruses and hackers etc do by taking advantage of its poorly written software. Since Microsoft is a huge company with a large team of aggressive lawyers, isn't this something that governments or      the EU should be doing for us?Steve BarrettOxfordshire
The Sobig.F email worm is still clogging up the internet, overloading email inboxes and mail servers. It is not the only thing causing trouble: MessageLabs processed 156.6m email messages in July - and half were spam. What was an easy way of talking to friends and colleagues has become a serious problem. As a result, businesses are having to think more and more about email security and control.How can you best protect company email? A three-layer approach will keep you most secure, though it will be the most expensive solution, too. Desktop anti-virus and spam tools are one layer, another is the tools that link into your mail servers, while the final layer is mail appliances on the edges of your network.Desktop anti-virus and anti-spam tools sit in the background, checking the files we download and run. We don't notice them until they warn us about a problem. (Running a full scan on a crowded hard drive can slow the system down and it is important to stop users cancelling the scan because they're busy.)Protecting your mail at the edge of your network is even more unobtrusive, and possibly more important. Mail gateway applications can monitor incoming mail, remove viruses and prevent unwanted attachments from reaching the desktop so you don't need to spend as much time educating users not to open unwanted files -even marking or blocking suspected spam.Just punching a hole in your firewall for internet mail means you have introduced vulnerability into your network. Mail gateways such as Nokia's Message Protector fill that gap. It looks like your email server to the outside world, but the gateway inspects all email, checking whether it is spam, has a malicious payload or is legitimate. It will even inspect compressed attachments. Nokia also implements what it calls Hero, (heuristic exploit rejection object), a tool for examining patterns - such as a sudden flood of similar messages - in your mail and determining if they may be caused by a new email exploit.Recently, SonicWall started offering firewall users a set of tools for managing desktop anti-virus tools, making sure anyone accessing the internet has an up-to-date set of anti-virus signatures. Users attempting to cross the firewall must download updates before they can access the wild internet.Adding virus and spam protection to existing mail servers is a common way of defending your network.   One well-known solution from Sybari connects into Microsoft's Exchange mail server. It uses multiple virus scanning tools to protect mail. It is not just an anti-virus tool: it can control the types of file that are attached and can even stop internal users from sending very large files such as complete DVDs.Some mail servers come with scanning tools - an important distinction in a world where mail servers are a commodity. Rockliffe's Mailsite uses F-Secure's anti-virus tools and ActiveState's anti-spam tools to check mail before it is delivered. It is also able to protect a mail server from spammers trying to steal email directories, spotting common attacks and stopping them.Network Associates is best known for anti-virus tools, but recently got into the anti-spam business by buying Deersoft, which was originally   set up to commercialise the open source SpamAssassin package and to integrate it with Microsoft's Outlook mail client. Deersoft's technologies are now available as add-ons for Network Associates mail server anti-virus tools, or as a standalone package for smaller businesses.The original open source SpamAssassin is still being developed, and it is available for many different systems. It is not too difficult to set up and run, though it is really a tool for organisations with a dedicated systems administration team.If you are running tools such as SpamAssassin, it is important to subscribe to the appropriate email lists and newsgroups to keep track of various spam blocking services - otherwise you could be caught out by a service going offline. OsiruSoft provides lists of IP addresses and ranges suspected to be used by   spammers that you can block automatically - but its response to a recent systematic denial of service attack was to mark the entire internet as a source of spam.You don't need to run your own anti-virus or anti-spam tools. You can work with outsourced mail security companies such as MessageLabs and BrightMail to filter your mail before it reaches your system. They deliver it to your mail servers, and you don't have to worry so much about staying up to date with virus definitions, suspect IP addresses and so on. There is one potential drawback: you will have handed over your primary email to a third party and given them rights to inspect all messages that pass through their service.As always, there is more to securing email than technology. Richard Starnes, the director of incident response at Cable and Wireless,   sees human nature as the biggest risk. People open attachments automatically; they don't see any difference in risk between internal and external emails. It is not as easy as not opening attachments from people you don't know - can you trust the people you do know to treat mail as cautiously as you?There is also the question of exactly what employees are sending and receiving? Was that email that just left your servers your complete customer list on its way to a competitor, or is it a proposal being sent to a customer before it has been approved? There are plenty of legal minefields here, so you need to have a well-defined set of policies and procedures. Equally, you need to know just who is doing what with your mail - or at least make sure they can't do anything that will affect your organisation.NetIQ's Mail Marshal is another email gateway product that allows you to apply different rules for different parts of your business - making email tools fill business needs. If you need to control specific information, with Office 2003 you will be able to apply policies to files and messages, controlling who can open them or removing the ability to print or forward specific messages or documents.Email content protection is not the be-all and end-all of protecting a system. It is good practice to use desktop tools as well - if only because viruses can come in to a system through files carried in from home on PDAs or CD-Roms, or from users' own email accounts that they read through POP3 or web mail connections. Laptops need protection, too, as they are likely to spend as much time outside your network as inside your protection systems.Implementing a layered email protection policy should make your business more secure. However, there is no guarantee the next email worm won't find its way around your careful planned defences. All you can do is minimise the risk, and invest in training and improved legal protections to reduce the threat. As Roger Levenhagen. of anti-virus vendor Trend Micro says: "Never assume you're done."
Servers holdUK server sales are holding up but revenues are falling, according to figures published by the analyst IDC. During the second quarter of this year, more than 60,000 servers were sold. This is a 14.5% increase over the same period last year, but is marginally down on the first quarter of this year. In terms of revenue, the picture is not so good for the manufacturers. The average server cost has fallen by 18% to &#163;5,298 over the year, with the value of the market falling by &#163;23m to &#163;319m. IDC blames the fall on the continuing growth of the price-sensitive Intel-based server market and a decline in enterprise server sales.Searches go onlineThe environment agency hopes to save more than &#163;1m over three years, with an online system allowing those involved in property transactions to carry out environmental searches. The service, which started in April, replaces a labour-intensive, paper-based search of more than a dozen information sources which took up to six weeks. The online search takes a couple of minutes, and checks factors such as whether a property is at risk of flooding, or is near waste disposal facilities or large industrial plants.The agency says the system, implemented by Computacenter, has enough spare capacity to cope with new legislation due to come into effect in 2005, requiring all home sellers to include an environmental search in their seller's pack.Dell servicesDell is applying its commodit-isation process to services to try to increase its potential market. With public sector and larger corporates demanding services, the company is modifying its business model to increase the ser vices contribution to its total revenues from 7% to 30%. The initial offering of managed client, or desktop, services is aimed at companies with between 2,000 and 100,000 users, and will be offered initially through partners Unisys and Getronics. Services include asset discovery, life cycle assessment and management, and managed deployment.Work-life codeThe Department of Trade and Industry is marking the current work-life balance week with the publication of a code of practice for teleworkers. The department believes IT has a major role to play in the government's campaign to increase the quality of life of Britain's workforce. The code for employers sets out the legal requirements for teleworking and offers examples of best practice. Topics covered include health and safety issues regarding equipment and risk assessment, information security considerations, and the provision of personal support to avoid worker isolation. A teleconferencing firm, Polycom, has also chosen this week to highlight the role that visual communications can play in supporting teleworkers.www.dti.gov.uk/work-lifebalanceReverse auctionsThe government has trialled online reverse auctions, where firms try to undercut each other to supply goods, with one to buy tissues for the armed forces - its staff use 3m packets each year. An auction run through a system managed by Group Supplies resulted in a deal that will save about &#163;750,000 a year - two-thirds of the previous cost.The Ministry of Defence says it plans to expand use of reverse auctions as quickly as possible. The office of government commerce is setting up a framework agreement with several auction services, so organisations across the state sector can use the concept, which it says allows much smaller firms to compete for government business.www.ogcbuyingsolutions.gov.ukE-commerce peakAmerican consumers' confidence in the integrity of e-commerce has fallen, according to research by the US analyst Forrester. It peaked in 2000 and 2001 and has been hit by reports of security breaches. Companies will need to offer greater assurances to their current and potential customers to re-establish trust, the firm says. Forrester adds that shoppers prefer using a number of channels, rather than e-commerce in isolation. Iit notes that a third of US web-users bank online, up from 6% in 1999, but that cash-machine transactions have continued to rise. The analysis firm says organisations must be ready to deal with clients through several media, providing complementary services, and coordinating data collected through different channels.
What do you use your computer for?Most of my work is done from home because I write as well as broadcast. I have an Apple laptop, which is invaluable. I can write in the garden or from the comfort of my bed. It makes my life much more flexible, and email helps me organise my time better. I can produce programmes from home for theNatural History Unitso it's a great source of information. And, of course, there's shopping!So you like to shop online?I'm probably going to even buy my next car online, as there are such fantastic deals. We're also renovating our house so I spend a lot of time on the Fired   Earth website looking for ideas. Once you get on the web, the world is your oyster when it comes to shopping.Software?Final Cut Prolets us do rough-cuts of sequences from our programmes at home or on location as we shoot them. It allows you to check whether something works before you get into the real edit, which is expensive. We used it on a programme we just made called My Halcyon River, and it allows you to log your work as it's done. You could even cut something on Final Cut that would be broadcast quality.What technology do you recall from your Tomorrow's World days?There was a toaster that dialled up the internet to get the weather forecast and your toast would then come out with a little cloud or sun on it. Being the Tomorrow's World studio, the toast came out   burnt and set the smoke alarms off. It was a fun idea _ but I've never seen them in the shops!Gadgets?I don't use a PDA but I am looking at the next generation of video-enabled mobiles with email, etc. I'm at home more now, but when I was travelling, that would've been fantastic. I don't use wireless but all the Wi-Fi stuff coming in is really interesting. I can't stand cables and wires everywhere on my desk - I am a Virgo, after all! You shouldn't underestimate the aesthetic side. It was the design element that revolutionised Apple computers.As a parent do you worry about children using the net?Not just as a parent, as a human being. Some of the stories you hear just sicken you. I can't believe there isn't a better way of policing this virtual place. It's great that our children are so adept with computer   technology: we just don't want them to be exposed to abuse through that technology. We should learn to police this great resource better rather than stopping children from using it.BBC Creative Archive?It's a fantastic idea. This "second-phase" thatGreg Dyke talks aboutis what we've been waiting for from the technology and the internet. The BBC site is a fantastic resource. I take my kids on to theCBeebies sectionand they love it.I think we're about to enter an era of content that highlights what the BBC is all about.Visit:www.bbc.co.uk/religion/programmes/heavenandearth
Ocado isn't the most familiar brand name. But it's all you need to say to taxi drivers in Hatfield to reach the home      of the UK's most recent online grocery store.As you arrive outside the company's warehouse headquarters, it's not hard to see why. In a business park dominated      by big post-industrial sheds,Ocadohas the biggest of the lot, a huge four-storey monster that, as my cab driver      says, is "pretty hard to miss".From this specially designed base, Ocado delivers Waitrose groceries to homes within the M25. Ocado's chief      executive, Tim Steiner, won't say exactly how much it cost ("it's tens of millions, not hundreds") but it clearly      represents a significant investment on the part of John Lewis, the company behind both Ocado and Waitrose.You could see it as a sign of the relative health of online grocery shopping in the UK in general. According to Hellen      Omwando, an analyst at Forrester Research, "5% of online consumers in the UK regularly shop for groceries online.Regularly means at least once in the past three months. That's way more than in Europe where the average is just      2% of online consumers."In Europe, over the past two years, several established supermarket chains have pulled out of online groceries      because they couldn't turn a profit. At the moment, says Omwando, no one is offering an online grocery shopping      service in Germany.So why are things different here? First, it's down to coverage, says Omwando.Tesco.comnow offers its service to      more than 96% of the UK. In addition, there is competition in the sector. Sainsbury's is working hard to cement its      second place posi tion in online groceries. Asda is still involved, as is Waitrose, via its own operation and via Ocado.There's competition because Tesco.com has shown that it's possible to make a profit via online groceries. According      to John Browett, chief executive of Tesco.com, last year the company made £12.2m on a £456m turnover, though      that's Tesco.com as a whole. Browett says that the groceries will be a large proportion of that, but he wouldn't say      how much.Tesco.com has shown a profit in online groceries, says Omwando, because it integrates its online business with its      offline operation. Most European supermarkets span off online groceries into a separate dotcom. Hence they      incurred extra costs and found it hard to make money."If you've got an established network with warehousing and      stores, you need to utilise that and you need to account for it in a way that shows that the internet actually gets      consumers to go into your real world stores," says Omwando."That way, it will justify you incorporating your      internet costs into your overall books. Tesco is smart to do it that way."       Tesco.com is so far ahead (it has a 65% market share), says Omwando, it's hard to see anyone catching up. Browett      says the company is taking "over 110,000 online grocery orders a week, well over £10m in a week".SainsburysToYou      takes around 30,000 orders a week, according to Penny Slatter, head of online marketing for Sainsbury's. Ocado      currently takes about 8,000 orders a week but expects to double that by the end of the year, says Steiner. He says      the growth will come by picking up dissatisfied customers from the two main players.It's true that all the online operators still have a way to go to meet customer expectations. At least, now, the web      shopping experience is better. Thanks to loyalty card data, it's much easier to put together a shopping list online -     you can even do it on a PDA and upload it to the computer later. Once customers have set up their list, it's possible      to do subsequent shops in a quarter of an hour or less.Deliveries and product substitutions (eg getting Diet Pepsi when you asked for regular Coke) remain a problem.      According to Steiner, this is where Ocado's warehouse comes into its own. Within its grey exterior is £10m of smart      technology: everything from computer-controlled cranes that automatically restock shelves and scanning systems      that track stock levels throughout the warehouse to ergonomically designed workstations that let packers assemble      eight orders at once.As a result, says Steiner, Ocado can deliver within a guaranteed one-hour window, with less than 5% of product      substitutions. Their competitors still struggle to meet two-hour windows and sometimes deliver over 10% of      substitutes, he says. He argues that only purpose-built warehouses can really improve customer service, because      they let you pack orders more efficiently and track exactly what you have in stock.Competitors that assemble orders in their existing stores (as Tesco.com does) will always have substitutions, says      Steiner. They can never know exactly what stock they have, because customers are always in their stores buying      things.Unsurprisingly, Tesco.com's Browett disagrees. Stores are getting smarter about knowing what stock they have, he      says. They replenish on a 24-hour basis, and because stores are local, delivering to local consumers, they can      manage deliveries more effectively. In addition, the business as a whole isn't burdened with the huge extra cost of      running a separate warehouse."You only make a small amount on this kind of thing," he says. "The net margin, after everything has been taken into      account, is six pence in every pound. So it's very difficult to make money out of this. Fourteen groups in the US have      tried to do online groceries out of warehouses. American businessmen are very smart. But they all failed."Browett won't give figures on Tesco.com's current substitution rates. But he says that overall, the company has      seen a 25% improvement this year in quality of service.       Sainsbury's Slatter admits that substitutions are a problem for everyone in online groceries. She suggests that      Ocado minimises substitutions by offering a much smaller range of items (around 10,000, she claims) than the      30,000 lines offered by Tesco.com and SainsburysToYou.Though Sainsbury's fulfils 90% of its online grocery orders out of its stores, it does operate an Ocado-style      warehouse in north-west London. The company built it because it did not have the stores on the ground to serve the      area, says Slatter. Though the warehouse has less of a problem with substitutions, it does offer a lower product      range, which can be a problem for some consumers.At the moment, theSainsburysToYouservice covers around 75% of the country, but there are plans to expand, says      Slatter. Growth has been healthy over the past two years, she continues. "With the profile of our customers      generally, it's important to us to be number two in this sector."In other words, Sainsbury's core customers - affluent families where both parents work - are precisely the kind of      people who shop for groceries online. Hence, the company has to have a strong offering. If they didn't, it might hurt      the overall perception of the brand.This is an indication of the way perceptions of online shopping in general have changed. Three or four years ago,      people seemed to see online and "bricks and mortar" as different things, diametrically opposed even. Now everyone is      pushing a more integrated "clicks and mortar", "multi-channel" vision, in which the aim is get your online and offline      presence working together.It's one of the key ideas behind Ocado, says Steiner. The company benefits from Waitrose's existing procurement      and supply network. In return it allows them to expand in a world where space for stores is limited. Over the long      term, Ocado aims to help Waitrose move beyond its geographic base in the south, without having to build stores in      other areas.However, as Forrester's Omwando points out, the problem for Ocado with this strategy is that it isn't really      multi-channel, because it envisages Ocado having only a virtual presence in certain areas where there are no      Waitrose stores. The problem is, potential online consumers like to see the real world stores. Often they need to get      to know the brand before they go online to buy.Omwando says multi-channel integration will work in various ways for groceries. People might shop online then go to a      supermarket to collect it, ready packed, from a kiosk. Alternatively, they might research product availability and      offers online, then go to the store to shop.Now that the services are bedding down and consumers are used to them, most people go online to stock up on big      items once or twice a month, then go into the stores every few days for fresh or perishable goods.       Omwando says the picture for online grocery shopping in the UK is relatively healthy. "It won't grow as much as      travel but we expect 8% of total retail grocery sales being done online by 2007," she says.Despite Tesco.com's success, Browett warns that consumers don't change their shopping habits that swiftly. It took      40 years for supermarkets to displace traditional retailers, he says.       In the meantime, Tesco.com's strategy is to avoid gimmicks and concentrate on improving customer service."It's      very tough to do this well," Browett says. "You're adding a lot of complexity to what is already a difficult supply      chain. You have 60 to 100 items in an order, across three temperature zones, deliveries in two-hour windows - it's      hard. I sometimes dream that all I have to do is pop a book in the post."
Does your desktop PC struggle to run today's applications? If you last bought a PC three or four years ago, you can now get something three times faster for a third of the price. And if you don't have a PC at all, it's a good time to start.You can get a PC that will work well on the internet, play DVDs and run standard applications for &#163;500 or less. This will probably have the sound and graphics facilities built into the motherboard. You can buy this kind of system on the high street, but you may get better value from a direct or mail order supplier.If you are a serious gamer or want to use your PC mainly for graphics or music, you will probably want to pay extra for a PC with separate video and/or sound cards. If so, a direct supplier will let you vary the parts to suit your needs and your budget, then build a machine to order.PC buyers have a choice of processors from cheap but slow Via chips to super fast 64-bit AMD Opterons, but the Pentium 4 is the most common choice. Intel offers a range of Pentium 4s at speeds from 2.4GHz to 3.20GHz, but there is no significant difference in performance in everyday use. Only people with heavyweight processing requirements need the faster speeds, but the extra GHz don't hurt if they are cheap. However, 2.4GHz is the entry level for a Pentium 4 with hyperthreading (HT), which often provides better performance when running several applications at once.It is also worth paying attention to the chipset that supports the processor. Starter machines such as the Dell Dimension 2400 use the Intel 845GV+ chipset with built-in Intel Extreme graphics. However, the Intel   865PE chipset, used in the Dimension 4600, performs much better, while the latest Intel 875P version, used in the Dimension 8300, improves on that.PCs usually come with 256 megabytes of memory and Windows XP Home, but go for 512MB and XP Pro if you can afford it. If you plan to collect lots of MP3 music files, it is worth paying extra for an 80GB instead of a 40GB hard drive. Upgrade to a 120GB drive and a 1394 (Firewire) port if you plan to edit videos.Most PCs come with an optical drive, such as a CD-Rom, but you will need a CD-R writer to burn your own CDs, if only for back-up purposes. "Combo" (combination) drives are popular - they play DVDs as well as read and write CDs - though DVD writers are now becoming affordable.If you have spare cash, upgrade the screen and keyboard. Some manufacturers skimp on these to bring down   headline prices, but most offer a choice of bigger and better screens, including flat panel (LCD) monitors. Most also offer cordless keyboards and optical mice.Users who would like a Macintosh have less homework since there is only one supplier - Apple - and the more you pay, the more you get.On offer is the low-cost eMac, which is like the old iMac but with a 17in screen, or the stylish new iMac, which has an LCD screen on a movable arm. All have old G4 processors, and some still have 128MB as standard. For high end users, Apple offers the Power Mac range, with much faster G5 chips. Prices start at &#163;2,098 including a great 17in LCD screen.
Police have arrested "a 24-year-old Romanian man suspected of releasing a new version of the Blaster Internet worm, the second arrest of a copycat virus writer in the past week," reportsReuters. This one was dumb enough to include "a reference to [his] nickname 'Enbiei,' a message written in Romanian that named one of his teachers, and a link to the university Web site, which he intended to be the target of a denial of service attack." Meanwhile the author of the original remains at large. . . .
According toWired: Fuel-cell-powered laptop prototypes have been developed by Toshiba and NEC, who plan to start selling them as full-fledged products next year. Casio, Sony and Hitachi and Samsung of Korea are also working on micro fuel-cell technology. [John Goodman, president of the fuel cell division at Entegris, which makes fuel cell components] predicts that, in a matter of years, fuel cell-batteries no bigger than a cigarette lighter will run for 10 hours or more before being replaced. "After about 10 hours of operation, you will pop out a fuel-cell cartridge about the size of a Bic lighter or inkjet cartridge" and put in a fresh one, he said.
"The record industry is expected to make good, as early as Friday, on its promise to start suing song swappers," reportsUSA Today.
One thing I don't understand is why Google felt the need to comply with the Kazaa demands - after all, it's not as if Google was caching illegally copied work stored on an unauthorised third party's website. It was just pointing its users towards sites which offered ripped off copies of the Kazaa client. This, of course, is similar to what Kazaa's software does itself when it shows you the way to an illegally-copied MP3 music file.I've been trying to find out more from the rather excellentChillingeffects.orgwebsite, which "encourages respect for intellectual property law, while frowning on its misuse to 'chill' legitimate activity".The site is well worth a look around by itself: any organisation which describes an aspect of US copyright law thus: "For instance, if I perform a Klingon death wail in a local park, my performance is not copyrightable. However, if I film the performance, then the film is copyrightable" gets my vote... They have also provided a list of the sites removed from Google - follow the link above, or type "Kazaa" into Google and follow the link at the foot of the first page of results.
I'm sure I won't be alone in spotting the irony in this particular story onNews.com: "In response to a legal threat... Google has removed from its index eight sites that distribute a hacked version of file-swapping service Kazaa. The popular search engine took action last month after it received a legal notification from Sharman Networks, owner of Kazaa, claiming that the eight sites contained software that violated the company's 'exclusive rights' under U.S. copyright law. The software, Kazaa Lite, is an unauthorized copy of Kazaa with the pop-up ads removed. These advertisements, often called 'spyware,' appear every few minutes and cannot be turned off."
Actor  Pierce Brosnan has won control of the internet name www.piercebrosnan.com in a ruling by a United Nations panel.Arbitrators from the World Intellectual Property Organization ordered the transfer of the domain name to the Irish actor, who had complained that it was being used illegally.The ruling said the registered owner of the name - Alberta Hot Rods, of Alberta, Canada - had no rights or interests in the name and was using it in bad faith.Brosnan's lawyers told the panel that the domain linked to another website,www.celebrity1000.com, which they said contained biographies of some actors but no information about the James Bond star. They noted that the site carries numerous advertising messages, and that the owner appeared to be using Brosnan's name to earn money.Anyone can register a domain name for a few dollars, which has led so-called "cybersquatters" to file for famous names to make a fast buck from those who want the names. Some names are worth millions of dollars.Brosnan's lawyers noted that Alberta Hot Rods is linked to Jeff Burgar, whom they described as a "notorious cybersquatter". The owner of the site did not file a defence.In its ruling, the UN panel said that Mr Burgar or linked companies have previously been ordered to hand over domain names to other celebrities.Actors Kevin Spacey and Pamela Anderson, Jurassic Park author Michael Crichton and singer Celine Dion all have won their domain names from Burgar or companies linked to him.The UN arbitration system, which started in 1999, allows those who think they have the right to a domain to get it back without having to fight a costly legal battle or paying large sums of money.
Regular readers will recall last Monday'sheadline of the week. Well, we haveanother onenow. Is this the work of some naive genius? Or a disgruntled hack who's slipping these clangers past oblivious bosses? Or has ESPNSoccernet realised the only way to battle the brilliance of our ownonline footie coverageis to stick some silly headlines on? I think we should be told.
