TeleCity, the internet infrastructure company, yesterday insisted that the European market for its internet hosting services would grow dramatically despite reporting a three-fold increase in losses during the last year.The company, which joined the stock market last June, said the market for hosting services is forecast to grow from &euro;1bn (&#163;600m) in 2000 to &euro;12.5bn by 2004, according to one estimate."The key driver is the rapidly expanding use of the internet by consumers and, more importantly, by businesses," said a company spokesman.TeleCity, which provides facilities for housing and servicing hardware and high-performance internet connections, posted a pre-tax loss of &#163;12.7m for the year to the end of December 2000, against &#163;3.5m in 1999, as the company focused on rapid growth and sales. The company said it has &#163;47m in cash to fund its development.The shares, which have underperformed the software and computer services sector by 13% since the company joined the market, fell a further 12.5p to 595p, compared to a peak of &#163;23.45 last September.Despite increasing losses, TeleCity pointed to strong revenue growth, up 318% to &#163;14.1m over the year.The company, which currently has 10 operational sites in Europe and plans to have over 30 by 2002, expects to be profitable by the end of 2002.Mike Kelly, TeleCity chief executive, said: "We are very pleased with the current position and are very confident for the year."Analysts seemed positive yesterday, saying the results put the company back on track after missing last quarter's revenue forecasts by 20%.One analyst, however, said the company faces tough challenges this year as it attempts to aggressively push up revenues, expand its services and geographical reach, at the same time trying to become profitable. "There is a risk that they will miss their figures," he said.The company, which employs 310 people, does not plan to expand through acquisition at the moment.
Egg, the internet bank, announced yesterday that it had delayed indefinitely its plans to launch a current account and reported a widening of its losses.The company, majority owned by Prudential, insisted it would break even later this year for the first time despite losses worsening by &#163;6m to &#163;155m in 2000.Customer "inertia" in the current account market, where more than 70% of the business is controlled by Lloyds TSB, NatWest, HSBC and Barclays, deterred Egg from launching a   new account. "We've built the capability for a current account. If new entrants are able to smash the inertia we'll launch it. I don't think any of them have yet," Paul Gratton, the chief executive, said.He said Egg wanted to be a "fast follower" and capitalise upon any success achieved by the Halifax in trying to shake-up the current market where only 500,000 customers a year out of 30m move their account."We smashed the savings and credit card markets," Mr Gratton said. But the current account market appears too tough for Egg to crack. He said   advertising for current account customers "seemed an expensive way to blow a lot of money".Last year Egg, which has "global ambitions", spent &#163;50m developing its brand through another series of quirky adverts. According to Nielsen/NetRatings, Egg's website - egg.com - was busier than any other financial services site in January, reaching almost 6% of active users.Egg will only start to make profits once it has sold more than one product to each of its 1.3m customers and is expected to start concentrating on achieving that this year.Last year Egg's "cross-sales"   were 1.29 products per customer last year. To reach breakeven, that figure needs to rise to 1.5 by the end of the year - a target Mr Gratton said Egg could achieve.Analysts at Fox-Pitt, Kelton said they remained sceptical about Egg's plans. "The critical issue is can Egg cross-sell and the fourth quarter is frankly very disappointing," the analysts said, predicting Egg would fail to achieve its aim of breaking even this year.Egg, which was swamped by new business when it was launched two years ago, claimed January was its busiest month ever when   100,000 customers took out new products, particularly its credit card. This rate of new customers was another reason why Egg had decided not to advertise for current account business. "You don't kill a campaign when it's going well," said Mr Gratton.He also pointed to the prospects of breaking even by highlighting the quadrupling in revenues to &#163;93.2m and the fact that Egg would be spending less than the &#163;34m it spent last year on developing new products and facilities.Egg's first product, its saving account, suffered a &#163;850m outflow of money as customers   chased better rates although the outflow slowed between the third and fourth quarters.The company said it had plans to be global and is talking to a number of companies in Europe, in particular, about forming partnerships similar to the one it has with Boots for its credit card. It also has a loans and mortgages business as well "supermarket" sites for investment and insurance products and will launch one for mortgages later this month.The company's shares ended the day at 132.5p, down 1p - still below the 160p at which they made their debut in May last year.
Life's a bitch, so the saying goes, and then you die. UK online, the government's new "citizen portal", certainly has the last base covered. If you ever need to notify the authorities of a recent bereavement, plan your funeral or make a will, this site will help.As for the rest of life's traumas, they are all there too. If you want to learn how to drive (remember those first test nerves), move house or deal with crime UK online has the necessary advice. Notably, there is nothing on what to do if you have been put on a six-month waiting list to see an NHS consultant but that is perhaps to be expected.You probably did not know you needed this information, and you probably never will. UK online's major fault (it has many, but this will have to satisfy us for now) is that rather than being targeted at the average citizen's needs it acts more as an umbrella site for the government's ever expanding internet presence.For some reason, UK online cannot give you information on its own pages - instead it links you to a relevant section on another government department or agency website. This introduces you to some marvellous quirks (would you have ever imagined the Office of Fair Trading contains most of the information on death?) but is a little frustrating and smacks somewhat of inter-departmental squabbles among the Whitehall webmasters.UK online, you can imagine, probably made a lot of sense to its civil service developers but, with its many links, may prove a little bewildering to users.If we have an idea why UK online was set up it is not clear why you would use it. Quite why you would turn to the government, as opposed to friends, family and the medical profession, for information on having a baby (yes, this really is a cradle to grave operation) may be beyond the average citizen. Ditto going on holiday, another of UK online's "life episodes".UK online has potential but, as a project, it is unfinished. Programme director Bob Evans wants to allow users to register a birth or apply for driving licence online. You can imagine that one day we may vote on a similar site.But, for now, it has little to draw you in and nothing to hold you. The newsroom, for example, links directly to Downing Street and is filled with government good news. This is not a comprehensive citizen's guide nor a yellow pages of government services.The first page you come to asks for some personal information - such as which part of the UK you want information on and in what language you want to read it - so it will be easier for you to make subsequent visits. Part of me cannot help feeling that is a little optimistic.
The UK government has relaunched its main citizen web site today with a set of services designed to make it easier to deal with the government during key life events.The government promised that theUK Onlineportal will cut bureaucracy by allowing people round-the-clock, direct access to information about "cradle to grave" services.The site - which was launched in a test format in December and has attracted 123,000 visitors a day - is centred around six "life episodes", such as having a baby, dealing with bereavement and learning to drive.Bob Evans, the programme director for UK Online, admitted that at the moment users cannot truly conduct business with the government online, but he hopes to change that soon. He wants to allow users to register a birth or apply for driving licence online, for example."Now that we have the infrastructure in place, I'd like to roll out two departmental services a month from the middle of the year," he said.Cabinet office minister Ian McCartney said: "This web site is a key part of our £1bn drive to get all government services online. It's turning government on its head - ensuring convenient and accessible services organised around people's needs."The UK Online portal has also been redesigned to cater for the partially sighted. Mr Evans hopes to add digital television, WAP and public kiosk services soon.Related articles8.2.2001: Sir Humphrey gets wired2.2.2001: Off-line Whitehall fails to make e-grade31.1.2001: Blair appoints e-envoy
Trinity Mirror is understood to have held preliminary discussions for the sale of ic24, the newspaper publishing group's internet service provider.The talks are part of a wider strategic review at the company, formed from the merger of regional newspaper firm Trinity and the Mirror Group 18 months ago.Trinity Mirror's magazines and exhibitions division has   also been identified as a potential candidate for sale.Insiders stressed that no firm decisions had been taken on ic24 but acknowledged that the City has been looking for a disposal. "The future of the ISP is under scrutiny," said one. "The group is looking at what the next logical step is."Trinity Mirror would retain its network of websites and is still committed to spending the &#163;150m outlined in March   last year at the height of the internet boom. The sites include 13 regional portals leveraging the network of regional newspapers, icSport, icChoice and icShowbiz.The service provider has 670,000 subscribers but some executives at the group feel it has now served its purpose in establishing the portals business. A likely buyer would be a telecoms firm acquiring the traffic.Trinity Mirror's other online   assets include sportinglife.com and totalbet.com. Analysts are becoming increasingly concerned that Trinity Mirror is a company lacking a strategy - the chief reason for the poor record of its share price which continues to trade at a significant discount to its peers.The company is also facing the threats of a softening advertising market and a rise in newsprint costs.At least one analyst has suggested the Sunday People might not have a future within the group, although two approaches for the tabloid newspaper over the past 12 months have been turned down.Philip Graf, group chief executive, announced in September that he intended to step back from the the day-to-day running of the group to focus on broader issues, appointing Joe Sinyor to run the newspapers.
So Napster is a dead duck. The jubilation of the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) over its success in the 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals has brought a whole new interpretation to the term Pyrrhic victory. It also made one wonder what the goons who run the RIAA are on.Consider what it has achieved. In December 1999, it launched a high-profile lawsuit against a file-sharing service which - however much it may have been a thorn in the RIAA's side - had hitherto been a relatively marginal player on the internet.The main effect of the legal action was to alert millions of kids worldwide to the fact that it was possible (a) to store music files on one's hard disk and (b) to swap same over the net. These discoveries brought hordes of new users to Napster who might otherwise have never heard of the service. When the lawsuit began, the service had less than a   million users a month. Since then it has climbed steadily to around 9 million a month and a total subscriber base of around 50 million people.For most teenagers, Napster was a concept only marginally inferior to sex. Of course the fact that it enabled them to build up collections of free music on their (or their parents') hard disks was a large part of the attraction . But what was also significant was that Napster enabled them to undermine the recording industry's practice of selling music only in album-sized bundles - which forces music fans to shell out for an entire disk even if all they really want is a couple of tracks (for which most of them would be willing to   pay). These twin attractions were what made Napster the fastest-growing network in history - from zero to 50 million subscribers in less than two years - a faster growth rate than the web itself.The RIAA moguls rejoicing that they have finally put a stop to this nonsense seem to have overlooked a few vital points. The first is that the majority of Napster users are (a) music lovers and (b) young. That is to say, they are the prime customers of the aforementioned moguls and their best hope of cashing in their stock options before retirement.Second, there are now 50 million of these prime customers with music tracks on their hard disks who have acquired the habit of swapping them over the net.The publicity surrounding the court case has alerted them to the fact that they need not abandon this agreeable practice - they can turn to systems like OpenNap, iMESH or Aimster which do    similar things. 'The entire Napster-using public is going to figure out that they don't need Napster to share files,' wrote Eben Moglen, a Columbia University law professor, in  Salon. 'The music industry will then discover that the lawsuit was the stupidest part of five years of stupidity. It will discover that this lawsuit fully popularised, publicised, promoted and spurred the development of the very alternative distribution system it was trying to eliminate.'The RIAA may have succeeded in closing down Napster the company. What then? Are RIAA lawyers going to knock on 50 million doors? 'They've attempted to murder Napster, and they've actually shot themselves in the head,' says Professor Moglen. 'Self-murder or suicide, they're dead either way - it's an untenable business strategy in the long run to be at war with your own customers. But shutting down Napster will give them no one to sue but the listeners. This is one of those rare, but important, situations in which victory in a lawsuit is defeat in the world.' My only concern about calling it a Pyrrhic victory is that old Pyrrhus might sue for defamation.john.naughton@observer.co.ukNapster
Yahoo, the flagship company of internet trading, is laying off staff. So is Amazon. So is EToys. The share value of internet stocks has halved over the past three months. Is this the end, or does the internet still have a business future? Reflecting on the mania of the past two years, it is clear that the fault rests not with the technology but with management: the internet entrepreneurs and their venture capital allies who, in their impatience to become overnight millionaires, chose to ignore a number of age-old basic business principles.One of their biggest mistakes was to expect clever software to change customers' lifetime shopping habits. The dotcom revolution was driven by the psychology and assumptions of internet service providers rather than knowledge of customer shopping patterns. A first-year university lecture in sociology would have told them that for most of the US and UK adult population shopping is not a chore but a shared family activity - as the outstanding success of giant out-of-town shopping centres amply testify.Elementary market research would have told them that online shopping would never be anything more than a niche market. Certainly, there will be demand among high-earning, time-poor professionals who prefer to buy commodities   such as holidays, travel tickets and financial services online. These, of course, are exactly the same people as the dotcom founders themselves. Erroneously, they assumed that all consumers would be like them.Another elementary principle ignored was that even dotcom start-ups need basic management structures and procedures and business plans - boring things like future earnings projections, breakeven analyses and income and expenditure budgets. They also require salary structures which bear some relation to employees' value   creation. It remains true that to make a success of the new conditions it helps to have solid business experience of the old. As every ex-employee of the late Boo.com now laments, 'It was such a great company to work for'. You bet. But setting up a viable business requires more of its leaders than good looks and a talent for poetry. Nightly champagne parties and weekly Concorde flights, although fun, unfortunately generate no revenue.Has this neglect of basic business principles destroyed the credibility of all online   business ventures? It will take the dotcoms some time before they regain investor confidence. It is not surprising that many online trading companies have re-invented themselves as 'clicks-and-mortar' ventures, or even as entirely offline high-street retailers. Where internet trading will continue to expand rapidly is in business-to-business transactions. Eighty per cent of internet use will probably be in B2B, which has the capacity to revolutionise global supply chains and inventory management, and rationalise relations between retailers and manufacturers.In some sectors, B2B is putting smaller manufacturers on a more equal footing with larger businesses in their dealings with retailers. For instance, in the furniture industry, which consists of a great many small manufacturers and retailers, online platforms are emerging as the basis of much more efficient delivery systems.Thus, Corridor, a platform recently launched by parent United Business Media, aims   to give retailers (and customers) access to a far greater range of manufacturers' products which they will be able to view, compare and order online. Corridor's platform will allow retailers to inform their customers of precise delivery dates through online links to manufacturers and distributors.For the time being the cost of investment in technologies and accompanying skills makes it unrealistic to expect small retailers and manufacturers in any economic sector to trade with each other directly online. Instead,   online brokers will emerge as intermediaries. Opportunities exist in most areas of niche retailing, from childrens' toys to office stationery. These will be the real drivers of 'clicks and mortar'. In the near future it is not difficult to envisage online brokers such as Corridor giving small retailers access to manufactures on a global basis.At the same time, the internet will allow companies to move many of their back-office activities to low-wage economies. In the near future UK financial institutions will outsource their data-processing functions to operations in India and other English-speaking parts of the world.Many back-office activities that have been the drivers of job creation in the South East over the past 30 years could be eliminated over the next 10. The internet will let employees do more of their work from home, breaking away from the work patterns imposed by the requirements of the industrial economy. For large numbers of 'knowledge employees' the daily commute is redundant.It is in the internal and external trading relations of companies that the internet will have its major impact. Reflecting on events of the past 12 months, it is unfortunate that those with neither business knowledge nor experience have undermined the credibility of a technology that is truly revolutionary in its impact. But as with the dotcom entrepreneurs of only last year, there is the risk that the advocates of B2B may promise too much too soon. There are still technological and organisational challenges to be overcome before we reach the promised land.Richard Scase is a Professor at Kent University and author of Britain in 2010: the Changing Business Landscape (Capstone Publishing. &#163;9-99)
ONdigital, the pay-television group, is planning to launch its own premium sports channel to coincide with the start of the next football season.The channel will screen coverage of the Nationwide League and Worthington Cup after ONdigital secured the broadcast rights in partnership with ITV in a three-year deal worth &#163;315m last year.ONdigital is adding the Nationwide League to its cover age of the European Champions' League and the so called "super nine" ATP tennis tournaments. The two events are now screened on ONsport, a channel included in the broadcaster's basic package.A spokeswoman for ONdigital said the new channel would be offered to rival platforms in the same way that Sky Sports and the NTL-owned British Eurosport are carried by rival broadcasters. It is not yet decided whether the new channel will use the ONsport branding.The launch represents a further ratcheting up in the competition for sports rights. NTL, which owns British Eurosport, is also planning the launch of a channel which will include the BBC as a minority share holder, provisionally called British Sport.The Nationwide League deal will see live matches broadcast on Thursdays and Sundays, with pay-per-view games played on Friday nights.ITV will also screen some Sunday matches and a high lights show as part of the deal which netted the league four times more than its existing TV package.The spokeswoman said that ONdigital has enough quality content to sustain a premium channel but was also on the look out for other sports rights to include.Presenters for the new channel are being kept under wraps as is the subscription price - although the spokeswoman said it would be competitive with the likes of Sky Sports.
Charities have called on the government for financial support to help them exploit the internet revolution. A report released today shows that charities are falling behind the corporate sector in their use of the web.The report Virtual Promise shows that many charities use the internet for news, links to other web sites and for email enquiries but few use it for cost cutting, online-training or job applications.The report's author, Joe Saxton of the think-tank Future Foundation, says the government is investing £25 million over three years to help small businesses use the internet but doing nothing comparable for the voluntary sector.Mr Saxton believes there should be a taskforce to lobby decision-makers to secure more funding. "The voluntary sector has a key role in relieving social exclusion. Through not supporting the sector, the government is helping to create digital exclusion just as the Internet revolution is beginning."Chief executives of charities should also be doing more to take advantage of the internet, according to Mr Saxton. He said: "The internet will be the single most important driver of change in charities over the next decade but at the moment senior managers in the sector lack vision."To test if a charity is doing enough, Mr Saxton says chief executives should ask themselves four questions:1. What new audiences have you reached?2. Have you saved 10% of your support costs or raised 10% extra revenue?3. Do you have online services that you couldn't offer off line?4. Who have you made redundant or redeployed because of the internet?He quoted pioneering examples of NSPCC developing a virtual children's centre where children could access counsellors online and NCVO's partnership with BT to develop a joint purchasing website for charities.Mr Saxton said charities needed to develop more partnerships with companies and undertake further research in order to maximise internet use.
Severance: Blade of DarknessPC	29.99 Codemasters	****Codemasters has released Severance: Blade of Darkness, but convincing occasional PC gamers of its merits is proving difficult."Yes," I keep saying, "videogames have changed." Gone are the days when little Billy fought goblins in his bedroom. Now it is all interior furnishings with The Sims and ironic body popping to Dancing Stage. But it is too   late. They've seen Severance on the monitor and gaming appears guilty as charged."OK, so the game is a fantasy hack'n'slash affair that prides itself on its gory content, but it does have original features." I'm getting desperate now."For example, if you fancy a change from swinging your sword then you can simply pick up a freshly severed arm to club the baddie. Great, eh?"Silence."Er, well, what about the lighting, then? Look at that torch flickering, and see how the shadows dance on the dungeon wall."A murmur of approval."Gorgeous, isn't it. Fancy a go now?" I know the stunning visuals will tempt them. "The controls are simple. Double-  clicking the mouse makes you run, while pressing the tab key makes you target the enemy and, er, yes, a joypad would be far more enjoyable to use. But don't worry about the clumsy keys: after a little practice you'll be thrusting and parrying like a veteran."However, one look at the character selection screen, complete with Tukaram the Barbarian and Naglfar the Dwarf, and they seem to lose heart."Yes, I know it's fantasy cliche, but give it a chance."They leave.It seems that innovative combat and some of the most impressive PC graphics ever are not enough. A shame, as Severance is too good for just the hardcore fraternity. (GH)Kingdom Under FirePC 	&#163;29.99 Phantagram		**Few genres have been flogged to death so viciously as the RTS (real time strategy) game. For the past five years, publishers have been banging out games about mining resources, building lots of tanks and charging headlong at the enemy, but significant advances over the original Command &amp; Conquer remain few and far between.Kingdom Under Fire attempts to bring a touch of role-playing to the mix, by including heroes who can be dispatched on individual quests to accumulate some of the 60 or so magical spells. In theory, protecting these units adds another level to the gameplay. Sadly, with KUF, the extra weight is enough to bring the whole structure tumbling down.For a start the graphics are small and only viewable in a single 2D resolution. Admittedly, they do improve later on, with flying dragons making for some thrilling aerial bombardments, but this is still not a patch on Total Annihilation: Kingdoms, itself badly flawed and now more than two years old.Worse still is a fiddly interface where mouse clicks are frequently ignored and every skirmish turns into a prolonged struggle against the   intelligence of your own men. If units are cornered, they often refuse to retreat or fall over each other. Your heroes thus become all important and, with no mid-level save, later missions almost encourage you to slaughter your own men in order to gain extra hero experience.In fairness, some of these problems have already been fixed with a patch and the game is keenly priced. But KUF is still a hotch-potch of half-developed ideas from a   newish developer too influenced by the Warcraft titles.More seriously, the RTS is fast going the way of the platform game: a popular genre being used far too often to prop up sub-standard ideas. Yes, you could level similar criticism at mega-hits like Tiberian Sun and Red Alert 2, but at least these were executed with panache. Style over substance can often be forgiven; having neither is a bit harder to swallow.  (MA)Tokyo Highway Challenge 2Sega Dreamcast	&#163;39.99 Genki/Ubi Soft	***Boy racers start here. Soup up your boxy Japanese car with a custom plate, decals, new bumpers and spoilers, and a range of performance tweaks. Then you can hit the roads,   flashing your headlights at other drivers, challenging them to short races. You can spend the winnings on improving your car, eventually buying less brick-like models.The tweaking is great and takes place on screen in real time: change the wheels on the spec and the wheels change on the car. You can also design your own decals.The use of shadows and specular reflections means the game sometimes looks great, though all the racing   takes place in the dark on boring flyovers or in boring tunnels on boring urban expressways. Japanese road signs and markings add the merest touch of glamour to what is otherwise a dull scene. Basically there's only one track, and it is not very long.Unfortunately, the racing is not very exciting, and there is not even a two-player mode to rescue what quickly becomes a samey game.The other problem with Genki's game is that what was original when the first version   appeared on the Sony PlayStation looks much less striking now. Games such as Metropolis Street Racer and F355 Challenge mean urban driving is not the novelty it was. Nor are high-resolution car graphics, reflections and motion blur enough to sustain long-term interest, especially if they are the reason the action sometimes slows almost to a halt.This isn't a bad game, by any means. It is just not good enough.  (JS)
A young Dutchman confessed yesterday to having engineered the Anna Kournikova computer virus that brought chaos to millions of machines around the world this week, saying he believed that the Russian tennis star deserved the extra attention.The computer bug, which has been compared to the "I Love You" virus that paralysed 45m computers last year, asked anyone who received it to click on a file attachment which appeared to be a picture of the 19-year-old athlete.When they did so, the virus   entered the recipient's email address book and sent itself to everyone on the list, jamming computer servers worldwide.The unidentified 20-year old Dutchman is thought to go by the hacker nickname "On The Fly".He has argued on a Dutch website that he carried out the cyber attack "just because I am a big fan of hers &#91;Kournikova&#93;. She deserves some attention, doesn't she?"Bizarrely, he also claimed to have wanted to warn internet users about the risks of computer viruses. "I never wanted to harm the people who opened the attachment," he   wrote. "But after all, it's their own fault they got infected."Concerned about the impact his stunt was causing as it spread he told his parents in the northern Dutch town of Sneek what he had done and then turned himself over to the local police.He could face a four-year jail sentence if the Dutch authorities decide to charge him with damaging computer software and property.The police moved swiftly to confiscate all of his computer equipment for further investigation, but decided to release him on bail pending a decision on whether to charge him.
Music lovers and film buffs will continue to be allowed to make private copies of their favourite songs or movies after the European parliament yesterday agreed Europe-wide internet piracy legislation.In a vote that attracted ferocious lobbying from all sides, MEPs approved a copyright directive that will ensure European clones of song-swapping website Napster can be swiftly shut down through legal action.But they rejected calls from the music industry to outlaw reasonable private copying for personal use   and opted to strike a balance between the interests of the entertainment industry and consumers."This is a victory for common sense," said Labour MEP Arlene McCarthy. "We've voted to neither legalise electronic theft nor to criminalise consumers, and no major amendments to UK copyright law will now be needed.""It's about defending rights we take for granted in the UK. It's about making a copy of Big Brother on Friday to watch on Saturday. And making a copy of your favourite CD for your own use."British MEPs successfully defended their domestic   status quo on private copying in the face of lobbying from countries keen to impose a levy on blank video and audio tapes. Libraries, schools, universities and other educational and charitable institutions will be allowed to copy intellectual property for their purposes.The actors' union Equity and four other trade organisations had been concerned that MEPs would vote through amendments that might cheat them of income and amounted to "legalised theft".One clause which was defeated yesterday would have allowed broadcasters to use archive material on   websites or digital TV and pay only minimal royalties to writers and actors involved.The music industry, which lined up stars to lobby on its behalf including Irish pop group the Corrs, Beatles producer Sir George Martin, Sting and Dave Stewart, yesterday said it could live with the new legislation."There are enough elements here for the industry to speed up the offering of music to consumers in a wider range of ways," said Jay Berman of the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry.
Streaming madnessI went to the BBC Education website to study one of the languages there. However, I am unable to access the audio and/or video sections. The prompt to "save to disk" is successful and files appear as icons on the desktop. Clicking on Open File, however, brings up a warning message: "Access to the device, path, or file is denied". I am running Windows 98. How can I access programs of this type?June RaynerJune.Rayner@tesco.netJack Schofield replies:The files are in RealMedia format, so you must install the free RealMedia player, RealPlayer 8 Basic, fromwww.real.com/player/index.html?src=010207realhome_2(they make it hard to find: look in   the grey band just above the Gold Pass box).Unfortunately, RealPlayer will only allow you to view these audiovisual files as they are "streamed" to your computer. You cannot save them and watch offline, which would be more convenient. If you "save" a file, it is only a pointer, not the file itself.Streamboxwww.streambox.comsolved this problem by launching a test version of a VCR program that let users capture RealMedia streams. However, RealNetworks responded with a lawsuit that led to it being withdrawn.Streambox VCR was a bit tricky to use. You had to start the RealMedia file, then look on your hard drive for the "stub" for that stream, usually in the Temporary Internet Files folder. Opening the stub in (say) Notepad showed the origin of the stream. For example, the greatCoca Cola Hilltop advertmight have an address such as rtsp://rmserv1.loc.gov/ammem/ccmp/komt1600.rmCopy that address to Streambox VCR and you could capture the streaming file and save it to disk, where it could be played at any time.The legal and financial settlement between RealNetworks and Streambox, announced late last year, should enable Streambox to produce a version of VCR that respects copy protection in streamed RealMedia. As far as I know, it has yet to appear.The internet being what it is, copies of Streambox VCR version 1.2 are being circulated underground in a "cracked" version. Obviously   no one would want to use that. Equally, no one would want to use the non-cracked version either, as it registers your name and email address with Streambox's server.In the meantime, you could always ask the BBC to provide files that can be downloaded (eg avi or mpg files), or use a different streaming format, such as Microsoft's ASF. A program calledASF Recorderallows streaming format (asf/asx) files to be captured using a similar approach to Streambox VCR.UnreadableI have collected on disk several pages of a book in PDF files, but the screen image is nearly unreadable. Using Acrobat Reader 2.1, I find that I can only print a few lines from a page. I cannot select the text by highlighting it in the usual way, so I   cannot copy the text to Word. I cannot even print the screen using the Print Screen key and transferring the text to WordPad. I should value any comments you may have.Leslie HallLEdwinHall@care4free.netJS:Adobe's PDF (Portable Document Format) works well for converting things like brochures into digital files. Sadly, it is awkward for word processed text - unless the document's owner wants to prevent you from changing it. This may also stop you doing things such as searching the text, filing it in a database, using a screen reader to voice it, or converting it to Braille.You may make better progress if you upgrade to the latest Acrobat Reader 4, which isavailable onlineor on computer magazine cover   discs. However, in this case, it sounds as though the files do not contain any text at all, just low-quality scanned images (bitmaps) of pages.Adobe is well aware that PDF files may be inaccessible to people with less than perfect eyesight, so it provides ways to convert them to plain text or web format (HTML). You can do this by entering the web address of a PDF file, by mailing the file to Adobe's server, or by downloading Acrobat Access for Windows and converting it yourself (there is no Mac version). Either way, multicolumn texts may not convert properly, and texts in non-Roman alphabets will not convert at all. Seehttp://access.adobe.com/tools.htmlfor details.Of course, if the PDF file is password protected, you cannot convert it without the password. A quicker and easier solution is simply to delete PDF files when they arrive.Time slipsIs it possible to set a limit on the number of minutes/ hours that I can play Patience or Minesweeper, other than by using non-existent self-control?Julian Dunneisendora@compuserve.comJS:After I answered this question (January 18), I heard about a new program that does what you want. It is called PC Time Cop, and it is distributed by Access Technology Group. You can download a beta test (trial) copy fromwww.parental-control-software.comorwww.pctimecop.co.ukReader tipsMany thanks to all the readers who wrote in with additional information about various points. On the topic of keyboard shortcuts, Peter Rowland recommends the guide to Microsoft Word 97 shortcuts athttp://support.microsoft.com/support/kb/articles/Q157/9/35.asp, while Mike Hurden recommends downloading a free copy ofWinKey. This lets you create your own "Windows + another" key combinations. Finally, several readers suggesteFaxas a way of receiving faxes by email, instead ofYac. It also allows you to send faxes.
The phenomenal success of Hotmail, Napster and the instant messaging service, ICQ has proved how companies can attract new users much faster through the internet than they can using traditional off-line advertising. What is less clear is exactly how such rapid, word-of-mouth growth is achieved.In an attempt to explain this unique ability of the internet to accelerate interest in a product, venture capitalist Steve Jurveston coined the term 'viral marketing' in a 1997 Netscape newsletter.Jurvetson, who helped to finance the free email service Hotmail, had clearly witnessed the power of viral marketing at close range. By Christmas 1996, within a year of its launch, Hotmail had 10m registered users. At that time, such phenomenal growth had not occurred anywhere else in media history.Furthermore, this unprecedented performance had been achieved with a marketing budget of just $50,000 (needless to say, this was before Microsoft bought the   company). Hotmail's fast-track success was not the result of an extensive advertising campaign, either online or offline. Instead, it has been attributed to a decision made by another Hotmail seed investor, Tim Draper.Draper was adamant that every email sent by a Hotmail user should incorporate the following message: "Get your free Web based email at Hotmail". By clicking on this line of text, the recipient would be transported to the Hotmail home page. While this message would not have had much effect at the foot of an email sent by the company itself, when sent by a friend or relative it made an impact, confirming Marshall McLuhan's belief that the medium validates the message. The very act of sending a   Hotmail message constituted an endorsement of the product and so the current customer was selling to future customers just by communicating with them. The recipients of a Hotmail message learnt not only that the product works, but also that their friend is a user.Jurveston now believes that a viral marketing component must be built into the DNA of every internet company in order for it to succeed. "I can't think of any dot.com that I'd consider that doesn't come with a viral marketing element," he says. Jurveston also cites Metcalfe's Law to illustrate the viral effect of word of mouth on the net.According to Metcalfe's Law, the value of a network increases as the square of the number of users connected to it. This law of increasing returns evidently applies to viral marketing in a way that it does not apply to offline word of mouth publicity. This is because, for better or worse, people are more connected in cyberspace than they are in the real world. As Seth Godin writes in his e-book, Unleashing the Ideavirus: "With word    of mouse you can tell 100 friends, or 1,000 friends. Because the numbers are larger and faster than they are offline, the virus grows instead of slows." (Seewww.ideavirus.com)While the most vocal proponents of viral marketing are to be found in the US, over the past year many companies in the UK have been successfully adopting viral techniques. Last summer, for instance, Thomas Cook, generated 250,000 new customers through its Weekend Breaks email marketing campaign, while rival travel operator Lastminute.com achieved similar results with its PDA-based Euro 2000 campaign.Islay Malt, which makes Laphroaig malt whisky, used a viral marketing campaign to boost awareness of the brand in the run up to Christmas. Four different e-Christmas cards were distributed to 7,000 UK members of Friends of Laphroaig. According to the company, more than 40% of those who received the email (which incorporated a link to the selection of e-cards) went on   to send a personalised copy to a friend. Michelle Pitts, brand director of Laphroaig, claims that the recipients "loved this distinctive approach, with almost 1,000 sending a card to a friend within three hours of the email being sent out".While these examples involve using deliberate direct marketing tactics in order to encourage recipients to pass on a marketing message to others, other companies take a more organic approach. For UK-based gambling site Flutter.com, which has built an online community on the concept of person-to-person betting, viral marketing occurs naturally and therefore needs little encouragement.Websites enabling consumers to engage with each other clearly have a head   start when it comes to generating recommendations. (This explains why the only dot.com to have received more consumer-to-consumer referrals than Hotmail is file-swapping music site Napster.)It is important to remember, however, that word-of-mouth can travel in two directions. Although many people find the term 'viral marketing' offensive, it not only suits the infectious nature of network enhanced word of mouth, but also conjures up its negative potential.By losing control of the marketing message, companies are at the mercy of online opinion. If customers have a bad experience of a certain product, word can spread at alarming speed. As The Cluetrain Manifesto states: "The networked market knows more than companies do about their own products. And whether the news is good or bad, they tell everyone."This is not to say that viral marketing should be discouraged. Indeed, viral marketing occurs whether a company wants it to or not - via email, Usenet discussion groups, consumer opinion sites such   as E-pinions.com, and other interactive forums.The only way companies can limit viral marketing's negative capacity is, paradoxically, by openly embracing it. By making it easy for conversations between customers to occur, companies will be satisfying the internet user's primary objective: to interact with other people."It's imperative to stop marketing at people," says Godin. "The idea is to create an environment where consumers will market to each other."This view is supported by John Owrid, a management partner at UK direct marketing agency Ogilvy One, which opened a virtual marketing unit last August."As the net's infrastructure gets stronger, viral marketing gets easier and the rewards for those who can do it properly, get bigger," he says.Viral marketing therefore completely reverses standard promotional methods such as TV advertising and web banners. Instead of excluding the customer from the creation of a marketing message, once initiated, viral marketing cuts   the role of the company to that of a passive bystander. Ultimately, this has a democratising effect on the whole marketing process."One of the beautiful things about viral marketing is that all these mechanisms only work when you're talking about a good product," says Emanuel Rosen, author of The Anatomy of Buzz.However, for companies with confidence in their product, viral marketing can prove more effective than web banners and interruptive forms of advertising. By drawing the customer into the selling process, companies are not only stretching their marketing budgets further, but are also acknowledging the way in which the net has radically redefined the notion of marketing itself.
Picture the scene. You have just had a brilliant idea for a new business utilising the still hugely unexplored potential of mobile phones. It doesn't matter what the idea is. It could be anything from a multi-player quiz game to a treasure hunt making use of the fact that soon your phone will not only know who you are but also where you are.With a bit of luck your idea could earn you some money and in the process create new jobs. And if enough people devise other wireless-based projects it could give birth to a new industry that could put Britain at the leading edge of an exploding technology.The trouble is, as things stand at the moment, there is no way you can make any money out of it. Why? Because there is someone in the middle - your friendly telephone company (telco) - which is creaming off all the income. If your project involves the participants making a phone call then the telco collects the whole cost of the call. If it also involves sending out text messages to the caller then you could be caned for up to 10p a message (with discounts for bulk purchases).In other words, from the start your project is doomed because you have to do all the work, put up all the money - and invest your intellectual property rights - while telcos such as BT and Vodafone collect all the income. Yet the phone calls wouldn't have been made in the first place if you hadn't invested you time and money in your idea. Something wrong, surely.The telcos will argue that they had to invest in the capacity so why shouldn't they collect the money - especially at the moment when they are sagging under the costs, running into tens of billions of pounds, of bidding for radio spectrum for the third round of mobile phones. They have a point.But the fact is that when they laid down all that capacity they hadn't a clue that text messaging would   explode into one of the fastest growing industries of all time - with approaching a billion messages already being sent monthly in Britain. The same could be said of emailing years ago when that unexpectedly took off. And even if they had foreseen it they shouldn't be allowed to smother a nascent new industry at birth which could have given a vital boost to economic growth.Things are starting to change but not nearly fast enough. If you are big and successful enough (and have the negotiating power to take your business elsewhere) then the telcos will reluctantly agree a revenue sharing agreement allowing you to keep a percentage (usually a very small one) of the cost of the telephone call. If you can combine that with buying cheap text messages in bulk then you might be able to defray the costs of the text messages but little else.All this is extremely myopic on the part of the telcos. It is not the successful companies with bargaining power that are at risk but the small start-ups who haven't got any clout but whose businesses will wither on the vine unless the telcos move into the 21st century.All they have to do is stop thinking like traditional telcos (ie squeezing as much money as they can out of the transmission capacity they dominate) and start thinking about encouraging new sources of growth in future.If only they would think long-term they would realise that they stand to gain far more revenue in future from encouraging new industries that would not otherwise exist than they would from milking existing customers.But asking a company like BT to change its spots is easier said than done. BT should look to Japan for inspiration. Over there, the giant telephone company NTT DoCoMo's i-mode revenue-sharing model for mobile applications is one of the reasons for its runaway success - and why so much "content" is being sold.It is vital to do this otherwise the next stage of the information revolution (wireless, wireless, wireless) won't deliver the wealth-creating potential it is capable of. Telcos in the UK are desperately trying to turn their portals into fortresses behind which they can shelter their own content providers. But   instead of amassing their own tied content providers they should be throwing their doors open to the new generation of developers. And if they don't then the regulators should separate their "common carrying" function from the provision of content.This is a conflict of interest at the heart of the information revolution that must be resolved. It is the reason AOL has merged with Time-Warner - in order to build an electronic fortress in which the company owns the medium and the content (whether cable, satellite or wireless) that passes through it.The trouble with the mainstream internet at the   moment - as the continuing collapse of the consumer-based dot.coms daily re-affirms - is that no one has worked out a way of making an honest penny out of it without resorting to monopolisation. Mostly, this is good. The mutuality of the internet - whereby individuals and organisations freely exchange information - is this century's equivalent of one of the Wonders of the World.But the "free-for-all" philosophy doesn't make a good business model. If entrepreneurs are to build successful businesses and employ more people then they must be able to see a revenue stream enabling them to make profits.It is one of the central weaknesses of the business-to-consumer side of the internet that no one has yet worked out a universal formula for doing that. It would be tragic if we repeat the same mistake during the wireless revolution. But unless attitudes change quickly, we will, we will.
Since the start of February, all of the UK's cellular networks have started charging each other three pence for inter-network SMS text messages.While these charges will roughly cancel each other out in respect of text messages sent by the mobile networks' own subscribers, it spells doom for the wealth of web portals that offer free internet-to-SMS text messaging services.Already,SMS BoyandTotalisehave closed their web-to-SMS services, and other web portals are weighing their options.You can't blame the networks, as the success of SMS text messaging has caught them unawares, with around 70 million messages being handled in the UK every month. Originally, SMS text messages were a useful extra source of revenue for the suppliers, using spare capacity on the network.The sheer volume of messages, however, has placed a heavy load on the networks, which are already strained at peak times because of significant volumes of voice calls.Coupled with the need to spend extra money on SMS computer centres to handle all this text messaging traffic, the inter-network charge is a logical way of slowing down the growth of SMS messages.Consumers do not have to knuckle down and pay the 10p per message that the networks charge for mobile-originated SMS, rather than use the freebie web portal services.For one thing, non-UK web portals continue to exist and will allow UK- bound text messages, since most of them do not pay the 3p text messaging charge to the UK networks.This is because only a few   European cellular carriers have agreed with BT Cellnet, One 2 One, Orange and Vodafone to pay the inter-network SMS charges on UK-bound text messages.Secondly, if your organisation sends a lot of text messages, you can talk toXtempus, the first of a new breed of text messaging intermediaries to send high volume two-way messages across Europe easily and cost-effectively.Xtempus's service for high volume text messaging is already operational in the UK, and will be rolled out in France, Germany, Spain and Italy within the next few months.For humbler SMS text messengers, web portals that can still be used include theLycosservice, as well as foreign portals inBelgiumandSwitzerland. The Swiss service operates on a pay-to-use basis with modest fees.Free web-to-SMS services come and go with surprising regularity. A quick search through your favourite search engine, such aswww.google.comorwww.excite.co.ukwill reveal the latest additions.There are other routes for text messages, too. Web sites to explore for further information include:www.dogphone.comwww.excell.towww.iwap.comwww.n-systems.comwww.smsyes.netwww.winsms.com
Gameplay rejig in storeGameplay is shedding 275 staff and has closed the eight high street stores it picked up late last year. (The shops were owned and staffed by Dixons.) In the restructuring, Gameplay is being divided   into two divisions: technology and boxed software. Although the company is best known for its online service, which includes what was BT's Wireplay, the latter generates most of the company's income.French kissBruno Bonnell's Infogrames, Europe's biggest games company, says its quarterly revenues have grown by 26% to $325.5m. The company made a profit of $16.5m, compared to a loss of $118.0m for the same period last year. Driver 2 was a particular success, selling more than two million copies.Ubi Soft, another French games giant, reported that its sales jumped by 49% to   &euro; 114.4m. Growth was fuelled by the acquisition of Italy's 3D Planet and America's Red Storm. Successes included Disney Dinosaur and Donald Duck: Quack Attack.Game overCNet is closing its GameCentre website, which has been online more than four years. It has lost out to its    rival, ZD Net's GameSpot, which CNet acquired along with the Ziff Davis publishing empire. The zine's last issue includes the games of the year for 2000 with comments from GamerX ("but don't worry - he wrote them before he found out he'd been fired"). Staff who had been anonymous are finally givencreditswith each brief bio being followed by a shopper-friendly "Add to your cart" symbol.Group therapyBritish video game developers have formed TIGA, The Independent Games Developers Association (the D is silent). The aim is to share opinions   on things like mobile gaming, and to co-ordinate actions, such as lobbying for government support.SmashingVirtua Tennis is already one of the best games on the Sega Dreamcast, and the sequel will pack a much bigger promotional punch: Venus and Serena Williams have signed up to endorse it. The game is expected to appear in November. The inferior competition includes Anna Kournikova Smash Court Tennis on the Sony PlayStation. Martina Hingis, who recently beat both Williams sisters, remains without a videogame to her name.
It wasn't meant to be like this. By now computers were supposed to have turned us into a bunch of geeks, so used to huddling over our screens we could barely communicate with only our anoraks for comfort. Instead, people have subverted new technology and used it to find more and more ways to share saucy jokes and expand their network of friends.There has been a huge boom in the use of email and text messaging. Last month a Guardian/ICM poll found text messaging had taken off astonishingly quickly since it was introduced in 1992, with 43% of adults using it, and 76% of all 18 to 24 year olds. Email use is proving just as popular a tool. Like most such phenomena, the attraction might not be initially clear but you soon get sucked in.Alice Thompson, 23, is a fan of both. She is known as the Text Queen to her friends and says she sends between five and 10 messages a day.   There's a certain tribalism in the way she uses it to rally friends for a night out, sending out a clarion call to meet."My friends and I take our phones out with us and send messages to other friends saying, 'We're in this club and it's really good. Come and meet us'," she said. "It means we don't have to spend ages planning a night out. You can send the same message to everyone."It is also a great tool for relieving office boredom, in the human resources department of the company where she works, by sharing secret messages and passing jokes along the cyber grapevine. Alice has found text messaging has given a fillip to her   flirting skills too."If there is a guy I like I find it easier to send text messages rather than phone him up," she said. "I just banter with them and forward funny jokes. Because we're not face to face I can be cheeky and a bit abusive!"There is one guy, and I did not know him that well, but we've started to text message each other and that's how we communicate. He is a friend of a friend and I would never have phoned him up but this way it's not intimidating."It's just a bit of flirting. I have met him for a drink a few times but we have probably kept the friendship going through text messaging."There are other benefits. Messaging help Alice keep in touch with old school friends she would probably have lost contact with if it wasn't so easy to send a message saying "Hi, thinking of you" rather than having to compose a long letter. All her friends have text message-friendly phones and at work Alice uses email and    internet sitewww.boltblue.comthrough which you can send text messages too.It seems these new forms of communication have filled a gap, offering something that face to face conversation does not. After research into how people use new technology, psychologist Professor Pam   Briggs, of the University of Northumbria, believes people have embraced them because they offer a chance to present yourself the way that you want to and be a bit more playful."Some say workplace email depersonalises and can aggravate relationships between colleagues. Some companies   advise managers only to use it to pass on basic factual information because more personal instructions can be misinterpreted," she said."The trouble is, this does not fit well with the way people use it. People seem to really enjoy text messaging and emailing their friends and colleagues. They can take their time shaping their message and play with it more, pasting in jokes and little bits of video clips and so on."People have gone on to text messaging rather than using the one-to-one communication of speaking on the phone to each other. That is partly because you can choose when you want to respond to someone."It's a new form of communication that is fundamentally different from anything you can have face to face."The fact email and text messaging are both short and quick is a big part of the attraction. Many people find them more informal than making a phone call or writing a letter, and so simpler to use.Tony Bayham, who works shifts at a printers, found it   hard to meet new people after his divorce but is convinced an email chat-up is easier and more fun than any other. He met his partner Kathy Hammond on the net, through the dating agency DatingDirect. com, and they courted by email before meeting up.Both had joined the agency around the same time last summer and submitted a profile to be pinned up on the website. Tony read Kathy's and found that they were both divorced with children and keen to get out of the house more. Eager to find out more, Tony sent an email entitled Romance and asked her to look at his profile on the site and email back.She wrote back within hours, told him about her family and clerical job and asked about his. In their first few emails they discovered they both lived in Swindon, had mutual friends and went to the same school. Then they swapped surnames and realised they used to hang around together when they were teenagers, and only lived a mile apart.A few emails later, Kathy gave Tony her phone number   and they sat up talking until late at night. They met up two days later, last July, and have been together ever since. Tony said it helped that they could bat their cyber chat back and forth quickly, rather than having to rely on snail mail."Things moved quickly because we could exchange so much information so fast," Tony said. "In email, especially for a man, you can say things that you wouldn't say face to face. I told her I was looking for a partner and wrote about what sort of relationship I wanted. If you are face to face you see a reaction in someone and it can put you off."We emailed each other two or three times a day when we started off. It was general chat but also some serious stuff about our divorces and children."Their email relationship turned conventional dating rules on their head. They shared a lot of personal information about past loves before they even thought to describe each other. Many of their romantic interchanges, then and now, were just routine chitchat they could have been exchanging over the breakfast table. The nice difference was that getting these messages at work showed how much they were thinking of each other even when apart."Now we text each other and send emails all the time. Sometimes we text each other every five minutes. Other days, we might just send a couple of messages," Tony said."It starts off with a 'Good morning and what's work   like?', then 'What are you doing later?', 'What do you fancy for tea?', 'Shall I bring a bottle of wine?'. Then just gossip about people at work. I also get jokes sent to me by Kathy and her dirty-minded friends so I've sent text messages back to them before I've met them too."We email each other too and I've kept a lot of the ones I've had from Kathy. They're special to me," Tony said.Most people see little difference in using email or text messaging, though easily portable mobiles are used far more outside of work.Annabelle Rose, who teaches at a London sixth form college, uses email and text messaging to keep in touch with her pupils. They often email or text her with queries about their work. It helps break down hierarchies."It is easier for them to approach me that way, whereas they might be nervous about interrupting me in my office," she said. "With teenagers there is that whole thing about confidence so they find it easier to contact me by text messaging. It's sometimes like a form of half communication, where they text message me to pave the way for a full conversation."I have always given my number out to students and said to call me if they have any problems. But no one ever did until text messaging started taking off a couple of years ago."They have developed their own lingo as well, which can be a bit of a problem as they have started using these abbreviations in their normal writing, like writing 'tomoro' for tomorrow."But they are always polite. If I text them back answering their queries they always send another message saying 'Thanks', even though it's not really necessary."I like email because it has helped me to keep in touch with other teachers, too. There aren't many sociology teachers in sixth forms so when a few of us met up at a conference I helped set up a network so we could email each other with new resources. Text and email are the best tools I have found for keeping in touch."With an ear to the cyber grapevine, programme makers have caught on too. Text messaging forms the basis of a new show on MTV which began earlier this month (February 5) called Videoclash, in which viewers can use text messaging to vote for their choice of video. Makers of the interactive show say 10 acts a day will go head-to-head, maybe reflecting musical rivalries like Oasis's Liam Gallagher and Robbie Williams, or battles to land the number one slot.And all the figures suggest it is here to stay. More than 70m text messages are sent each month in the UK and the number is rising ten-fold each year. The heaviest users are people under 24 who often send 10 messages every day and rarely use their mobile phones to make a phone call. There are even plans for a text-only handset.It helps that it is cheap, at around 8p a go, and remarkably trendy in a way mobile phones were never expected to be. Even Zoe Ball says she loves to text. Britney Spears gave email a similar boost with reports she used it to woo Prince William.Computers and mobile phones are fast becoming must-have gadgets for children. And all because it is passe to pass secret notes in class when you can send them through cyberspace.Portals step in to give mobile users a voice in the wider world of the webIn the dizzying world of new technology, brands can still become successful and well known in a fraction of the usual time, often relying largely on word of mouth to advertise. It has only taken seven months for Boltblue to claim to be the largest mobile portal in the UK with more than 2m registered users.The site, atwww.boltblue.com, offers free email and text messaging across all mobile networks. Users only pay their normal text messaging charge. The company also offers news, weather, travel and entertainment services. And its ring tone and icon down loads have proved popular as mobile phones evolve from practical tools into personalised accessories.Boltblue is one of a clutch of portals that have sprung up as text messaging has taken off, to link mobile phone users and the internet and enable users to send messages between the two.Chief executive Michael Brown said the mobile market has developed way beyond "mere" voice communications. "Boltblue was one of the first to recognise and meet this need," he said. "The mix of content we provide has enabled us to overtake household names."Another company that was quick to recognise the potential of SMS and offer services to help develop it is Austrian company UCP (universal communication platform), which offers free text messaging via the portalwww.uboot.com.It announced &euro;36.8m in financing from Deutsche Telekom in September and last month signed a   co-operation agreement with One 2 One.It claims that its registered users have more than doubled in five months, from 750,000 in September to 2m across Europe by the end of January, and it is adding new ones at a rate of 18,000 a day.As well as two-way web-to-mobile messaging using a nickname which allows anonymity, Uboot offers special features such as buddy lists - enabling users to send one text message to up to 10 mates for the price of one message. It also advertises chatrooms and facilities to set up your   own personal web page so you can "download your best picture, sit back and watch the e-flirts flood in".It kicked off with a preview party in Ibiza last summer, sponsored Madonna's Brixton gig webcast and plans to sponsor innovative music and extreme sports events to increase its profile among predominantly young text message fanatics.It has been dubbed "the Hotmail for the mobile generation" and it has developed into a leading player in Germany and Austria, and is edging into the Middle East, with an office in Amman.
Why struggle   to college through   traffic and torrential rain at ungodly hours when you can learn whatever, whenever and wherever you want on the web? The surge of small dot.com companies offering instant learning   solutions makes this achievable in theory. What's more, the DfEE is funding the development of an e-university. But can people really learn on their own at a computer?Publishers trying to penetrate the lucrative internet education market think so. They are investing serious money in a race to upload bits of knowledge that would   produce tailor-made courses for any student at the click of a mouse. In this edutopia, a student would select a topic and then work happily, with ongoing automated feedback, through a personally designed syllabus and end up with a qualification suited to the topic and validated by a training council or university.The success of this venture depends not only on being able to organise knowledge into chunks that can be turned into individualised courses, but also on people becoming independent, autonomous learners. Based on present understanding of human beings and the ways they learn, both are pretty unlikely. But interesting   spin-offs are emerging, and web-learning opportunities are just the ticket for quick, just-in-time, I-need-to-learn-this-now situations.   Sites such aswww.learnhow.com,http://learn.co.uk,www.learn2.comorwww.click2learn.com, will teach you anything from how to iron a shirt to how to use Microsoft Explorer.Atwww.iLearn.To, a search engine builds a profile of your learning needs using artificial intelligence, and the company promises that the more you use it, the more it gives you exactly what you want. It even sends new information to your desktop every time you log on to the net.A company that wants to train its staff rapidly might contactwww.nelsoncroom.co.uk,www.ftknowledge.com,www.blueU.com,www.digitalthink.com,www.knowledgeplanet.com,www.ecollege.com/student/myecollege.cgi,http://corp.embark.com,http://fuelgb.comand many others for good, quick business courses.An EU-funded project to bring longer and more substantial web courses to small and medium-sized enterprises is currently offering them free in such areas as e-commerce, innovation management, supply chain management and evenpolymer engineering.More and more colleges are putting their courses online, led by theUniversity for Industry, which is operating a nationwide scheme calledlearndirect.The BBC and commercial TV channel operators are also offering courseware of all kinds, an area ready to explode as the difference between television sets and computers shrinks. On top of all this, the Wap phone is in the picture, too. We may all soon find we never again have an excuse not to learn something.  Art enthusiasts with no time for a conventional course will find one of the best being run by the City   Literary Institute jointly   with the Tate Modern (VisualArts@Citylit.ac.uk).This offers wonderful videos of the gallery, excellent explanatory talks about the art works, and a discussion area where learners from all over the world and tutors can share thoughts and questions. What is more, they will send a CD to anyone without the equipment to play the films and graphics live on the net.If you would like to create your own web learning site to teach your special subject or hobby, trywww.moonfruit.com, which offers a neat set of templates for putting material into web pages.Another helpful site iswww.tourbar.com.  The question is: do we really want to abandon classrooms in favour of this kind of thing? The evidence so far is that most of us will do so when we are in a hurry to find out about something for work or leisure. But we have to be exceptionally well-motivated to keep up the effort for a whole course. Most of us   keep making excuses, put it off, and finally abandon   the enterprise.What keeps us going in online college study courses are the social factors that can be built in. These make learning a pleasant group activity, with plenty of collaboration and help from teachers. The internet has made communication between people easier than it ever was. So the courses that put knowledge and people together are the ones most likely to succeed.There are many ways of doing this, from simple email and live chat to sophisticated computer conferences like FirstClass, WebCT or Oracle'shink.com. But until everyone has highly sophisticated equipment and fast access to the internet, it is unrealistic to think of a truly virtual school or university.But it will come. The convergence of TV and computing has made it inevitable. When it does eventually happen, we could be led into a virtual learning place in the same way as we are led into places where computer games are played out. Then we would feel as if we in a classroom with other people. Despite lingering problems, such as the lack of people with real experience in the area, these are exciting challenges for teachers and learners that nobody can afford to ignore.&#149;Anita Pincasis senior lecturer in education at the Institute of Education, University of London and has been involved in online education for 12 years
For those who recall the Tomorrow's World programmes of the 60s and their laughably inaccurate visions of robots spinning round the floors of your average 80s apartment, homes of the future are best treated with some scepticism.Either they tend to be stuffed full of concept products from a designer's drawing board that will never see the light of day or else they are an excuse for corporate flag-waving. So it came as a pleasant surprise to visit Orange's home of the future, called Orange at Home, which neither feels like a left-over from the set of The Fifth Element nor a cheap publicity stunt to promote mobile phones.According to Mike 
Crawshaw, head of Orange's 
Consulting Group, the idea of its home is to use tried and tested technologies that can be upgraded later if necessary. "Our home is deliberately set in the near future, between 2003 and 2005, so it doesn't seem at all far fetched. It's a real behavioural research centre where we will assess what technology people like and what they don't like."Indeed, so seriously is Orange taking the project it is working with the universities of Surrey and Portsmouth to find an appropriate family to fill the home for six weeks to assess how real people will use the various technologies.
Unlike other homes of the future, Orange's "keeping it real" policy also meant opting for a typical, older-style house that ordinary people might live in.Several properties were viewed but the mobile phone giant eventually plumped for a detached 
Victorian farmhouse, now 
situated on the edge of a sprawling business park opposite Computacenter's UK headquarters in Hatfield, Hertfordshire. 
Working with interior designers Urban Salon, the house has, over the past six months, been updated for modern living. And while total investment on the project has already reached £2 million, Orange claims there is still a lot more work to do.From the outside the only indications that the house is not your typical 1850s period property are the newly-added conservatory, complete with solar panels (these generate around one third of the home's electricity) and the presence of round-the-clock security guards. 
Inside, however, it is a very different story: the house is packed with hundreds of state-of-the-art gadgets as well as the technologies that enable them all to communicate with one another. To adjust the heating and lighting, even run the bath water to the correct temperature and depth, the home's inhabitants can punch details into a Compaq iPaq  handheld PDA (personal digital assistant). 
This PocketPC uses a high-speed 1.5Mb/sec Wireless Lan (Local area network) connection to communicate directly with the home server located inside a converted cloakroom cupboard.Digital video and music can also be streamed either from the home server or in the usual way from the conventional AV devices (again, these are stuffed inside the cloakroom cupboard). A computer monitor in the main office provides access to the home's internet portal full of local information, and this can also display video pictures from TV or satellite or from various video cameras positioned around the home.If you are moving around the house, you can use the PDA to flick between different radio and TV stations and even adjust volumes and 
settings on the camouflaged outdoor hi-fi systems. 
Alternatively, for those less familiar with PDAs, the Orange home incorporates different display devices, including Panja touch-screen wall panels and large Hitachi LCD web tablets.Certain parts of the house, such as the kitchen, also offer voice-activated services and the plan is to extend this 
technology to all parts of the house over the next few months. Based on Orange's existing Wildfire voice mail technology, the current voice-activated system works with a clip-on microphone to enable users to bark instructions at the washing machine or coffee percolator. They respond after a delay of a few seconds."One area where voice activation may be particularly useful is in the home's gym," explains Crawshaw. "If you're busy on one of the machines, for example, you may want to instruct the home network to change TV channels or check the video camera in one of the bedrooms to make sure the baby's OK."Of course, control of the home devices is not confined to the home. Being a cellular network provider, Orange has not missed the opportunity to show how a mobile phone could be used to complement the in-house operating systems by providing control outside the home. For example, using Wap or conventional SMS text technology, all the home's devices can be accessed remotely by the user. Tap in a six-digit Pin number, user name and password into your mobile and it is possible to open the front door for another family member. 
(The home does not use 
conventional keys.)Alternatively, the mobile can be used to set the lighting and heating to appropriate levels for when you arrive home. With the advent of third-generation phone technology, one option may be to send images from the home's security cameras to the mobile phone.Clearly, the networked home presents a number of opportunities for companies like Orange. However, the key to success will be assessing which ones people are likely to use and which are likely to be consigned to the technology trash can. But one thing is certain: when the real family moves into the home in April, Orange should be in a much better position to predict the future than the Tomorrow's World research teams were back in the 1960s.
Dial M for MP3Siemens has become the first manufacturer to offer music fans a mobile phone with both a built-in MP3 player and removable storage. 
According to the maker, the big plus point of the SL45 is that its users are not limited to just using the 32MB card that accompanies the phone. They can also invest in a 64MB or 128MB multimedia card which, when slipped into their mobile, gives more than an hour or two hours, respectively, of MP3 music. Its rival MP3-playing phone, from Samsung and available via Virgin, has 32MB of storage embedded into the phone and has no upgrade slots.The downside of the SL45 is that listening to 32MB of MP3 music drains the phone of half its battery life - and that is without making any voice calls. 
In addition to its MP3-playing capabilities, the dual band SL45 features a host of personal organiser style functions. These include a digital voice recorder, currency 
converter and Microsoft 
Outlook-compatible address and calendar storage.
Other facilities include a Wap browser, seven games, and voice command and dialling. Talk time is rated at four hours, with standby around 170 hours.
The SL45 goes on sale in March via most networks, priced at around £250.TV on your LCDFancy keeping an eye on the cricket while working on your spreadsheets? LG is debuting a 15inch LCD TV that doubles as a PC monitor. 
Designed for use on a 
desktop, or as a rather flash portable, the LE-15A10 features a Nicam Stereo decoder, Teletext facilities and a PC connector. Also included is picture-in-picture technology so users can, in theory, surf the net, keep an eye on Countdown, and watch a DVD all at the same time.
The LE-15A10 is on sale now priced at around £1,000.Goodmans' goodiesBudget consumer electronics specialist Goodmans has pulled out a few surprises in its 2001 range. Most intriguing of all is its first digital camera, the £180 GCD206. The budget snapper not only features a 1.8inch LCD TFT monitor and an image resolution of 1.3 megapixels, but also sports an integrated MP3 player. The downside? Users will have to invest in larger storage capacity Compact Flash cards to hear those tunes since the one built in is only 2MB - enough for about half a track.Another surprise launch is the GCHF500 RF wireless (not Bluetooth) hands-free kit for mobile and domestic phones. The £80 unit has a transmission range of around five metres and with power derived from its Lithium-ion batteries allows a talk time of two hours.
The company is also hoping to spice up the portable DVD player market by introducing a micro sized player, the GDVD65, which is slightly bigger than the 
personal player touted by Sony, for around £180.Goodmans is also adding two new models to its range of personal CD players that can play back CD-roms with MP3 files. Its top-end model is the £90 CDMP370, due in March. This has a text recognition facility that automatically flashes up the name of the artist and the track of MP3 files. The cheaper model, the £70 CDMP340, goes on sale in June.
InterX's ambitious plans to build a British software group capable of rivalling in size the giant technology corporations in the US appeared to be in tatters yesterday following the   surprise resignation of its highly rated chief executive Philip Crawford.Shares in InterX slumped 60% as a stunned stock market attempted to digest the news that the former head of Oracle's European operations had quit and that disappointing sales of its internet software had prompted a strategic review of the business. The stock closed down 305p at 220p, a year after InterX raised &#163;50m in new funds at &#163;33 per share.Executive director and   founder Simon Barker has taken over Mr Crawford's role and refused to deny suggestions that Mr Crawford had quit following a bust up that had split the board. "I have the full support of the board and they have accepted Philip's resignation," he said.Mr Barker, who is one of a handful of entrepreneurs who founded the business and still own a majority of the shares, said InterX was not vulnerable to a takeover even though it is now valued at little more than the cash it has in the bank."There's no bloody way we're selling up because we know the value of what we have here," he said."No one likes having to hear that the chief executive has quit and we admit that we have yet to demonstrate our ability to scale the technology effectively. Every day that goes by I believe more and more passionately that we have a product that is completely next generation compared to what else is on the market."InterX's Bladerunner technology has taken five years to   develop and offers an opportunity to big companies, such as banks and media groups, that want to alter the route to their services or products through the internet. Bladerunner can work on any platform and with existing software if needs be.Despite its promise, Bladerunner has not yet sold in large volumes. InterX believes that by moving away from a direct selling approach and linking up with big software firms to utilise their sales channels it could cut costs.Mr Crawford took the helm at InterX last year after the company had decided to sell its core business of computer hardware distribution and concentrate on selling Bladerunner.He bought with him an extensive relationships with many of the major players in the global software industry and those were expected to be pivotal to InterX's ability to sell its products.
Bar humbugYou might say artist Scott Blake is scanning the possibilities of online images on his clever bar-code site atwww.geocities.com/barcodesite.   The lowly barcode aspires to high art as Blake takes cultural icons from Jesus to Ronald Reagan to Bill Gates, and renders them in bar codes. Appropriately, Andy Warhol gets the zebra-stripe treatment as well. There's a zoom feature that enables an extra close-up look at the structure of the images, and even the visitor counter is in the form of a bar-code.Body politicThe New Statesman'sFantasy Politics sitelets you create your own fantasy cabinet and submit it to their judging panel to win a bottle of booze. The judges' fantasy cabinet includes Harriet Harman as PM, Tony Benn as deputy PM and England rugby captain Martin Johnson as foreign secretary, with Prince William heading up culture and Eminem as treasury chief secretary. Competitors have also suggested Alan Greenspan, Bob the Builder and the Guardian's Polly Toynbee as ministers without portfolio. Wouldn't it be great to see them all in the same room at the same time?Skip offAre you a Palm fanatic? Blue Squirrel software in Utah has come up with a free program and a Palm portal calledSkipwirethat lets you download and manage Palm applications wirelessly - if your Palm is Internet-enabled. One advantage is that applications can be stored in a personal Skipwire account and reinstalled as needed, which keeps device memory clear. There are plenty of applications available directly from the site.Score drawAllegroassai is an Italian software company that markets music notation programs in five languages for composers and music students. Now, the company has created a portalwww.allegroassai.comwhere you can download a free application that lets you listen to digital scores archived on the site. The site also has other music resources, including a wide range of directories on topics such as genres, instruments, music organisations and performers.Smash hitIf the "blue screen of death" or the little Macintosh bomb has appeared once too often on your screen, you may need the computer hammer fromwww.computerhammer.com. A frustrated computer user is selling the 20-inch inflatable hammer on this website for $6.99 (Canadian). He says: "The Computer Hammer version 1.0 was designed specifically for striking computer screens when aggravation sets in." He is also holding a competition for the best - or perhaps that is worst - computer let-down story. Winners will receive an autographed computer hammer.Pay UKWeb users have not flocked to the idea of alternative online payment systems, but new company UK Smart is betting its "Smart creds" will do the job. The system is based on smart cards worth &#163;20, which can be bought from participating post offices around the country in the same way as pay-as-you-go cards for mobiles. Users sign up for a Smart Wallet account at theUK Smart websiteand load in the value by entering a 16-digit number from the card. Members can then spend their Smart creds at participating online vendors. These include Countrybookshop, Obsessions, Wicked Colours, e2save, Lush, Skates Direct, Top-up Shop, Fastbeat.com, Fashion Nightmare, Laden Online, Cap factory and Watch Heaven. The company hopes to attract under-18s without credit cards and those who prefer not to use credit cards online.New &amp; noted&#149; Virgin mobile customers can shop by Wap. Register atwww.virgin.com/mobile&#149; Maporama is offering maps and itineraries throughwww.WAPPUP.com&#149; The BBC's Good Homes site has had a spring cleaning:www.beeb.com/goodhomes* Make it personal with an email address of yourname@yoursurname fromwww.YOURemail.tvSix of the bestAnthropology sitesHuman rootswww.mnh.si.edu/anthro/humanoriginsAnthropology eMuseumhttp://emuseum.mankato.msus.eduPalaeolithic Diet Pagewww.panix.com~paleodietThe Dung Filewww.ualberta.ca/~abeaudoi/stuff/dung/human.htmThe Genus Homohttp://sciences.homepage.com/genus.htmNeanderthal Museumwww.neanderthal.de
Probably the biggest collection of unwanted files on a Windows 95/98/Me PC is the one in the Temporary Internet Files folder. These files are useful, of course: when you go "back" in Explorer, it is quicker to get the page from this cache than to fetch it again from the remote server. It is therefore a good idea to keep about 100 to 150 megabytes of space for internet files. But it is not a bad idea to clear them out once in a while, as part of a spring cleaning routine.There are two Microsoft-approved ways to empty the cache. The first is to run Disk Cleanup, the utility found in Start|Programs|Accessories|System Tools in Windows 98/Me. (This utility also   empties the Recycle Bin and the Temporary Files folder.) The more common way is to run Internet Explorer, select Tools| Options, and click the button marked Delete Files. This also lets you delete other "offline content", such as applets downloaded with web pages.After doing that, use the mouse to right-click on the Temporary Internet Files folder. You may well find it still contains anything from one to a hundred megabytes of files, or more, even if they are invisible.The problem is that Windows Explorer does not always tell the truth about the files that are stored on a hard drive, and Temporary Internet Files (and its sub- directories, with their random names) is one of those cases. The solution is to delete them from outside Windows - after making sure you have a working back-up of your drive.To do this, first go to the C:\Windows directory and make sure you do not have any files or directories that start with the letters TEMPOR, except for Temporary Internet Files. Next, go to Start|Shut Down and   click the bottom radio button, labelled Restart in MS-DOS mode. Your screen should now be black with a cursor showing the C: \WINDOWS&gt; prompt.Type the following (where ~ is the tilde sign, which may be next to the 1 key): deltree tempor~1and press Return. When asked, press Y (Return) to confirm that you want the directory deleted, and wait for the prompt to reappear. If you did not delete the cache from Windows first, this may take a very long time.At this point you can also delete any   "cookies" and a hidden file called index.dat. However, this will also delete information stored by websites on your PC, such as records of visits and preferences. Some of it may be important. If you still want to delete it, type cd cookies to change to the Cookies folder. The screen should now show C:\WINDOWS\COOKIES&gt; and if it doesn't, quit. If it does, type del *.* and press Return. Again, when asked, hit Y (yes, you do want to delete all the files).Finally, turn your   PC off then on again to restart Windows.Windows knows it should have a Temporary Internet Files folder, and an index.dat file in the Cookies folder, so it will recreate them automatically. However, the new index.dat file will probably be only 16K, and the new Temporary Internet Files folder should be about 32K.Please be very careful deleting files. DOS can be dangerous. Almost every DOS user has at some point typed del *.* in the wrong directory, and deleted dozens of vital files or even wiped out Windows. Don't come crying to me if you get it wrong, especially if you do not have all your program discs, and did not make and check your back-up first.There are, of course, a number of utilities that will help you clean up Windows, or (perhaps rashly) offer to do the job. Norton's CleanSweep is the best of the   ones I have tried. McAfee's QuickClean is one of many I have not. All such programs are potentially dangerous.There is also a free program, CleanUp 2.0, which can be downloaded from http://ourworld.compuserve. com/homepages/zeus/cleanup.htmlUnfortunately, it is out of date. It was written when Internet Explorer 4.x and Netscape Navigator 4.x were the standard browsers, and has not been updated for the latest versions.Having removed lots of unwanted files, following the routines described in the past two columns, it only remains to complete the job. This is done by scanning and defragmenting the hard drive.Run Scandisk first, by selecting it from Start| Programs|Accessories| System Tools|Scandisk. Finally run the Disk Defragmenter program from the same directory. This takes all the different parts of each program file, which may be scattered across the hard drive, and collects them together, producing a slight increase in disk performance.
Keep tryingRe Mike Anderiesz's article about trying to get your music promoted on the net (Online, February 8); I think he gave up too soon.At any rate, his information on MP3.com is misleading. It is possible to get showcased on MP3.com by joining an NMA - this stands for New Musical Army - and is an innovative way to have your music promoted. In essence, NMAs are virtual promotion companies_ they exist as a website but actively promote their artists as well by the more conventional methods of distributing promotional CDs, advertisting and marketing.I belong to such an NMA -www.legalalienpromotions.co.uk- and if you visit our site you will find many talented artists using a wide variety of software and hardware. Not all use expensive equipment by any means. Many started their MP3 "career" with single tracks and, admittedly by working at it, achieved chart success quite quickly.The Pay For Play system was also not mentioned - this ensures each artist receives payment for every play or download of their track. Having worked their way into the charts, many artists are being offered record deals. It is definitely a place to showcase your work.I am not saying it is easy - it isn't - but with a little determination and effort it is possible to succeed.Mike should join a few communities, chat with other wannabes on message boards and learn how to promote his music... it takes a little more than uploading a track and hoping someone will notice it.Lynn Parry-Woodshinkiri@aol.comTake noteDave Birch (Online, February 8) ignores one of the most unnoticed but important attractions of cash: privacy. If you use a card to buy a pizza you could in principle "immortalise" the transaction depending on how long the bank keeps its records. And if   you do all your shopping via a card then the bank could end up knowing more about you, than you do yourself. Even if they were strictly forbidden by law from selling information about you they could use that information themselves to build up a "psycho profile" with more accuracy than the police do when chasing serial killers: "He goes to the movies every Saturday night, buys a lot of Chilean wine and women's underwear (but no men's). Also he has a subscription to Socialist Worker. What can we sell to this bloke?"But when you use cash it is final and the bean counters do not get to hear about it. Beat that.Frank Desmondfrank.d@ireland.comBackdatedIn Second Sight (Online February 8), Dave Birch wrote: "Singapore has just become the world's first country to announce a move away from boring old paper and metal money."I don't know what they "just announced", but it's been .sg's stated intention to phase out cash, eventually making its use illegal, for some years now. The original date was, I believe, 2000, but in 1998 they put it back five years.John Hornerjohn@your.abc.net.auPoor serviceIf there were a poll of the slowest site my vote would go to Lastminute.com. I have seen snow melt faster.If Lastminute.com does not survive it will be because the site is just too slow to be worth using. Even its own customer service staff complain about it. Good service requires fast servers.Paul Gunnionp.gunnion@strath.ac.ukHalf termsThe term "hack" and its derivatives "hacking" and "hacker" pre-date the internet as we know it today by at least 20 years. Prior to that I can't personally vouch for its definition or use.In the general computer industry in which I've worked, the term has always referred to gaining access to a system or the internal workings of a program by means other than that intended by a program's author or a system's administrator (on behalf of the system's owner), although the term has particularly been associated with nefarious   system access regardless of whether the hacker was on-site or trying to break in via a telecomms link. In this respect any sort of "attack" against a computer from a remote access point is most definitely a "hack".The term "crack", on the other hand, is used throughout the present day internet community and refers to turning demo software or otherwise function-limited trial versions of programs into fully functioning licensed copies. For almost every piece of commercial software on the market there is either a corresponding "crack" or a licence-key generator.The groups of programmers who refer to themselves as "crackers" compete with each other to be the first to produce a crack or keygen for every new product on the market. I think they would be bemused by Jamie Dainton's Feedback (Online, February 8) implication that they all refer to themselves by the wrong epithet or that the programs they write are in fact "hacks" and not "cracks".The worrying trend is not with the media, which does its best to understand and keep up with computer jargon and technology, but with the new generation of internet-droids who think that a) they are doing something that has not been done before and b) take an existing computing term and simply ignore its history.White hat, anyone?Barry HarkcomDorsetJargon noughtJamie Dainton's letter regarding the "true" meaning of hacker reminds me of nothing so much as the people who used to complain every time a newspaper used the word "gay" to mean "homosexual".Time to stop reading The Jargon File, I think...Antony J. Shepherdantony.s@derivs.comWhat is GSM?Not being a telecoms geek I read eagerly through Simon Rockman's article (A mobile failure, February 8) in the hope of discovering what GSM is. I'm still none the wiser.Paul Hartmannguycroft@clara.co.ukOnline replies:Apologies - we try to sift out the jargon, but this one slipped through. GSM now stands for Global System for Mobiles.
Is it possible to make a profit on the internet? It has been if you are a lawyer or a telecommunications giant or even a trendy design house. But is it possible to make a profit if you are a dot.com selling goods or services direct to the consumer?The received wisdom is no. So far, most dot.coms have yet to break even. But despite a daily barrage of stories detailing news of yet another dot.com collapse, there are a few UK companies that are turning a tidy profit selling goods and services direct to the consumer. And most of them have never asked for a penny of venture capital.According to sources like NetValue and the Post Office, British shoppers are taking to the internet like never before. Record sales were recorded this Christmas - with as many as between five and six million of us buying goods over the net by November, over a third more than the year before.But January has also seen a record number of dot.coms falter. Some have already filed for bankruptcy, while others are rapidly being bought up by "old economy" companies. For the UK's online community, these are proving to be hard times.One reason might be that there are simply too many of them. The high street has room for only a couple of major pharmacists: the online community is served by seven. Which all leads to too little money spread among too many hands and confidence in dot.coms at rock bottom. But just because   so many management consultants, venture capitalists and private investors got it so fabulously wrong doesn't mean the business-to-consumer (B2C) model is irrevocably flawed.If you start small, grow organically and resist the temptation to blitz the market with expensive ad campaigns, then making a profit from selling goods and services to the consumer is still possible.And turning a buck on the net doesn't mean you have to be very small. CNN Interactive has been in the black since launch, while Conde Naste recently announced that its raft of internet properties is already breaking even. And let us not forget that pornographers and online casino owners have been making bucketloads of cash selling their wares direct to the consumer.Just as the new economy received far, far too much hype, perhaps now it is buckling from an equally distorting amount of pessimism. Somewhere in the middle is a healthy dose of reality.The following six stories come from companies that claim to make a profit online. Each tale has a moral, and all of them suggest there might be gold in them there hills after all.Mail order worksHard to find records"It used to be that we were quiet in the summer and winter was just mental. Now it's just mental all the time," says Lora Nash, head of online sales at HTFR.com (Hard To Find Records) - a rare vinyl specialist in Birmingham.Run out of a 2,000 sq ft warehouse, HTFR's online catalogue of rare and deleted vinyl contains over 47,000 titles. The company buys up old record collections, catalogues them and sells them either through the superstore or on the net. Online sales now amount to nearly 90% of the company's total sales.The company says it is making a profit on the internet because it was already making a profit before it went online. Hard to Find Records was formed as a mail-order business by Jason Kirby, a former computer programmer, in his bedroom in 1991. The firm went online in 1995.What started as little more than a hobby is today a multi-million pound business employing 35 people. It is entirely self-funded and has grown out of its profits. "We've got such a specialised business," says Nash. "A lot of people have tried to follow us, bit we did it first and that gives us one hell of a reputation."Do everything in-houseThe Alternative Gift Companywww.alt-gifts.comIts turnover may be no greater than a couple of   country craft shops, but one small company in Banbury, Oxfordshire, is proving that selling goods on the net can be profitable. The Alternative Gift Company sells unusual gifts, like plots of the moon, direct to the consumer. The company has a core staff of five and hires more to cover the busiest periods, around Christmas and Valentine's day. "I think our business model makes us profitable at the end of the day," says Jonathan Aylmer of Alternative Gifts. "We are very careful with what we spend and do everything in house."We design and build our own website and we undertake our own fulfilment. We can operate a next day delivery service because they stock everything on the premises."Doing things in-house means that a company like Alternative Gifts can keep its costs down. "A lot of dot.coms have had massive advertising budgets, which I feel is a kamikaze attitude," says Aylmer, who sold his furniture business to fund the company.But Aylmer also claims that the company's pragmatic approach to business extends even further. "We have no fantasy titles here," he insists. "No project managers or online developers. Nothing that can demand huge salaries which no online business, in my opinion, can support at this time."Go for the slow buckJobserve.comwww.jobserve.comTucked away in the sleepy Essex village of Tiptree lies   one dot.com with one of the fastest growing profit margins in the UK. Ten miles out of Colchester lies Jobserve, a kind of virtual labour exchange for IT workers.Jobserve is a bustling medium-sized company employing 70 people. It was formed in 1993 by Robbie Cowling, a former IT contractor, and a business partner. The pair invested &#163;2,000 of their own money and have never received any outside investment.The company went in to profit within the first couple of months and has funded its growth through its takings. Last year Cowling bought his partner out."I saw no reason for us to go for funding," says Cowling. "The plans we have got in the way of growth we can afford to do ourselves. So we didn't want to give up any of our share. And we've never fancied floating."Last year the company found itself at the top of the   ProfitTrack list of fastest growing companies not listed on the stock market."A lot of people were getting in to it just because they thought that they could do that, float it and get out," claims Cowling."But they are not living and breathing what they are doing. If we'd have taken that sort of attitude we wouldn't be here today."Find a niche marketMed4u.co.ukwww.med4u.co.ukDespite so many of their contemporaries falling by the wayside, there are still start-ups out there looking for venture capital. Some likewww.med4U.co.ukare even making a modest profit.Med4U.co.uk is an online medical consulting service. The company has recruited a panel of 20 doctors and it offers medical consultation via email. For this it charges a   &#163;25 consultancy fee and most customers get a response within 48 hours.A company like Med4U makes a small operating profit, partly because its two founders are paying themselves a reduced salary and the overheads are low because they are working from home.  The company receives between 30 and 40 customers a week and nearly 80% of them are men."We think that men are far more reticent to take time off work or bother to consult their GPs," says Graham Boyd, who formed the company along with business partner Dr Liz Miller.The company also found most of those men also happen to be gay, so last month, it launchedwww.GayMed4U.co.uk."In London it is perhaps easier for a gay man to find friendly GPs. It's less easy if you are out in the sticks," says Boyd.Run a traditional businesswww.findaproperty.com"In a sense we are just a traditional business. We've always felt that the fact that we are on the internet is really irrelevant," says Michael O'Flynn of FindaProperty.co.uk.The company advertises properties on the internet, for which it charges &#163;29. One reason why the company has been successful is that it chose to specialise in the south-east of England, rather than go national. Just like a traditional estate agent.O'Flynn insists that the company attracted most of its customers through word-of-mouth. It hasn't spent money on massive ad campaigns although it does advertise in local newspapers.FindaProperty, which is based in Brighton, decided not to go for any venture capital. "We felt that there was a degree of unreality about the   kind of money that was being thrown around last year says O'Flynn."Use outside investmentVavo.comWhile new media wannabies pile-up by the wayside, one site catering for silver surfers is already making money on the net. Vavo.com is a lifestyle portal for the over 45s. The company makes money principally through the sale of insurance, but profitability has also been helped by sales of banner advertising.The company tipped over into the black after a healthy Christmas. Vavo insists it has been experiencing steady growth since launch. "We haven't gone out aggressively with a high profile marketing plan and he haven't got a big ad spend," says Oliver Needham, the site's head of public relations.Unlike the other dot.com success stories, Vavo has received outside investment. The company received &#163;2m from an undisclosed private investor in 1999 and received a second round &#163;10 million private placement led by GE Insurance Holdings and the Prudential.It claims to be making an "operating profit" with "the vast majority" of its investment capital safely tucked away in the bank.So why has Vavo done so well when so many have faltered? "A lot of the recent dot.com start-ups thought that it was better to being first instead of be simply better," says Needham. "We didn't go that route."
With the future of popular song swap service &lt;A HREF=""Napsterin doubt, the hunt is on for the next big music sharing site.Napster may yet tough out its lawsuit from five of the world's biggest record companies, but it remains to be seen how loyal its 50m users will be once subscription charges are introduced.Napster hopes to re-emerge as a legal service if an eventual trial finds it guilty of copyright infringement. It has plans to charge users to download music, thereby supplying the record companies with payment for copyrighted material.But aside from Napster itself, the internet offers a great number of filesharing alternatives, some of which charge for the material downloaded, and some of which do not.Gnutellais a large, diversified service with no central server, which makes it difficult - if not impossible - to shut down. It's not as obviously user-friendly as Napster, and America Online, fearing legal fallout, will have nothing to do with it. But it has a large community of users that share everything from music to software to recipes.Scour.com, formerly a place to swap music files for free, was shut down and has now been bought by CenterSpan Communications.  The company plans to put the Scour Exchange back online as soon as it has found a way to make it legal, which the CenterSpan defines as any method of exchange that avoids $250bn lawsuits.CuteMXis very much in the mould of Napster, allowing users swap music and video files for free. It includes an address for record companies and artists to write in if they feel their copyright has been infringed by CuteMX users.European newcomerZdencharges for its services as a marketplace for digital files, where people can buy, sell and store their own original content. The company describes itself as "halfway between eBay and Napster" and it controls the legality and copyright of centrally stored files. The site is far more business-focused than the other alternatives.In any filesharing service, the critical element is the number of users it attracts, so aside from the copyright issues, any service lives or dies by its membership. It is precisely the unprecedented membership numbers that may keep Napster alive and well ahead of its competition.Related articles14.02.2001: EU passes internet copyright law14.02.2001: Leader: The big players dig in
Anna Kournikova, the 19-year-old Russian tennis player, succeeded yesterday where countless hackers had failed, bringing chaos to large parts of the internet in the form of a highly infectious computer virus.Twice as many email users were tempted by a message purporting to contain a photograph of Kournikova, but in reality a cover for a virus, than were taken in last year by a similar virus masquerading as a love letter.The Kournikova virus, which caused logjams in corporate email systems throughout the US and Europe yesterday, presents itself as an email containing the message "Hi: Check This!", along with what appears to be a picture file.When users attempt to open the non-existent picture on systems using the Microsoft Outlook email program, the virus copies itself to every name in their email address book, causing no permanent damage but slowing the transmission of emails to a crawl.Inexplicably, the virus also automatically connects infected computers to a Dutch shopping website every January 26.Alex Shipp of MessageLabs in Gloucester, which specialises in battling viruses, said the virus was spreading twice as fast as the Love Bug, which last year deleted files belonging to 100m internet users. His company had intercepted 12,778 copies of the virus from 3,087 email addresses, 2,020 companies and 29 countries. The virus is thought to be derived from a script written by a notorious Argentine hacker, codenamed Kalamar."We're looking at many millions of people affected in the US and at least a million in Europe," said David Perry, a technologist at the computer security firm Trend Micro."This virus is clever - not just because it promises to show Anna Kournikova, but because it was released on a Monday when everyone was going back to work - which is where the big email address lists are."
A judgment in a California appeals court about theNapsterfile-sharing website could have widespread effects on the future of the internet. Like the efforts of the pharmaceuticals to suppress cheap competition, reported in the Guardian this week, and US companies trying to profit from discovery of the map of the genome, it is all about corporations exploiting intellectual property rights.Napster is an ingenious piece of software that enables users to swap files from the hard disks of their computers. If you want, say, a rare Frank Sinatra track, you type it into Napster's search facility. It scours member-computers all over the world and comes up with a list of available recordings, ready to be downloaded for nothing. It was last year's unexpected Big Thing on the internet and over 50m people have now downloaded the software.At one level, as when people swap rare recordings long since out of production, it is harmless. But what worries the companies is that no one will buy CDs in the shops if they can download recent recordings from Napster or its imitators. Most of these are much safer from the law because, unlike Napster, they do not use a central computer. They go straight from one hard drive to another.In principle the ability to swap files instantly with anyone is one of the finest achievements of the internet's mutual principles. But clearly artists, whether film makers or musicians, deserve royalties for their work. A recent survey found that 70% of Napster's users would be willing to pay something. The question is to whom.The Californian case was brought by the five biggest record labels, who control about 90% of popular music. The prospect of such awesome market power trying to squash a fledgling company is one reason why so many users feel it is fair game to copy files to each other. They would not mind if more modest royalties went mainly to the users, rather than to intermediaries who make money from controlling the intellectual property rights of performers.Interestingly, this so called peer-to-peer technology still offers a genuine chance of legally cutting out intermediaries. The first person to devise a globally acceptable way for artists to get a direct royalty from music and other files swapped over the net will open up a new, cheaper era for the music industry - but it will not necessarily include the big five. No wonder they are treating this case as a fight to the death.
Computer users were warned today to watch out for a fast-spreading email virus that promises a photograph of tennis star Anna Kournikova.Experts said the new virus was spreading at twice the rate of Love Bug, which paralysed the email servers of more than 100m users last year.The Kournikova virus tempts users with the message: "Hi: Check This!", together with what appears to be a picture file labelled "AnnaKournikova.jpg.vbs".But clicking on the file does not produce a picture. Instead, the virus emails itself to every address in the user's address book.Although the virus is not believed to damage the computers it targets, it could paralyse companies' computer systems with the huge volume of emails it creates.Internet security firm Symantec's website says the virus appears to have originated in the Netherlands.Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant for Sophos Anti-Virus, has warned computer users to steer clear of any email attachments that they have not requested."This virus is the latest to exploit psychology to aid its spread amongst innocent users," he said."Pictures of Anna Kournikova are amongst the most popular on the internet. Our message to computer users is simple - don't let unsolicited email attachments lead you into temptation".A recent report showed that attacks by e-mail viruses soared by 300% last year. Virus monitoring firm MessageLabs said it had detected and stopped 155,528 email viruses by the end of November last year - a rate of one every three minutes.Useful linksSymantec's virus descriptionsSophos' virus informationMessageLabs' list of top 10 viruses
British Telecom is cutting one in five jobs atBTopenworld, the company's main internet business.A spokesman last night confirmed that BTopenworld, which houses its mass market online interests, is seeking to reduce headcount by about 200. He likened BTopenworld to "any other start-up" in the internet, facing the need to reassess staff levels.The division incurred an operating loss of &#163;107m on turnover of &#163;68m during the third quarter.The retrenchment marks another low in the downturn in new media. BTopenworld includes BT's dial-up narrowband internet offering but more significantly is home to the company's broadband consumer services.BTopenworld is also the name of the company's broadband portal which uses DSL (digital subscriber line) technology to upgrade the old copper wire network.BT has been accused of dragging its feet over the opening of its local network to competition in order to give its own broadband business a head start. The so called "unbundling of the local loop" to allow rival suppliers to install their own DSL equipment in BT exchanges has lurched from one crisis to another.Staff were told of the cuts in the business at the end of last week. The spokesman said   those leaving BTopenworld would be offered jobs elsewhere within the wider group."We always set out to throw a lot of resource at this business at the beginning and now six months on, some people will be absorbed into other parts of BT," the spokesman said.BT has boasted that it aims to see BTopenworld as theAOLof the broadband market - what it terms the "second wave of internet growth" - but so far BTopenworld's   broadband service has attracted only 15,000 subscribers.The service offers high-speed internet access, video-rich content, CD-quality audio and fast downloads for a one-off connection fee of &#163;150 and a flat rate of &#163;40 a month.It has signed up about 90 content partners including MTV, CNN, Reuters, Thomas Cook, First Choice and EMI.The company's narrowband service, BTinternet has 1.2m users around half of which are   using unmetered access - paying either &#163;9.99 a month for weekends and evenings or &#163;14.99 round the clock.The third leg of BT's consumer online business is Genie, the mobile internet portal which is also housed in the BTopenworld division.The BTopenworld division was formed as part of the restructuring of BT and became one of four international businesses. The BT group is coming under intense pressure to reduce its &#163;30bn debt.
Writers and actors say they will be cheated of income under a European plan to allow broadcasters to pay minimal royalties for putting archive material on the internet or interactive TV services.The actors' union, Equity, and four other trade organisations stated yesterday it amounts to "legalised theft".Lobbying from the continental media has led to the proposal, which is being debated this week in the European parliament. It is part of a proposed directive on copyright law, which would also require film-makers to seek   permission from architects and designers of public buildings or objects before picturing them. Another clause would give artists a mandatory share of profits in the sales and distribution of broadcast material. "There are quite a few barmy measures in this directive," one broadcaster said.Under one proposal broadcasters would be able to use archive material on their websites or for the new "TV on demand" services (allowing viewers to watch programmes whenever they wish) without permission of the creators and on payment of a sum termed "equitable remuneration".Artists urged Britain's MEPs   to vote against the plan. Bernie Corbett, general secretary of the Writers' Guild, said: "This clause is very dangerous. Remuneration would appear to mean payment, but equitable is in the eye of the beholder."In a joint statement yesterday Equity, the Musicians' Union, the Writers' Guild, and the Directors' Guild claimed the measure was introduced at the behest of media corporations. "This last-minute monster, which is aimed at allowing vast corporations to introduce internet and video on demand services at minimal cost, is the pay-off for millions of euros spent on lobbying by European and American media giants. They alone will profit."The unions feared that if broadcasters could recycle cheap archive material there would be less demand for new work. The measure would not be binding on Britain, and the unions wanted the government to refuse to incorporate it into British law.Broadcasters in Britain are not supporting the amendment, introduced by an MEP from Germany's Christian Democrat party. The BBC said it was "not an issue" for the corporation, and a source in the commercial sector said: "We think arrangements in place work perfectly well; these things would be better dealt with at a national rather than European level."
The music-swapping internet service Napster has lost its court battle to provide free access to music.In a historic ruling with implications for the music industry and the estimated 50m Napster users, a US federal appeals court in San Francisco decided yesterday that the company must stop distributing material it knows to be copyrighted - in effect almost all of the music it deals with."This is a clear victory," said Hilary Rosen, president and chief executive of the Recording Industry Association of America, which represented the music industry. "It ruled in our favour on every legal issue presented."However, the court did not order the business to be closed down. It can remain in business but only in a very abbreviated form.In a 58-page ruling distributed simultaneously at the US ninth district appeals court and on the internet, the court upheld key parts of an injunction won last year by the world's five largest music companies which sought to prevent Napster from effectively distributing music for free.While the issue is far from   dead - the court ruled that the original injunction issued by the US district court judge Marilyn Hall Patel was too broad and sent it back to her for rephrasing - the ruling is a serious blow to Napster. It states that the company will be held liable if it assists in the downloading of music it knows to be copyrighted.In a statement yesterday, Napster said it was "disappointed" by the ruling and that it would appeal. "We look forward to getting more facts into the record. We will pursue every avenue in the courts and the Congress to keep Napster operating."The five largest record labels - Warner, Sony, EMI, BMG and Universal - brought the action against Napster, which is based in Redwood City, claiming that the unauthorised use of the music was effectively theft and was costing the companies billions of dollars in lost profits. The five companies control about 90% of popular music worldwide.In May 1999, Napster founder Shawn Fanning released software that made it   easy for personal computer users to find and swap songs they had stored as computer files. The quality of reproduction was high and the idea of "peer-to-peer" song trading took off, spawning imitators such as Gnutella and Freenet.The record companies have been exploring their own systems of supplying music via the internet, albeit ones that require a subscription payment.Last year's injunction was almost immediately stayed pending the result of yesterday's appeal, but anticipating that the case might go against them, Napster reached an agreement with Bertelsmann, the parent company of the BMG music company that was one of the quintet suing them. The German media company has agreed to inject capital if Napster switches to a "subscription-based service" paying royalties.Napster's legal team was led by David Boies, who fought unsuccessfully on behalf of Al Gore for recounts of the Florida presidential vote last year. He also acted - successfully - for the government in its anti-trust action against Microsoft.Napster was deluged by users at the weekend ahead of the court decision. Nearly 2m song files were traded on Sunday.
BooIf there was one company that typified the mania of the dotcom boom and bust of the past 12 months, it was online urban sportswear company boo.com. Founded by three Swedes - one of them, Ernst Malmsten, is a former poet, another, Kajsa Leander, was a model - Boo became a textbook example of how  not to run an e-tailer.First there was the technology. Boo thought it had hit on a masterstroke when its website allowed shoppers to view products from different angles. But the pages took ages to download - and shoppers turned away in their droves.Then there was the company's rampant hubris. It launched in more than 20 countries simultaneously and spent vast sums buying leases on properties. The parties were wild but expensive. And they did little to attract the punters. The company failed to sign up enough big-name clothing manufacturers to draw enough visitors to its site.Its grip on its finances was relaxed, to say the least. The founders were notorious for flying everywhere first class at the drop of a hat. Staff would regularly take deliveries of sumptuous loads of fruit and cake from local delis, all paid for by the company.Having raised more than &#163;100 million from the likes of the Benetton family and luxury goods firm LVMH in 1999, Boo collapsed in May 2000. Its technology platform was sold off for $250,000 and the Boo name for a similar amount. Leander and Malmsten are writing a book on their experience.OxygenThere was dotcom mania and then there was Oxygen Holdings, the internet incubator which saw its share price rise by a jaw-dropping 2,775 per cent when it came to market last February.At its peak Oxygen was valued at &#163;240 million. Co-founded by 26-year-old Emma Edelson with the backing of her father, Manchester United director Michael Edelson, the incubator was supposed to help nurture university start-ups. Much of the hype surrounding the firm came from the fact that Oxygen, like many other dotcoms, knew the publicity value high-profile directors   brought to the company. Thus it was that PR guru Matthew Freud and media heiress Elisabeth Murdoch were appointed to the company's board. It was also well publicised that former Manchester United chief executive Martin Edwards was backing the company.But Oxygen, like the scores of other incubators that launched around the same time, found the going much tougher than anticipated. The company provided little expertise or support to the few firms it managed to identify as suitable investment vehicles.Problems became apparent practically the day after Oxygen had launched, and shortly after Emma Edelson presciently stated: 'There is a certain window of time for these entrepreneurs to make their mark. The capital valuations are crazy and I'm pretty sure the bubble will burst.' She wasn't wrong. The day after Oxygen floated, Edelson, a former Cambridge University student, saw her &#163;11m paper stake slashed to a paltry &#163;500,000 as the company's share price crashed by an unprecedented 95 per cent. Once its shares were worth nearly 60p a pop; today Oxygen's share price stands at just over 2p.Virtual InternetSpare a thought for Jason Drummond, founder of Virtual Internet, the company that specialises in helping boring old firms develop a web presence.In March last year Drummond, then 30, took a call from a friend who told him this newspaper had just ranked him as Britain's wealthiest young entrepreneur. The company was worth around &#163;200 million, giving Drummond, who has a 64 per cent stake, a paper fortune of nearly &#163;125m.Its future looked assured. It had nearly 50,000 clients and more than half of FTSE 100 companies were customers, paying it to advise them on issues such as domain name registration, branding in cyberspace and protecting trademarks. The company operated in five countries and had plans to launch new products and enter a raft of new markets.   Even though there were question marks over other dotcom models, Virtual Internet looked assured because it had a business-to-business model rather than the business-to-consumer version. 'We're the pick and shovel providers at the mucky end of the gold rush,' he said.Today the firm is worth just &#163;30m. Last month it unveiled figures for the year to 31 October which showed that losses had widened from &#163;1.3m to &#163;4.3m. Blame was laid firmly on the fact that a much-promised array of new products had failed to materialise.Drummond's stake is now worth just &#163;15m.First TuesdayJulie Meyer, undisputed queen of European dotcom fever, was one of four founders of First Tuesday.A meeting of friends in a Soho bar on the first Tuesday of October 1998 grew into a global networking organisation and became a symbol for the new economy. The meetings brought together venture capitalists and aspiring entrepreneurs.Meyer was brought up in California, but describes herself as European and is passionate about taking 'Europe.com' to the next stage. Though First Tuesday was part of the 'overall internet euphoria', she says: 'We've helped peel back the   onion of European entrepreneurialism by promoting the individual rather than states or companies as an agent of change. I'm proud of the contribution I made.'The slump was inevitable, Meyer says. 'It's a return to reality. But people who have   the right business model, the right investors and team are frankly feeling pretty confident now.'Investors who attended First Tuesday meetings were referred to as 'vulture capitalists' because they took stakes purely for financial reasons.Relations between the founders are believed to have become frosty following the network's sale to Yazam, an Israeli firm that later folded.FirstmarkThe former One 2 One supremo Tim Samples moved on after Deutsche Telecom bought out the mobile phone company. He became chief executive of Firstmark Europe, the broadband telecoms company that received Europe's largest-ever private equity round - $1 billion - last June.Samples claims he sold the first mobile phone in the world, but it couldn't help him sell Firstmark to the markets at the end of last year.The original plan was to serve small and medium enterprises in 18 European countries with 'end-to-end' broadband networks. But almost as soon as the company began trading it became bogged down in the negative sentiment after expensive licence auctions. An expected flotation was pulled last year as it became    clear funding options were running out. Firstmark changed its strategy. It turned towards its profitable German fibre-optic operations, and developments in France and Spain, but closed London operations. Samples left Firstmark last month.How dotcoms drowned in a tide of hope and hypeBrought to book
The battle to turn Britain into Europe's top place to do e-business has taken a dramatic turn this weekend as telecoms watchdog Oftel looks at ordering BT to widen rivals' access to its network.The UK's two largest internet service providers, AOL Europe and Freeserve, who between them have nearly three million subscribers, are furious at what they say are discriminatory tactics by BT in the spread of high speed DSL internet services. The two ISPs argue that the former monopoly is giving its own Openworld ISP far more DSL capacity on its network than they are being offered. Last week the two competitors threatened legal action unless the situation was remedied immediately.Oftel was due to respond to the ISPs' concerns last Thursday but  The Observer has learnt that the regulator is now taking more time to consider a more radical option. If it finds that BT has been discriminating it will hit the company with an 'immediate determination' order, forcing it to resolve the problem within an agreed timeframe.Freeserve, which has signed up a raft of content providers to offer interactive services based around the DSL technology, says its partners are going bankrupt as a result of the problem. Like   AOL, under the current arrangement with BT, Freeserve is able to sign up just 100 new DSL customers a week. BT Openworld, by contrast, is signing up 2,000.Oftel has been monitoring the row since both the rival ISPs formally complained about their difficulties last December. Last Thursday AOL and Freeserve turned up the heat when they threatened to take legal action, and this prompted Oftel to look further into their allegations.On Friday an Oftel spokesman said: 'We are extending the completion timetable because of the representation AOL raised yesterday. We're still getting hold of the information.'A BT spokesman played down the possibility that Oftel would find that it had employed discriminatory practices against its competitors: 'There is absolutely no way BT can favour one part of its company.'The spokesman added that Oftel was simply following a procedure. 'When somebody formally complains, Oftel has to formally investigate.'Other ISPs have expressed surprise at AOL and Freeserve's allegations. Several, which were contacted by  The Observer, said they did not feel BT was discriminating against them in favour of its own ISP.
The UK's two largest internet companies are threatening to sue BT over holding up access to high speed internet services.AOL Europe, part of media group AOL-Time Warner and Freeserve, owned by France T&#233;l&#233;com's Wanadoo, say BT has given its own internet arm 10 times more high speed capacity than they have been allowed.The companies have called on regulator Oftel to intervene. If that fails, they have instructed lawyers to take court action.BT is allowing its service provider, Openworld, to sign up 2,000 customers per week while AOL and Freeserve are restricted to 200 customers each.A spokesman for AOL Europe said that it was only this week that it had discovered the extent of the disparity between access granted to Openworld and other providers. The dispute is over digital subscriber lines, a technology that lets customers access the internet up to 10 times faster than a standard phone line.Under the terms of its licence BT must offer other operators wholesale access to the service.  "This is a blatant and unlawful abuse of BT's market position," said a spokesman for AOL. "If Oftel and BT don't respond to calls for transparency, we will take legal action." Oftel confirmed that it received a complaint from the two companies in December and is investigating the charges. BT called the threats "sabre-rattling"."This French-owned company and American-owned company are saying 'yah boo, it's not fair'," said a spokesman. "Yes, BT is serving more customers than they are, but this is not because of unfairness. Some of our competitors are trying to find excuses for &#91;their&#93; competitive difficulties."
TwistedThe 1st international Collection of Tongue Twisters claims to have assembled the world's largest collection atwww.uebersetzung.at/twister.    It now has 1,846 entries in 77 languages. As they say in Xhosa: Bu bula booshe bubekxa rubexa roola hoodie hoo (Sometimes when I'm lonely I like talking to feet that smell like horse potatoes). Graham Norton would love it.Snappy stuffYoung photographers have a new showcase online, thanks to BT, which has just added a photography zone to its website athttp://getoutthere.bt.com. Visitors will be able to upload pictures and win monthly prizes. The site    already has sections for music, film and writing.  Creative types will also enjoy theAccessArt site, which has just "gone national". The site is building a series of online workshops for teachers, students, and "life long learners" with the backing of the Department for Education and Employment.Carnival timePerhaps you have already planned your visit to theVenice Carnivalthis month    orwww.carnivalofvenice.comorwww.venicemasquerade.com, or perhaps not. The people atCityvoxseem to have finished their multilingual guide to Venice in time.The site was launched last April and the target is to cover 40 cities by the end of this month. However, coverage does not stretch to longhaul alternatives such asTrinidad,RioorNew Orleans.CoveredYou now have a month to vote for your favourite new book in the &#163;45,000WH Smith Book Awards. Well, the most likely winners are the five volumes the judges have shortlisted in eight categories, from fiction to business, but there are blank slots for those with particular passions. The winners will be announced on April 26.Love matchYou may not know it but your ideal date is probably a giant anteater, as taking the quiz atwww.londonzoo.co.ukmay well reveal. Obviously you can't marry a spider, anteater or pygmy hippo (its parents would not approve), but you can at least adopt one. For more traditional Valentine's Day attractions, tryhttp://valentinenet.com.GenderWould you prefer a white bedroom, or a blue one? Would you rather fall to your death or drown?  Answer enough silly questions andGender Testcan, with a high degree of probability, tell whether you are a man or a woman. And the more people who take the test, the better it gets.Finished? Go to theSpark home pageto find out whether you are a slut, bitch or bastard, or pregnant. It also offers BurnMaker 2, which turns ordinary texts into "flame mail".XreferIf you want to look something up, it is hard to resistGoogle, butXreferis a good place to get quick definitions. The site, launched last summer, includes 50 reference   books, including The New Grove Dictionary of Jazz.FacemailThe idea behind Facemail is that instead of reading letters you get an animated head to read them for you.In future, it should be possible to have the animated head based on your own photograph: a LifeFX Stand-In. At the moment, the choice is limited to five standard stand-ins. Seewww.lifefx.com/FaceOfTheInternet/pgInit.html/6nationsare also covering the event in depth, while Sky is running a fantasy version atwww.sky.com/games/6nations.New &amp; noted&#149;  Amnesty International is campaigning against torture atwww.stoptorture.org.&#149;  The Lockerbie verdict can be downloaded fromwww.scotcourts.gov.uk/html/lockerbie.htm.&#149;  Levi's Vintage Clothing: see the reel thing atwww.vintage.levi.com.&#149;  The Doll's House is back with two new dolls, Tara and Rebekah:www.bravo.co.uk/newdolls/.&#149;  Anti-Microsoft joke:www.geocities.com/rcwoolley.Six of the bestVoting sitesThe originalwww.amihotornot.comThe bestwww.pickthehottie.comMinor variationwww.amigothornot.comHeavy pettingwww.rankmypet.comCelebrity ratingwww.amiannoying.comGetting sillywww.modernhumorist.com/mh/0011/monkey/rate.cfm
As storm-clouds gather over the telecoms market, the peddlers of "third- generation" futurology should be looking to the example set by the eleventh-hour rescue of the doomed satellite network, Iridium.With a &#163;22 billion debt owed for third-generation licences in the UK alone, and nothing but a portfolio of concept pictures to substantiate the dream, the hype surrounding the 3G Universal Mobile Telephony System (UMTS) demands considerable suspension of disbelief. The same leap of faith was demanded by Iridium, which cost $7 billion to set up, went belly-up and was "saved" in a deal that valued it at a mere $25 million, sweetened by a $72 million contract from the US government. You could see it as a net value of minus $47 million. The alternative was to burn the satellites by crashing them through the earth's atmosphere. It might have been cheaper in the long run.It's amazing that anyone could have got their sums so wrong. And what is more amazing is that it is about to   happen again. The 3G licence debt is already starting to hurt. The mobile networks are finding it hard to borrow money to build the infrastructure they need.The mobile phone business is hugely profitable. Ten years ago, the mobile was a joke prop in films about Wall Street wealth. Now, there are 700 million GSM phones in use across the world. Each customer spends about &#163;30 a month. It is not surprising that Iridium thought it could make money: it needed less than 1% of the world market to do well.Where there is a lot of money there is a lot of competition. The rivalry of mobile telecoms, however, is restricted by physics and legislation. Here we have a lucrative, legislated oligopoly. No wonder so many people want a part of it. That's why the UK   3G licences sold for so much. A second reason was that the incumbent networks could see that if they didn't buy a licence they were going to go out of business. The licences effectively became worth as much as the individual companies so long as the sixth bidder kept playing. It's possible that with only three licences, the prices would have gone even higher.With each network having spent upwards of &#163;4 billion on a bit of paper - just to gain the right to spend as much again in constructing a new national network - the 3G market is going to have to be worth nearly 10 times the cost of GSM. It is hard to see where the money is going to come from to do this. There won't be 10 times as many users. That would mean five phones per person in the UK, from the babe in the pushchair to the geriatric in a bathchair. It is possible that we'll see more than one GSM connection per person as the real futurology starts and the technology starts to get built into devices like vending machines and cars. But 500% penetration is asking too much.And frankly, will anyone want to use it at all? That was where Iridium went wrong. While Iridium projected over a million users, it achieved only 100,000. There were a lot of problems: coverage problems, frightening prices, great big ugly handsets. All these problems will be revisited with 3G.Iridium didn't - sorry, doesn't - work indoors. It was based on dual mode handsets, which could use either the ordinary GSM mobile phone network or, for trips further afield, the Iridium satellite network. You had islands of GSM coverage in a sea of Iridium.Today third generation coverage is being talked about in terms of   islands of UMTS in a sea of GSM. Again, we will have dual mode handsets to use the existing GSM coverage, and only switch into 3G in those areas where it is installed. You'll pay a premium for a phone which won't even deliver 3G benefits for a lot of the time.Quite how much you will pay is yet to be discovered. It is impossible to guess what a handset will cost, but an existing GSM phone has a bill of materials of around $90. This gives a sensible retail price of &#163;180, less a &#163;150 network subsidy common in the UK market, to sell for &#163;30. The low bill of materials is very much down to the economies of scale.Mobile phone manufacturers, selling into a world market, expect to sell a million handsets over the life of the phone before they turn on the production line. New entrant Sendo, which prides itself on its efficiency, boasts that it only needs to sell 500,000 handsets over several designs to break even.Those economies of scale will not exist for third generation. What's more, the components will be much more expensive. It is rash to speculate, but a $900 bill of materials might be conservative. The phones will do a lot more. They will have colour screens and a lot of memory. They will also need to feel like a premium product. Subsidising this down to &#163;30 will not be realistic, so the quantities   drop and the price goes up.Traditionally prices would be recouped through call charges, but in the middle of a long-running tariff war there isn't much scope for a premium rate service. Some early adopters might pay a bit more than the typical 15p a minute peak rate, but the mass market is focused on bundled inclusive airtime, with many peripheral services coming in for free. Orange is currently offering free Wap calls at the weekend, Genie flat rate text messaging and One 2 One free voicemail. Selling premium rate services against this, even if the coverage were not patchy, would be nigh on impossible.The final blow is the unbridgeable gap between selling the concept and facing up to the reality. Concept photos of proposed 3G phones show slimline, sleek models the size of a powder-compact. The pictures bear little or no relation to the handsets that will really be available to early adopters, which are likely to be clunky and ugly, with a poor battery life, heat problems and unimpressive screens.The technical require ments for 3G are horribly complicated, which means you need a lot of computing power, which in turn bumps up not only the cost but the size of the battery. We could see the new phones drawing something like 50 times as much power as an existing one.This means third generation phones are going to need enormous batteries by today's standards. Some manufacturers argue that between now and the launch of the first third generation systems in two years, we'll see the improvements necessary to get handset sizes down to be comparable with today's GSM, that's around 100g. This seems incredibly optimistic, particularly given the probable lack of demand.So the target customers become people prepared to pay a premium for big clunky handsets that occasionally give better performance than   their elegant GSM one. The next stage will be for the networks to argue that typical customers will have two handsets: a GSM one for everyday and a third generation one for when they need it. Again this was an Iridium argument.There is a further problem which didn't affect Iridium: too many handset manufacturers looking for a piece of the pie. There are around 20 mobile phone manufacturers with even more companies eyeing third generation. They all want to be the next Nokia, so they will fight for market share by selling phones at a loss. For the first time, the Japanese manufacturers become a real threat. Until now, Japan has largely missed out on GSM, because it was never launched in Japan. So Scandinavia got to rule the roost.Things will be different in the third generation. Japan launches its 3G commercial service well before the rest - 2001, as opposed to 2003 in the UK. And it will be in demand. In Japan, the capacity problems we have seen recently on UK networks are increased many times over,   because there is a more limited spectrum allocation on the PHS system used there. This means expansion of the existing networks is not an option. Instead, 3G is the solution. So the Japanese market will have a need for 3G that we don't have here, where networks are expanding their capacity into alternative spectrum.Visible demand will give the Japanese manufacturers more room to manoeuvre. The established order of Nokia leading, followed by Motorola and Ericsson, is severely under threat. The only Western company to have grasped this is Siemens. Currently dicing with Ericsson for third spot and with an excellent product portfolio, Siemens has looked to the future. An infrastructure deal with NEC and a handset deal with Casio will give Siemens an entry into the Japanese market. The Japanese partners can learn a lot from Siemens today, and in a couple of years Siemens will reap the rewards when it is an experienced manufacturer of third generation handsets. Whether even this is profitable remains to be seen.
Singapore has just become the world's first country to announce a move away from boring old paper and metal money. Instead, the country is developing and promoting a range of electronic and card-based instruments that come under the category of digital money.Singapore is far from the world's most cashless economy: that distinction belongs to Iceland, where cash accounts for less than a fifth of all retail transactions. In Britain, more than four-fifths of transactions are in cash.What is prompting Singapore's move towards a cashless economy? First, it's more efficient, more convenient, and cheaper. Yes, cheaper. Most people go through their lives buying and selling and never thinking about the cost of money. A lot of people assume it's free. But just consider it - someone, somewhere is paying for the cost of that paper and metal like the printing presses at the Bank of England, the armoured cars transporting sacks of cash from supermarkets to banks, and much more.So there is pressure for change. Interestingly, it's not the traditional payment system owners - banks - that are in the vanguard. Mostly, the drive is coming from the companies and government.Look at the US, where McDonalds' customers in the Chicago area are paying for their burgers and fries by waving their Mobil Speedpass cards in the vicinity of the cash register. Exxon Mobil says 4.3 million customers are carrying the Speedpass, which can be used at 3,500 Mobil outlets. Later this year, the program will extend to Exxon stations and stores, and, if the company has its way, to drug, video, and grocery stores.In Southern California, McDonalds' customers can pay in a similar way with the transponder (fixed to the   dashboard) that they use to pay tolls on the motorways, merely by driving through a lane. McDonald's is collaborating with Massachusetts state officials on a similar deal for the state turnpike, which has hired the fast-food chain to run its food concessions.In Hong Kong, travellers on the mass transit system are using a smart card, called Octopus, to pay for their journeys. Around 7 million cards are in circulation, removing about 25 tonnes of coins per day from the transit system, and making life easier for travellers. Transactions with the smart card take less than a third of a second, and cards can be read from up to 10cm from the reader, so you don't have to take them out of your wallet. The cards work in phone booths, drinks machines, snack bars - even in Starbucks and Maxim's pastry shops. Meanwhile, in London, I'm still fumbling around the bottom of my briefcase for a stray 10p piece when I want to take the tube.What about shopping over the internet? While most of us are still typing in our credit card number, address, expiry date, and other information on as many as 10 other fields in order to buy a $5 item of shareware, Sony and its Japanese partners have just completed the trial of a new contactless payment card. Called Edy, the electronic "purse" is based on Sony's Felicia system. Consumers will be able to load their purses with electronic money at ATMs or convenience stores and then spend it in various places, including online: Sony says it will launch a PC interface so customers can spend cash over the internet just by sitting next to their computers!Back in Britain, we are far more conservative about the technology of money. I've never understood why the government considers wasting hundreds of millions printing euro notes and minting euro coins. If the government does decide to join euroland, why doesn't it make the UK home of the e-euro? Let people keep their bank accounts in euros, store their euros on their smart cards, and send them to each other via the web and e-mail using systems like Paypal? The technology exists. It's secure, inexpensive, and easy to use.Think about it: the Egyptians were using metal coins 2,500 years ago. Paper notes have been around since 1273, when Kubla Khan began issuing money on strips of mulberry bark. Do we have to keep wasting more of our hard-earned taxes on old-fashioned technology?&#149; Dave Birch is a director of Consult Hyperion, whose fourth annual Digital Money Forum - with speakers from (among others) the European Central Bank, Paypal and Sonera MobilePay -will be held in London on April 25th/26th 2001. For more information, seewww.digitalmoneyforum.com
Free thinkingRobert Muetzelfeldt's letter (Feedback, February 1) is a prime example of one of the classic misunderstandings about free software, yet it was written in the largest "open source" package in the world - the English language.   English is an open standard, owned by no one; and anyone is free to modify it as they wish. Does this make it impossible to make a profit using English?  Of course not. Ask Glyn Moody.Gideon Hallettdiogenes@freeuk.comDoomedLike Robert Muetzelfeldt, I also liked the sound of Glyn Moody's book, Rebel Code, but did not want to pay £9.99. I have discovered a subversive organisation called a "library" which enables me to read this, and millions of other books, for free. Surely the publishing industry is now doomed.A Royleadmin@ecsoftware.co.ukOpen seasonDavid Harper (Feedback, February 2) is right to sing the praises of open standards such as the internet standards defined in requests for comment (RFCs). They are valuable because they are available to everyone and built on consensus and best practice. However it is not accurate to describe them as "open source".  The Open Source movement (seewww.opensource.org/osd.html) states that, among other things, software licensed as open source "must allow modifications and derived works, and must allow them to be distributed under the same terms as the license of the original software". In other words, you can take a copy of an open source program, understand, change and improve it, and re-release it (still as open source) to the general benefit of all.Public standards are definitely not open source, since this rule does not apply. Individuals changing or "improving" standards leads to the sort of chaos we see in the browser world, where each different browser and version has its own annoying quirks and incompatabilities.  This cynical attempt to "own" the browser market causes pain to us all.  If this approach were applied to TCP/IP or SMTP (mail), then the internet would grind to a halt.Nick Rozanskinick@rozanski.comWrite onI'd like to commend Glyn Moody for such an excellent article about free software and Linux (Online, January 25).   As a Linux user and   supporter I'm naturally happy to see a positive article on the subject, but I was particularly impressed by how well written the whole thing was, and how well you understood and explained the issues.Lars Jannsenlars@ukmix.netTime to splitIn Andrew Ward's survey of how to deal with large files (Online, February 1) he could have mentioned a useful   utility called FileSplit, which is freeware available at   www.partridgesoft.com  FileSplit is a utility to split large files into smaller files so that they can be easily copied to floppy disks or transferred via email.Files can be split directly from Windows Explorer by right-clicking on any file and selecting Split File. I have used it to split all sorts of files without problems.Mike Coxoxfordtours@ntlworld.coHandy iToolI found Andrew Ward's   article about free internet hard drive storage interesting and informative. However, he failed to mention the offering by Apple, iDisk, which is part of the iTools service.  The service is available to all Mac users with OS 9. Once you have signed up foriToolsyou get 20 megabyte of free iDisk space. You can then make an alias of the iDisk on your desktop, which acts like any other hard disk.   Double-click on the alias and your computer will automatically dial up your ISP and mount your iDisk space. You can then drag and drop files to and from your folder just like your local hard disk.  Although Xdrive has a similar option, iDisk acts like any Mac hard disk and is fully integrated into the Mac OS. You do not have to use a browser and there is no additional software download and use.Andy Kingsleyandykingsley@hotmail.comHack 'n' crackOnline refers to a DoS (Denial of Service) attack as a hack and L0pht as hackers. A DoS attack is actually a crack used on Usenet well before the hordes of marketdroids tried to claim the internet. L0pht are not hackers. They are white hat crackers dedicated to exposing security flaws.  There is a fundamental difference between crackers and hackers. Hacker live to create while crackers enjoy breaking into systems.   As a hacker in training, I find this annoying, especially as Glyn Moody wrote Rebel Code, a book about the greatest hackers known (ESR, RMS, Linus and Alan Cox).   Please try to stop this worrying trend in the media to misuse terms and try to change their meaning.Jamie Daintonmail@dainton.org.ukBe cautiousSusan Koomen (Feedback, February 1) should beware of jumping too readily to the conclusion that brain tumours are connected to mobile phone usage.   For example, the only people I know who have caught a cold this winter have been alcohol drinkers - does this mean that alcohol causes colds, or simply that I know a lot of alcohol drinkers?With half the population owning mobile phones, one should expect mobile phone users to have as many illnesses as anyone else.   A government panel of UK medical experts sat last year to search specifically for health problems from mobile phone usage.   They found absolutely none, but sensibly advised users to be cautious about over-use.   After all, no one thinks a torch is dangerous, but would you shine one into your ear for six hours a day?Dave Nealedave.neale@btinternet.com
Lara Croft may be the best-known woman in games, but if she were real it is likely her oversized chest would see her toppling over rather than raiding tombs.  Could it be because she was designed by a man? If Junko Kawano had been involved, Lara may have been a well-rounded character rather than just top-heavy. Kawano is the producer of Konami's forthcoming PlayStation 2 game Shadows of Memories, and one of an increasing number of women involved in video game production.Historically, few women have been involved in game development. Games were generally viewed as being made for men by men, with the representation of female characters - there to be   rescued or ogled at - hardly enticing women to play.However, with the multimillion-selling PlayStation helping to create an increasingly mainstream audience, more and more females not only play but produce.Caroline Green, a graphic artist at British software house Kuju, has noticed the change. "The number of women in the industry has increased significantly," she says.The reasons are varied. Ever-expanding graphical sophistication and processing power has led to more realistic-looking games, which in turn has enabled designers to produce titles that involve more than sports, driving and shooting. Shadows of Memories is a good example. It is Kawano's first game in charge and, although she emphasises the team effort, you sense this is her personal project.The non-violent, time-travelling title is heavily influenced by Faust and is largely narrative driven - Kawano describes it as a digital novel. Despite this, she denies   taking deliberate aim at the female market. "We didn't intentionally leave out violence to attract girls although it probably helps them enjoy the game," she insists.But even a cursory glance reveals that the female characters play an integral part   in proceedings. Kawano stresses she never intended the female characters to be stronger than normal but "as a woman I know what women are like".  So, unlike the mini-skirted stereotypes usually associated with games, the women in Shadows of Memories are, well, normal.For example, Miriam is middle-aged and fairly unsatisfied with her lot - not exactly typical game territory. Perhaps unexpectedly, Shadows' main character is male.It is significant that Shadows is coming out on PlayStation 2, as more powerful hardware has helped increase the numbers of female development staff in other ways.Catherine Skinner, of the game developers Supedo sees other changes as important. "The PC/console games industry is beginning to converge with many other industries - web, interactive TV and telecoms," she says. "Industries like TV and the web have high proportions of female production staff, and as these different production skill sets become integrated into the games industry, so will the men and women who work in them."But will the increasing numbers of female developers eventually change the portrayal of women in video games?   Robson thinks so. "On the whole we are no longer purely portrayed as sex objects," she says. "There are a lot of strong female characters in games that men like to look at, but women want to be like. The trend towards this type of character will grow as more women get into the industry."But Skinner sounds a note of caution:  "At a basic level, female production staff act as a reality check on blatantly offensive portrayals of women in games, but unfortunately power doesn't usually lie with the production staff."Until the industry and its investors feel a need to develop new genres and reach a broader market, there's still going to be pressure to cater primarily to the proven core of 15-30-year-old male gamers.   "And that means a pressure to continue with existing genres and their stereotypes, along with sexist marketing campaigns."Some in the industry are more cautious, however. Skinner says: "I don't think it's true that female production staff necessarily make more female-friendly games, or that men necessarily make less female-friendly games."The Sims is a prime example of a title that has cross-gender appeal. The game, which lets you run (or ruin) peoples lives, has sold 280,000 copies in the UK.  Al King, the marketing director of the publishers EAUK, feels this is down to its realistic environment: "It's about people in the real world and not guns or planes or monsters," he says.As games become part of the mainstream, and appear across formats ranging from consoles to mobile phones, it's clear that the days of boys making toys for other boys are fading.  Skinner argues that more imagination will be needed to capitalise on this market. "There will be more female gamers - and more male gamers, for that matter - when there are a greater range of game genres.  "And that depends on having a wider range of people with different backgrounds and visions involved in production, be they female or male."Lara Croft may be a game icon but, with the increasing numbers of female development staff, future heroines should at least be more realistically proportioned.
Whenever the likes of Napster are called upon to justify their particular brand of piracy, they always hint at MP3 empowering rather than preying on musicians. MP3, it is argued, gives unknown bands a chance to reach new audiences, to create, compress and publish studio quality music at the click of the mouse.No more waiting around for some A&amp;R man to discover you while hoards of talentless yobs with great haircuts prance around on TOTP. The theory goes that if you want to be heard you can be. So, equipped with my own three-minute dance sensation entitled Love on Radio, I set off to find fame and fortune.The first shock was a major one. Heading off towww.acidplanet.com, I got my first glimpse of the competition, namely hundreds of wannabe stars who had used the same music-making package (the excellent Acid 2 Pro) to far greater effect.Imaginatively arranged and perfectly mixed, most of them could be played down your local club with pride, whereas mine sounded like it had been knocked up in two hours on a PC (which it had). Not one to be discouraged, I posted my track anyway, returning a few days later to discover that only 12 people had bothered to download it. The most charitable response from one listener was: "Nice chorus, shame about the rapper."While MP3 has democratised music, it has also transferred a truckload of new responsibilities to the artist. With the conventional music model, you could rely on a record company to pay for sound engineers, producers and marketers to make your track worthy of attention. Now it's all up to you, and if you don't start with professional songwriting tools (a decent sequencer, soundcard and plug-in digital effects are a must) and a modicum of production skill, no one is going to care how good the basic idea is.A certain degree of support is offered by artists' collectives such aswww.songwriter.com, but selling direct to the consumer is a lot harder than it sounds.A trip to the newly relaunchedwww.MP3.comrevealed further weaknesses in my strategy. Even if my track had been professional enough, all you achieve by simply posting music is to give some brain-dead   Californian student a free fix of your work. The internet does not provide a showcase for artists looking to be snapped up by a record label; it is a true alternative to conventional music retailing, and thinking like a record company is essential to getting anywhere. For a start, you will need an album, or at least a collection of five to 10 tracks you can mail to your fans should you get any.You will also need to decide how best to market your newfound talent.  For example, though posting an MP3 file to your website is easy, no one but a small circle of friends will know it's there. This is one reason for the rise of true online publishers such aswww.peoplesound.com, who provide you with a web page, a streaming audio demo of your track, and even make and sell your CDs in exchange for a 50% royalty. Naturally, you first have to prove yourself worthy (by registering and sending in some tracks) but even if you are chosen for the playlist, you run the risk of being lost among the hundreds of artists doing the same thing and you can count your time in the "charts" in days rather than weeks.The internet is a far more   "vertical" record shop than anything you find in the High Street. Users browse   specifically for the type of music they like, and unless your style falls into the   electro, techno, or trance   category (and the harder   the better) there is a good chance no one will ever   hear it.  One possible answer to this is the growing number of MP3 radio stations such ashttp://radio.mp3.com, which play continuous loops of tracks where a single click will take you to the download page.The downside is that getting on the playlist is still time-consuming, and whereas a local radio station guarantees you several thousand listeners at a time, few MP3 stations are heard by more than a few hundred at once. The more you look at the online model for music distribution, the more sense the conventional one makes.The final truth, however, is the most alarming. Heading to the infamouswww.napster.comit does not take a genius to see that the average MP3 punter cares nothing for whether I am talented or not. Of the thousands of tracks freely available, 95% of the downloads are for established stars, with Westlife's What makes a Man still being pirated more than 1,500 times a day while my single track lies totally unnoticed.Although Napster's new deal with the record labels will ensure that the lads make a few pennies somewhere down the line, it offers very little hope for anyone less famous.  So, there you have it. Original MP3 music is alive, remarkably professional and available from dozens of websites. It remains, however, a promotional tool for artists with record company support, or those with a loyal fan base and a CD to flog. Perhaps when MP3 radio takes off, it will offer a genuine chance of breaking new talent. In the meantime, it merely encourages clever producers to plunder the web at will for good ideas to cunningly weave into their own tracks.   Needless to say, I am not prepared to take such a risk with my precious material.Oh, who am I kidding? I sucked and they knew it.
More violent than a Quake gorefest, more scheming than Age of Empires: no topic inflames gamers more than the great gender battle. Gaming - online, on a PC or on a handheld - is still seen as a guy thing.The few women characters  tend to be S&amp;M variations of Barbie - tough, pneumatic chicks with skin-tight, skimpy clothing (can Lara Croft really scale rocky ledges in those hotpants?).Seemingly even rarer than women characters are women gamers. Gals who do venture into the gameplaying world usually have a story to tell about abusive or condescending behaviour from male players. When women form all-female "clans" to play as a team - a trend that took off with Quake - they are harangued by male players for excluding men. Popular women's gaming sites such asWomangamers.comandGamegirlz.comare full of this debate.Women complain that most games feature mindless storylines that portray them as sex objects or add-on fluff. And they hate the advertising and packaging. "If they could lose this fascination with huge breasts and hips," sighs Maura McHugh, a systems administrator and game player. No wonder women aren't really into gaming.  Except they are. Women buy half of all software games and 48% of consoles, says the Interactive Digital Software Association, although some purchases are gifts. Men constitute 55% of gamers overall, according to a recent study by the Virginia-based analyst PC Data. For online gaming, women are now the majority, making up 50.4%."For a long time, publishers and manufacturers have overlooked women," says Sean Wargo, a senior analyst with PC Data. At 45% of the market, women constitute a huge and largely untapped audience. Untapped, because most are playing games for which they pay little or   nothing - online games,   pre-installed card and puzzle games on PCs, and free   downloads.Wargo says women are enthusiastic players of free games connected to advertisements, and are also fans of card, puzzle, trivia and gambling games online.This is also why female gamers remain relatively invisible. "The hardcore game industry is most interested in the people who are paying," he says.   "There's a perception that women don't know what they want and won't pay for games."This may be the fault of games' developers and publishers. "It may be just that the way games are presented doesn't appeal to women," says Wargo. "You are talking about a pretty male-dominated industry."That's why Phaedra Boinodiris and her sister Ismini set up the gaming portal Womengamers.com. "Most gaming magazines, game box covers, gaming banner ads, and gaming websites cater to the young male," she says. "Our aim is an environment where women gamers can be integrated with the rest of the community. It's time female preferences were taken into account."Women gamers can feel isolated, she says. "We feel like pioneers in one of the last frontiers. Ismini and I have developed a clearer understanding of what we imagine our mother went through as one of the first women graduating in computer engineering back in the 60s.""Very few developers and publishers try to capture the female audience," says Vangie Beal, the founder of the Canadian website Gamegirlz.com. "I often stumble across something and think 'only a guy could really appreciate this'. I attribute it to the limited number of women working in developer positions at those companies. There is little or no female perspective."Most studies report a gender divide in the kinds of PC and console games played. Males tend to like action, while women are more into role-playing adventures. Men like strategy, driving things and shooting things. Women like good stories, character development and solving problems. "They read the backstory in the manuals and really get into the entire gaming experience," says Martin Feeney, a software programmer who hosts a games site at the Irish portalOnline.ie.But women don't necessarily dislike shoot'em-ups, as many women gamers and the proliferation of all-female Quake clans will testify. Many would just prefer a good story to go with the gore. Often, games that cross gender barriers, such as Ultima and EverQuest, have action and adventure elements. "In they end," says Beal, "they all just want a good game to play."Many women gamers note that the gender issue is often overplayed. Games could be better, and hostilities can erupt between male and female players, but guys show plenty of interest in women's gaming sites and make up a large proportion of their audience. "A little less than a third of our site members are men and yes, they are typically extremely supportive," says Phaedra. "Once in a while we get the 'Shouldn't you be ironing your man's underwear' type of email, but thankfully not very often."The violent, often sexist content of many games is cited as not only a turn-off to female players, but as a prime reason why girls don't bother with engineering and computing careers. A report last year by the Association of American University Women found that girls disliked most games and saw them as part of a computer culture that seemed unappealing as a work environment. A December report by a US children's advocacy group, Children Now, said that nearly half of popular computer games had negative images of females.McHugh claims the games are getting better, with more women characters and complex stories. And there's good reason for them to improve, says Jason Armitage, a senior analyst in London with International Data Corporation. More than a quarter of western European homes will have 128-bit gaming consoles by 2004 - with the UK leading the market - and a battle will break out between the console-makers Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo.Still, he doesn't expect any big shift in strategy right away. "Early adopters are a pivotal group and are heavily weighted towards males. The level of investment &#91;to produce a software title&#93; means they will target this top tier - the 14- to 35-year-old male."What would make a game more attractive to women?   "A game that's well-designed with a real story to it, a real plot, and good characters," says McHugh.And what do men think women gamers want? "Good background story and interesting story development," Feeney says. "No pointless, difficult sections that interrupt the flow of the game. Strong roles for female characters without giving them obscene outfits or unrealistic proportions. "In fact," he says, "all the above sounds good to me, too."
Putting pictures on the web is the quickest and easiest way to share them. You don't even need a computer to do it. And although you may never have thought about starting an online photo album, there is a very good chance you already have one.The simplest and cheapest way to get your pictures online is to have it done as part of the D&amp;P (developing and printing) process. Such services have become common in the US over the past couple of years, and Fotango, a start-up based in London, now offers one in Europe.Post a 35mm or APS film to Fotango and it will put your pictures online free. You can also order a set of prints or a Photo CD when you send off the film: seewww.fotango.comfor prices. The service is also available viaWH Smith, which means you can take your film into any branch for processing, and have the pictures put online for an extra 99p.D&amp;P services usually produce good results because they scan the original nega tives, not machine-made prints that may be of variable quality. And since manual scanning is hard work, they save a lot of effort.Of course, it is not happy snappers who are driving the online album market. It is, rather, the growing number of people who are buying digital cameras, as the image quality goes up and prices come down.Digital camera owners tend not to say: "I'll stick a print in the post". They probably don't have any prints. They can and do offer to send pictures by email, but this can create problems.Image files can be large, and take time to upload and download. Recipients often do not like receiving large attachments by email, and may have problems decoding them. Worse, a handful of images can fill up a mailbox, which may mean more   important mail is "bounced" (rejected).The obvious solution is to put the pictures on a web page, so people can look at them when they like. And when the first free web space became available on GeoCities and similar "homesteading" sites, that is what many keen photographers did. However, this still required too much time and effort for people who just wanted to put a couple of snaps online - especially if they were just snaps of things they were auctioning on eBay.About three years ago, PhotoPoint came up with the solution. PhotoPoint lets you put pictures on the web by emailing them tophotos@photopoint.com. You then log on to the service using your email address, and search for other people's pictures by using their email addresses.Also, once you have put a picture in a PhotoPoint album, it has a unique address. This means you can email a friend a link to a picture and they can go straight to it. For example, my photo of New York, a theme hotel in    Las Vegas,  ishere.What could be easier - if you just have just have to click on a web link? PhotoPoint now offers other ways to upload photos. You can upload up to 10 images at once, by browsing for each one on your hard drive and selecting it in a search box. It works exactly like adding an attachment to an email message in Hotmail or Yahoo. Almost every online album site has the same facility.PhotoPoint has also introduced Image Express software for Microsoft Windows. Download this helper application and you can upload up to 100 pictures at a time. Finally, the site has a tie in with Kodak's PhotoNet Online service in the US, so users can have films processed and then transfer the image files to PhotoPoint.If you only want to upload one or two dozen pictures, you should have no problems with a service that lets you upload six to 10 at a time. But if you want to upload a couple of hundred, or a couple of   thousand, then make sure you choose a service with bulk upload software such as Image Express.Another useful PhotoPoint feature, not found on all services, is the ability to rotate an image. This solves one common problem, which is accidentally uploading   pictures as horizontals when they should be vertical. PhotoPoint also allows simple cropping, while other sites offer "image enhancement" software.Dozens of rivals have entered the online album business over the past couple of years. It has attracted some   big players includingKodak,Hewlett-Packard,IntelandSony, as well as start-ups such asOphoto,Shutterflyand - in the UK -PhotoBox.Most are free, but derive some income from making prints. This includes printing images on mugs, plates, T-shirts, mousemats and other memorabilia. If you allow it, they are also happy to make prints for your friends, or even for people you don't know who just like the picture.Many other web sites have also added photo album facilities, including the leading portals: Yahoo, AOL and the Microsoft network, MSN. If you already have a Yahoo or Hotmail address, then you already have an online photo album. Visto includes one too.The idea of making prints raises one of the problems that is usually hidden by photo album services: image size. If you use a digital camera, selecting the best possible image quality will result in a multi-megabyte file. Even   compressed JPEG (.jpg) images will often range from 200K to 900K. If you just want to share a snapshot, this is far too large: about 35-135K would download quicker. However, if an image is going to be used for printing, you want the best resolution you can get.Typically online albums will let you upload any image you like, but will only display a reduced version. For example, my New York picture was uploaded as a 182K image with a resolution of 1280 by 960 pixels, and onYahoo, that is what you get.However, the one you can see on PhotoPoint has been reduced to a 43K JPEG with VGA resolution (640 by 480 pixels), while the one onFotangohas become ludicrously small.Another problem I had with Fontango was that I could not see how to link to a whole album. This is easy withPhotoPoint, andYahoo. For comparison purposes, all contain the same four photos.Another point to consider is the total amount of space allowed. For example, my four Las Vegas photos already take up a megabyte, so Yahoo's generous 25 megabytes of free space may only hold 100 pictures.Some sites allow an infinite amount of storage - dangerous, if there is no limit on uploading multimedia files and movies! - while others are more circumspect.The obvious way around such limits is to open multiple accounts. You could give them different names (scholialasvegas, scholia friends, scholiapets etc) or simply numbers (scholia001,   scholia002 and so on). There are already people with more than 200 Yahoo accounts.All the online photo albums let you keep your pictures private. However, you can "publish" them to the global populace, if you like, and list them in Yahoo-style category guides. Many albums also have "guest books" where visitors can leave comments.But if you really want to be the nextSam HaskinsorAnsel Adams, do the job properly and design a website to suit your pictures.Online albums are just a simple way to share snaps with friends.
Who would be a venture capitalist (VC) in 2001? Having got it so wrong in 2000, when the funding frenzy in the dot.com market even saw a portal launched for sheep farmers, early-stage investors must now try and regain some credibility and get their investments back on track.But where, exactly, will their cash go in 2001? It is an eight billion-dollar question - the amount earmarked for VC investment in the technology market this year.Siren voices are only too willing to offer advice. Wap? A mere stepping stone to third generation (3G) mobile services. And 3G? An expensive experiment that will cost operators, and investors, dear. Business-to-business (B2B) internet services? Well, look what happened to business-to-consumer (B2C). And so on.One thing is certain: early-stage investors appear determined not to repeat the mistakes of the previous 12 months."People had too narrow a focus on one segment of the market," says Nick Wood, a director with New York-based technology fund, MetVP. "It's important that investors have a variety of technology investments. Not to do so invites unnecessary dangers."Dan Conaghan, a director with NewMedia Spark (NMS), a UK-based VC group, agrees: "We will not be making any B2C investments this year. We need to rebalance our portfolio."NMS has 55 investments and a &#163;100m fund. It expects to make 15 new investments in 2001, 10 less than last year. However, the funding strategies the group and the industry adopt this year, says Conaghan, will mark a return to more conservative values."In 1999 and early 2000, there was a belief among start-ups and investors that the time from the start to a public flotation was a year to 18 months. Now it has gone back to four to seven years. It's very healthy for everybody - entrepreneurs stay to build the business and investors are long-term supporters."The driving force behind VC investments this year will be those ventures employing core technologies. Having flirted disastrously last year on the peripheries of technology with B2C service businesses, the key words dominating VC vocabulary now are "proprietary", "defensible" and "patentable".In other words, those start-ups that have built a business around a technology that will give them a head start over   the opposition will be well placed for funding.However, identifying the technologies that will be core to the future of a particular industry or service is the challenge, and it is here that the winners and losers will be decided.For John Taysom, founder and co-chief executive of Reuters Greenhouse Fund (RGF), one of the largest UK corporate technology investment funds, the answer is to   fathom the problem and then to find the venture that is addressing it. It is, he says, a uniquely European attitude."Silicon Valley is a trout waiting for the food to swim by; in Europe, you have to be a pike and go out and look for what you want. Here, genius flunks geography."This view, that the region's future technology jewels are disparate and need seeking out, is one supported among Europe's burgeoning VC industry. It makes the task of identification all the harder, and points to an acceleration in regional partnerships, alliances and acquisitions."Europe-wide know-how is a must," says NMS's Conaghan, whose group has offices in four European cities.However, NMS is taking its geographical reach and digging deeper into the region's technology psyche. "After the events of last year, we decided to take a step back and look at a five-year view of the technology space. We've been to universities across Europe talking to research departments. We're   not expecting to see the next core technology, but we're gaining an insight into where research is taking us."Mobile internet, broadband telecommunications and networking applications are the three areas on most VCs' agendas. To this, NMS would add data services, fibre optic technologies and applications for smart and SIM cards.RGF prefers to invest in ventures that have a resonance with its parent company. Thus it usually considers start-ups that operate in the financial data, information retrieval and database services markets.Areas it is currently studying for investment include patents and their potential for usage in a mergers and acquisition (M&amp;A) market increas ingly driven by the capture of ideas. "We see great value in a database of patents and how that might be used in valuing M&amp;A," says Taysom.Other pertinent subjects include digital watermarking, "things networks do badly", connectivity between the virtual and physical worlds and a variety of XML (Extensible Markup Language) and other developments relating to the corporate arena.MetVP, which has a $10m fund aimed at Europe, is targeting the environmental science, enterprise software and nanotechnology markets this year.The absence of anything to do with the consumer market is marked. However, within these target markets, all three VC firms underline the importance of core competencies, strong management, identifiable applications and long-term sustainability.Wise words, easily spoken after the puncturing of the dot.com bubble in 2000. It remains to be seen if the dose of reality will sustain such conviction as the technology market recovers.
Britain's new e-envoy is brushing aside scathing criticism of the government's e-commerce plans and promises Whitehall is on track to meet its 2005 target.In an exclusive interview with Guardian Online this week, Andrew Pinder insisted all government services would be online within the next four years, meeting a deadline set by the prime minister, Tony Blair, last year.His assurances come despite a report from internet analyst Forrester Research, published on Friday, which cast doubt on Whitehall's ability to deliver the ambitious promises of e-government.Pinder has been working in a caretaker role for the past three months, after the resignation of the first e-envoy, Alex Allan.He says permanent appointment to the role will allow him to focus on longer-term planning."Some of the time I've been very conscious that someone else could be coming in to take over," he said. "I've not been wanting to steal the limelight or take decisions which they should be taking."There had been suggestions that Pinder was reluctant to take on the role permanently; his name had not cropped up on many observers' shortlists because of his insistence that he would only take the job for the interim period.Now he is finally able to look more than a few months ahead there are plenty of hard decisions which need to be taken, according to Forrester Research.In its paper, eGovernment fails the grade, it states bluntly that "the UK government's aggressive e-commerce plans won't come to fruition." It says only the intervention of the private sector will allow the government to reach its goal of 100% electronic delivery of government services to businesses and consumers.Worse, it grades the efforts of a sample of departments from A to E, awarding an average of D. Departments hit with an E grade include the Department of Social Security, Office of National   Statistics and Customs and Excise.Even the online efforts of the Office of the E-envoy got a lowly D rating, beaten by the the likes of the Inland Revenue (IR) and Department for Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS), which both scored the top mark awarded - a C."Plans for delivering services are wrong-headed," writes Forrester analyst Caroline Sceats."Only the IR and DCMS show any understanding of the pressures the government will face as a portal in the competitive internet environment. The result: opportunities for building on strengths go to waste."The Forrester report's comments have been dismissed in some quarters as being under-researched, naive and focused on the comments of a handful of IT suppliers who would stand to benefit most from the failure of the e-government initiative and subsequent out-sourcing of work.Pinder, although clearly unhappy about Forrester's conclusions, prefers to be   more diplomatic. He points to what he claims is the progress the drive is having, and the results already achieved.He is quick to reject the suggestion that the "Sir Humphreys" of Whitehall are intent on stalling the e-government initiative."I think that is rubbish," he says. "The civil service is not resistant to change. There are issues with the civil service, as with any large organisation."One is that this is a large   supertanker which takes a long time to turn, and it takes a while for people to take on board this new method of communicating. This is just as hard for people here as it is for those in the private sector."Take banks, for example; I don't think banks are doing any better in e-commerce than the UK public sector."The second issue is that the public sector is enormously diverse, with lots of sections, and trying to get people to be   creative about what they do online is a big challenge - probably a bigger challenge than anyone in the private sector is having to face."Despite these problems, and the criticism, Pinder is confident that government will meet its 2005 deadline."We've had the first round of e-strategies, published on departments' websites," he says. "Those strategies show that most departments are well on track to hitting the 2005 target. If people took the trouble to read that they would see it."The big issue for me is that we don't just want them to hit the 2005 target; we want them to do it in some style. We want them to deliver these services, not just by putting these things online, but we want them to really target these services and be much more creative, using this new medium in a different sort of way."And, despite Forrester's misgivings, that kind of talk appears to be what industry wants to hear. There, reaction to Pinder's appointment has been positive.Jim Norton, head of e-business at the Institute of Directors, says he is "delighted" by Pinder's appointment. "I wanted someone who had both public and private sector experience and Andrew's got both of those."To my mind he has acquitted himself well in a difficult time - it's not an easy period when you're acting as interim. I wish him good luck in what is a very challenging job."Meanwhile, Tim Conway, director of industry affairs at the Computing Services and Software Association, was also happy with Pinder's appointment."We particularly welcome the fact that he's been in the job three months now," Conway says. "He understands what the job is about and can get on with the very important tasks which his job entails."His profile - having worked in the civil service and some large organisations outside the civil service - means he is well suited to taking on the change management role."
Big sellerWho Wants To Be A Millionaire? has become the first British game to sell a million copies in the UK, according to ChartTrack, which monitors retail sales.The game, developed by Hothouse Creations and published by Eidos Interactive, has achieved sales worth almost &#163;30 million in only 121   days. WWTBAM? has benefited from being available on several platforms, with a Game Boy version still to come.So far, 624,000 copies have been sold for the Sony PlayStation, 347,000 for PCs and about 39,000 for the Sega Dreamcast.Carry PSoneWild Things has announced a flat-screen monitor with built-in stereo speakers for the Sony PSone console, making it a portable games machine that can also play audio CDs. It runs from a car's cigarette lighter, but a battery pack will be available. The monitor is expected to cost about &#163;100 and should be reaching the shops now.PS2 salesSony Europe says it sold 812,000 PlayStation 2 consoles last year, starting on November 24. The UK led the way with 172,000 units ahead of France (153,000), Germany (124,000) and Italy (65,000). Sales were "in line with deliveries" - limited by Sony's inability to meet demand. Sony has also taken over Red Zone Interactive, a developer of sports simulations such as NFL GameDay, NHL FaceOff and NBA ShootOut.On the wayCodemasters is developing a football quiz for Wap phones. It will be called LMA Football Quiz, after the company's   football management game. The next PlayStation version of that, LMA Manager 2001, is due on March 9.Electronic Arts is working on two online versions of   The Sims, its best-selling people simulation, according to Newsweek magazine. Sims Online wil enable players to compete against one another as Sims, and send each other email and instant messages.
The seductiveness of owning your own domain name is not hard to grasp; millions of us now sport an online identity.For some it is just the chance to link up with relatives and friends all over the world. For others - who have snapped up 10, 20 or even 50 domains - it is a vital means to build, maintain and protect a business.But whichever category you fall into, one fact remains the same: many of Britain's small e-businesses are becoming ex-businesses and it is the customers who are paying the price - quite literally.In the past two months around 10 domain name providers have gone bust. But as more frustrated and bewildered customers raise their voices the eventual number is expected to be far greater.Among the list of burnouts are Lollinames.co.uk, Justnames.co.uk, Dotltd.com, Webnetics.co.uk, Bestprice names.co.uk, Easyzone.co.uk, and Redhotant.co.uk.When a company goes bust, its servers are switched off, and as far as the internet is concerned, your domain name no longer exists. If the website cannot be reached the emails do not work any more either. For an internet business this could be catastrophic. And, even for owners of only one domain, months of time, energy and money spent creating the site have been wasted.If the company is not operating anymore then neither will its administration desk. But some customers have discovered to their horror that their domain name provider did not pay its bills and never even registered the domain in the first place.They have found themselves tangled up in a protracted battle with the company's liquidators and the registry to prove they ever had the name in the first place. The longer it goes on, the more chance there is of someone else buying your domain.An important port of call is Nominet - the registry for all .uk names. If you are one of the lucky ones and your domain was registered properly, then it should be recorded here and nobody else can register it again. However, they charge a hefty &#163;80 to re-register, so finding another ISP to do it for you is the cheapest course of action.So how can you protect your online alter egos? The wisest move is to make sure   you get the right ISP to begin with.A spokeswoman from Nominet said: "When a company goes bust they do not exactly pick up the phone and call to let us know. The first we know of any difficulties is when a customer contacts us, desperate because their domain has gone down and they can't get any answers."People lead busy lives and may not realise for weeks that their site is down, which can have serious implications for their business."When the virtual gold rush began 18 months ago, thousands of companies jumped on the get-rich-quick bandwagon, but now the money is running out.And with two small ISPs going bust each week, the chances of floating are remote: internet investors are now very choosy.The moral? Do your homework before signing on the dotted line and request official confirmation of your registration. It is a small price to pay for not being left high and dry.
This is the inside of a new breed of chip from IBM, as seen by an electron microscope at 15,000 times magnification.You can clearly see six levels of inticriate circuits and a tungsten interconnect, part of new technology from IBM called CMOS 9S, which uses copper to link the innards of chips together. This allows high-speed transistors - the on/off switches which act as a computer's brains - to be linked using microscopic copper wiring only 0.13 microns wide - that's around 800 times thinner than a human hair.Because copper is a better electrical conductor than the aluminium used in other chips, microprocessors made from it can run 25 to 30 times faster than others. But while the chips purr along in the multi-megahertz range, they will still use less power than today's versions: a big advantage as demand for sophisticated battery-powered mobile devices soars with the arrival of 3G mobile networks and palmtop computers.Now almost every other major manufacturer of microprocessors - including Motorola and Intel - is pumping resources into research of copper circuits, in an attempt to make up on   IBM's reputed three-year lead in the technology.Computers sporting copper chips are already shipping: Apple has used IBM's technology in its PowerPC range since 1998 and IBM will put the new CMOS 9S chips in its new high-end e-server machines.
Fuji brings out new FinePixFuji has unveiled the successor to the FinePix 4700Zoom - one of last year's hottest digital cameras. Due in April, the FinePix 6800 Zoom offers a slightly different take on its predecessor's upright James Bond gadget-influenced styling, as well as delivering improved image resolution (3.3 megapixels as opposed to 2.47) and, at 160 seconds, twice the amount of video footage. The camera also features an updated version of Fuji's controversial Super CCD, which uses interpolation technology to allegedly increase image resolution, in this instance up to 6.0 megapixels. The model also features a 3x optical zoom and stores images on its accompanying 16MB SmartMedia card. Its price is likely to be around &#163;700.A cosmetically-similar, though lower specified version, the FinePix 4800 Zoom, which has a megapixel count of 2.4 and can store up to 80 seconds of video, goes on sale in June for around &#163;500.Also due in the summer is the FinePix 2300, a budget model with a resolution of 2.1 megapixels that stores images on embedded flash memory.Olympus zoom in for nice pairOlympus has kicked off 2001 with a pair of top-end digital cameras aimed at the serious amateur photographer.In the stores now are the &#163;800 Camedia C-3040 Zoom and the &#163;500 Camedia C-2040 Zoom. The C-3040 is the successor to last year's C-3030 model - one of the first cameras to offer 3.4 megapixel resolution images.The 2001 version keeps both the traditional styling of its predecessor and its 1/1.8inch 3.4 megapixel CCD (image sensor). However Olympus has added an enhanced 2.5x digital zoom (in addition to the 3x optical zoom) and has updated the camera's JPEG movie shooting/editing facilities by offering the option of disabling sound while shooting video. The camera also sports manual facilities, including white balance and exposure and comes with a 16MB SmartMedia card.Also new from Olympus is the &#163;500 Camedia C-2040 Zoom, a mid-market camera that has a resolution of 2.11 megapixels, a 3x optical and 2.5x digital zoom and an 8MB SmartMedia card.Sharp's slim screens scoopSharp has announced three additions to its range of ultra-slim LCD TVs. Due on sale in the summer are the 13inch LC-13C2, 15inch LC-15C2 and 20 inch LC-20C2. These join Sharp's existing trio of models which are starting to arrive in the stores in limited quantities.All three new models sport conventional 4x3 shaped screens (widescreen versions are expected in 2002), boast a 160 degree viewing angle and   feature integrated speakers, sockets and an analogue TV tuner. Picture resolution from the black TFT LCD panel screens is rated at 921,600 pixels. The models are finished in silver and are accompanied by a small floor stand, although they can also be hung on a wall. Prices are expected to be around &#163;1,500 for the 13inch model, &#163;2,000 for the 15inch and &#163;4,000 for the 20inch.Record break into EuropeRecordTV, the controversial internet based-VCR system, may soon be coming to Europe. The company has confirmed that it is has been in talks with German media giant Bertelsmann with a view to offering programmes available via the web. Users simply state what they want to record and then watch the programmes online at their own convenience. The move is indicative of Bertelsmann's recent approaches to web companies. Several months ago it also sealed an alliance with on-line music swapping service Napster. Earlier this year, RecordTV suspended its US-based virtual VCR service after members of the Motion Picture Association of America filed a lawsuit against the company. The lawsuit has a trial date of July 2001.
