It's Thursday – is everyone back at work, or are there some of you still loafing about at home playing your new games? Let us know!
Millions switched their attention from the television set to pocket-sized screens over Christmas as Google and Apple saw a record-breaking 6.8m phone activations in a single day, followed by an app downloading frenzy.In what some commentators are calling "Sofa Sunday", those who were not glued to the Downton Abbey special turned to the internet to stock up newly acquired phones and tablet computers, with mobile data firm Flurry predicting 1bn apps will be downloaded worldwide over the holiday period.Around 3.7m devices using Google's Android operating software were switched on for the first time on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day, Andy Rubin, Google's mobile senior vice-presidentannouncedon Wednesday on Twitter. Android had been averaging 700,000 new users a day.Total activations for Apple and Android devices reached 6.8m on the 25th, up 353% on the daily average of 1.5m, according to Flurry, suggesting the latest iPhone 4S, released in October, more than held its own against less expensive Android handsets made by Samsung and HTC."I am expecting to see Apple as number one for this quarter but not next," said mobile analyst Francisco Jeronimo at IDC. "In the longer term, Android will continue to be the number one, with a market share over 50% worldwide."The number of apps downloaded on both software platforms surged 125% to 242m worldwide on Christmas Day. The total is more than double any other day in the history of the two operating systems except Christmas Eve, when 150m apps were installed.Flurry predicts downloads for the holiday period will reach 1bn. Established classics of the gaming world are holding sway on Android, with Grand Theft Auto III and Sega's Sonic the Hedgehog topping the paid-for download chart.The owners of iPhones are opting for slightly more highbrow entertainment, with Words with Friends, a version of Scrabble from recently floated gaming group Zynga, topping the paid-for download chart. Those wanting to read a bestseller on their iPad sent Apple's iBooks app into 6th position in the free downloads chart.Services offering free calls and text messages are beginning to reach critical mass, with Facebook Messenger, Skype and WhatsApp featuring among the top 10 free downloads on iTunes and Android.The mobile spending spree helped traditional retailers. Mobile traffic on Boxing Day accounted for 20% of all visits and 16% of all spending on the websites of 150 leading UK retailers, according to data collected by IBM. While the average amount spent on a basket of goods at these sites rose just 2%, those browsing on their phones rather than from a desktop computer increased their spending by 275% compared with Boxing Day 2010.The biggest mobile device spenders are Apple customers – nearly 8% of online shopping sessions were completed on an iPhone, around 7.5% from an iPad, and 4% from an Android phone.
The rumours are everywhere and, despite silence from Sony and Microsoft, they are gaining traction.With the Xbox 360 now a stately seven years old and PlayStation 3 pushing six, it seems a new console generation is on the horizon. An announcement from one of the two manufacturers is expected at the giganticE3 exhibition in Los Angelesin June.But 2012 is already looking as if it will be an extraordinarily busy year for games.Sony will launch its Vita handheld console in the UKin February. The sleek high-end device features a 127mm (5in) OLED display, innovative rear-mounted touch panel, twin analogue controls and Wi-Fi internet access.Titles such as Uncharted: Golden Abyss, LittleBigPlanet, Escape Plan and Little Deviants suggest an interesting gaming experience, but the question is whether consumers will buy a new dedicated gaming machine with smartphones eating into the market.Nintendo is also lining up its Wii U console for release later in the year. Featuring a tablet-style controller with its own screen, the machine promises some intriguing new gameplay concepts, but it is still underpowered compared with the PS3 and Xbox 360. The announced games – including new versions of puzzler Pikmin and fighting game Super Smash Brothers – have hardly set the universe alight.Elsewhere, it looks like industry upstart Rockstar could be dominating the charts this year. March sees the launch of its gritty shooterMax Payne 3, sporting ludicrously balletic shootouts and sophisticated character animation. But the big news is the return of Grand Theft Auto. Set in a Hollywood-style city of fame-hungry wannabes and retired criminals, GTA V looks like another huge sleazy thrill ride. An autumn release is possible, but it would be wrong to assume anything with this company.Sequels will do huge business as usual – and it is very much a year of threes. Sci-fi adventure Mass Effect 3, sword-and-sorcery romp Diablo III and jungle shooter Far Cry 3 should all do good business.Publishers are also keen to bring back franchises that have enjoyed long breaks. Square Enix has its promising reboot of Tomb Raider arriving in the autumn, featuring a teenage Lara Croft fighting for her life on a deadly island.The same publisher is also exhuming its bald contract killer, Agent 47, for new stealth gameHitman: Absolution.It could be that the most creative, thought-provoking comeback will beBioshock: Infinite, a steam-punk historical fantasy set upon a floating city.Luckily, a few original titles are expected in the coming months. The downloadable PS3 title Journey promises an adventure set in a mysterious desert where gamers must form co-operative relationships with anonymous players. Then there's the open-world stealth shooterDishonored, from Lyon-based Arkane Studios, which mixes weird gothic machinery with rusted industrial cityscapes.And Gears of War creator Epic Studios announced in December its plan to launch Fortnite, a post-apocalyptic strategy game in which you build a fortress then defend it against hordes of zombies. Yes, zombies will be back again in 2012. Some things never change.But the big question remains what will those new Sony and Microsoft consoles look like? One guess is that they will resemble tablet PCs, designed to fit into a world where consumers want to take their favourite games, music and movies with them wherever they go.But with the coming rise of smart TVs complete with built-in computer chips, and the growing power of smartphones and tablets, is there still a place for any sort of dedicated game platforms? It could be that 2012 will set the terms of the coming conflict.
Well, that's Christmas over with then. Did you get any exciting presents? Did you manage to gather the whole family around the TV to play Just Dance 3? Give us your festive gaming stories and see us through to New Year's Eve!
A Twitter user is being sued for £217,000 by his former employer for taking his online followers with him when he switched jobs. Noah Kravitz, a writer from Oakland, California, amassed 17,000 followers on the social networking site when he worked for PhoneDog, a website providing news and reviews about mobile phones.He posted Twitter messages under the name @Phonedog_Noah, but in October 2010 he left the company, renamed his account@noahkravitzand took his following with him.PhoneDog has launched legal proceedings seeking damages of $2.50 a month per follower for eight months, for a total of $340,000. The company is arguing that Kravitz's list of followers constitutes a customer database and the valuation is an estimate of how much each follower is worth to the company.The case raises questions about the value of Twitter to companies that are increasingly using the website to communicate with customers and promote their products. Legal observers believe that if damages are awarded against Kravitz, it could set a precedent for assigning a commercial value to Twitter followers acquired in a business context."The costs and resources invested by PhoneDog Media into growing its followers, fans and general brand awareness through social media are substantial and are considered property of PhoneDog Media LLC," the company said. "We intend to aggressively protect our customer lists and confidential information, intellectual property, trademark and brands."Kravitz told the New York Times that PhoneDog had agreed that he could keep the followers as long as he tweeted on the firm's behalf from time to time. He said the lawsuit, filed in July, was in retaliation for his own claim for a share of the site's advertising revenue and for back pay."They're suing me for over a quarter of a million dollars," he told the paper. "From where I'm sitting I held up my end of the bargain." Kravitz's following has now increased to more than 22,000 and his tweets vary from the personal and mundane such as: "Nothing like that 14th cup of coffee to really get you goin'!" to specialist views on the latest products from Nokia, Microsoft and Apple.Jessica Godell of Partridge, a Chicago law firm specialising in intellectual property, said PhoneDog needed to establish that the list of Twitter followers constituted a trade secret. "Can a public account, with a 'followers' list compiled of public Twitter members actually be considered confidential?" shesaid in an article on the firm's website. "What is the economic value of a Twitter account with recent tweets such as 'Why does the bathroom smell like licorice?' and 'Dude, I was sedated last week' for a business like PhoneDog?"In July, the BBC's then political correspondent, Laura Kuenssberg, took around 60,000 followers with her when she moved to be business editor at ITV News. She changed her Twitter name from @BBCLauraK to @ITVLauraK, sparking a fierce debate about whether her rights to her followers were vested in her as an individual or as a BBC reporter.The BBC's editorial guidelines on micro-blogging make no reference to who owns the rights to a Twitter account, but says those which identify the user as a BBC employee must be discussed with managers, should not be political and should keep a clear difference between BBC pages and personal pages.
Detectives from the UK's leading cyber crime unit have identified hundreds of websites that could be used to dupe visitors to next year's London Olympics.They have already closed around 2,000 sites set up by criminals and purporting to sell luxury goods, and are monitoring hundreds of others that have popped up on the web with the games in mind.Some are using the event's signature image of five Olympic rings, which could lead people to believe they have official endorsement."We think there is some evidence to suggest they are waiting to commit fraud," Janet Williams, the deputy assistant commissioner at the Metropolitan police, said. "These websites have been set up and are in a holding position, and we will monitor them to see if they are used for criminal purposes."Williams, the head of the e-crime unit, said ticket fraud was just one way criminals would try to exploit the games."We would be naive to think that it would be the only threat during the Olympics," she told the Guardian. Her unit, which has a staff of 106, is working with other agencies, including the government communications headquarters GCHQ, to intercept traffic that might point to an attack on London's infrastructure. Attempts to cause disruption through "denial of service" attacks have become a common tactic for hackers."The issues we are planning around include a [possible] attack on the transport system … but we have to be flexible. During the planning for the general election, we looked at all the potential things that could happen, and went through a range of contingencies. But nobody thought about a volcano erupting in Iceland." The Met itself has come under cyber-attack, and Williams said the force had now beefed up security around its computers.The Olympics is one area being overseen by the e-crime unit, which has been expanding to try to meet the huge scale of online crime. It is setting up three satellite hubs covering the north-west, Yorkshire and Humberside and the east Midlands, and estimates that in six months this year its virtual taskforce prevented crimes that would have otherwise cost £140m.The unit also prevented a cyber attack on the Clarence House website. The planned attack had been designed to stop a live video screening of the royal wedding in April."It will be a big step up for us to have a regional capability," Williams said. "There will be a small number of people in each hub, and for major events, like the Olympics, we will work together."She said there is some evidence that "old school" crime organisations are moving into the cybersphere. While these groups will attempt to operate across international boundaries, many are based in the UK."They are learning fast and developing their capabilities fast," she said. "When we first approached this we wondered whether we would be looking at criminals in other countries … we are looking at criminals here in the UK."
Apple still held the whip hand in the tablet market in the third quarter, as total shipments for the sector rose 23.9% quarter-on-quarter to 18.1m - equivalent to just under 20% of the 91.9m PCs shipped in same period, according tonew figures from the research company IDCreleased this month.The research shows that Apple's iPad accounted for 61% of the third quarter market, with 11.1m units shipped in the quarter, up from 9.3m in the second quarter. Its market share fell from 68% in the previous quarter.Tablets running the Android operating system fell marginally in market share terms, from 33.2% in the second quarter to 32.4%. But the number shipped grew strongly, from 3.6m to 6m.Android's share will be boosted to over 40% in the current fourth quarter by strong sales of Amazon's Kindle Fire and Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook tablets, said IDC's research director for mobile connected devices Tom Mainelli.However while that will mark success for Android, it will not necessarily be helpful for Google, which gives the Android OS software away for free and aims to monetise it through app sales and adverts on "certified" devices. Both Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble use "forked" versions of Android which link to their own app stores, and do not have "core" Google applications such as Maps or YouTube. Without that connection, Google gets no financial benefit from those tablets, which are reckoned to have sold well this quarter.IDC expects the fourth quarter to be the year's biggest, with 23.6m tablets shipped - which would be equivalent to more than 25% of the quarter's expected PC sales, of around 95m. It would also be greater than the 18m total tablets shipped from all makers in 2010.For the second quarter in a row, IDC raised its forecast for the number of tablets that will be shipped in 2011:previously it raised it by 17% from 53.5m to 62.5m, and now it has raised it again by 1% to 63.3m - even though shipments in the third quarter fell 5% short of its earlier 19.2m forecast.The forecast suggests in the fourth quarter Apple will ship just under 14m tablets, nearly double the 7.3m it sold in the same period in 2010, and Android tablets a total of 9.5m - though IDC does not split that among the different makes.The third quarter was not a strong one for any individual Android tablet. Samsung led the field with a 5.6% share - which equates to just over 1m units shipped. The next biggest seller was HP's TouchPad - which effectively crashed in and out of the market in a matter of months, took a 5% share as it sold 903,000 units. RIM's PlayBook shipped 199,000 units by IDC's figures, equivalent to 1.1% of the market. The other 5m Android tablet shipments were split among a large number of players."Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble are shaking up the media tablet market, and their success helps prove that there is an appetite for media tablets beyond Apple's iPad," said Mainelli. "That said, I fully expect Apple to have its best-ever quarter in 4Q11."Mainelli suggested that there will be wider changes in 2012 as the iPad begins to enter newer mar: "I think we'll see Apple's product begin to gain more traction outside of the consumer market, specifically with enterprise and education markets."Jennifer Song, research analyst at IDC, explained: "Apple's larger portfolio of tablet-specific apps, upcoming iPad versions, and growing physical store presence in key emerging markets like Asia/Pacific will help maintain its global leadership. However, an improving Android OS experience and lower competitor pricing in an environment with worldwide economic concerns should help Android to increase its market share."
Vince Cable writes (Comment, 20 December) that we need to put the whingeing of the City aside and "concentrate on [...] rebalancing the economy". We could hardly agree more – but Cable needs to back his words with action. Investment in science and engineering is crucial if we're to achieve this rebalancing. The sectors Cable name-checks for growth, "advanced manufacturing, creative industries, higher education and professional services", are all linked to, and underpinned by, advances in publicly funded science and engineering, and often staffed by highly skilled science and engineering graduates from our higher education system.Unfortunately, as inflation further erodes a science budget already suffering from cash cuts, it's hard to see how the UK's science and engineering sectors can do anything more than tread water. But it doesn't have to be like this. Germany, for instance, has increased its investment in research and education despite a net reduction in public spending. If the UK is to remain a world leader – we currently produce 10% of the world's best science, with just 1% of its population – Cable must put his money where his mouth is. As it happens, next year will see the sale of the UK's 4G mobile spectrum, raising anything up to £3bn – this cash should be reinvested in British science and engineering.Beck SmithAssistant director,Campaign for Science &amp; Engineering• The reason the UK needs to create lots of successful small- and medium-sized enterprises is not simply because they provide most of the work opportunities for the citizens of this country; it is also that they are too small to have global ambitions and to start thinking that cost-cutting and tax avoidance are the be-all and end-all of running a business.I have nothing but admiration for people who work hard to create a successful business; good luck to them. Yet when they go public, most companies start to take on the ethos of the City – short-term profit maximisation, loyalty to shareholders alone and little or no loyalty to the country that nurtured them in the first place. They export jobs and import goods, not for the good of the country, but to enrich the 1% that gain from this practice: large shareholders and senior managers. The country bears the cost of the negative economic externalities of these practices, yet these parasites are lionised. Globalisation has proved to be a confidence trick carried out against the people of this country, all in the name of freedom, and politicians are complicit in all of this. So much for democracy.Ian ParsonsBradford
It's been predicted for music and film and now the same prophesies are swirling around for video games: high street retail is dead, long live digital distribution.The rise of smartphone and social games has been the year's big story – and these can all be downloaded from the web or played online. Then again, there's no arguing with retail blockbusters such as Fifa 12, Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim and Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, which hit $1bn (£638m) sales within 16 days. So what is going on in video games? And can the traditional players adapt to survive?For specialist retailers it has been a troubling year. Online stores including Amazon grabbed a lot of business and supermarkets muscled in too, buying games in bulk and often selling at a loss. Asda, Tesco and Sainsbury's now have over a quarter of the games software market. Unable to compete on price, and with consumers cautious about spending, high street stores are suffering. Game reported a pre-tax loss of £51.5m in September, which set its shares tumbling, and HMV shut almost 30 stores earlier in the year after sales fell by 15%.Specialists sought to boost revenue by selling pre-owned games, which offer a higher profit margin than new titles. In 2010 Game earned £387m from second-hand sales, prompting Asda and Tesco to get in on the action. Unhappy at losing revenue, games publishers including Electronic Arts (EA) introduced "online passes" to charge buyers of secondhand titles for access to multiplayer gaming and other online services. Gradually, buying cheap pre-owned titles is becoming less attractive to consumers."One of the most overused words this year has to be 'challenging,' " says Tim Ellis, head of games at HMV. "But ultimately that's an appropriate term."Aside from suggesting various difficulties to overcome, and … nobody should be under any doubt just how difficult the UK economic situation is becoming, it also implies there may be potential upsides. At HMV we're transforming our business to become a much more broad-based entertainment brand that increasingly also includes personal technology among its mix."What HMV realises is that the biggest threat has nothing to do with rivals and everything to do with technology. Games, like home video and music, are moving away from boxed copies towards digitally distributed content. Mobile gaming has exploded with the rise of the iPhone and Android devices. Publisher Glu Mobile estimates global revenue from smartphone games could be about $1bn this year; ABI Research predicts $16bn by 2016. Facebook titles continued to be popular with Cityville and Sims Social each attracting more than 30 million players a month.Shops are fighting back. "Retailers like Game have found ways to become part of the digital process," says Michael French, editor of industry news source MCV. "They sell gift cards for Facebook and online games, they sell soft toys based on titles like Angry Birds. They have rolled out special cards that allow you to buy the best Xbox Live games as Christmas presents – and this is good for digital service providers, too, because it introduces downloadable games to customers who might never have tried them before."Games retailers are also learning from the DVD and CD markets where digital copies of films and albums are often included with discs. "GameStop in the US is putting a lot of money into establishing an interesting new digital service, which will allow Xbox and PS3 owners to stream their games to handheld devices, so they can play wherever they are," says Matt Martin, editor ofGamesindustry.biz. "It's like the TV service SlingBox, but for games. They're starting it with their reward card customers, but there are millions of those." And if the concept is a success, it could well turn up in the UK.Traditional games publishers are embracing the revolution too. In its third quarter, Activision Blizzard said digital sales accounted for 57% of revenue, up 25% on the previous year. Much was from the hugely successful online role-playing game World of Warcraft, but Activision has also done well providing extra downloadable content (DLC) for its retail releases. In November, the company announced sales of over 20m map packs for Call of Duty: Black Ops, and it is not alone in making money out of downloadable extras. Research company Eedar estimated that DLC would generate more than $875m in revenue in the US alone through 2011, and EA is forecasting that its own digital revenue will be more than $1bn in 2012.Game makers have proved adept at finding new revenue models that fit the digital era. 2011 has seen the continuing growth of the freemium concept, in which games are free but publishers charge for extra content or faster progress. Social games maker Zynga – think FarmVille – is a standout, but this year UK company Mind Candy reached 50 million users with its children's multiplayer game Moshi Monsters, while German publisher Bigpoint hit 200 million users for its free online titles, and is expected to double its 2010 earnings of €200m (£166m). "The shift toward the freemium experience with micro-transactions means games are leading the way in terms of digital revenue," says Screen Digest analyst Piers Harding-Rolls. "Games are much more adept at monetising their audience than movies or music."Console manufacturers also have to adapt when consumers can turn to smartphones, tablets and laptops for entertainment. Microsoft and Sony spent 2011 transforming their games machines into family entertainment hubs. Xbox 360 introduced the Kinect motion controller, which allows users to play games with body movements and give voice commands: 20m sales are expected by the end of the year. Microsoft also struck deals with LoveFilm, BBC, Sky and Blinkbox, making their content available on Xbox. Meanwhile, Sony's PS3 offers support for 3D  Blu-ray movies and the BBC's iPlayer. Both manufacturers also sought to align their consoles with smartphones – the Xbox with Windows Phone 7 and PlayStation 3 with the Xperia Play handset.Sony and Microsoft know that if the kids are discovering entertainment tech through handheld devices these days, home machines have got to tap into that – they have got to be part of the broader digital equation.It's telling that Nintendo, which has not been as effective with its digital offerings, is performing poorly. Its 3DS handheld failed to make the expected impact after launching in March, prompting an early price cut and contributing to a forecast annual loss of ¥20bn (£163m) for 2011 – its first in over 30 years. Critics are also undecided about the Wii U – a home console due next year, which features a tablet-style controller with its own screen, but little else to excite tech heads."Nintendo seems to be stuck in a world of dedicated devices with high priced software and it has refused to bring its IP to iPhone or Android," says games analyst Nicholas Lovell."But I'm quite a believer in Machiavelli: I think [Nintendo president, Satoru] Iwata wants the world to believe he doesn't get it. It's possible the company is ready to do something massive in the smartphone or free-to-play market next year."The industry has polarised. "The big triple A games are doing well but anything that doesn't have a huge marketing campaign is tanking," says Martin."The difference in sales between the highest three titles and the rest of the top 10 is shocking."Thus, middle tier publishers like THQ, Sega and Take-Two all announced disappointing financial results this year.The challenge for the games industry in 2012 will be finding its place in an ever-evolving consumer technology market. "The key screens – TV, mobile, games machines – are coming together into a new ecosystem," says Harding-Rolls. "Sony and Microsoft will have to compete with Apple and Google – you've even got Amazon in there with their tablet."These companies know they have to position themselves strongly, offering lots of different content and services to different users. It's all about the multiscreen strategy. That's where the next battleground is."
When you turn the key in the ignition of the Seat Leon FR, the phrase Infotainment flashes up on the dashboard. These days, dashboards never stop firing messages at you, usually doling out advice that tends towards the nanny-ish: whenever you reverse, the Seat Leon suggests you "LOOK AROUND!", a handy reminder for anyone who tends to parallel park with their eyes shut. But while Infotainment is the kind of phrase used almost exclusively by the irredeemable, you can see why Seat have plumped for it to draw your attention to the Leon FR's combined satnav, Bluetooth audio streamer and DAB radio. They think it sounds futuristic, and the Leon is apparently all about being futuristic.The blurb describes the car as "an advanced level of advanced", perhaps for the purpose of instilling anyone not already sufficiently irked by the whole Infotainment thing with the desire to track down whoever writes Seat's advertising copy and run them over.Still, you can't blame them for going all-out down the futuristic path: it's an image, and Seat has an image problem. Not in the sense that Lada had an image problem. But, without wishing to venture into the terrain of talking about a car having a soul, most best-loved marques speak of something wider than getting you from A to B. An Audi comes with intimations of pitilessly efficient Teutonic technology. A Volvo stands for safety. Even Seat's estranged relation Fiat has once more started to invoke ineffable Italian cool, a hint of la dolce vita in Sainsbury's car park.As for Seat, the company's slogan "auto emocion" is clearly meant to evoke hot-tempered Latin passion, but it somehow doesn't fit with the actual cars they make. No one ever looked at a Seat Ibiza and was put in mind ofJavier BardemandPenélope Cruzyelling at each other as a prelude to impressively athletic boffing.I'm not sure the Leon FR is going to solve the problem. It looks OK, it's economical, the interior's well-finished – if a bit dingy in the back – and it's cheap compared with its competitors, notably the VW Golf it's based on. All these are selling points that override the image issue. But the one thing it doesn't feel is particularly futuristic to drive, largely because the ride isn't terribly comfortable.Still, there's always the Infotainment system, with its plethora of digital stations. The first thing I&nbsp;found was a station exclusively broadcasting Christmas music in November. I switched it off with a&nbsp;yelp of horror: still, for the brief moment it was playing, the Seat Leon had finally succeeded in its aim of&nbsp;catapulting me into the future.Seat Leon FR+ 2.0 TSIPrice£23,100Top speed145mphAcceleration0-62mph in 6.9 secondsAverage consumption37.7mpgCo2 emissions174g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating4/10
Love video games? Fed up with the same old festive drinks? We think we may have just the thing for you.Inspired by ourtop 20 games of the year list– and our love of alcoholic beverages – I asked James Dance, owner of stylish Falmouth bar and video game arcadeLoading, to create six new festive cocktails, based on the year's hottest titles.He has recently designed drinks for Capcom's Street Fighter community event in London and made up an Alice: Madness Returns cocktail for Electronic Arts.So, from the explosive Uncharted 3: Drinks Reception to the sophisticated LA Noire: Truth, Lie, Stout, these entertaining and exotic concoctions will be perfect for your Christmas gaming get-togethers.Uncharted 3: Drinks ReceptionSeeking adventure? Ignite this Goldschlager and overproof rum depth charge then plunge it into a ginger beer ocean.What you'll needGinger beer (You could use Crabbies alcoholic ginger beer if you fancy more of a kick)GoldschlagerOverproof rum ("we use Wray and Nephew," says James)CinnamonA box of matchesLike the Uncharted games, this drink is one big action set-piece. Grab a highball glass and rub lime juice around the rim before dunking it onto a plate of sugar, then pour in 175ml ginger beer. Next, get a shot glass and pour in 10ml of Goldschlager, followed by 15ml of overproof rum, poured over the back of a spoon. You can now carefully light the shot and sprinkle cinnamon over the top from about 40cms to get an impressive flame. Then blow it out and drop the shot glass into the ginger beer.Elderflower Scrolls: SkyyrumA sweet yet heroic epic, pairing elderflower presse with spiced rum to cast an exotic spell over your taste buds.What you'll needSkyy vanilla vodkaSparkling elderflower presseSpiced rum (Sailor Jerry)Orange peelWe've based this whole drink entirely around a series of highly amusing Skyrim puns – but luckily, it's also delicious. First, create a sugared rim by dipping your high ball glass into the vanilla vodka, and then into a plate of sugar. Now put ice into the glass and pour in 175ml of the presse down the side (the inside, of course). Add a measure of spiced rum on top of that,  and garnish with an orange peel dragon's tongue.LA Noire: Truth, Lie, StoutSolve the case of the Black Russian by interrogating this tasty mix of Kahlua, vodka and Guinness.What you'll needKahluaVodkaGuinness ("We use the bottles of Guiness original," says James)To reflect Rockstar's stylish noir thriller, we wanted a sophisticated, smooth drink with a classic feel, and an edge of darkness about it. Truth, Lie, Stout – based around the three responses that lead character Cole Phelps can make during interrogation sequences – is the result. Take your choice of glass and start with 25ml measures of Vodka and Kahlua, then top up with Guinness. "You should stir before drinking to move the booze around," adds James.The Modern Warfare frag grenadeEarn maximum experience points by priming and consuming this explosive concoction.What you'll needLimoncelloCrème de MenthJagermeisterBaileysEnergy drinkBlack vodkaNot so much a cocktail as a military exercise, this mission features two shooters colliding in an energy drink combat zone. Start by making a Soap MacTavish – get a shot glass and pour in limoncello, then Crème de menth. Now concoct a "Jagernaut", which is Jagermeister, then Baileys in another shot glass. Now get a half-pint glass and fix a "Makarov" – pour in your energy drink of choice, plus a shot of Black vodka. Now, wedge your two shooters in the mouth of the half-pint glass. Your first step is to pull the pin on the Soap Mactavish, by carefully yanking the glass free and downing the shooter. This will of course, result in your Jagernaut depth charging into the Makarov – now drink the resulting combination. That's right, it's the ultimate shooter-'em-up.The Portal TwoThe finest beverage breakthroughs from the Aperture alcohol research labs. Drink them in the name of science. You monster.What you'll needBlue CuracaoVodkaLemonadeCointreauRumOranginaSmall tumblersThis drink is, of course, designed to resemble the two coloured portals from the excellent sci-fi puzzle game. For the blue version, get a small tumbler and pour in 10ml of Blue Curacao, 10ml of vodka and top up with lemonade. For orange you'll need another tumbler, this time filled with 10ml of Cointreau, 10ml of rum and Orangina. If you fancy, you can jazz the glasses up with coloured sugar rims. Simply pour some sugar into a sandwich bag with the relevant food colouring, shake them up, pour the resulting mix into a dish and dip your tumbler in. "You can mix the portals together if you like," says James. "It's a very orangey flavour, which we thought tied in with The Orange Box, the compilation in which the original Portal appeared."Batman: Arkham PartyThe caped crusader better have some paracetamol in that utility belt – this isn't so much a cocktail as a super villain fist fight.What you'll needMidoriVodkaCrushed iceBlue CuracaoSambucaCranberry juiceRumpopping candyFresh Mintsugar syrupBlackcurrant coulis (you can buy this in bottles or jars if you don't want to make your own)ChampagneThis shot set sees some of Gotham's most dastardly villains taking on the Dark Knight. For The Riddler, pour 20ml of Midori down the inside of glass,  then add 5ml of vodka over a spoon. For a Mr Freeze, crush some ice and pour it into your shot glass, followed by 10ml of Blue Curacao and 10ml of Sambuca. Your Joker is made from 15ml Blue Curacao, cranberry juice and rum with a topping of popping candy ("You'll need to stir it up with a straw to get the colour," says James). Then we have a Poison Ivy, grown from 15ml of rum, a fresh mint leaf (or a dash crème de menth if you prefer)  and sugar syrup. Finally, create your Batman/Bruce Wayne shooter with 5ml of blackcurrant coulis and champagne. Now let the flavour battle commence!•All images © Loading/willedgecom.beand respective game publishers
With free-to-play rivals grabbing headlines and World of Warcraft losing players, it's not been a great year for subscription-based MMOs. Which adds even more expectation to Bioware's first entry into the genre, not least as the most expensive multiplayer game yet developed.Star Wars: The Old Republic (SWTOR) is a semi sequel to the first two Knights of the Old Republic games, set before Episode 1 but drawing locations and characters from almost every planet in the Star Wars universe. Having only managed to get online with the full version on launch day (it's a long story – don't get me started!) I'm still coming to terms with a game that straddles several genres and is inciting heated debate in all of them.If it's Star Wars that brought you here (and that surely accounts for a hefty chunk of SWTOR's initial audience) then you'll be mightily pleased with your destination. Bioware is clearly committed to ensuring that this IS Star Wars in cyberspace – from the glossy production values to the enormous cast of characters, cultures and technologies to the pretentious but excellently delivered dialogue.The graphics are occasionally stunning – with long draw distances rendering outdoor and space locations particularly effective and, so far, relatively lag and glitch free – an achievement in itself for most MMOs.When you get indoors things can feel a bit more generic at first but patience is the lucrative key here, and the developers have peppered your first 20 levels or so with regular standout cut-scenes, locations and surprises.The backbone of SWTOR is obviously the quests, but this is underpinned by a uniquely complex and interactive single player storyline for an MMO. Even if you concentrate on these key Story Events, you're still in for a long haul before all the many twists and turns are revealed.Add to this the sheer scale of the Star Wars universe, and you have an MMO that aspires to a level of freedom previously only attempted by space operas like Elite or Freelancer, with the added random element of real human interaction.Most quests are prefaced by conversations and CG cut-scenes, ranging from the truly impressive (the game's opening sequence, for instance) to the formulaic and forgettable. Once you start skipping through these intros, what you're left with is the usual mix of "rescue" and "kill" quests – there's little in the way of unexpected gameplay challenges.Admittedly, you can distract yourself with mini games like speed racing for credits – as seen in Knights of the Old Republic, but in gameplay terms SWTOR's Quest-based structure could not feel more conventional.Your first key choice is whether to opt for the Light or Dark side of the Force, each with sharply divergent story-arcs. You then choose between four classes, making a total of eight main character/story types.This is smaller than you might expect, although you can customise those classes to feature most of the familiar Star Wars races and a reasonable variety of shapes and sizes. Then it's down to the action, plunging you into one of the two main story arcs.I chose the Jedi path, meaning most of the players I encountered were perhaps more prone to cooperation, although even here I was just as often challenged to duels as offered recruitment opportunities.There is no lobby system. Instead, groups are easily formed in open play by inviting others to partake in your side quests (or vice versa). You also get your own NPC companion characters, who follow you around to help out in fights, negotiations and even earning credits – although they never match the value of a human teammate particularly when facing off against tough bosses or larger groups of enemies.Which brings us to combat – your defining skill until you develop crafting to generate income by peaceful means. If you're expecting the high speed lightsaber battles of the cut-scenes, you may feel initially underwhelmed by SWTOR's fairly basic melee combat model – with just a couple of attacking strokes initially available to you and a rather cumbersome manual targeting system that plays havoc with the camera if you lose lock in the heat of battle.However, though the combat never reaches SW "trilogy 2" levels of dexterity, things do improve quickly once you start upgrading your abilities and seeking out further Jedi training. More saber moves quickly appear as well as Force Powers, allowing you to repel enemies in groups, hurl objects and trigger lightning attacks.And melee combat is not the only weapon in SWTOR's arsenal; once you earn the credits and experience to buy your own ship, massive multiplayer skirmishes in deep space beckon. It's certainly a powerful incentive to keep playing.If all this talk of the single player experience bores you then Bioware has certainly not neglected fans of a more competitive multiplayer experience.At the time of writing most of the Player vs Player servers were experiencing lengthy queues (something a maintenance update should address) but it certainly demonstrates their popularity, as do other game elements such as Flashpoints (dungeon-based Boss battles that can last up to an hour each), Flashpoints and Operations (huge raids).One way or another, wannabe Player Killers will have plenty to fight about, both in-game and on the currently sparse official forums.What I can confirm is that SWTOR more than justifies the box price, which includes the first month online. Whether it's a universe that delivers a constant flow of new surprises and challenges is something that will decide how long punters continue to shell out £8.99 month. But for me it's an impressively epic start.• Game reviewed on PC
"Most people would assume it's the money that hurts most and yes, the entire thing made us question whether we would be able to support ourselves financially moving forward. But that isn't the main blow you take when your game is cloned. It's more abstract, more fundamental than that…"Cloning – the practice of reverse engineering a video game and releasing one's own version for profit – is nothing new to the games industry. In 1976 Ralf Baer, designer of the first commercial games console, the Magnavox Odyssey, settled out of court with Atari following allegations that the company stole the mechanics, aesthetic and half of the title of his rudimentary tennis game, Ping-Pong, to create the seminal arcade hit, Pong.Then, in October, a Californian court began preliminary hearings in a case between publishing giant Ubisoft and OG International, the former claiming that the latter's Nintendo Wii title Get Up and Dance uses "nearly identical" game design, avatars and instructor visuals to its own hugely successful Just Dance series.In recent times, following the rise of the App Store where, thanks to low costs and shorter development periods, studios can be far more responsive to popular trends, claims of game plagiarism are becoming more commonplace – and it is not only limited to the blockbusting behemoths.Far from being a minor setback, the news that your game has been cloned can have a huge impact for a small developer. Indeed, for Rami Ismail ofVlambeer Games, who discovered the company's popular webgameRadical Fishinghad been reverse engineered, re-skinned and released on the App Store by Gamenauts as Ninja Fishing, the news was nothing short of devastating.Developer Vlambeer Games asserts that its popular Flash game radical Fishing (above) was cloned by Gamenauts and released on iOS as Ninja Fishing."We became demotivated us to the point where we had to delay everything we were working on for months," he says. "Seeing someone copy and release something you worked so hard on to create, something you put so many hours and thoughts and so much research into, something you tweaked for weeks … it's painful. It stifles your ability be creative because your mind wanders to 'those guys' taking the credit for your hard work. It's an odd feeling."As is often the case for developers finding out their game has been remade, Vlambeer was altered to the clone through Twitter. "We were at the office, working on Serious Sam: The Random Encounter, when we noticed there were 40-something new tweets mentioning us on Twitter. They were all from our fans, furious about the trailer for Ninja Fishing that had just been posted online."We decided to take a step back and check the trailer to see how much of a clone it was before speaking out publicly. We went through one segment of the trailer frame-by-frame to see if the upgrades they had available in the game were similar to ours. They were identical. That's when we realised this wasn't coincidence. But we still decided to wait and see if the cloners would contact us to explain what had happened."When we heard from them, they offered us all sorts of things, but we told them that we wouldn't want to implicitly condone cloning. We said we'd prefer for them to just change their game so that credits or money wouldn't be necessary. When it became clear they weren't going to do that, we proposed that they'd delay their game so that our iOS version of the game (which was still in development) and their clone would release on the same day, giving both games an equal chance in the App Store. They replied with a really short mail back that basically said: 'We can't do that and we're releasing tomorrow.' "While finding out that a rival company has plagiarised your hard work may sting, there is little legal recourse for developers who believe their game idea has been appropriated. The issue is that video games are creative in both visual and aural terms, but also in purely functional terms, and the laws that govern these elements are fundamentally different.Alex Chapman, a lawyer at Sheridan's specialising in games, says: "Generally speaking there is no copyright in a game mechanic or the functionality of a game (or indeed any other type of software). Copyright will protect the visual appearance of the game to the extent that it is original – such as by protecting the graphics, screen layouts and art assets. It will also protect the underlying software code. However, it will not protect the functionality."Most games are derivative of something else. Think of the first game of its type and you could say that all games that followed it are clones. This is why the functionality is not protected by copyright. A great deal of skill will generally go into making a lawful game with a similar mechanic to another. The unlawful ones tend to be highly derivative of the original and in those cases there is often something that can be done."For example, there may be a case in unfair competition if the consumer looks at one game advertised on the App Store and is deceived into believing it originates from another business who may have a reputation in a type of game. But in terms of the core idea? If developers weren't allowed to copy functionality then we wouldn't have Call of Duty or Fifa."Indeed, while Gamenauts CEO and founder Stanley Adrianus is happy to admit that his game was inspired by Vlambeer's title, he is also quick to point out that it is far from an "exact copy"."We openly acknowledge the fact that Ninja Fishing was inspired by Radical Fishing," he says. "But Ninja Fishing is not identical. We implemented many gameplay tweaks, changing the shooting mechanic from the original game to the sword slicing one in our version in order to require more skill of the player. We also closed some gameplay loopholes with the addition of underwater mines (in the original, you can just stick to the side walls)."One can also see that we are aiming for a totally different demographics with the 100% new and different art direction that caters to the more casual and family players. The original had a lot of gore and blood in it, while ours is really much more family friendly."For Ismail and the team at Vlambeer, "owning" a game mechanic isn't the answer. "Allowing the industry to patent or copyright game mechanics would be a disaster," he says. "We don't want to imagine a world in which Vlambeer will need to pay royalties to some company we do not know because they just happen to own the patent for something as generic as 'any method to travel the player avatar between objects on which the player can stand in a two or three-dimensional game'."There's no legal or moral ambiguity in game cloning. If it's assets that are being cloned, it's legally wrong and morally wrong. If it's game design or ideas that's being cloned, it's legally OK and morally wrong."But trying to establish the line between inspiration and plagiarism is difficult. It's a question the team at Vlambeer has carefully considered. "The most important thing in a game to us, is the gameplay," Ismail says. "In other words: the way you interact with the game and what those interactions the player do and feel. That's the thing that makes games different from paintings and music and movies: games have gameplay."Game design, traditionally, is about asking a question and then trying to find an elegant or enjoyable solution to that question. That's prototyping, where you create a lot of possible answers and see if they work. Sometimes the first prototype is the right thing, sometimes it takes months or years or the answer never even comes to you."Finally, you end up with an answer. The answer is the way you solve your specific question within the context of your specific game. If someone takes the answer without caring at all about the question, that's cloning. Basically, if they do not care about why a game is fun, or why it works, or why it does what it does – but only care that people think it is fun and try to monetise that, that's cloning."The only reason that happens is because it saves cloners a lot of time and money spent on that prototyping phase – they can just see what game is popular, take it, add generic graphics to it and outsource it to some overseas company to produce. It's an optimal way for them to function from an economical perspective but it also takes the creativity from game design and endangers the companies that do want to create novel, creative things and do need the time to pioneer."Lawyers rarely deal in such abstracts, however. For Jas Purewal, a games lawyer at firm Osborne Clarke, there is no theoretical line between inspiration and plagiarism."It always depends on the facts of each case and an application of the legal tests," he says. "For example, graphics are protected by copyright law and the relevant legal test is whether a rival's graphics have copied 'all or a substantial part' of your graphics.  A game title is best protected by trademark law, which has different tests altogether.  In other words: you have to compare the two specific games closely to establish their similarities and differences before you can decide whether one copies the other illegally."Did Capcom borrow heavily from Twisted Pixel's Splosion Man (above) to create MaXplosion?Part of the issue is that many of the developers finding their game ideas and execution stolen by rival companies are too small to foot the legal bills in pursuing the issue through the courts. When Capcom released'Splosion Manclone MaXplosion earlier in 2011, 'Splosion Man developer Twisted Pixel's CEO Michael Wilfordsaid: "We're definitely not going to pursue legal action. While I think the similarities are pretty nauseating, we're too small to take on a company like Capcom. That, and we owe them one for inventing Mega Man, so we'll let them slide. I just hope they're not counting on the fact that indies can't fight back."Capcom declined to comment on the matter.For others, legal proceedings demand time that cannot be spared. "We understood that in essence, a judge will look at the game and decide whether the 'total impression' of the games is 'substantially similar' in deciding the verdict," says Vlameer's Ismail."We decided that there was nothing to gain and a lot of time, money and effort to be lost on what is basically a gamble based on the judge you get assigned. Besides, we'd rather not spend time on companies that live by stealing the work and time of others. We'd rather make new games."Gamenaut's Adrianus believes it's a question of simply having faith in your own product. "[Before the Ninja Fishing controversy] we had a hit PC game called Burger Rush which was the first merging of 'match-3' and 'time management' gameplay. A few months after it was released, another developer carbon copied the game as Coffee Rush. Our reaction to this was the total opposite of Vlambeer: we pretty much didn't do anything and ignored it."The reason is we have absolute confidence that our original version of the game was the better one. We placed our faith in the ability of the fans and customers to choose the game that they like the best. We didn't bother to create seek any attention to the issue because we'd rather focus on creating more quality titles. We understand that cloning is a complicated part of the gaming industry and rather than spending our time hurling insults, rallying fans/friends to vandalize the game, we'd rather just focus on more positive and productive things such as working on new projects."In the case of the App Store, this situation places Apple in the role of moral arbiter, deciding whether to pull titles on grounds of being clones. While Apple declined to comment on their internal practices for this article, Ismail believes it's not because the company doesn't care."Apple cares, not in the least because offering a healthy development eco-system is crucial for the existence of the App Store," he says. "We realise that gatekeepers, such as Apple, are in a difficult position. They do not want to have draconian entry barriers that discourage creativity."But I think that maybe they could implement a check to see whether certain games generate public outcry for being a clone or rip-off before featuring them and investigate by playing said games for 30 minutes or contacting the creators each week. If they'd do something like that before featuring a game, cloning would be a far less interesting route to take for upstart developers."There are some in the games industry who disagree that cloning is a negative force thing for the industry. "Many would argue that it is essentially just market forces at work: if you don't get your product on all markets as soon as possible (eg, across all mobile platforms or from PC/console to mobile), then someone else will," says Purewal. " Looked at it in that light, I think game copying can be seen in a more ambiguous light."But for Ismail and the team at Vlambeer, the issue couldn't be more serious and the need for consumers to take a firm stance against clones is crucial to the ongoing creative health of the industry."In an ideal situation the consequence for cloners wouldn't be a legal one so much as a moral one, with consumers choosing to take a stance, Ismail says. "Games are being hit hard by this issue and if that continues, game companies that create novel games will be forced to close down resulting in a market with only highly optimised business structures that can't create new games, only recycle old ones."If people don't want Angry Ninja Wordfight Shooter RPG vs Zombies II: The Tournament Edition to be the most original thing they can pick from in a few years, we need the industry, the press and the gamers to stand up for originality. One thing to come out of this ostensibly negative experience for us was realising just how much our fans and fellow developers care for a healthy and original ecosystem of games."The outcry on Twitter following the revelation of the clone was an overwhelming support for us. One specific article, written by Chris Donlan of Edge Online summed it up well. He wrote: 'when you have no originality in your games, you can have no history, and you can have no personal quirks. You'll end up with customers, perhaps, but not genuine fans.'"The realisation that thousands of people appreciate us for what we do and are willing to sacrifice time or energy to stand with us in our attempt to create new, novel and creative things has made all the difference."
Woohoo, it's the last Friday before Christmas! What are you lot up to this year then? Remember, if it doesn't snow, you could always load up Skyrim and head into the mountains – do they sell sledges at the Riverwood general store?
The patent wars are hotting up. The German patent-owning firm IPCom has sued German retailers for infringement for continuing to sell phones made by HTC, the fourth biggest global smartphone vendor, after issuing a warning to that effect two weeks ago.A court in Mannheim, Germany, ruled in February 2009 against HTC in a patent fight with IPCom, allowing an injunction against sales of HTC phones using UMTS technology and setting a penalty of up to €250,000 (£216,000) each time the injunction was contravened.All HTC smartphones use UMTS technology, but HTC insists that its phones use a different technology than that claimed by IPCom - and that the disputed patent, known as #100a, is anyway invalid.But in late November, a court in Karlsruhe, Germany, said theinjunction against HTC smartphone sales in Germany could be enforcedafter HTC dropped an appeal.IPCom said in a statement on Thursday that it sent 100 retailers cease and desist requests on 6 December, asking them to stop selling HTC's 3G handsets by 20 December."Since this deadline has passed without any of the retailers complying, IPCom has sued them for infringement of patent #100a themselves," IPCom said, adding so far it has sued around 30 retailers.The legal battle could cost HTC millions of euros and hurt its relations with retailers in one of its key markets.HTC told the Guardian late on Thursday that it had yet to see a complaint or be contacted by its retail partners, but added: "the allegedly asserted #100a patent has never been found infringed by HTC's phones in any court of law. HTC once again confirms its position that its phones do not make use of the teaching of that patent. Furthermore, the #100a patent is subject to opposition in the European Patent Office (EPO) and HTC is confident that the patent will be revoked at the hearing on 24 April 2012. In an initial assessment, the European Patent Office has raised serious concerns as to its validity. It is for this reason that HTC obtained an injunction against IPCom's earlier warning letters which were misleading on this issue.'"HTC sells around 2m smartphones a year in Germany, or 4%-5% of the group's total, according to research firm IDC."This poses another challenge for HTC in managing confidence of key distribution partners - a further reminder of the destabalisation effect patent claims threaten to exert on the industry in 2012," said Geoff Blaber, analyst at research firm CCS Insight.HTC has previously said the battle with IPCom would have no impact on its business in Germany because the injunction covered only one HTC handset - which is no longer sold in Germany - and that it modified its implementation of the UMTS standards.The Mannheim ruling does not mention any particular model.Earlier this weekHTC lost a patent case against Apple in the United States, where it gains half its revenues and is the largest Android smartphone seller. HTC said that it could soon replace phones with the disputed technology with new models.IPCom acquired Bosch's mobile telephony patent portfolio, created between the mid-1980s and 2000, which includes about 160 patent families worldwide, including some of the key patents in the wireless industry, such as patent 100, which standardises a mobile phone's first connection to a network.Several of the top phone makers have signed a licensing deal with it, but HTC and Nokia have challenged IPCom's technology patents in courts across Europe.IPCom said that if HTC continued to use its patents without paying fair compensation, it could in future legally be refused a licence for IPCom's standards-essential patents.
Any cafe that puts up a sign offering free goods usually does so with trepidation: what if the rush is too great and it costs more to offer than it brings in?But for Derek Thompson, the proprietor of Gluttons cafe in the market town of Saffron Walden, there was no such worry. For the past 18 months, he has been offering free wireless internet access at the cafe – prompted initially by customers who noticed that there was a Wi-Fi network covering the premises and asking for the password.His is one of a growing number of small restaurants and diners that have discovered that as more and more people own smartphones able to send and receive email and browse the web, they are increasingly happy to get a high-speed connection and open it up to customers free of charge.As the economic clouds darken, they have discovered that the internet is the equivalent of the never-ending coffee cup, only better: it doesn't require heating and barely needs any electricity. And it doesn't interfere with the normal run of business, just enhances it."We initially set it up just for our own staff," Thompson explains. "Then people asked for the password, so we did a code number for each person. Then I felt it might encourage customers to come back if we just opened it up. Being an 'eatery' rather than a restaurant, we wanted to get the early morning people who will often sit here for a bit and deal with business things." With, of course, a cup of coffee and perhaps a slice of cake.Gluttons is hardly alone: more and more food outlets are discovering that a sign – even like the one Thompson uses, which simply proclaims FREE WI-FI lodged in one window – can pull customers in. Earlier in December, the food chainMcDonalds announcedthat customers in its 1,200 UK outlets were downloading 500 gigabytes (GB) of data each day, and that the number of customers had doubled in the past year.According to Informa Telecoms &amp; Media, an analyst company, while the number of "premium" Wi-Fi hotspots in the UK grew from 33,000 in 2010 to 54,000 in 2011, so did the proportion that are free – from 40% to 45%; from 13,200 to 24,300, an increase of 84%."Whilst access costs to the user are "free", the hotspots themselves still generate revenue using alternative business models, such as by increasing footfall/customer numbers, keeping customers in-store longer, increasing customer satisfaction, location-based advertising, and so on," says Thomas Wehmeier, principal telecoms analyst at Informa.Shrikant Shenwai, chief executive of the Wireless Broadband Alliance, whose members push Wi-Fi – both paid-for and free – says the reason is simple: "it's about how you attract the consumer who has a need to stay connected."Where this is an emerging culture, of course, there is a counter culture. And a number of niche establishments in some more boho urban quarters are boasting of the fact they have no Wi-Fi – keen as they are to discourage a café full of customers crouched behind screens, failing to engage with each other. Others drop their connections at key times of the day – for instance the Gallery Café in London's Bethnal Green, opted to go Wi-Fi-free at lunch time, to ensure diners were able to find seating amid the coffee-slurping laptop and tablet usersYet the trend is most definitely towards greater connectivity. And certainly it is the rise of the smartphone which has driven the demand for fast connections everywhere - and for free. Customers are increasingly eager to seek out the oasis of a guaranteed connection that won't count against their monthly data allowance.The latest data from the communications regulator Ofcom says that smart phone owners make up 46% – or 28m – of UK mobile users, well ahead of other major European countries, and the number is growing by millions every quarter. At the same time though, operators have begun to clamp down on their "unlimited" data offerings over the mobile network. Those contracts, introduced with the iPhone in 2007, are gradually being phased out in favour of tighter data "caps" of around 500 megabytes (MB) per month – sufficient for thousands of emails, or 200 hours' web browsing, or two hours' low-quality viewing of BBC's iPlayer catchup service.Little wonder Wi-Fi "hotspots" are hotly sought. The Office for National Statistics calculated recently that 4.9m people connected through Wi-Fi "hotspots" in 2010 at locations such as hotels, airports and cafes in 2010 – up from 0.7m in 2007.And the growing hordes seeking a connection, especially among buildings where the mobile data signal often fails, often shun paid-for services such as BT's OpenZone and The Cloud in favour of places where connection is thrown in with a croissant. Although Shenwai remarks that "in the end, someone has to pay for that connection" – and that it might be added on to the price of food or drink. But few people will pay for Wi-Fi if they can walk around the corner and get it for free.Added to that, London mayor Boris Johnson pledged in 2010 that there would be city-wide Wi-Fi in the capital in time for the 2012 Olympics, when data networks are expected to struggle as millions of people try to watch video streams of key events. Significantly, he said nothing about pricing - and no more details have been released about the project since.But a number of cities including Bristol and York haveexperimented with free Wi-Fi, often successfully, to attract people to markets and cafes.But what once seemed like an added extra is fast becoming a necessity. Even within Saffron Walden's small town limits, a two-minute walk will take you past Starbucks (which offers free Wi-Fi through a deal with BT's OpenZone division) to Mocha, a short-order cafe where the menu is written on a giant blackboard, the staff are always moving, and the Wi-Fi is free – though the password changes every couple of weeks. (That ensures free riders don't just sit outside not buying anything.) "It was my brother originally, he had it upstairs and people asked for it," says the manager James Slade, returning from a table. "We've had it about a year. But you can see it makes a difference – people come in for a coffee and they're using their phones. It's definitely been worth it. And free – well, it ought to be free, shouldn't it? It should be free everywhere."
At last, here are our very favourite games of the year. We've had a few controversies on the way (the lower than expected placings ofBattlefield 3andDark Soulsamong them), so let's see what everyone makes of the final five.5. Deus Ex Human Revolution(Square Enix, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)This game is what cyberpunk fanatics have been waiting for since Bladerunner – an extensively realised near-future world that allows players to explore and discover its secrets, but also lets them become a functioning, creative part of the universe. The story and themes of Deus Ex, the concept of a post-human environment in which super hero abilities are just an augmentation away, are engrossing and almost – almost – as well planned as in Warren Spector's original title. But it is the freedom to play as you will that really makes Human Revolution – you genuinely can be a stealth ninja, creeping about manipulating the world and its objects to your quiet design; or you can load up on guns and blast your way through. You can also continually change your mind, switching between the two, depending on your mood. The game copes. It's always on your side. And despite some unforgiving boss battles and a few glitches here and there, that is masterful design.4. Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword(Nintendo, Wii)Skyward Sword, like all Zelda games, is about love and bravery, but it is also about time and memory. Link transfers between worlds, between the sky and earth, and between dimensions, like a child making believe. It is a game about the beauty of having an imagination and using it. It also makes wonderful use of the Wii's motion controls, not just in sword fights but in numerous interactions with the world. It has a lovely story and a truly memorable enemy in the form of androgynous Demon Lord, Ghirahim. It has enough ideas, locations and interlocking systems to sustain several lesser titles. It is filled with joy and invention. When media bullies and bookish anti-gaming bores dismiss this whole medium as creatively defunct and soulless, they should be required to play Skyward Sword. We will then allow them to make their groveling apologies.3. Batman: Arkham City(Warner, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)An astonishing combat engine; a peerless collection of entertainingly insane super villains; an atmospheric rendering of Gotham city, its looming spires and shadowy towers like skeletal fingers reaching to the heavens for mercy. We all know what makes Arkham City great. But at the heart of it is one simple premise: youarethe Batman. You're not controlling an avatar, it's you in the cape, it's you dealing out fluid punches and kicks, it's you flirting with the extraordinary Catwoman. This is the perfect interactive distillation of the Dark Knight imagined by Frank Millar, Grant Morrison or Jeph Loeb. And yes, it could well be the greatest super hero game ever made.2. The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(Bethesda, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)A lot of people think Dark Souls is a better fantasy action game than Skyrim; others would put Skyward Sword at the top of this whole list. Both groups make convincing arguments. But Skyrim is here, despite its flabby narrative and troubled PS3 incarnation, because it is an attempt to bring a whole world, a whole history, into interactive life. Like Rockstar'sRed Dead Redemption, it somehow manages to be both a game and a tourist experience – you can stand amid the swirling snow on a mountain side and look out over valleys and woodlands, knowing that they're all attainable – and that they will doubtless have their secrets to yield. It is a game with a different story for every player, and in the role-playing genre, that is surely the loftiest achievement.1. Portal 2(EA, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)A masterpiece – that's all we really need to write. No other games this year has attained near-perfection in so many different areas. Portal 2 is a thrilling narrative adventure; it is a deep, complex physics puzzler; it is an astonishingly clever co-op experience. Valve has a unique understanding of architecture and environment as story-telling media – the Aperture lab, like the Black Mesa facility, is a character in its own right – and as with Black Mesa, we get to scramble behind the public facade and meet the monster within. Portal 2 is also one of the funniest games for years, with Cave Johnson's narrative both illuminating and hilarious, and of course, Stephen Merchant's turn as the hapless, over-ambitious droid, Wheatley, alternating between knockabout laughs and twisted mania. Add in the new gel-based game mechanics, which fit perfectly without unbalancing the purity of the portal concept, and another belting end song, and you have an astonishing experience.
I understand that broadband packages quote maximum speeds and that apparently demand can legitimately cause my actual speed to be lower. But ... if I have a 10Mbps package that routinely delivers 6Mbps and I upgrade to a 20Mbps package, how can I realistically expect my actual speed to be more than 10Mbps? That implies I am paying for capacity that is not being delivered.Jim CromwellBroadband packages are not based on the speed that you will get, in megabits per second, although they are sold that way. They are actually based on the technology used to deliver broadband. Simplifying things, there are currently three main types of broadband package delivered over BT phone lines. These are sold as 8Mbps, 20Mbps and 40Mbps connections. The 8Mbps package is based on what is usually called Max DSL or DSL Max technology, whereas 20Mbps uses ADSL2+, and 40Mbps (BT Infinity, for example) uses VDSL plus "Fibre To The Cabinet" (FTTC).If you have a DSL Max connection, then the quoted speed of 8Mbps is the maximum speed possible with that connection, which is called the sync speed. However, some of the bandwidth is used by the telecoms supplier. A user with a perfect connection will get a maximum throughput of about 7.2Mbps.So, if you switch to a 20Mbps connection, this will be delivered using ADSL2+ instead of, perhaps, DSL Max. Your line will be moved to a different DSLAM (Digital Subscriber Line Access Multiplexer) in the telephone exchange. Basically, ADSL2+ changes the transmission frequency from 1.1MHz to 2.2MHz, which doubles the number of bits that can be sent down the line. This increases the theoretical maximum from 12Mbps to 24Mbps. In that context, internet service provider "sales speeds" of 20Mbps don't sound too unreasonable.Sometimes services are capped. For example, if a consumer wanted to pay for 8Mbps and there wasn't a DSL Max connection available, it would be possible to cap an ADSL2+ connection to provide it. However, it would make more economic sense to sell the full speed of the ADSL2+ connection at a higher price. When somebody else on the same exchange upgraded to get a faster speed, the two connections could then be swapped over.It's unlikely that your 10Mbps connection is capped at 6Mbps. However, the Maximum ADSL Speed Calculator atKitz.co.ukwill give you a rough idea of the speeds you should get with DSL Max, ADSL2+ and LLU (see below).One of the problems with the whole broadband scene is that the ISP cannot guarantee that you will get a particular speed. The speed will be reduced by your distance from the telephone exchange, the quality of the line, the number of joints in the wire, and the wiring inside your house. The broadband router can also make a difference."Distance from the telephone exchange" means the length of the wiring involved, not the direct distance. For example, a user could be within a stone's throw the exchange but too far away for ADSL, if the exchange is on the other side of a river or railway line. "The quality of the line" includes what it's made from: aluminium is notoriously slower than copper wiring for ADSL.Also, the connection will be made at the Maximum Stable Rate (MSR), which is thelowestrate where the line isn't dropped occasionally. It's not the highest speed the line can actually deliver, or the speed you might get with a transitory line test.Beyond that, your throughput may be limited by contention. Broadband and telephone services are supplied on the same basis as other utilities such as water, mains electricity and roads, which assume that not everybody will want to use them at once. If everybody in your town decided to run a bath at the same time, your water supply would soon reduce to a trickle. The same thing will happen if everybody wants to use the internet at the same time. If they do, thentraffic managementis inevitable.The contention ratio for consumer ADSL services is typically 50:1, and for business services 20:1. However, even if you were willing to pay the price for an uncontended connection (around £400 to £1,000 a month for a 2Mbpsleased line), the rest of the internet would still be contended. Your internet speed depends not just on the wire to the exchange but every wire and every server between your PC and the web resources you want.For completeness, the next step up from ADSL2+ is VDSL (very high bit-rate digital subscriber line). This can deliver speeds of up to 52Mbps over very short distances – far too short to reach the exchange – so it only works in areas where fibre optic cables have been laid to new cabinets on the streets. If you are familiar with the dull green cabinets that BT normally uses, watch out for larger bright green cabinets appearing next to them. The closer you live to a bright green cabinet, the better. Bear this in mind if you are buying a house.When you get the BT Infinity version of VDSL (up to 40Mbps), which I have at home, an Openreach engineer connects your phone line to the new cabinet and then installs a new master socket. A new VDSL modem must be connected directly to this new master socket. In my case, there's a small white VDSL modem, which is then connected to a new wireless BT Hub. It's unlikely that your current broadband router would work with VDSL (unless it's a cable modem), and at this stage, the ISP probably wouldn't want to support it even if it did.The main alternative is Virgin Media, which offers 50Mbps and 100Mbps FTTC services in some areas.The situation in the UK is actually more complicated because of what's called Local Loop Unbundling (LLU). This deregulation, introduced by Ofcom, allows other suppliers to install their own equipment in BT telephone exchanges. Once your line is unbundled, then it can be connected to a DSLAM installed by TalkTalk, O2/Be, Sky/Easynet, Orange and so on.Sam Knows has a greatExchange Searchthat will tell you which BT Wholesale services are available from your exchange, whether or not there's a Virgin cable connection, and which suppliers offer LLU services. Obviously there will be more LLU offerings in well-off places, and in areas with high population densities.
At the close of November, Bafta launched a new section of its website namedBafta Guru. It's essentially an online repository of inspirational talks and interviews, based on the Academy's busy calendar of educational events. There is plenty of TV and movie content, of course, but the organisers are including lots of video game stuff too. Recently, Bioware founders Ray Muzyka and Greg Zeschuk delivered the annual video game lecture at Bafta's London headquarters, and you can find footage of thathere.But today, Bafta has also released a video of Will Wright, discussing his career, motivations and influences during an interview recorded at E3 earlier this year. It's a fascinating chance to watch the creator of Sim City and The Sims chatting about his early experiences in game creation, and his unique approach to design – it's fascinating to hear about how Sim City originated as a map editor that was never intended for release as a game. We've put a preview of the video above, but you can watch the whole thinghere."The idea behind the site was to give all the educational stuff that Bafta does throughout the year a stronger web presence," explains Bafta's online editor, Pippa Irvine. "Everyone knows us for the awards, but this other content was getting lost on the site. We now film the majority of our events and put them online as videos and podcasts. It's very media-led. But the idea is also to get guest bloggers, veterans from the TV, movie and games industries, to talk about their craft."Next year, we can expect more live streaming from Bafta events, as well as webinars, talks and presentations – all aimed at people who want to get into the creative industries. "I think the site will also help us push our video game content," says Irvine. "It's something that people don't immediately associate with Bafta, but we want to give them the same prominence as films. Our aim in 2012 is to do much more with games."
The Apps Blog made its debut in February 2011 with the aim of covering the apps space, from innovative new applications for smartphones and tablets to the startups and developers that were making them.It has been a frenetic year for app development. Even confining our daily Apps Rush post to just notable releases saw it regularly sail past the 20-app mark. The year also saw spirited debates about freemium versus paid, HTML5 versus native, iOS versus Android and more.As 2011 draws to a close, we have rounded up what we hope are some of the more thought-provoking interviews from the year. Well, the vast majority are interviews: a few (CNN, Disney, BSkyB, Rovio, EMI and Scott Snibbe) are reports from presentations or interviews at conferences.We hope you enjoy the recap.TELEVISIONBBC iPlayer – Daniel Danker (December)"Our audiences no longer expect to watch our programmes to a specific schedule in a specific location. There is an independence that comes with this mobile TV. Whether you are curled up in bed with the tablet, or tuning in to live news when on the road, it's about that choice."MTV – Gary Ellis (November)"Our ideal scenario is to have someone watching the show on their TV, while also having their computer open or their smartphone or tablet to hand interacting around the show, the host and other viewers."Zeebox – Anthony Rose (November)"When Stephen Fry tweets about a programme, thousands of people might flip to that show. Celebrities can become the TV schedulers of the future by saying 'I'm watching this' and that going out to the Twitter audience."CNN – Richard Quest (October)"It doesn't matter if it was in Cairo or Bahrain, Syria or Yemen, this small device has managed to bring home the reality of what's happening in the world, and in doing so has changed the way people like me do our business."Disney – Anne Sweeney (October)"Digital didn't weaken the power of television. It unleashed it. We're giving people more quality and options than ever before, and they're responding: tuning in, logging on, downloading, streaming, buying, renting - devouring our content any way they can get it."Shazam – David Jones (June)"While some show creators and networks are building dedicated apps for each show, they're finding that it's pretty difficult to drive installs and regular usage for those apps. Consumers don't necessarily want a separate app on their phone for every show that they watch."Somethin' Else – Paul Bennun (June)"Eurovision plus Twitter is the best piece of television you will ever have: the action is on two screens. Just as radio didn't replace newspapers, and TV didn't replace radio, the internet isn't replacing television. It's this new thing that's there, which changes the way you use the old medium."BSkyB – David Gibbs (March)"The beauty of this is you can experiment with different models, and afford to change things around. We have an existing subscription for our customers, so how do we extend that subscription and add value to it in our tablet products, and how do we create new customers?"MAGAZINES / NEWSPAPERSNew York Times – Fiona Spruill (December)"We were trying to create the best possible experience for people on their phone, and it takes people to do that. What we were trying to provide was not something that could be delivered to an algorithm, even though there are many smart algorithms out there."Dennis Publishing – Felix Dennis (September)"If you want to make a fortune, produce a thing like the iPad, make it very light, and preload it with stuff that people over 65 and 70 years old want to see: web addresses, apps, anything you want. Make the buttons absolutely huge and only have a few of them, and put that on the market at 100 quid for people to buy their grandmothers. You would sell millions!"Financial Times – Rob Grimshaw (August)"When you look at the rates of adoption, it's very clear that mobile is going to be the major channel for news consumption within a relatively short time. We think that within three years, we will have more than half of our digital access through mobile devices."TigerSpike – Nic Newman (April)"People don't want to turn their magazine into the web or a newspaper – that is fundamentally wrong - but what if people could choose to follow a story in the magazine throughout the week after it was first published?"BOOK-APPSTouch Press – Max Whitby (December)"We want to use the medium to illuminate the subject. If we don't do that, we have failed. I'm not interested in producing beautiful stained-glass windows. I want to produce things that really inspire people, and get to the heart of the topic."Callaway Digital Arts – Rex Ishibashi (November)"For 10 years I've been saying that the best digital should feel like the ultimate analogue. That's what we finally have with iPhone, iPad and Android devices, and we're anticipating a lot with the Kindle Fire as well. These devices are physically connected, human intuitive and easy to develop for as well."Ideal Binary – Barry O'Neill (November)"We've heard stories about people spending upwards of £250,000 developing very sophisticated book-apps as one-off showcases, which got great reviews but ultimately did very mediocre sales numbers."Nosy Crow – Kate Wilson (September)"We felt there was room to bring real publishing knowledge, contacts and ways of thinking into this technology space. A lot of people who are creating apps are approaching it very much as technology companies, but we felt there was real scope to mix the two different ways of being."Dorling Kindersley – Justin Moodie (September)"We have always been designing things for tablets, you could say, it's just that until now the tablets were made of paper! We design books for reluctant readers: anyone should be able to open any DK book at any page and be absorbed immediately, and it's the same with a tablet app."Faber – Henry Volans (August)"We're at the real start of how digital books will become different to print books. Historically, for example, a natural history guidebook looks quite similar to a novel, which is an accident of printing. Very soon those things will absolutely diverge massively. It's important to keep innovating, and as publishers we need to have a role in that."David Starkey (June)"It's a case of the technology catching up with what I wanted to do. Television is a performance, but apps actually reflect thought processes."Push Pop Press – Kimon Tsinteris (May)"We think that the app is probably one of the richest, most interactive forms of storytelling that exist. One of our founding premises is to re-imagine the book."HarperCollins – Robin Harvie (April)"We have to make really sophisticated digital products that compete ultimately with Angry Birds. Think of someone like Jonathan Franzen, whose competition used to be Philip Roth and John Updike. Now it's The Wire and Angry Birds, because we are competing for people's attention."GAMESRed Robot Labs – Pete Hawley (December)"It's hard to raise money in London. If you've got a small team of brilliant people who've just come out of a console studio, it's hard to say 'I need a million bucks in a year to do something amazing'. There's no culture of investors and amazing VCs ready to invest in gaming and take it seriously."OnLive – Steve Perlman (December)"LA Noire is a detective story. My parents would be very interested in a game with that type of subject! But they're never going to pick up a controller or buy the class of PC required to run it. I think a game like LA Noire has the potential to be a big hit among people who would never have a console."Booyah – Jason Willig (November)"What works on Facebook doesn't necessarily work on mobile. You also have to interpret these experiences in a native way for mobile players, who have different needs to Facebook players."Rovio Mobile – Peter Vesterbacka (October)"When Mario drives a car, it becomes Mario Kart. When he goes to space, it becomes Super Mario Galaxy... Our birds will do things and go places, and they will go to unexpected places. And some of those places will turn out to be games."ustwo – Mills (October)"We need to get to the people in the pub. Game Of The Week is fantastic: it tells us we've made something special. But my wife, mum, dad or sisters don't really look at the App Store in that way. They find out about new apps when somebody tells them."Sibblingz – Ben Savage (October)"Paid apps cannot compete with free apps. You get 17 times as many downloads of a free app as of a 99-cent app, and by giving people the opportunity to pay what they want to pay as many times as they want, you get three times as much money out of those paying users."Zynga – David Ko (September)"It's one thing many people miss: 'look at this cool function, let's just incorporate it'. They don't ask themselves the key question about whether it's fun. There are things we could use on the device but chose not to, because we don't think it's fun and neither do our players."NaturalMotion – Torstein Reil (September)"There has been a belief in the industry that casual games are 2D and hardcore games are 3D, but that doesn't make any sense. The reason has been that there was no platform to deploy high-end content to casual users. Flash can't do it. But now smartphones and tablets can."Astro Ape Studios – Chieh Huang (May)"The devices we're working with are inherently viral, but nobody has found that trick to leverage these features. That includes the companies with billions of dollars of revenue who haven't figured it out yet. Someone's going to unlock these channels one day though."Electronic Arts – Barry Cottle (May)"The publishing relationship is going to get more and more important as this world continues to fragment and get chaotic. There is real value in publishing not just from a marketing and distribution perspective, but also scale and speed to market."MUSICEMI – Joshua Saunders (November)"We're still in an experimental period with pricing for music apps. Maybe somebody will crack the 'iAlbum' concept, but at the moment the consumer appetite doesn't seem to be there for a musical app over five quid."Bjork collaborator Scott Snibbe (October)"An app can demand all of your senses and attention at once. That's something exciting for musicians. A lot of them lament the demise of the album experience due to digital distribution. But one thing about the app-album is it reclaims people's attention for an entire album."955 Dreams – Kiran Bellubbi (September)"The definition of a product is if somebody wants to pay for it. If we want to be the next great direct-to-consumer company, the next great product company, we have to charge for our product."8linQ – Chris Lee (July)"The music business needs to capture a new audience. Rather than make a game then license the music, this is much more of a partnership. We think there is a great opportunity to leverage the mobile platform to build something that reaches a wider audience, and monetises music."SOCIALMindings – Stuart Arnott (December)"I can go into a shop to buy a burglar alarm, a baby monitor or a blood pressure meter, but where can I buy equipment to help me communicate and look after my family? This is what Mindings can be."Facebook – Bret Taylor (October)"There is so much innovation in the browser space both on mobile and desktop. HTML5 and the other technologies it represents really exist now because of that competition. Apple, Microsoft, Google and a whole bunch of other companies are investing so much in the browser, and it's so good for the web. Most of our developers are hoping the mobile web becomes a viable platform for their applications."Instagram – Kevin Systrom (September)"The network really democratises attention: everyone from celebrities to a random guy in Japan taking pictures of his dog every day can get many thousands of followers. Taking images is the great equaliser."Taptu – Mitch Lazar (April)"If you talk to Android users and look at the Android community, they're so passionate about it. If you serve up something high quality and be loyal to this audience, they'll reward you."Socialcam – Michael Seibel (April)"YouTube could never control the ingestion point: they always had to use your phone or digital camera or Flip video or webcam. But on smartphones, we suddenly get to leapfrog all those other devices and control the ingestion point, with the potential to reach many more people than Sony or Flip or Panasonic with their dedicated video creation devices."APPS FOR KIDSFingerprint Digital – Nancy MacIntyre (December)"A child can send a message to mom, mom can send one back, and suddenly the parent is engaged in the learning. Kids have gotten really excited about that. We want to bring parents into the apps in a way that we think is interesting and clever."Mindshapes – Jinhee Ahn Kim (September)"These days, teachers have to make learning appealing to the kids who have lots of screen-time at home, whether that's TV, video games or using mobile devices. There's a lot of innovation going on, and it's raising the bar."Toca Boca – Bjorn Jeffery (June)"There is a time and a place for the pacifier idea, but it's quite a limiting way of looking at the segment. We think you can make these apps as fun for parents as for children, and when the two can play together, it can be a very powerful thing."Outfit7 – Andrej Nabergoj (March)"When you think about it, Disney was created around a simple idea – Mickey Mouse – then went on to TV with a cartoon series that created a franchise. That's something we can do, starting on the mobile platform."
A selection of 21 apps for you today, in our last Apps Rush of 2011. The post will return on Tuesday 3 January.Real Racing 2The biggest iOS racing franchise just roared onto Android devices, and it's free. Well, it's free to download, although players have to upgrade to the full version of the game in-app once they've got a taste.AndroidMy Day With WH WordsBilled as "a social story and speech tool for autism, Down Syndrome and other special needs", My Day with WH Words aims to teach children question comprehension and conversational skills using social stories. The link above is for iOS, buthere's the Android version.Android / iPhone / iPadFirefox for AndroidMozilla has released a new version of its Firefox web browser that's optimised for Android tablets, which aims to run as well in portrait mode as in landscape mode. Firefox Sync and the Action Bar are both included too, with more information inthis blog post.AndroidTap A TuneKid-app publisher Mindshapes is ending the year on a musical tip, with Tap A Tune. It gets children to play their own nursery rhymes and Christmas carols by tapping on... cutesy animals.iPhone / iPadiMAMENot that many game emulators make it onto Apple's App Store, but iMAME has. Although not officially endorsed by the team behind the famous MAME emulator, this comes with nine preloaded titles. The question is whether people will be able to load other (i.e. famous game) ROMs onto it.iPhone / iPadSpotify for BlackBerryIt's been available as a preview version for a while, but Spotify's BlackBerry app is now an official release – albeit only for handsets running on GSM networks.BlackBerryMiniSquadronMicrosoft Studios continues to roll out first-party Windows Phones games tapping into its Xbox Live community. MiniSquadron is a dogfighting game with more than 60 planes, nine levels and, er, a giant squid.Windows PhoneWeather UndergroundWeather Underground has a long and respected history online, but now it's an Android app too. It pulls data from more than 22,000 weather stations around the world to offer local updates, with a choice of hourly and seven-day forecasts, and a clever map-based interface.AndroidRemiix MinusMinus is the label of techno pioneer Richie Hawtin. It's been given the remix-app treatment by innovative music technology company Liine, enabling fans to mix and match samples and loops from tracks by artists including Marc Houle, Ambivalent and Matador.iPhone / iPadEngadget DistroTech blog Engadget's Distro is a weekly digital magazine curating the best pieces from the site. It launched for iOS earlier in the year, but has now been released for Android too.AndroidAngry Birds for BlackBerry PlayBookRovio Mobile is showing RIM some festive love with versions of all three Angry Birds games for the BlackBerry PlayBook tablet. That meansAngry Birds,Angry Birds SeasonsandAngry Birds Rio.BlackBerry PlayBookPlayScapeMoMinis' PlayScape isn't just a game: it's a "Mega-Game". Which means lots of mini-games in one, with an experience points and virtual currency system that runs across them all. The publisher says games will be refreshed regularly to keep it interesting.AndroidSpellathonIndie app store GetJar has bagged the rights to Spellathon, a spelling game endorsed by Stephen Fry that aims to raise money for Mencap.Android / iPhoneNursery RhymesUK studio ustwo spreads its wings onto BlackBerry PlayBook with a port of its Nursery Rhymes iOS book-app, starring Humpty Dumpty, Three Blind Mice and other fictional characters.BlackBerry PlayBookBubblePixBubbleScope is an accessory for iPhone that will let you take 360-degree photos and videos. It's not out until early next year, but BubblePix is a taster app that shows the kind of pics and vids you'll be able to capture with the device.iPhoneVenice: DK EyewitnessVenice is the latest city to get the Dorling Kindersley Eyewitness book-app treatment, with cutaway diagrams of notable buildings, offline maps and the ability to build your own trip itinerary.iPadCSL SofasThis iPhone app wants to help people visualise how new sofas will look in their living room before they buy, using augmented reality. The app aims to stimulate trade at sofa retailer CSL Sofas, with a store-finder feature and competition.iPhoneScrubsUS sitcom Scrubs? There's an Android game for that, from HeroCraft. It sees you playing a new intern at Sacred Heart Hospital, with appearances from all the main characters to jolly you along.AndroidAnimoog for iPhoneMoog Music's Animoog synthesizer app is already available for iPad, but now it's been squeezed down for the iPhone too. Amazing news (if you're au fait with concepts such as an Anisotropic Synth Engine, polyphonic modulation and flexible modulation matrix, obviously).iPhoneProject Magazine for iPhoneAnother iPad app making the leap to iPhone is Virgin's Project Magazine, a monthly man-mag made exclusively for smartphones and tablets.iPhoneKinectedThis one's intriguing: "Kinected uses the latest augmented reality technology to have your friends appear as if they were in the same place as you" – although this only works if they have a Microsoft Kinect controller hooked up to their PC.iPhone
A quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAOL shareholders freak out over exec departures -- as they should &gt;&gt; TechCrunchTechcrunch is owned by AOL. Alexia Tsotsis is looking around and saying "Hey, where did everybody go?"How Twitter stores 250 million tweets a day using MySQL &gt;&gt; High ScalabilityAn all-time one to refer back to.Google pays $18 million to shutter Apture, CloudFlare clones it in 12 hours &gt;&gt; The Next Web"Even if you've never heard of Apture, you've probably used the company's products before. If you've ever been on a site where you copied some text, and then had a box pop up that offered to show you context related to what you've just copied, that's Apture." Google closed it; three CloudFlare engineers created a clone. Wonder if any patents were harmed in so doing.Estimating Kindle Sales - David Smith"I thought of two other proxies for sales that might help us get closer to a real number. "I looked at the number of customer reviews made for each of the various Kindles since December 1. Assuming that customers of each product are equally likely to write a review this should give a reasonable estimation for relative sales volumes. I did a search on TwitPic for "New Kindle" and went through the recent pictures tallying up the relative counts of the various models. My assumption here is that people would share pictures of their new devices with roughly equal measure. Since the devices are physically so different, it was easy to distinguish their purchases." Or might that overestimate Kindle Fire sales, since you'd be more likely to tweet or review a brand new piece of just-released kit than something that has been around for a while?How the ITC cut HTC a break in Apple infringement case &gt;&gt; Reuters News and Insight"A close look at what the ITC did and didn't do in Monday's order suggests that the commission went out of its way to permit HTC to continue to compete with Apple. "First, consider what the ITC didn't do. Apple wanted a cease-and-desist order, which would have barred the sale of infringing phones that are already in the United States. It didn't get one. Nor did the commission order HTC to post a bond based on the sale of allegedly infringing devices while it seeks Presidential review of the commission's decision. "Instead the ITC issued a limited exclusion order that, significantly, gives HTC twice the usual 60 days to attempt a work-around to Apple's patent. HTC has until April, according to the commission's order, to either remove or replace the infringing technology. HTC announced Monday that it would remove the data-tapping feature".Google Circles and Path 2.0: How good UI design cannot fix a broken solution"There are inherent problems with binary social networks. The idea that someone is either full-on in your life (and therefore has access to everything about you) or not at all is not how it works offline. You tend to share certain information only with certain groups of people. Only some people will be interested in photos of your new puppy, whereas those same people will probably not be interested in blog posts about your work. Google Circles aims to solve these problems by allowing you to drag and drop people into distinct buckets, and letting you only share what you want with each circle. And yes, the UI makes it really easy to do this. It's great design." But it's impossible for that great design to make up for the fact that you can't maintain the listing of who belongs in which circles (or overlapping circles) for any length of time.WatchingTV Online: TV ownership declines for first time in Nielsen history"According to Nielsen Media Research's annual "Television Audience" report that was released this week, the number of households with a TV set will decline for the first time in the company's survey history (which extends back to 1970). Entertainment Weekly reports. "The rising trend of TV ownership has been leveling off in recent years, and now the number has dropped from 115.9m homes in 2011 to an estimated 114.7m in 2012. As TV Barn pointed out, that's a 1% decline despite the number of households rising."StatsCan's free data costs $2M - a rant &gt;&gt; eaves.ca"So the other day a reader sent me an email pointing me to a story in iPolitics titled "StatsCan anticipates $2M loss from move to open data" and asked me what I thought. "Frustrated, was my response." Points out how the "cost" figures for making data open are often pulled out of the air. Canada is getting towards open data, but it's a fight.Andy Rubin Says HTC/Apple Case May Help Fix Patents"Speaking to journalists at HTC's headquarters, Rubin said that he was more optimistic and that a judgement [in the HTC v Apple case a couple of days ago] would be "a way to settle this situation." "He added: 'The ITC is a quick path for settling these disputes. I think this is the beginning of settling.' "At the briefing, Rubin also announced that Google's Android platform is now seeing 700,000 activations a day, a 200,000 rise from the figure announced three months ago." Will this mean lots of settlements? We'll see.AllThis Sleazy Dishonesty &gt;&gt; Matt GemmellHis experience with a startup that claimed to have a claim on 10 minutes of his time was less than stellar.Microsoft won't exhibit at CES after 2012 &gt;&gt; Microsoft Technet blogsMicrosoft PR Frank Shaw: "· What's the right time and place to make announcements? Are we adjusting to the changing dynamics of our customers? Are we doing something because it's the right thing to do, or because "it's the way we've always done it"? "After thinking about questions like these, we have decided that this coming January will be our last keynote presentation and booth at CES. We'll continue to participate in CES as a great place to connect with partners and customers across the PC, phone and entertainment industries, but we won't have a keynote or booth after this year because our product news milestones generally don't align with the show's January timing." So ends a 20-year relationship. Wonder if Eric Schmidt has a gap in his calendar for early January 2013.How many Android phones have been activated? &gt;&gt; asymcoGathering the data (following Andy Rubin's tweet saying it's now 700,000 per day): "By adjusting for the reported totals we get the orange line. The trouble with it is that it has these improbable "kinks" where the total is adjusted down, something that is not happening in reality. It's a kludge we need to make estimates fit reality. Normally, this is something we can sweep under the carpet, but with the size of the market, the errors creep up to tens of millions of unitis. "The first downward adjustment would have been 19 million in May. Today, the difference between the green line and the orange is about 25 million. "So the best we can say right now is that there have been between 224 and 253 million Android devices activated to date. Why Google does not report this data regularly and consistently remains a mystery." There's a suspicion that the gap between estimated and reported is due to Chinese Android activations which don't use Google services.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
The Christmas chatter continues today, with the final part of our festive Top 20! What will be at number one? Go on, have a guess...
Facebook has been told to stop its practice of indefinitely retaining data about which adverts its 500 million users outside the US click on, following a review by the Irish data protection commissioner of its non-US operations.It has also agreed to take immediate steps over data collected from third-party sites when people use their Facebook identity to log in to them. Until now, that data about people's behaviour was passed back to Facebook and retained indefinitely. Following the review, Facebook can keep the data but it has to make it anonymous – for example it can share how many people clicked on an advert but can't provide details of specific users – within 10 days and completely delete the data after 90.The social network has also been told to improve users' control over social adverts, and simplify its explanations of its privacy policies which must also be made more prominent for new users, followinga detailed reportby the commissioner.Facebook, which has about 800m users worldwide, has also been told to make it clear to users how their personal data can be used for "targeted advertising" – where advertisers can ask for ads to be shown to a particular demographic, and Facebook will then anonymously select people who fit that profile.The investigation by the Irish DPC is one of a growing number of privacy investigations into the social networking site, which has been criticised on a number of occasions for rolling back user privacy without adequate explanation or control. The new changes are likely to be made across the entire site worldwide, including the US, suggested Richard Allan, its European director of policy.The report follows a finding in November by the US Federal Trade Commission over Facebook's constant changing of privacy settings that will give the FTC oversight of its privacy and data protection issues for the next 20 years.Ina response to the reportAllan said: "We're particularly pleased that the report highlighted a number of Facebook's strengths or best practices."The 143-page investigation by the Irish data protection commission follows complaints made by an Austrian group calling itself "Europe-versus-Facebook" that complained last year that they believed Facebook broke European data privacy laws. The Irish commissioner Billy Hawkes insisted the group had not triggered the investigation. But, he said: "Their well-researched complaints performed a very valuable public service which helped us in terms of framing our investigation."A spokesman for the group responded that "as a first step we are happy about the report because it limits the ability of Facebook to mess with user data more than we expected."He added: "This is, according to the Irish data protection commissioner, the first step of a long way to make Facebook comply with European laws."Responding to the report, Facebook said it would shift to a two-year retention period for the ad-click data. It has agreed to other recommendations made by the commissioner.The commissioner was critical of the way that people can be added to Facebook Groups without their consent, and noted that people should be able to delete content and know that it had been removed. Facebook agreed to seek user consent ahead of being added to a Group, and that it will provide more information about data deletion."Social ads" will come under the control of users via their privacy settings under the new proposals, and users will be given the option to block or control ads they don't want to see again.The site will also have to make it clear if login activity from different browsers and machines is recorded; Facebook will provide more information in a revised Data Use Policy by the end of the first quarter of 2012.Facebook was praised by the commissioner for its "positive approach and commitment" to respecting users' privacy rights. The Irish commissioner took charge of the audit because Facebook's European – and also non-US – headquarters are located in Dublin, and so any "contract" that users have with the organisation is through that office.The site, launched in 2004, was judged against the European Union's data collection principles – that personal data should be collected "fairly", that individuals should be given comprehensive information on how that data will be used, that the data should not be excessive, be held securely and deleted once no longer needed for a legitimate purpose. Individuals should also have the right to access their personal data held by Facebook, with some exceptions.
Earlier in December, we covered Peppa Pig Christmas in the Guardian's daily Apps Rush post. It looked good: a collection of festive mini-games featuring Peppa, family and friends, released by British games publisher P2 Games, which has the Peppa licence.The only downside? It was a fake. Alerted by a commenter on the post, we contacted P2 Games to find that not only had someone published the app without a licence, but they'd done it by pretending to be the company who did have those rights.The app is still live on the App Store at the time of writing, although P2 Games is in the process of filing the necessary takedown request with Apple.The company has a bunch of children's brand licences for apps and games – Fireman Sam, Postman Pat SDS, Guess With Jess and Tinga Tinga Tales among them – and co-director Peter Sleeman explains that dealing with fake apps is part of the job."So far we have seen four fake Peppa Pig apps and one Ben and Holly's Little Kingdom app for which an official app will be released next year," he says."We have a big presence in the kids sector and have seen other apps surface that are clearly not official for other licensed properties including BBC titles. Some of these are definite cash-in opportunists and we believe that they are reusing the same code and engine to replicate different properties."Sleeman says that these fake apps are often a poor experience for the parents (and their children) who buy them, and risk causing harm to the brands if those buyers don't realise that they had nothing to do with the apps. That's a particular problem when, as with Peppa Pig Christmas, the app pretends to be from the official publisher."It's fraud in a big way. This was a deliberate attempt to deceive our customers and we are furious," says Sleeman."We want to pursue the individual or company because we have worked for three years to build P2 into one of the leading publishers of preschool kids' entertainment in the UK on iOS. And yes, we think it is a serious issue that someone can publish on iTunes under the guise of P2 whilst clearly not being the same company. We will be working with Apple to ensure that this does not happen again."In the meantime, P2 is working through the standard takedown procedure to get Peppa Pig Christmas removed from the App Store, as it has for previous fake apps of this kind."The takedown procedures work but it is a slow process," he says. "We don't expect Apple to be a policeman across every single licensed property, but equally it is frustrating to have to go through the same process every time it happens."Even so, he is optimistic about his company's prospects in 2012, as it looks to build on its existing licensing partnerships with brandowners like HIT Entertainment and Classic Media, with more to follow early in the year."By focusing specifically on the preschool and kids sectors, we are building a following that bodes well for future releases," he says."Despite all the issues with the occasional fake apps, this is a market where a company as small as ourselves can compete with and outperform some real 900 pound gorillas of the games business and long may that continue."
2011 has been a fascinating year for book-apps, as publishers and developers experimented with multimedia and interactive features, and wrestled with the challenge of selling enough apps to recoup the investment in those features.The Elementsremains the biggest success story of the book-apps world. Its publisher Touch Press has sold more than 250,000 downloads of its flagship iOS app, bringing in more than $2m of revenues for the company according to chief executive Max Whitby.It has been followed by a succession of book-apps from the firm, includingSolar SystemandThe Waste Landin partnership with book publisher Faber, and recentlyX is for X-RayandSkullsby Simon Winchester under its own steam.Touch Press is a transatlantic collaboration, with an office in the UK headed by Whitby, and two high-profile co-founders – Theodore Gray and Stephen Wolfram – in the US. 2011 has seen the company grow to a staff of 25 people, having raised a second round of funding in the summer."Quality is the heart of what we do," says Whitby, explaining why the company has grown relatively slowly. "Our relationship with Apple is only as good as our last title. The day we ship a crap title will be a sad day. That constrains how fast we can go."Right from the start, Touch Press has presented itself as a publisher rather than an app developer – something that Whitby says meets with mixed reactions from the book publishing industry."The world of publishing divides between companies like Faber who understand that the way to work with us is as a partner and jointly make something as a team, and those who just see us as an anoraky developer who can do stuff at a price. We just don't do that: it's not the way you make something interesting and new."Touch Press' founding team were in the right place with the right backgrounds when Apple launched its iPad in 2010. Wolfram and Gray had worked together on advanced computing system Mathematica, while Whitby was involved in the BBC's Interactive Television Unit in the heyday of CD-ROM, eventually leading a management buyout of the unit to form his own multimedia publishing company.Whitby says that a lot of the "fantastic lessons" learned in those days came from ideas that didn't work at the time, but which do on present-day tablets. "CD-ROM was 20 years ahead of its time, and the platform it was presented on – the desktop computer – was not quite right," he says."iPad has it right in the form factor and performance of the machine, but most importantly in the channel for distribution of the software. You don't have to gamble by having a warehouse full of things any more."Something that's notable about the Touch Press apps so far is their authorial voices. Solar System's text was the work of writer Marcus Chown, while Skulls' author Simon Winchester gets his name in the title. X is for X-Ray doesn't have a traditional author, but is instead based on the photography of Hugh Turvey, artist in residence at the British Institute of Radiology."Having an author and a voice and a story to tell is important, otherwise you just end up doing a reference thing," says Whitby. "Every author we work with is a member of the team."Whitby says that Touch Press structures each project in a team of four people: the engineer, the designer, the author and a producer who oversees the project both creatively and financially.For now, Touch Press is making apps for iOS devices only. This, despite Amazon's Kindle Fire tablet sparking interest in the publishing world as an Android tablet likely to sell in its millions to a (possibly) bookish audience.Touch Press has talked to Amazon, but Whitby has strong views on the risks of diving into that company's ecosystem. "If we were to sign the contract with them that they wanted us to, although we get to set the price of our titles, they can lower that down to nothing if they want to," he says."They'll pay us a bit – 70% of 20% of the price that we set – so we'd get $1.40 for The Elements. We're not prepared to take that risk: it's destroying value. What's been very good about the iTunes Store and Apple is that it has encouraged a culture of quality. People go there to find what's good. Amazon is the Ryanair of digital publishing!"Whitby hopes that book-app publishers will stick to their guns when it comes to the pricing of their apps, resisting the dive towards 69 cents (and even zero) seen in categories like games. He praises Random House for its £9.99 price for The Magic of Reality book-app, for example.Whitby is also forthright in his belief that book-apps should not be about interactive fripperies that are beautiful to look at, but which don't add anything to the story."We want to use the medium to illuminate the subject. If we don't do that, we have failed. I'm not interested in producing beautiful stained-glass windows. I want to produce things that really inspire people, and get to the heart of the topic," he says."The vast majority of apps are crap and derivative! But there are enough that are very good, and enough potential in the technology and especially the channel for us and other companies to build viable businesses creating really worthwhile things."He continues: "We have broken into the Garden of Eden, and it's upon us to take advantage of that opportunity. There is no more exciting place to be in publishing than this space. It's disruptive, it's new, it's where a lot of the best people want to work, and it's a commercial opportunity too."
Tuesday's countdown from 15-11 promptedan interesting debateon the relative merits of Battlefield 3 and Modern Warfare 3, as well as lots of other juicy issues. What will today's five titles inspire?One thing you won't find is smartphone titles – we'll be running a separate list for those. But what of your favourite console titles – will they be adequately represented? Judging by some of the excellent games talked about in the comments section for the previous instalment, the answer is a resounding ... maybe. Some of them.Well, what are you waiting for? Let's continue with our arbitary and highly subjective Top 20!10. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(Activision, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Oh lord, here we go. Modern Warfare 3 – a glorified map pack, a sullen, cynical insult to gamers, a shameless exercise in pro-imperialist messaging. Or wait, maybe it's more of what Infinity Ward has been doing really quite brilliantly for the past decade. Super smooth, turbo-charged military mayhem, wrapped around a loopy plot that stretches the game's naturalistic framework to breaking point. And the multiplayer, with a group of friends and a few hours to kill, is still some of the best fun you can have with virtual firearms and close-proximity combat. Modern Warfare 3 is meaningless, it's silly, and it has certainly been the most divisive game of the year – we all understand what some people hate about it. But crafted with great care to do exactly what the series always has done and always will, MW3 isn't part of the problem or the solution, and it certainly isn't going to destroy the industry – or, indeed, humanity. It's a game where you shoot baddies, and shoot 'em good. Frankly, we've giving up feeling guilty about enjoying it.9. Minecraft(PC)Minecraft isn't so much a game as an unstoppable indie phenomenon, a sort of reality TV documentary about design, a meta-game, a way of life. There was a time when its creator Notchwasn'tan internet celebrity – how weird is that? But now, with this creative, procedural role-playing build-'em-up, he and is team have not only invented a new sub-genre, they have instigated a movement in which games aren't simply released, they're sort of evolved and mutated over months of beta-testing and semi-availability. If Minecraft were an X Factor contestant we'd all be marveling over its "journey" as emotionally manipulative music played in the background and chunkily pixelated figures congratulated each other in slow motion on the screen. Minecraft is quite probably the greatest story indie gaming has ever told.8. Super Mario 3D Land(Nintendo, 3DS)Could it be that the world was ready to love 3DS all along – we just, you know, needed the right games? Well, Super Mario 3D Land is the right game. Taking elements of the original Super Mario Land and combining them with a twist of Super Mario Galaxy, this is a platformer in the traditional Nintendo mould – and by that I don't mean unchanging and stifled, I mean traditional in the sense that it's filled with magic, innovation and joy. Whereas in other 3DS titles, the stereoscopic effect has been little more than an annoying parlour trick, here it enforces the beautiful level designs, the sense of space and of Mario's place in the world. Not the most far-reaching or ambitious Mario title, but as a standard-bearer for this maligned platform, it could turn out to be one of the more important.7. Uncharted 3(Sony, PS3)Oh Nathan, there really is something about that boy. Whether he's leaping across rooftops as a teenage rapscallion, floundering in the desert or navigating through a seemingly endless boat graveyard, he has so much charm he virtually seduces us through the game. Other titles aspire to be cinematic and think it means epic set-pieces and orchestral music; Naughty Dog knows that cinema is as much about relationships. The surrogate father/son interplay with Sully, the touching rapport with Elena – these are human interactions we can really invest in, so much so that they become genuine rewards for our perseverance. But, yeah, the epic set-pieces are astonishing too.6. Dark Souls(Namco Bandai, PS3, Xbox 360)The concept of "player skill" has been largely abandoned by mainstream developers keen to just nudge us gently through their narrative adventures, like kindly care home workers on a seaside day out. Not Dark Souls. Namco Bandai's dungeon romp is a twisted, pitiless exercise in providing a system and then bashing the gamer over the skull with it until they can do it properly. So many disturbing enemies, so many customisation and progression decisions – all housed within a towering gothic world that combines the nightmarish vision of a Piranesi prison etching, with the intricate workings of a Swiss-made watch. We should all get down on our pathetic knees right now and thank the black empty universe that games like this still exist.
Sony is fuming after a number of stories appeared online stating that the first PS Vitas sold in Japan have been beset by widespread glitches, allegedly including problems powering the handheld console up and down and frozen touchscreens.While it acknowledges that a few new PS Vita owners may have experienced isolated malfunctions, it is adamant that users are experiencing no more problems than would be expected given that 325,000 units of the handheld console were sold during its launch weekend in Japan.David Wilson, head of UK PR at Sony Computer Entertainment, said: "The PS Vita has had a terrific launch and sold in large numbers. We're annoyed with these stories, because we can't find any evidence of widespread glitches."The stories even said that Sony has issued an apology for PS Vita glitches, which simply isn't true – there's an apology on our Japanese website for people who are having trouble getting through to our technical help line, but that's it."And there's a page showing standard procedures for powering the PS Vita on and off, which has been on our site since before the launch, which has been presented in some news stories as a means of solving the alleged glitches."Sony appears to have been a victim of internet Chinese whispers, combined with an element of its Japanese website getting lost in translation.It has issued a firmware update, but that is only to be expected with a new and complex handheld console such as the PS Vita. There is alsoa YouTube video showing a PS Vita with a frozen screen, which has been replicated in various places on the web, but that hardly constitutes a welter of malfunctions.One wonders whether the Sony-haters who hacked the PlayStation Network earlier in the year and aimed a barrage of bile at the company (including threats to senior executives) are up to their old tricks again.Despite the negative reports, the PS Vita's future would still appear to be bright: the 325,000 units sold in its opening weekend represents a solid if unspectacular start.Nintendo's 3DS handheld sold 371,000 units in its opening weekend, but sales subsequently tailed off swiftly, which was attributed to a lack of compelling games.The PS Vita, by contrast, launched in Japan with a healthy portfolio of 24 games, and Sony has announced that 33 games will be available for the UK launch on 22 February.And even if it does turn out that a significant number of the first PS Vitas sold in Japan were faulty, Sony has plenty of time to iron out teething problems before the unit goes on sale in the UK.
BlackBerry maker Research in Motion has turned down takeover overtures from Amazon.com, while Microsoft and Nokia considered a bid for the troubled smartphone maker, according to sources.Amazon hired an investment bank this summer to review a potential merger with RIM, but it did not make a formal offer, one of the sources told Reuters.It is not clear whether informal discussions ever led to specific price talk.A RIM investor who declined to be named said the company was now essentially up for sale."This story puts RIM in play, because shareholders are going to put it in play," the US-based investor said. "It's over. This is now a company where the activists are in charge."Battered shares in the Canadian smartphone maker jumped 10% in after-hours Nasdaq trade after the Reuters report.But RIM's market value has plunged 77% in the past 12 months to value it at about $6.8bn (£4.3bn) – below its "book value" of assets – following a series of disappointing quarterly reports, delayed phone launches, weak sales of the PlayBook tablet and other missteps.The shares tumbled last week on weaker-than-expected quarterly results, which saw profits crash by 70%, and the announcement of a delay in the launch of the new BlackBerry 10 phones until late 2012.RIM's board wants co-chief executives Mike Lazaridis and Jim Balsillie to focus on trying to turn around the business through the launch of new phones, better use of assets such as BlackBerry Messaging and restructuring, two sources told Reuters.RIM and Amazon declined to comment.TheWall Street Journal reportedthat Microsoft and Nokia, which have teamed up to produce phones running the Windows Phone software, explored the idea of a joint bid, and that senior executives from all three companies "frequently meet to discuss ways to enhance their partnerships".One source confirmed to Reuters that Microsoft and Nokia had explored the idea of a bid.While RIM could strike technology licensing deals and other kinds of commercial partnerships to boost revenue, an outright sale or joint venture is not thought to be on the cards for now."They have had approaches from folks who have wanted to have discussions," said one head of technology investment banking at a Wall Street bank. "The issue is it is hard to find a value that makes sense with a falling knife."Activist shareholder Jaguar Financial has called for a sale of RIM as a whole or in separate parts, such as the handset business, the network services operation, or the patent portfolio. It is due to have a key meeting with RIM early in January over its management.RIM's managers have told interested parties they do not want to sell or break up the company, the sources told Reuters.After last week's news, the board instructed the co-CEOs to set aside any options for a sale, one person briefed on the situation said."Selling the company or an economic joint venture is probably not in the cards right now," the source said. "Until you stabilise the platform, people are going to be very nervous about spending $10bn or more."Some potential corporate and private equity suitors are holding out for RIM's valuation to fall further, sources said.The Wall Street Journal said that RIM had approached Samsung, the world's biggest smartphone seller, and HTC, the biggest seller of Android phones in the US, about licensing its forthcoming handset operating system, now due late in 2012But it added that RIM shows no signs of abandoning its handset business.The sources told Reuters that Amazon and RIM are still discussing ways to expand their commercial ties, which include a service launched last year to make Amazon's music catalog available to some BlackBerry users. RIM recently launched a service called BlackBerry Music which offers music to handset owners.Amazon launched the Kindle Fire tablet in November, which, along with the content the company can package with it, is seen as a potentially formidable contender to Apple's iPad and iTunes store.Amazon does not make smartphones, but recently there have been rumours that it might extend into that space to round out its offering. Amazon has $6.3bn in cash reserves, so any bid for RIM would have to be debt-funded or use a cash-and-shares offer.As for RIM, it feels it could better leverage its assets, such as the BBM instant messaging and the network operation centres that allow for messages to be processed, the sources said.RIM could also look at licensing out its QNX operating system after the late 2012 launch of BlackBerry 10, which will be the first smartphones using that software, to give handset makers an alternative to Google's Android operating system.RIM's co-CEOs have spent months listening to ideas from investment bankers, strategic parties and private equity firms. These discussions are now viewed as distracting for management, sources briefed on the situation said.One of them said the board has backed both Lazaridis and Balsillie, but is of the view RIM needs to develop a "deeper bench" of executives.
Ooh, look: an elegantly minimalist laptop, made from minimalist metal and weighing about the same as a kitten – but it's not a MacBook Air.The Asus Zenbook UX21 is one of a range of powerful but thin and light notebooks in theIntel-specifiedUltrabookseries. And on first glance you'd be forgiven for thinking it's an Air as the Zenbook borrows the slim, tapering metal design from Apple, although the aluminium Zenbook, while light at 1.1kg, is sturdier than the flimsy-feeling Air.Squeezed inside the chassis is a Sandybridge Core i5 processor clocked at 1.6GHz, 4GB of RAM and a 128GB SSD, which means the laptop boots quickly, but also resumes speedily from sleep: I've just been putting the lid down when I'm done and it springs back to life immediately.There is no separate graphics chip, though, so while you'll be fine with watching video, this isn't a gaming machine; and anyway, as is increasingly the case, there's no optical drive.There are some thoughtful touches: the power brick is fairly light (although the cable is a little short) and the box contains a surprisingly nice slip pouch as well as a mini-HDMI cable and a USB-to-ethernet adaptor, which in turn have a little pouch of their own.There are two USB ports, one of which is the faster USB 3.0 standard, and that has an additional trick up its sleeve in the form of USB Charger +, which charges USB devices a bit faster than normal.Battery life is good: it claims five hours of ordinary use, with a standby time of a week. Also good is the audio – Bang &amp; Olufsen has its branding on the chassis, and the speakers, which sit between the screen and the keyboard, sound surprisingly rich for a laptop.I'm a touch-typist and I liked the keyboard with its chiclet keys and its firm, springy touch, though I found I had to hit the keys harder than I expected, especially the space bar.The keyboard isn't backlit, though, if that detail is important to you. Under normal load, this machine also runs surprisingly quiet and cool.The touchpad is lovely – it takes its cue from its Apple doppelganger, is large and doesn't have separate buttons to click.There are lots of multitouch gestures if you like that kind of thing: I don't, so I turned most of them off.AsI've found with Asus laptops in the past, the weak point is the 11.6in 1366x768 screen. It's glossy, and so very reflective, and the viewing angles are poor: you have to get the angle of the screen just right.I had to dig around to find the software to tweak the colour settings too (it's in Start – Intel – Intel Control Center as I thought the colours were a little washed out.I'd liked to have seen Windows Professional or Ultimate rather than Home Premium: you can't join an Active Directory domain with this version of Windows, which means your IT supremo might not let you use it for work stuff. And there's no option to upgrade any of the specs when you buy it.And of course, like every Windows machine, it comes groaning with a lot of garish OEM software that mostly just replicates – and occasionally gets in the way – of things that Windows does perfectly well by itself.That becomes more of an issue on machines with just one small SSD than it has been on computers with giant HDDS as rubbishy software eats up limited space.I wouldn't choose this as my main computer – there's not enough storage space and people with bigger hands might find the keyboard cramped – and at £849, it's a possibly bit pricey as a second machine.However, the design, weight and thoughtfulness of the whole package do justify the price: this is a seriously nice laptop that despite some niggles, is a pleasure to use.Pros:beautiful design, good touchpad, battery life, good audioCons:disappointing screen, no configuration optionsZenbook.asus.com
A selection of 11 apps for you today:Discovr MoviesMore than 1.5m people have downloaded the Discovr suite of apps, which help you find music and apps via flowchart-style graphs. Now there's a new version for films, making it easy to find movies by their similarity to one another.iPhone / iPadStiktuStiktu is a brand new thing from augmented reality startup Layar, which aims to open up AR creation for everyone. "With Stiktu, you can add text, images, stickers and sketches to objects around you by scanning them with your phone. Then anyone who scans that item will see your post directly on top of it, no matter where they are in the world," explains the company. Intriguing.Android / iPhoneTaptu Guardian EnvironmentPersonalised news startup Taptu has launched an app tapping into the Guardian's open platform, pulling articles from our Environment section along with posts from other popular news sites and blogs.iPhone / iPadLostWindsInnovative WiiWare game LostWinds has made the jump to iOS, as you guide and protect a young boy called Toku on his adventures through the windy world of Mistralis.iPhone / iPadZenonia 4Korean publisher Gamevil's Zenonia series have carved out a strong reputation among RPG fans for their depth. The fourth in the series promises beefed-up graphics, several difficulty modes and online player-v-player battles.iPhoneCut the Rope: ComicAfter 60m downloads for casual game Cut the Rope, there's now a comic for that. Developer ZeptoLab has launched the comic as a separate app, with individual issues selling for £1.49 in-app.iPhone / iPadSpreakerPitching itself as a "Twitter for audio", Spreaker enables people to record sound on their phone and broadcast it live through social networks. The app can also be used to tune in to other users' broadcasts.AndroidDungeon Hunter 3Gameloft's Diablo-like franchise returns to iOS, and now it's free. Well, freemium: you pay via in-app purchases for virtual gold as you progress through the game.iPhone / iPadMega Man XCapcom has revived its classic game Mega Man X for iPhone, with new modes and Game Center integration.iPhoneNetVoucherCodes VouchersFollowing an iPhone release earlier this year, NetVoucherCodes' app comes to Android, showing local deals in shops, restaurants and hotels for users in the UK, with social features to tell friends about them.AndroidFace Swap"Have you ever think [sic] of swapping your face with other people?" asks the Marketplace listing for Microsoft's latest app Face Swap, developed by the Microsoft Research team. It does what you'd expect: takes photos and swaps people's faces.Windows Phone
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft, Nokia Flirted With RIM &gt;&gt; WSJ.comSo, we're a few steps away from a bidding war for RIM?Exclusive: Amazon weighed buying RIM but interest cooled &gt;&gt; Reuters"Amazon hired an investment bank this summer to review a potential merger with RIM, but it did not make a formal offer, said one of the sources. It is not clear whether informal discussions between Amazon and RIM ever led to specific price talk, or who else had approached RIM about a takeover."Facebook Sponsored Story Ads To Appear In The Web News Feed In 2012 &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"The ads will be marked "Sponsored" and a rate limit will ensure users see no more than 1 Sponsored Story in the news feed per day. They'll only feature stories about friends or Pages that users already like. Users won't be able to opt out of seeing Sponsored Stories in the news feed or having their activity used in them, but they will be able to 'x' out individual ads. The ads won't immediately appear in the mobile news feed, though Facebook is considering the idea as we discussed earlier this month."Air France 447 Flight-Data Recorder Transcript - What Really Happened Aboard Air France 447 &gt;&gt; Popular MechanicsAwful but compelling: what happens when system design fails to inform its operators, who fail in turn.Android Phone Name GeneratorFun.Yahoo battles brain drain &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Within Yahoo, top executives including interim CEO Tim Morse, Chief Product Officer Blake Irving and Ross Levinsohn, Yahoo's chief for the Americas, are going about business as usual, working late hours to launch new services and courting Madison Avenue to sell more ads on Yahoo's websites. "But many others in Yahoo's ranks, which number close to 14,000, are considering other opportunities as morale declines at the company, according to interviews with more than a dozen current and former company employees and talent recruiters." As one headhunter says later, call nine people at Yahoo about outside jobs, and you'll get nine calls back.Google Search *needs* to get better &gt;&gt; P00p0n"The basic functionality of the engine has been the same since it launched back in 1996 - You type in a query, their algorithm scans the web and outputs the most relevant websites for your query. That's a staggering 15 years without a truly significant change in the system. Sure, they got a lot right over the years. I like news, images, doodle, instant, the fact that I can search the web for content by timestamps. Brilliant. But, is it as good as search can get? Not even close."With mobile devices, users are the product, not the buyer &gt;&gt; threatpost"The great promise and attraction of smartphones such as iPhones, Androids and BlackBerrys is that they give users the ability to customize their experience. They have their choice of a seemingly infinite variety of apps--games, communications tools, travel tools, whatever they need. They can access enormous playlists of music, do video calls and update their friends on their whereabouts with two clicks. "In many ways, these mobile devices are far more personal than the PC ever was. But in many other ways, those devices also are far less personal than PCs and hold more potential for abuse."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
Ooh, Christmas is drawing close! Stay away from the shops – it's madness out there!
Motorola Mobility – the company thatGoogle is buying for $12.5bn(£8bn) – has infringed a Microsoft patent in making its Android handsets, according to a ruling by the US International Trade Commission.The decision was tweeted by Brad Smith, Microsoft's general counsel, who leads its legal team.The verdict – which is an "initial determination", rather than a final verdict – follows a complaint filed in October 2010 by Microsoft in which Motorola was accused of infringing nine patents relating to the now-discontinued Windows Mobile and the current Windows Phone platforms.Microsoft subsequently dropped two of the patents from the list. The patents complained of cover topics such as monitoring remaining memory, updating contact lists and synchronising on- and offline use.Motorola was found to have infringed on four claims relating toUS patent 6,370,566which covers "generating meeting requests and group scheduling from a mobile device", filed in 1998 and granted in 2002."ITC finds Motorola patent infringement in Microsoft case. Another indication that licensing is the best path for the industry," tweeted Smith.  The ITC haspublished its finding.Motorola was cleared of infringement of the sixfiveother patents. In apress release, Scott Offer, Motorola's senior vice president and general counsel, said: "We are very pleased that the majority of the rulings were favourable to Motorola Mobility. The initial determination may provide clarity on the definition of the Microsoft 566 patent for which a violation was found and will help us avoid infringement of this patent in the US market."The trade commission is a quasi-judicial arbiter that can block imports of products found to infringe US patents. The agency has become a venue of choice for patent grievances since it typically completes investigations faster that US courts.A judge is due to rule on a similar patent infringement case brought by Apple against Motorola on 13 January.The outcome presents a significant problem for both Google and Motorola. The US is currently the largest smartphone market in the world, and the ITC ruling could allow Microsoft to apply for a ban on sales of Motorola smartphones there unless it pays a licence fee to Microsoft.But for Google, which has been understood to be buying Motorola in order to bolster its patent portfolio, the vulnerability of its acquisition to Microsoft's patent portfolio may mean that it cannot protect other Android licencees from the need to pay licence fees to Microsoft to cover their liabilities under patent law.Microsoft is already receiving millions of dollars in payments from Samsung and HTC after settling patent litigation related to Android.Google made its bid for Motorola Mobility, which was spun off as an independent unit in January this year, after failing to acquire a raft of patents from thebankruptcy of Nortelin June.It began negotiations to purchase Motorola Mobility within days, following a meeting between Larry Page and Andy Rubin, of Google, and Sanjay Jha, chief executive of Motorola Mobility.In an interview on 12 December, Google chairman Eric Schmidt said the ITC is "being used by some companies to try to shut down choice". He said: "It's bad… From a consumer perspective, you want choice and the consequence of this ITC mechanism is that it appears, if it does find against Android, it could limit your choice."Florian Müller, an independent patent analyst,said: "The ones who can actually sit back and relax as they watch this are those who have concluded license deals with Microsoft (or other patent holders) and don't have to worry about possible or actual import bans, possible or impossible workarounds, or further escalation."Motorola meanwhile has a case in train against Microsoft's Xbox.Apple earlier on Tuesday won asimilar determination against HTC over its Android handsets, and could see a ban implemented by April unless HTC can find a way to work around its infringement.The HTC ruling yesterday, which didn't go as far as Apple sought, should give the iPhone maker "a stronger position" in its intellectual-property cases against other Android-device makers, Brian Marshall, an analyst at ISI Group in San Francisco, said in a note to clients."With about $80bn in net cash, we believe Apple is not interested in a financial settlement with HTC or other Android vendors but wants to stop the shipment/sale of products that infringe on their vast IP portfolio," Marshall said.Motorola, meanwhile, last week won a similar injunction against Apple in Germany over wireless patents which it could use there to force the iPhone and iPad off shelves – though Apple has said it will appeal.Update:this article was corrected after publication.• Motorola was found to have infringed only one patent, rather than four: it infringed on four of the claims covered by Microsoft's 566 patent, rather than four separate patents.• Motorola was cleared of infringement relating to six Microsoft patents, not five.
In our end of year review we look at the biggest stories in tech from 2011, and also look into our crystal balls to see what treats 2012 might have in store.Aleks Krotoski, Charles Arthur and TechCrunch Europe's Mike Butcher begin by looking at the effect social networks such as Twitter and Facebook had on the revolutions and protests in the Middle East this year, as well as the effect of BlackBerry's BBM on the UK riots in August.The team look back to the death of Steve Jobs and elsewhere review another amazing year for Apple – despite that sad news, the company has been very productive in the last year, Siri and iCloud are analysed.This is in contrast to the terrible year for RIM and HP, and more mixed fortunes for Nokia in 2011 – Aleks recalls Stephen Elop's burning platform memo to the mobile phone manufacturer's employees, while Charles highlight's RIM's blunders with network outages and the launch of the Playbook blighting their year. And Mike offers some thoughts on the flip-flopping at HP who this year decided to ditch PC manufacturing ... and then reversed that decision, ditching their mobile and tablet lines in the process.There's also a look at the year for Google – changes at the top of the company, Android being dogged by patent battles as well as the launch of Google+,  and there's a report card on the government's Tech City initiative.Keith Stuart brings us a report on the year in games – the launch of the Nintendo 3DS and Modern Warfare 3 are highlights – as well as social gaming and the hacking of Sony's PlayStation network.The panel also pick out a few themes that may or may not be big in 2012 - 3D and Smart (internet connected) TV, the launch of Ultrabooks, the effect of the London Olympics and new games hardware.Leave your thoughts on what we picked below – as well as anything you thought we left out – or tweet with the hashtag #tech2011 – and we'll retweet some over the festive period@guardiantw
Apple has bought Israel's Anobit, a maker of flash storage technology, for up to $500m (£319m), the Calcalist financial daily reported on Tuesday, following almost a week of speculation surrounding the companies.The newspaper said Anobit's management was in the process of gathering its staff to formally announce the acquisition by Apple. There was no announcement at the time of writing on either company's website. The purchase is the first by Apple of an Israel-based company.Flash storage is used in mobile phones and some computers to store data: it gives high-speed access but because it has no moving parts, unlike a magnetic hard drive, it is immune from knocks and magnetic fields. But such SSDs – solid state drives – are pricier and are a comparatively young technology.Anobit has developed a chip that enhances flash drive performance through signal processing. The chip is already incorporated in Apple devices such as the iPhone, iPad and the MacBook Air, where some models use SSDs rather than spinning hard drives. Last week, Calcalist said Apple was interested in Anobit's technology to increase and enhance the memory volume and performance of its devices. The chip may double the memory volume in the new iPads and MacBooks.At ZDnet, Robin Haris – who has previous spoken to Anobit's chief executive Avraham Meir –saidthe company has developed systems which improve the stability of flash memory."Anobit designs controller chips that make flash behave", Harris wrote. It adds reliability, accuracy, endurance and power consumption improvements to standard flash systems through its proprietary controller chip.Calling the Anobit acquisition "Apple's biggest hardware bet ever – and it is a good bet", Harris said it would give Apple "a powerful competitive weapon that can be used to both reduce costs and/or increase performance, while increasing product quality in terms of reliability and battery life".Apple in 2008 bought a chip design company, PA Semi, and integrated its staff's expertise to help design the A4 and A5 chips that run its iPhone and iPad.Anobit holds or has applied for more than 60 patents which would be applicable to future technologies, he said.Last week Calcalist reported that Apple was in advanced talks to buy Anobit for $400m-$500m.In addition to the acquisition, Apple will also open a research and development centre in Israel, its first outside the US, Calcalist said.Anobit and Apple were not available for comment.
Welcome back to our festive round-up of the games that got us all through the chaos of 2011. Once again, we should point out that this is a highly subjective line-up – based not on the games we chin-strokingly believe are the finest interactive entertainment creations of the year, but on the ones weactually played to deathand are in most cases still playing (often despite ourselves, and at the expense of relationships and jobs).So, mix yourself a snowball (Advocaat and lemonade, and a dash of lime if you're feeling saucy), stick a Christmas album on your stereo iPod player and take a walk with us through the Winter Wonderland of bitter nostalgic dispute...15. Bastion(Warner, PC, Xbox 360)The RPG genre tends to evolve at a geological rate, with developers slowly iterating on miniscule gameplay components over many years. But in 2011, Bastion injected itself into the scene like some powerful psychotropic drug, busting out a whole range of fresh ideas. Developed by teeny independent studioSupergiant Games, this fantasy adventure presents a vibrant post-apocalyptic world that builds around the lead character as he walks, and a voice-over narration that comments on every player action, weaving it all into the understated narrative. The aesthetic principles are beautiful too, rejecting traditional notions of Armageddon in favour of rich colours and moving audio. An absolute treasure.14. Fifa 12(EA, DS, PC, PS3, Wii, Xbox 360)EA Sports, like Infinity Ward, designs games that have to appeal across the whole spectrum – from utter newcomers picking up a controller for the first time, to obsessed fans with years of dedicated experience. EA Sports probably does it best. Fifa 12 added a complex new defending component, upped the physical nature of play and aimed to create a more satisfying feeling of close ball control. Largely, it succeeded. But what it does brilliantly and inarguably is create an approximation of televised football – with all the style, excitement and anticipation of watching a big game on the box; but with you in control. It looks wonderful, the players move with grace, the ball with fluidity. You can play all night with the same teams and have wildly different experiences. It is a simulation of an idealisation of football. It flatters us as players and it flatters the sport.13. Gears of War 3(Microsoft, Xbox 360)And so Epic's unabashedly Nietzschean tale of galactic meatheads battling monstrous space villains has come to a close. For now, at least. Gears is part of the bloody duo (alongside Halo, of course) that defines the traditional Xbox experience: carnage, writ-large, on heavily stylised alien worlds. The close of the trilogy has massive boss encounters and immense battlefields, but it also zooms in on the unlikely personal dramas of its protagonists. And then there's the unique multiplayer, set in sports stadia and shopping malls, all transformed into dripping hell holes of ultra-violence. Gears 3 turned everything up to 11, then busted the knob off and kicked the speakers in.12. Driver: San Francisco(Ubisoft, PC, PS3, Wii, Xbox 360)Remember when driving games were fun? You know, when they weren't trying to sell us soullessly authentic handling and great garages stuffed with million pound racing cars we'll probably never evenseein real-life let alone drive? Driver: San Francisco remembers. This eccentric game, a bizarre collision of Burnout, GTA and Life on Mars, surprised many with its joyful approach to design, rattling us between chases with abandon and introducing the world's least likely game mechanic – the ability to inhabit the bodies of passing motorists – with barely a pause for thought. It isn't perfect, it looks a little dated and the handling physics get a little blurry at the edges, but it's an idiosyncratic muscle car amid so many pompous exotics.11. LA Noire(Rockstar, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Cole Phelps is one of the nuttiest lead characters the games industry has ever produced – an angry brittle psychopath, capable of switching between polite conversation and furious interrogation in the blink of a hooker's eye. LA Noire is such an odd game because of it. It is an odd game too because everything, from searching locations to questioning suspects is so staged and awkward. Yet the cases are always intriguing, the action exciting and the backstory creepily compelling. It feels like a tie-in to a film by David Lynch based on the director's vague recollections of a James Ellroy novel. Which, of course, means it is astounding, in many senses of the word.
The Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, the Arab world's richest man and News Corporation's second largest shareholder after Rupert Murdoch, has taken a $300m (£193m) stake in Twitter.Alwaleed, a nephew of Saudi Arabia's king estimated by Forbes to have a net worth of about $20bn, has secured a stake estimated at about 3.75% in the micro-blogging site after "months of negotiations".The timing of his investment has raised eyebrows given the key role Twitter has played as a tool for Arab activists across the Middle East to organise protests and voice their opposition to oppressive regimes. Several Arabs tweeted that they were worried Alwaleed's purchase could influence Twitter's strategy negativelyWhile Arabic accounts for just 1.2% of all public tweets, the volume of messages has grown by a factor of 22 over the year due in large part to the Arab Spring uprisings, according to French research firm Semiocast.The micro-blogging site has more than 100 million active users.Alwaleed has made the acquisition in conjunction with Kingdom Holding Company, his investment vehicle, which has an array of ventures. Earlier this year, the company announced a £736m deal to build the world's tallest tower in the Red Sea city of Jeddah in Saudi Arabia.The prince has a wide range of media interests, including a 30% stake in a publishing business that runs influential Arabic language newspaper Asharq al-Awsat, and has plans to launch a new Arabic news channel that aims to challenge established players such as al-Jazeera."Our investment in Twitter reaffirms our ability in identifying suitable opportunities to invest in promising, high-growth businesses with a global impact," said Alwaleed.The prince's wife, Princess Ameerah al-Taweel, is a regular Twitter user and has more than 83,000 followers on the site.A spokeswoman for Twitter confirmed that the investment had taken place but would not provide any further detailed comment on whether Alwaleed or KHC has gained a seat on the board that could lead to influence over the business or any of its future output.However, Ahmed Halawani, executive director of private equity and international investments at KHC, said that while Twitter will "fundamentally change" the media landscape, the investment was strategic, not political."Twitter will capture and monetise this positive trend," he said. Alwaleed's investment could value Twitter at $10bn, according to some analysts.The research firm eMarketer estimates Twitter will generate close to $140m in ad revenue this year and $260m in 2012.Alwaleed's KHC has stakes in companies including Citigroup, Disney, Apple and Canary Wharf.In the mid-1990s, his interest in the US entertainment industry led to a joint venture with Michael Jackson. They launched Kingdom Entertainment, to develop movies, books, hotels, recordings and theme parks all based on "family values", but the project eventually ran out of steam.Alwaleed holds a mixture of western and Islamic values and he has in the past upheld women's rights; his wife leads a charitable foundation and appears in public without a veil.While upheaval in the Middle East has put many regimes on the defensive – Saudi Arabia announced a $130bn social spending initiative to avoid Arab spring style protests – he has argued in print for broader political participation, fair elections and job creation.He has been a longtime ally of the Murdochs, backing the reappointment of Rupert and his sons James and Lachlan to the News Corp board amid a shareholder revolt at the company's annual general meeting in October, and has previously talked about the importance of ethics.An interview given to BBC Newsnight aboard his yacht in Cannes in July is widely credited as contributing to the resignation of the News International chief executive, Rebekah Brooks. She resigned the day after his comments on ethics; reports around the world claimedit was a result of Alwaleed's interview.Last year, Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation took an initial 9.09% stake in Rotana Media Group, which is Alwaleed's film, TV and music business, with an option to increase that to 18.18% over the course of 18 months.In August, social media investor DST Global, the investment fund led by Russian billionaire Yuri Milner, took a $400m stake in Twitter. DST Global also owns stakes in Zynga and Groupon.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy does the Netbook still exist? &gt;&gt; Fool.com"The second quarter of 2011 marked the first time global tablet shipments surpassed netbook shipments. According to market research firm ABI Research, second-quarter tablet shipments jumped to 13.6m units, while netbook shipments shrank to 7.3m. Compare those figures with the first quarter, when 6.4m tablets and 8.4m netbooks moved. Netbook sales are plummeting while tablet sales roar forward." Perhaps the other question is "who's still buying netbooks?"When being "first" is not a competitive advantage &gt;&gt; A Smart BearA different take for those who think commerce is decided by planting a flag on the first summit: "In any event, it's not a competitive advantage. It's just history."Too much unmonetised ad inventory &gt;&gt; Sramana Mitra"If you are a content producer or a freemium app or game developer, you would know, instantly, what I am talking about: there is WAY too much ad inventory out there. Too many eyeballs that are not getting adequately monetised. Major publishers sitting on top of huge masses of unmonetised impressions. Game developers monetising, barely, 1-2% of their traffic. App developers, similarly, struggling to convert free users to premium. "If you are an entrepreneur, looking for an open problem to solve, look no further. This is your opportunity. In 2012, one of the greatest unaddressed pain points for the mobile and online industries is this overabundance of eyeballs that publishers, software, app and game developers are struggling to find monetisation models for."Disruptions: wearing your computer on your sleeve &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Wearable computing is a broad term. Technically, a fancy electronic watch is a wearable computer. But the ultimate version of this technology is a screen that would somehow augment our vision with information and media. "...A person with knowledge of the company's plans told me that a "very small group of Apple employees" had been conceptualizing and even prototyping some wearable devices. "One idea being discussed is a curved-glass iPod that would wrap around the wrist; people could communicate with the device using Siri, the company's artificial intelligence software." "Over the last year, Apple and Google have secretly begun working on projects that will become wearable computers. Their main goal: to sell more smartphones. (In Google's case, more smartphones sold means more advertising viewed.)"Marc Andreessen: Predictions for 2012 (and beyond) &gt;&gt; CNET NewsA Q&amp;A with Cnet. Q: Let's start with smartphones. "A Andreessen: I think 2012 is the year when consumers all around the world start saying no to feature phones and start saying yes to smartphones. Feature phones are going to vanish out of the developed world and over the course of five years they'll vanish out of the developing world. Q That's a big deal because? "A That's a big deal because that's the key enabling technology for software eats the world broadly. Because that's what puts the computer--literally puts a computer in everybody's hand." Which is what we've been telling you about the importance of smartphones and how they are outselling PCs. Andreessen makes the same point. He also foresees many more high street retailers struggling because of the internet - something that British high streets could already tell him about.2008: BlackBerry's Quest: Fend Off the iPhone &gt;&gt; New York TimesFrom April 2008: "Since the iPhone went on sale last summer, amid long lines of shoppers and media adulation, the contours of the smartphone market have begun to shift rapidly toward consumers. An industry once characterized by brain-numbing acronyms and droning discussions about enterprise security is now defined by buzz around handset design, video games and mobile social networks. "That means R.I.M., which has historically viewed big corporations and wireless carriers as its bedrock customers, needs to alter its DNA in a hurry." It didn't. Fascinating reading, in retrospect: "But there are also signs that R.I.M. faces steeper challenges. At the end of last year, BlackBerry had a 40 percent share of the United States smartphone market, down from 45 percent at the end of 2006, thanks largely to the 17.4 percent share the iPhone grabbed in its first six months. "In March, [Steve] Jobs announced that Apple would take the rare step of licensing Microsoft's corporate e-mail technology, to allow iPhones to connect directly to business computers -- a dagger aimed at the heart of R.I.M.'s strength in the corporate market."Blackberry ($RIMM) is worth less than the Apple App Store. Just the App Store. Not iPhone. Not iPad. Not Mac. Not iTunes. &gt;&gt; brian s hall"Per analysis from Trefis, iTunes and App Store each contribute approximately 2% to Apple's market cap. For those doing the math at home, that means App Store contributes $7.08 billion to Apple's market cap." RIM's current value? $7.04bn. Has anyone started a Tumblr for things RIM is worth less than?Twitter doesn't really raise money from Saudi prince &gt;&gt; Fortune.com"Saudi Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal today announced that he has invested $300 million in Twitter, via his Kingdom Holding investment group. "Fortune has learned that the deal is structured as a secondary, which means that Alwaleed purchased shares from existing Twitter insiders. The company would have been required to approve of the transaction, but will not actually receive any of the $300 million, as it would in a more traditional investment." Heard inside Twitter: "Dammit!"Review: a bargain iPad Bluetooth keyboard from a Chinese market &gt;&gt; Gadget WritingTim Anderson: "I am pleased with the keyboard, though given the defects in the case and irritations like the tiny power switch it is not really a huge bargain. I find it thought-provoking though. Is iPad + keyboard all I need when on the road, or have I just recreated an inferior netbook? The size and weight is not much different. "Unlike some, I do still see value in the netbook, which has a better keyboard, a battery life that is nearly as good (at least it was when new), handy features like USB, ethernet and VGA ports, and the ability to run Microsoft Office and other Windows apps." Note those last two.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard
Tis the seaon to be jolly – jolly mad about Top 20 Games of the Year lists, that is! Part two of ours is coming today!
Intriguing: Amazon.com will,if you search for "iPad", offer as the first result a page which compares its Kindle Fire with said iPad, gives you the price of the Kindle, and tells you that it has "All the popular movies, apps, music, and games, but at half the price."Talk about using your marketing advantage and leverage to install yourself in the market.Search for "tablet"and you get no such comparison offered.How aboutAsus Transformer? No, no comparison.Samsung Galaxy Tab? No.PlayBook? No.TouchPad? No.iPad? Still yes.From which you can probably conclude that as far as Amazon is concerned, there are only two tablets in the Christmas race at the moment. And also conclude that Apple is probably relieved that it doesn't have to rely only on selling through Amazon for its revenues.
A Nokia employee and, apparently, another from Microsoft have been caught posting anonymous comments boosting their product on a review of the new Nokia Lumia 800 phone using Microsoft's new Windows Phone software.Thereview, posted on the Moneylife.in site in India, was not based on a hands-on review of the product but only its technical specifications, in which it was compared principally to Samsung's Galaxy S Plus handset.The reviewer, Yogesh Sapkale, concluded - perhaps brutally, since he hadn't laid a finger on the phone - that " Although Nokia sees its Lumia 800 to be a competitor to Apple iPhone [sic], it is nowhere near the niche product. In fact compared with iPhone, the Lumia 800 can be termed as 'noPhone'."A number of commenters on the article were unimpressed - including one who called himself Harish. "What an crap review!! it's one of the best phone available, iphone is so dumb compared to this.... Guess some one is paying you lumpsum, congrats..", he wrote.He posted his comment from the iP address of 192.100.117.41 - which belongs to Nokia.Another commenter calling himself Aditya Agrawal wrote: "dude, gone are the times when actual consumers just use to care about the technical specificiations of mobiles. today, people want devices which are beauitful, fast and easy-to-use. for most of the consumers, it does not matter if the phone has 512mb or 1gb ram. if the 512mb performs better in real-life, that't the one customers are gonna prefer. just a small advice [sic], go to a store and use windows phone 7.5 for 10 mins, the last thing you will care is whether the phone has a single or a dual core."Agrawal posted from the IP address of 207.46.55.31 - which apparently belongs to Microsoft. (That IP address seems to have been used to make a number ofunwelcome edits to Wikipedia; many have been reverted.)A number of other commenters were - to say the least - nonplussed at Sapkale's decision to "review" the phone based only on its specifications (although it's worth noting that some western gadget sites aren't above writing "first look" and "review" pieces which do exactly the same, but without the disclaimer).Sapkale, who revealed the data about the users' IP addresses in a followup post, justified his unusual approach to reviewing it on the basis that he was doing a feature comparison for price-sensitive consumers. "India is a very price sensitive market when it comes to spending hard earned money," hewrote. "This is the mistake many manufacturers, especially from the western countries, has made in India. Obviously they are still paying the price for this overlook. Most Indians prefer to save money and then spend it rather than taking credit for a smartphone that may cost them a month's salary. It is the same reason why iPhone 4S, which is available at Rs42,000" - equivalent to £534, only slightly more than the UK price - "is still unable to see better sales in India."Nobody has come out of the episode looking good. Sapkale was accused of breaking his own site's privacy policy by posting the IP and email addresses of the commenters, while the commenting duo's failure to declare any interest looked, at best, likeastroturfing.(You can read my review ofWindows Phone Mango running on an HTC Titan; andVic Keegan'sandJuliette Garside'sreviews of the Lumia 800.)
The BBC iPlayer iOS app has been downloaded 1.1m times in the week since it wasupdated to run on Apple's iPhone and iPod touchas well as iPad, says Daniel Danker, the broadcaster's general manager of programmes and on demand."500,000 of those downloads were to users who had never installed the app before," says Danker, who adds that the application's new ability to stream TV shows and radio over 3G as well as Wi-Fi is also proving popular."Last week, 20% of all requests on iPhone were on 3G. That's amazing in such a short period of time. And yet when we look at the audience feedback, nobody has really reported streaming problems over 3G."The growth of mobile and tablet iPlayer viewing has been sharp in 2011. In October, 16.5m programmes were watched on these devices, up 129% year-on-year.The key factor in this growth was thelaunch of native iPlayer appsfor iPad and Android in February 2011. Previously, the catch-up TV service had been available as a mobile website."12 months ago, 5% of the total consumption of BBC iPlayer was on mobile and tablet," says Danker. "Fast forward to today, and that figure is 10%, one of our fastest growing areas. A year ago, people were sceptical about whether this whole mobile or tablet TV viewing was going to be a big deal. A year on, it's an entirely different story. No one would question it."Figures released by the BBC when it launched the iPhone version earlier in December claimed the existing app had been downloaded 1.5m times on iPad and 1.2m times on Android.The 500,000 new-user iOS installs since indicates that iPlayer is now well past the 3m mark for downloads in the UK alone – BBC Worldwide'sseparate global versionis available elsewhere in the world."Our audiences no longer expect to watch our programmes to a specific schedule in a specific location," says Danker. "There is an independence that comes with this mobile TV. Whether you are curled up in bed with the tablet, or tuning in to live news when on the road, it's about that choice."Danker adds that BBC radio may be "the secret winner" from the updated iPlayer app, due to the app's ability to stream radio in the background while people do other things on their iPads or iPhones.The iPlayer's Android app has not yet been updated with the 3G streaming feature. Danker says it's coming, but that there are a few performance issues to iron out before the app is ready for release. Even so, launching the original iPlayer app simultaneously on iOS and Android in February was a reflection of the BBC's public service remit.The BBC's Android iPlayer app has been downloaded more than 1.2m times"It's part of our charter, and part of not pre-judging who's going to be successful in the market," says Danker."We've managed to benefit a great deal from that, building a really great partnership with Google and delivering a great experience. It hasn't been as smooth a path as on Apple due to the greater variety of devices on Android. But we are very happy being on Android."That said, iOS still "punches above its weight" when it comes to usage of the iPlayer native app, despite the sharp growth in Android device sales over 2011.With that remit in mind, what mobile devices will iPlayer move to next – Windows Phone? BlackBerry? Danker says that the BBC assesses every platform based on where the audience is, as well as balancing experience with value for money."In most cases, the very best thing we can do for our audience is a mobile web page," he says, declining to be drawn on specific platform plans. "Where an app store means audiences have an easier way of finding the product, and ways of doing things above and beyond like live TV and background running, we'll go there."The addition of 3G to the native iPlayer app is significant, but how much of a strain is it placing on the mobile operator networks? Danker says the BBC worked closely with all the main operators before rolling out the feature."It could have been a disaster if we had not prepared," he says. "If we were smaller, we could have moved faster, but because our product and service is so big, we could have had an adverse effect on mobile networks in the UK. We were methodical: we worked with all the operators to prepare their networks for what we're coming out with."Danker thinks that a 3G-enabled iPlayer adds value for the operators, especially those who are selling unlimited-data tariffs (although those plans are certainly much more scarce than they used to be).He adds that the BBC sees mobile and 3G specifically as an important plank for its Olympic Games coverage in 2012. "We intend to do quite a bit over 3G for the Olympics. It's a very live event, and people don't always want to wait until they get home to experience it."The broadcaster's Olympic strategy also takes inred-button content for owners of Virgin Media's TiVo set-top box, using the cable provider's apps platform."Virgin Media has an open platform that runs Flash and is very easy to develop for. As a result, we are able to reinvest in the red button," says Danker. "Everyone thinks red button is a crappy old technology that doesn't look as beautiful as we have come to expect. But the behaviour of pressing red when you want more is really powerful."With the native iPhone version of iPlayer out, 3G streaming seemingly working well, and an Android update on the way, what next for iPlayer on phones and tablets? The ability to cache programmes on the device for offline viewing is a key request from viewers, but Danker politely keeps his cards close to his chest about when or whether that feature will be added.He does stress that the iPlayer team will only add new features if they do not clutter the application's simplicity. "The technologist instincts to continually push new features in tend to be the wrong instincts," he says.How about social features? Music apps like Spotify have jumped on board Facebook's Open Graph to get more people sharing more activity on the social network. Meanwhile, startups like Zeebox have been making headlines for their intent to put social features at the heart of the TV viewing experience, albeit on a second screen to the one that's being watched."Our focus with respect to social is that it needs to make the storyline better," says Danker."Second-screen experiences can either distract from the programme, or they can add to the storyline of the programme. I think we will come up with examples where it adds to the storyline. That's our North Star for this: not to add interactivity for interactivity's sake."
Facebook for Android has more daily active users than its iPhone counterpart for the first time.The iPhone app launched in July 2008, while its Android cousin rolled out in September 2009 and has been closing the lead ever since.According to the AppData tracking service, the Android app now has 58.8 million daily active users, while the iPhone version has 57.6 million.The iPhone app has 99.5 million monthly active users compared with Android's 86.1 million, but the daily figure is regarded as a more important measure of use.Android's rising user figure is an important step in that it reflects its generally expanding user base and means that Facebook may devote more resources towards developing services for the platform.
In 2003 a woman named Joyce Vincent died in her small flat above a shopping mall in Wood Green, North London. She was surrounded by the Christmas presents, she'd just wrapped. The TV was on. There was washing up in the sink. She was not found for three years.Last week saw the release of Carol Morley's sad and compassionate movie,Dreams of a Life, which uses fictionalised moments from Vincent's life as well as interviews with those who knew her, to ask how this death went seemingly unnoticed, and what this means about life in London, and cities, and the 21st century.To accompany the movie, producer Film4, also sought to commission an interactive experience that would give particpants another angle on the story, and its ramifications.Hide&amp;Seek, a unique London studio that has worked on live urban gaming experiences as well as games and interactive museum projects, was giving the difficult, but fascinating task."Our involvement began prior to the shooting of the film so we were primarily working from the press coverage around Joyce's death," explains Hide&amp;Seek co-founder, Alex Fleetwood. "It was the emotional impact of the story – this powerful shock that in our hyper-connected world, someone could slip away so unnoticed – that lured us in, and got us thinking about how we could use that feeling as the basis for an experience that provoked you to consider your own life and relationships."The result isDreams of Your Life, a kind of interview story, in which each participant is asked questions about their own life, forming a new narrative about friendship and isolation (co-creator Margaret Robertson hasrefered to it as, "a chance to do an audit of your life and relationships, within half an hour on a busy work day"). The guiding text has been written by author AL Kennedy, and the images that accompany the project are by British photographerLottie Davies, whose stark shots resemble a time-lapse sequence through four seasons (you can find out more about her contributionhere). The scene she has chosen, a suburban window looking out on to an anonymous street, deftly sums up the themes of the movie – in some images a CCTV camera is visible outside; it says everything about how we can be continually observed in modern cities, without ever being seen."We had several aims in making an interactive sister project to Dreams of a Life," says Alex, who has also just overseen an imaginative game project for the Royal Opera House entitled,The Show Must Go On. "The first was to reach a digital audience and to make them intensely curious.... Watching the film should feel like the inevitable conclusion to completing our experience."We also wanted to make something beautiful and unique – the film is both of those things, and it only felt proper to try and live up to that standard. Finally, we wanted to turn this painful story into something positive – an opportunity for reflection, and for some people, action."If you haven't already, take a few minutes this week, of all weeks, to give it a go.
Casual gaming overlord PopCap has teamed up with humanatarian charityConcern Worldwideto release a Christmas single. The song, bizarrely calledWabby Wabbois based around PopCap's hit title Plants vs Zombies. It's "performed" by the game's narrator and shopkeeper Crazy Dave, a bearded nutcase with a pan on his head. "Wabbo Wabbo is believed to be the first hip-hop single ever released to feature a yodelling solo by a Yeti zombie," says the press release.The single is available for download now and PopCap hopes that if enough Plants vs Zombies fans download the track this week, it can beat the inevitable favourite from X-Factor to the top spot. The (let's say "eccentric") video accompanying the track has already had almost 600,000 views on YouTube, and 55p from every download fee goes to the charity. And remember, there's always the chance that it could ruin Christmas for Simon Cowell.
It's that time of year again. As the nights draw in, the snowflakes fall and the festive cheer escalates, we put all sense and experience aside to reduce our gaming year into a hopelessly subjective list.As usual, the Gamesblog Top 20 is not an attempt to provide a definitive, objective evaluation of the year's releases. These are the games we genuinely, honestly enjoyed and played to death this year; often despite ourselves, often knowing that there were "better" titles waiting still wrapped in cellophane, next to our consoles. All of our reviewers put forward their own favourites, and I cajoled these into one fairly representative list.With that in mind, we present the first five titles. Pour yourself a stiff glass of sherry, settle down in a creaking armchair and take a look. The important thing is, feel free to argue with and berate us in the comments section – that, in the end, is the whole point of these escapades. Just remember, this is not science, this is opinion. Ho, ho, ho.20. Rayman Origins(Ubisoft, PS3, Wii, Xbox 360)Michel Ancel's gorgeous 2D platformer is like a gaming equivalent of Cinema Paradiso, a warmly nostalgic paean to a past age of entertainment. The vibrant fantasy environments leap from the screen in a way stereoscopic effects could never achieve, while the fiendish, imaginative level designs, quirky music and bizarre characters retain your interest to the very end. In the co-op four-player mode it's an absolute delight.19. Assassin's Creed: Revelations(Ubisoft, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)While some felt that Ubisoft was treading water with this handsome conclusion to the tales of Altair and Ezio, others just reveled in the opportunity to spend a few more picturesque hours with these athletic demi-gods. Revelations does little to build on the foundations of its predecessors, but offers yet more astonishing scenery, compelling combat and dastardly historical machinations. A slight but essential set-up for 2012's Assassin's Creed III.18. Bulletstorm(EA, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)The over-looked, under-appreciated shoot-'em-up gem of the year, Bulletstom thrust gamers headlong into a ridiculously destructive battle between foul-mouthed mercenaries and the space general who betrayed them. Frenetic combat, lush locations and some of the most imaginative foul-mouthed insults ever committed to a video game disc all worked in conjunction with a brilliant weapons progression system. There will perhaps never again be a game that consistently refers to the player as 'sushi dick', 'ass hat' and 'sun-baked ass hole', yet still manages to be charming and compelling.17. From Dust(Ubisoft, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)It was a good year for Ubisoft's creative veterans. Alongside Rayman Origins we also had this awesome revival of the god-game genre, courtesy of Eric Chahi, the creator of classic platformer, Another World. Here, players have to manipulate the natural components of an archipelago setting, saving its nomadic tribes from extinction. The idea of manipulating the environment rather than the tribesmen, and staving off disasters as they build within the simulation, gives the game an underlying eco message that isn't trite or heavy-handed. From Dust just says, the natural world is unimaginably powerful – tip the balance too far and it'll swallow us up.16. Battlefield 3(EA, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)For some of our writers, including me, Battlefield is a top five game for 2011. Its multiplayer mode is state-of-the-art, marrying perfect weapon characteristics with vast maps and diverse vehicles to produce tense, tactical showdowns. The sense of 'being there', of legging it through a shooter environment, breathing hard, leaping over obstacles, is astonishing. It is a game that requires skill and thought, and co-operation. But then the campaign mode, as we all know, looks and plays like an afterthought – despite all the pre-release hype. Perhaps EA DICE should never have tried to compete on these terms with Modern Warfare. It never really needed to.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 17 DecemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (32)PC (7)62 (3)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (87)Xbox 360 (11)PS3 (2)103 (2)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (40)Wii (3)PC (3)64 (4)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (37)Wii (7)PSP (3)125 (8)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (33)56 (6)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (48)87 (5)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (40)PC (1)58 (11)Mario & Sonic at the London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (100)59 (13)Need For Speed: The Run(16+)PS3 (49)Xbox 360 (45)Wii (3)3DS (1)510 (7)Professor Layton And The Spectre's Call(7+)DS (100)411 (15)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (44)PC (2)912 (10)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)313 (14)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)914 (9)Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception(15+)PS3 (100)715 (12)Super Mario 3D Land(3+)3DS (100)516 (–)Moshi Monsters: Moshling Zoo(3+)DS (100)517 (17)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (81)Xbox 360 (15)PS3 (4)3818 (16)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)Wii (27)Xbox 360 (23)DS (21)PS3 (17)519 (–)Sonic Generations(7+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (35)3DS (16)PC (1)220 (20)Abba: You Can Dance(3+)Wii (100)2UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Apple's iPhone "significantly" outsold other brands seeking to tempt Christmas shoppers in the UK, while Nokia's new Lumia phone did not make the top 10 best-selling phones through operators in the four weeks to 9 December, according to the research company GfK.TheFinancial Timesreports that different versions of the iPhone made up more than 37% of sales, taking five of the top 15 spots in the first week of December.But Nokia's attempts to climb back to primacy with its Lumia 800 phone, the first running Microsoft's Windows Phone software, seem to have made a slow start. The GfK data, which records sales through operators, says it failed to make the top 10 in the four weeks. Despite a TV, poster and print advertising campaign rumoured to have cost more than £20m, the Lumia "sold only narrowly more than Nokia's more basic 'Touch and Type' phone", the FT reports.The Lumia 800 went on sale on 16 November, which will have limited its potential to appear in sales figures when ranged against Apple and Samsung – which have managed to pull far ahead of it in the smartphone UK market. More than half of UK mobile users own a smartphone, according to Ofcom data released last week.The iPhone 4S, released in October, was the highest-selling phone for the four weeks to 9 December, making up a quarter of all sales, the FT reports. Other strong sellers included the iPhone 3GS, released in mid-2009.Samsung's Galaxy S II was the second-best selling phone in the week to 9 December.RIM's BlackBerry models took three of the top 10 spots in the first week of December, with versions of its Curve models. But its new Bold 9900 did not figure in the top 10 — a bad sign as the company hangs more of its future on new models. Last week it reported profits fell by 70%, while admitting it would not have models using its next operating system until late next year.• This article was amended on 19 December 2011. The original said that the Lumia phone has been sold only through operators. It is also sold SIM-free on Amazon.
