Sony Computer Entertainment America has announced that it will launch the PSP in the US on March 24, for the suggested retail price of $249.99. That price is for the 'Value Pack', which includes 32 MB Memory Stick Duo, headphones with remote control, battery pack, AC adaptor, soft case and cleaning cloth, and demo UMD disc. Also, the first million will be shipped with a special UMD version of the Spider-Man 2 movie. This is clearly a statement of intent from Sony - they want to show the deeply conservative movie studios that they're serious about UMD becoming a movie medium.Sony Computer Entertainment Europe may well make a similar announcement very, very soon...
"Yahoo is offering a new search service designed to help people find more-relevant content online. The Y!Q service offers 'contextual' search that analyzes the page being read and gives a list of related search results," reportsCNet."Instead of starting a search from a text box, a person would search while reading a specific page. For instance, a reader looking at a news story about the State of the Union address might highlight the phrase 'Social Security' to get a listing of pages that deal with that topic."The company, which has released the service in a test format, said it is making the coding available to Web designers to embed in their sites, so that the tool can search their pages. Yahoo is also offering versions of the tool for its news site and as a toolbar that readers can download and run on their browsers."
"The worldwide market for handheld devices experienced its fourth successive quarter of year-over-year decline in the fourth quarter of 2004. According to research agency IDC's Worldwide Handheld QView, shipments of such devices fell nearly 20 percent year-over-year in the fourth quarter of 2004 to 2.8 million units. This means that for 2004, handheld device shipments reached 9.2 million units, a decrease of 13 percent over 2003's shipments of 10.6 million units," reportsTechtree.com."In contrast, in another report that was released on January 27, IDC had said that mobile phone purchases had been the highest ever. According to IDC's worldwide mobile phone tracker, worldwide mobile phone shipments totaled 194.3 million units in the fourth quarter of 2004, growing 24 percent year over year. For the full year 2004, worldwide mobile phone shipments increased 29.3 percent over 2003."
"Napster will open its long-promised portable music subscription service Thursday, which will make it the first company to put muscle behind a new music 'rental' model aimed at undermining Apple Computer's digital music dominance," reportsCNet."The company said its Napster to Go service would go live Thursday, charging people $14.95 monthly for the ability to download an unlimited number of songs and play them on compatible MP3 players. The songs would be playable only for as long as the subscriber keeps paying for the service,"The service uses Microsoft's DRM, and as the story notes; "Even RealNetworks, a bitter rival of Microsoft in some arenas, plans to launch a new version of its Rhapsody music subscription service using Microsoft's new rights-management technology."Comment:CNet says: "Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, has dismissed the idea of subscription-based services." However, Steve's dismissals generally seem to indicate that Apple is working on something but isn't yet ready to launch it.
Mobile phonesSetting the sceneO2's 3G service went live this week and is set to feature a range of handsets from different manufacturers. The network pledged to keep prices for its 3G services similar to those the network currently charges customers for GPRS services. Its headline phone is the O2 X4, a clamshell handset manufactured by BenQ, which features a 262K colour screen, a 1.3 megapixel camera and video streaming (though not video calling) facilities. Other handsets include the Nokia 6630, the Sony Ericsson V800, Samsung's Z107 and, in the near future, Nokia's first 3G phone with video calling - the 6680. The phone, which hasn't yet been confirmed by Nokia, apparently also features a 1.3 megapixel camera and a 3D user interface.www.o2.co.ukDigital radioTuning upBritish audio company Arcam, which was among a group of manufacturers that pioneered digital radio (DAB) in the UK, has unveiled a radio tuner aimed at audiophiles. The DiVA DT91, available next month for about &#163;450, is a slim unit that features both DAB and FM tuners. The hi-fi separates-style radio sports a large graphic display, is accompanied by a remote control and, using RS232 or infrared, can be incorporated into multi-room audio systems. It is available in silver or black.www.arcam.co.ukHardwarePlain and simpleLast year, hardware firm Plextor made forays into video capture, and now it claims to have the world's first real time DivX certified personal video recorder. Installation of the ConvertX PX-TV402U proved a breeze, and recording video in real time is simple and intuitive. The Windows-only box, which is about the size of a paperback, can compress live television straight into DivX to save hard disk space, but also allows users to burn directly to DVD. It does not look as smart as some other products on the market, but it does hook up to camcorders, VCRs and DVD players. With a &#163;130 price tag, it could prove the answer for PC users seeking an affordable solution.www.plextor.comDigital camerasExpert shotSamsung is expanding its digital camera range with the launch of a seven megapixel compact model. The Digimax V700, available in silver, red and black, also features a 3x optical zoom, 10x digital zoom, two-inch LCD monitor   and a macro mode. The camera includes a range of automatic exposure settings that enable photographers to get the best possible results from challenging subjects, such as children or fireworks. Other facilities include MPeg4 movie capture at up to 30 frames per second with a resolution of 640x480 pixels; composite shooting, where a series of images can be combined and saved in the same file; and a choice of five flash settings.www.samsung.co.ukMusic playersSize it downThe battle to deliver the world's tiniest MP3 player took a new turn this month with the unveiling of the MobiBlu DAH-1500. The player is a few millimetres smaller than its main rivals, the Samsung YP-T5H and the BenQ Joybee 102, and sports an unusual cube-shaped design with a mini OLED display. To save space, the player only has one socket, which connects an earphone and a data cable to the model. Other facilities include an FM tuner. Battery life is about 20 hours. There is no word on price or availability.www.mobiblu.comStat of the week: Search yourselfSearch is one of the biggest movers on the web, but users remain uninformed about where their results come from. Although most say they are happy with their searches, studies show few understand the difference between organic and paid-for search listings.Attitudes to paid and unpaid results:Happy with the concept 70%Don't know the difference 62%Aware of the distinction 38%Can tell them apart 18%&#183;Source: Pew Internet Project
Would you like to pay for things online and have them charged to your BT phone bill up to three months later? That is one of the benefits of BT's Click&amp;buy payment service,www.btclickandbuy.com, used by websites such as ScreenSelect, GMTV and SportingLife.The service is in the spotlight this year after the announcement that BT Retail has created a new division called ePayments. This brings together Click&amp;buy and the BT Buynet card payment processing service in a single business unit. Previously, BT had adopted an entrepreneurial approach to click&amp;buy, running it autonomously, and some say this had limited its scope.Click&amp;buy was launched in September 2002 as a micropayments service, and has largely been used by websites that charge small amounts for content, rather than for physical products. The service has 300,000 subscribers and is used by 180 online merchants. As with the better-known PayPal service, now owned by eBay, subscribers only have to enter their username and password to make a payment at any site using the service.Click&amp;buy purchases are charged   to a personal account, which can be settled by credit card, debit card, direct debit or via a BT phone bill. The link to the phone bill means payment can be deferred for up to 90 days, although BT only offers an instant &#163;30 credit, which can subsequently be extended to &#163;100. BT has 18m domestic phone subscribers, but only 100,000 are settling click&amp;buy charges via their phone bill.Buynet is BT's online card processing service. It gives merchants access to the secure card payment network that BT uses to process its credit and debit card payments, and is specifically targeted at new sales channels such as websites, call centres, mobiles and interactive TV. The service is processing &#163;60m of payments per month, and customers include UGC Cinemas and mobile operator O2.So is BT set to become a major player in online payments? Critics say click&amp;buy has been slow to grow and many merchants are opting for credit card payments, even for small transactions. In the UK, for example, Apple's iTunes Music Store accepts single orders for songs costing 79p and charges them directly to subscribers' credit cards.David Hunter, head of BT ePayments, says: "What merchants want   is to offer their customers choice - it's not about just offering one payment solution. We are also extending our service to allow higher payments and payment for physical goods, so it's not just a micropayment service. For example, click&amp;buy is now used to sell encyclopedias and magazines."BT's target is to raise click&amp;buy to one million subscribers by the end of the year - a big increase for a service that has taken more than two years to reach 300,000 subscribers.Hunter admits click&amp;buy has not been promoted strongly to BT customers on their phone bill literature, but says that will soon change.But perhaps the biggest difficulty for BT's new ePayments division is that, like many other online payments providers, it is a minnow compared   with the US giant PayPal. PayPal has 63.8m subscribers in 45 countries, and had $18.9bn of transactions last year, an increase of 55% over the previous year. BT says it handles 5.5% of all UK online transactions, totalling &#163;790m, and it plans to grab an 11% share by 2007 - estimated by then to be worth about &#163;5bn.Hunter says he is not worried by PayPal: "We are more broadly based than PayPal, which is really all about eBay." However, PayPal has extended its reach by signing a deal with iTunes in the US, and must also be looking to expand into other areas.Nathan Johnson, managing director of Cybersource, a provider of online payment and security solutions, says BT faces a huge challenge. "They will have to put a lot of investment into it, and they face a lot of competition with the mobile operators targeting micropayments too," he says. "The fact that it is only UK-focused may also be a disadvantage."However, Alexander Linden, of the Gartner research company, believes the timing could be good for BT. "As online commerce increases, the margins get better for the service providers and there is likely to be more demand for intangible products," he says. "With concern over credit card fraud, there is also an attraction to a service that allows payment to be linked to a phone bill."But could Google be the biggest threat of all? Morgan Stanley analyst Mary Meeker said recently: "Over time, it will be important for Google to implement a payment system into its platform... This could be well received by users and vendors."
Anyone fortunate enough to have seen the PSP version of Ridge Racer will know that Sony's handheld is a quite astonishing piece of hardware. But the arguments rumble on concerning exactlyhowpowerful it is. The fact that most journalists are attempting comparisons with PS2 is indication enough that PSP represents a startling move forward for handheld gaming – at least in terms of visual performance. The question is, how valid or accurate are those comparisons?Frankly, I don't know – I'm not a games programmer. So I've been chatting to Andy Beveridge, co-founder ofSN Systems, the Bristol-based technology company that provides development tools to most of the studios working on PSP titles.And here's what he has to say on the debate that's dividing the nation: PSP vs PS2 - is one more powerful than the other, or is such a comparison impossible? His comments reveal some interesting little snippets about the innards of Sony's new machine...*although it's more compicated than that as you'll soon found out."The main reason there is little comparison info out there is probably that it's a difficult thing to compare. If the two CPUs were identical then clock speed would indeed give you a good comparison of performance. Both CPU's are MIPS family with fairly compatible instruction sets but under-the-hood they are quite differently put together.eg. It's a bit like comparing an AMD Athlon with a P4 CPU. A 2GHz AMD CPU goes a lot faster than a 2GHz P4 CPU. That presumably is why AMD use XP+ numbers rather than clock speed (eg. an Athlon 2800+ actually has a clock speed of just over 2GHz, not 2.8GHz).So you can compare clock speeds but that is really only part of the picture. The PSP CPU has a variable clock speed from 1 to 333MHz. It runs at the lower speeds when possible to save power. PS2 CPU runs at 300MHz all the time. PS2 CPU also has an extra boost because sometimes it can run more than one instruction at a time which makes it's CPU a little faster still compared with PSP which can only execute one instruction per clock cycle at best.But only a fraction of the console's perceived performance is down to the CPU. In the current generation of gaming machines the performance is just as much affected by 3D maths capability and by the graphics core. PS2 has two 150MHz programmable vector units to do the maths - these are quite powerful but they make the PS2 a little complicated to program as it is like programming three computers in one. PSP has one special 3D math coprocessor but it is surprisingly powerful and much easier to program and in many cases faster. The graphics cores of the two machines are also quite different.So it is difficult to make a straight comparison. I would say that overall most programmers would probably conclude that the PS2 CPU is slightly more powerful if both CPUs are given the same thing to do. That's the killer issue though - the two CPUs typically do not have the same thing to do. One major factor here is the PSP's smaller screen. A PS2 screen at 640 x 480 has 2.3x the area of a PSP screen at 480x272. As a result a typical PS2 games has quite a lot more to draw and so it needs that extra power.Conclusion? Two programmers could argue all day about which is the more powerful and there is not one clear answer except, 'It depends what they are doing'. However, they are clearly in the same ballpark, which is pretty impressive for a battery operated portable console."So there you have it. PSPisas powerful as PS2. But in a different way. Erm, let me read that again...
Real Player shameWhat a shame the BBC didn't spot that the relaunch of their Radio Player (Internet saved the radio star, January 27) was the perfect opportunity to dump the irritating and invasive Real Player.Mike PettyLondonAnother wayIn reference to the BBC Radio Player you say, "As before, you must still download Real Player to be able to listen". This is not true, I don't have Real Player installed on my machine. I use the excellent Real Alternative (www.codecguide.com/about_real.htm).Tom CorcoranLondonUnder lock and keyDave Birch (Second Sight, January 27) is correct that S/MIME capabilities exist in many email clients, but unless there is a Public Key Infrastructure with well-understood trust levels, it can only really be used by the technically astute. I don't know what checks Thawte did on his identity before supplying a certificate, but I expect it would be very easy to set up an email address claiming to be Dave Birch and get it certified by a certification authority. A further problem with encrypted email is that many organisations will reject it at their boundary systems because they are unable to check it for malicious content.Steve PeelSheffieldPlay against typeBrian Elsey (Feedback, January 27) seems to imply he misunderstood how the keys are laid out in the abKey keyboard. In abKey's patented layout, all vowels are in the home row, under the fingers of the left hand, the three middle fingers of which also covers early consonants: BCD by moving down and FGH by moving up. The home row of the right hand covers space (thumb), RST (middle three fingers) and return (last finger). By moving up, the middle three covers LMN as well. Elsey is right, to type fast you   want all common consonants right under the hand and the abKey layout allows that. abKey ensures all common letters are within easy reach of both hands. Studies have proven that for a given eight hours of work, abKey typists move their fingers half the distance compared with those using a Qwerty keyboard, which translates into faster speed and lower fatigue.Bob TeoabKeyNot up to speedCheap, high bandwidth, low transfer limit broadband services are great for many people, such as Pete Meddings (Feedback, January 27). If 1GB per month is sufficient to meet your needs, it seems foolish to pay for more. However, it seems exaggerated to say bandwidth matters more than data capacity. A 2Mbps connection can download that 1GB limit in one hour and seven minutes. So what is the point of so much bandwidth? Nor is bandwidth directly proportional to speed. Most delays in web browsing are not caused by bandwidth, but by latency and server overload at the website's end of the connection. The ISPs don't mention any of this in their "40x the speed of dial-up" sales pitch. Perhaps they should add "only when downloading at full capacity and we'll cut you off if you spend more than an hour doing that".Michael HaleLeedsGet a load onPete Meddings says "the speed of the connection is far more useful than the capacity". For him. I treat any internet service provider that limits downloads as inferior. Surely the beauty of broadband is you can download what you like, when you like. Freedom To Surf offers poor value compared with other 512Kbps 1Mbps services with unlimited data downloads. Different strokes ...Ian McRobertPeterboroughBlogbackThe upgraded BBC Radio Player (January 27) has news, sport and weather added. Looks like I might be moving my listening habits from 6music and Radio 1 to 1Xtra. Recommended shows, if you are open for some new sounds: DJ Cameo's Pirate Sessions featuring Kano and Raw T, Tony Wilson's new proteges.www.halvorsen.orgGeorge Orwell had no idea, although he couldn't have envisaged the technological "advances" that have made a full surveillance society possible (Caught on camera, January 13). CCTV is ubiquitous, DNA sampling is commonplace and car licence plates can be read by cameras in milliseconds. But it's hard to believe cops would spend £15m just to pick up the odd boy racer. No, this is aimed at Jane and Joe Public, you and I.www.fredriley.org.uk/weblogTalk is cheap when you have a Nintendo DS. A Guardian Gamesblog report records Nintendo senior managing director Yoshihiro Mori complaining: "DS software is not selling because users are playing the pre-installed PictoChat game." Hopefully, this will come to be seen as a strength, not a weakness.http://blackbeltjones.typepad.com/work/
If, when the call comes, you like it to be of the "brrring brrring" variety, then this is going to be a sad tale. Figures show that in just six months, digital music downloads for mobile phones have grown at an unprecedented rate.IDC, an IT reserach firm, reported that in the US, revenue from ringtones surged from $18m in 2003 to $375m last year. US music magazine Billboard introduced a ringtones category to its charts in November, and presented its first Ringtone of the Year Award to hip-hop star 50 Cent for In Da Club in December.It's a similar story in the UK, where mobile phone operators have entered into agreements with record labels in a bid to increase sales of real recording ringtones. The stamp of success for some new bands comes not only from reaching No 1 in the charts or being remixed by US producers DFA - ringtone versions of their hits are a musical must, too.And label-loving 12 to 19-year-olds can't get enough. "Ringtones are like badges for this generation," says Austin Wilde, from EMI Music Publishing. Sound-savvy T-Mobile, for example, witnessed a 26% increase in European ringtone downloads in November and December alone.Want to know what's hot and what's not? Music magazines Q and NME have the alternative ringtone chart-toppers covered, from dance music's Mylo to rock's Kings of Leon. Want to stand out from the crowd? Make your own ringtone at a site such as Xingtone, or get an original. Recently launched BlingTones, touted as the first wireless record label, signed hip-hop producers such as Rockwilder to write 30-second ditties available only through its service.Analysts, however, are divided over   the future. EMI's Wilde says the market, which initially suffered because ringtones were poor quality, had matured and the content was richer.While some artists are not so enamoured with the trend - Jack White from the White Stripes told EMI he did not want the band's material used for ringtone downloads - the teen-friendly urban and dance genres do very well.But Juniper Research's Windsor Holden believes European ringtone sales - worth $340m last year - will soon peak, to be replaced by full-track downloads and ringback tones.Ringback tones or caller tunes let you decide what song someone hears when they call you, unlike ringtones, where an individual chooses a song to listen to when their phone rings. They are a huge hit in Asia: in South Korea, SKT's ColoRing service generates about $8m a month. T-Mobile was the first European operator to introduce them in December 2003 and now has 700,000 subscribers. Others are planning UK launches later this year. Graham Thomas, vice president content services for T-Mobile international, says: "&#91;Caller tunes&#93; create personalisation and discussion and good fun. You impress friends and get to hear the type of music your friends like."Holden agrees: "The service is going to take off, especially in Europe and the US. People have become accustomed to the ringtones &#91;service&#93;. When they are ringing people they are going to want to listen to something other than the drab 'ring-ring'."But IDC's Pablo Pescatore is sceptical. "The benefit is not direct to the user ... The only people who benefit are those ringing &#91;that user&#93;."For ringback tones to be a success, users must be content to pay to   download a very short section of a song they won't hear themselves. It's a selfless service, which may only appeal to those who enjoy compiling CD playlists of songs for friends.Michele Mackenzie, senior analyst at Ovum, says there are other problems - the service is difficult to explain and market, and is not immediately obvious to the user how it works; management is complex for service providers; and cultural tastes and preferences are hard to predict.But if operators can pull it off, then it is an appealing mobile art form for consumers already taken with digital downloads. "It represents a valuable addition to the portfolio of personalisation services," says Mackenzie.This personalisation portfolio also includes full-track downloads, a format record labels prefer because they earn more royalties. But handsets will have to improve in storage capacity, battery life and functionality before this really takes off. The recent IFPI digital music report is positive: "While current memory capacity on handsets might be small compared to portable players such as the iPod, many expect that 3G mobiles could rival these devices in the future."But Holden feels sure the trend will fade. US start-up Phonebites apparently has funding for a launch of Razz technology, or "interrupt ringtones", where you download an online audio clip to insert into a phone conversation to annoy your chattering other half. Nice."The mobile music market will not be the be all and end all," Holden says. "It serves its purpose to drive mobile music in the first place ... but as services such as mobile gambling become more prevalent, they will take a much larger share of mobile revenue."Linkswww.billboard.comhttp://nme.ringtones.co.ukwww.q4musictones.comwww.xingtone.comwww.blingtones.comwww.t-mobile.co.uk/callertunes
Blogs are big business, especially at Microsoft. Bill Gates gives coveted interview slots to bloggers, prolific Microsoft blogger Robert Scoble is co-writing a book on blogging for business (in a blog, no less), and MSN Spaces, the Microsoft blogging tool that is still in beta testing, already has more than 1.5m users.MSN Spaces is designed for consumers, so it is simple and easy to use. But it also offers two important features that businesses need in a blog, whether it is for internal collaboration or talking to customers - permalinks and trackbacks.A permalink is a permanent link to one post on a blog. It sounds trivial, but it means people can link to specific posts and talk about them, and you can do the same to their posts.Trackbacks tell you when someone has made that link and they are automatically added to the bottom of your original post as hyperlinks. Together, permalinks and trackbacks make your blog part of the wider blogosphere, rather than just another web page full of opinions. You need them to be part of the blogging community and to use the search and tracking tools that tie it together.With MSN Spaces, you get permalinks and trackbacks free, without having to learn even a line of code or do anything complicated. On other free blog sites, they are either not available or much harder to set up.There are, of course, some drawbacks with MSN Spaces, although some of these may be removed in future versions. Many changes are on the list because the MSN Spaces developers have been using trackbacks and permalinks in their own Spaces blogs to listen to what users are saying.As Spaces lead program manager Mike Torres puts it: "Thanks to tools like Feedster, Technorati, PubSub, Bloglines and, of course, our own MSN Spaces, we have been able to very quickly get a read on the 'connected conversation' out there when it comes to Spaces and our launch - and we have even jumped into the fray and commented on a lot of the feedback, either on our Spaces or on blogs and discussion forums."The best part about this crazy new world we live in is that we have been able to get immediate feedback from real customers &#91;ie not just focus groups&#93; on what is great about Spaces and what can be improved."The Spaces team is taking in user feedback on missing features and security reports far faster than the usual formal reporting cycle by talking directly to customers. It is an   excellent example of what makes blogs such a useful technology.The main drawbacks at the moment are that you cannot customise the look of your space beyond the styles on offer; you cannot make a space look as if it is in your own domain rather than part of spaces.msn.com; you cannot carry adverts (eg from Google Adsense); and you cannot get rid of the MSN logo and Microsoft links on the page. These are all very important for business sites, but do not matter so much for internal blogs, which you do not expect anyone outside your company to see.A bigger drawback for business blogging - and one reason why Scoble moved his book blog to Six Apart's commercial TypePad service - is that a Spaces blog cannot easily have more than one author. Each space is tied to a Microsoft Passport account. Different people can use the same ID to log on and contribute, but only one at a time, and you cannot automatically see who has written what. Instead, you can have several individual blogs on MSN Spaces and use permalinks and trackbacks to interconnect them. As well as commenting in the original blog, colleagues can add their responses later in their own blogs.Spaces is integrated with MSN Messenger, Microsoft's consumer instant messaging service. This lets you restrict the people who can see your blog to the people on your Messenger contact or buddy list - and with the latest version of Messenger, contacts get alerts when you publish to your space. People can also subscribe to a space via RSS (Really Simple Syndication), which lets you read almost any blog or newsfeed via email or in an RSS aggregator.Spaces and MSN Messenger, therefore, provide a simple DIY approach to collaborating online. But if you need something more powerful, and you have either the skills or the IT team to plan and implement it, there are two obvious alternatives: Microsoft SharePoint or a Wiki.Anyone can edit a page in a Wiki website from inside their web browser, and users can easily create a new page and link it to the current page, or organise pages into categories. Users are not restricted to editing existing pages, or waiting for an administrator to approve and link   new pages, so you can end up with an interconnected site that reflects how the people involved want it to be organised. If things go wrong, pages can turn into long arguments or"revision wars," where the content changes back and forth as people struggle for control. Wikis, therefore, reflect how a team works together.Because Wikis grow organically, they are not always arranged in the most efficient way and browsing through them takes time. There is an automatic list of new and updated pages, but you either need to do some programming to get alerts, or persuade everyone to be disciplined about tagging updated pages.SharePoint is better at notifications, and it is designed for working with office documents as well as web pages. With the free Windows SharePoint Services that comes with Windows Server 2003, you get email alerts for new documents and changes to the site, or you can see what is new from a task pane in Office 2003 applications. A SharePoint site is made up of web parts and lists, similar to the lists you can create in MSN Spaces, but more sophisticated. A list can be a document library with version control, a message board, address book, calendar or made up of custom fields.You can link SharePoint to a Microsoft Exchange email server to put incoming attachments in a document library, so the whole team can work with them, or to host attachments that you are emailing out. This way, everyone automatically gets the most up-to-date version.There are similar tools for managing agendas and briefing documents for meetings. The paid-for version, SharePoint Portal Server, is more of a portal, and you can give users personal sites and different views depending on which team they are in. However, the collaboration tools are much the same.Not all collaborative work needs to be preserved for posterity - sometimes, all you need is a secure way to send messages, ideas and hyperlinks to all members of a team. This can be done via any instant messaging service. However, the latest version of Trillian Professional uses Apple's Rendezvous technology to provide serverless messaging. Instead of going outside the company firewall, logging on to whatever IM service you use, then sending messages back in, Trillian Professional means messages to co-workers stay on your own network. There's no need to worry about encryption, snooping or even having an internet connection, and anyone else using Trillian automatically shows up on the contact list.
Bosses at Waterstones  must be regretting  their decision to sack  Joe Gordon, the Edinburgh  man who lost  his job after sounding  off about the firm in his personal  weblog. They didn't count on that  hydra-like law of the blogosphere:  take on one blogger, and dozens  more will appear in his/her place.Bloggers on both sides of the  Atlantic rushed to his defence,  most arguing that the company had  over-reacted and was infringing his  freedom of speech. Novelists Iain  Banks and AL Kennedy wrote to  the Herald in Glasgow calling for  Gordon to get his job back.  Waterstones also suffered the  indignity of seeing Gordon's casual  moniker for the store, "Bastardstone's",  repeated in every retelling.Gordon has continued posting his side of the story even as he appeals.  One of his more interesting arguments  is that, although his blog,  the Woolamaloo Gazette (www.woolamaloo.org.uk), is publicly  accessible, it was so obscure you  had to know what you were looking  for to find it. A blog, he writes, is  not the same thing as a mainstream  newspaper or magazine.Coming from the keeper of a  personal blog, that is an attractive  view. A blog's readership is smaller  than a newspaper's, its style more  conversational, its impact closer to  a chat in the pub. And that is a fair  description of what life throughout  the blogosphere was like three  or more years ago, when bloggers  posted mostly to an audience of  other bloggers.Since then, though, the growth in  the number of political and newsled  blogs has blurred the boundary between blogger and mainstream  media. As blogs become more  prominent, bloggers have to be  more careful about what they write.A Harvard conference on "blogging,  journalism and credibility"  last month reminded us how far  we have come. Bloggers discussed  how similar their skills were to  those of journalists, whether they  should adopt similar ethical codes  and what the differences between  the disciplines were.The biggest gulf is in resources.  Journalists know that, if a  company or individual takes exception  to what they write, they have  the legal muscle of a publisher to  back them up. Not so the blogger.Bloggers, meanwhile, don't work  in the same way as journalists.  They don't receive press releases,  so aren't party to embargoes. They  are freer with their information and, inevitably, with their  criticism. Objectivity, for many  bloggers, isn't the point.As far as the law is concerned, that  can be dangerous. If a blogger were  to be sued by a corporation, they  would have scant means to fight  back - bar the hope that publicity  might scare the complainant off.In the US, the Media Bloggers  Association has started to act.  With the case of Nicholas Ciarelli  - the student sued for publishing  details of the Mac Mini on his site,  Think Secret - still in the news,  it last month launched a "legal  defence project" offering advice on  defamation, intellectual property  and other aspects of media law.British bloggers should organise  their defences now. We have seen  our first blogger lose his job over a  blog; Heaven forbid that next time  it should be the house.
It may be the dawning of the age of online music, but the sites that flog digital downloads do not have a clue what their customers want or how to increase sales.The thumbs-down to music sites comes in a new report, Click-Here Commerce: Digital Downloading, which ascribes the problems of websites - including Apple's iTunes Music Store, Sony's Connect, Real Music Store, Rhapsody and Virgin Mega - to "digital deficit disorder", where "symptoms include loss of concentration, feelings of being trapped and format anxiety"."I was horrified at the level of development of these sites," says Shelley Taylor, whose company (www.infofarm.com) produces regular reports evaluating e-commerce sites in the US, UK and Europe. Even the best music sites only fulfilled a paltry 50% of the criteria her firm uses to evaluate e-commerce sites.Taylor says even the best music download site, France's Fnac (Apple's Music Store comes second in the survey), fails to approach the customer savviness of her gold standard in retail websites, Amazon.The commercial music vendors also have not learned from the very sites they are meant to displace - peer-to-peer pirate music sites. Vendor sites fail to build sales out of music lovers' desire to create online communities where they can talk about music, share playlists, read reviews and recommend artists, she says. Yet music buyers tend to be passionate about genres, bands, tracks, live shows - and, as Napster demonstrated, they love to talk.Another problem is the user experience. According to the report, "online fulfilment and post-transaction support are the least-developed areas in online retailing yet contain the greatest opportunities for future revenue".Taylor again points towards Amazon, which lets users search for items in different ways, save items to wishlists, records each visit so they can easily return to an item already viewed, clearly shows the purchase process and issues an onscreen receipt (iTunes users have to wait for one to be sent), and offers suggestions of other items you might be interested in based on current and previous purchases. By contrast, music sites' users cannot obtain basic artist discographies or learn the year in which a particular album was released, she says.But the biggest problem is that they try to turn customers into slaves. "We see some of the most popular download services actively   engaging in a form of guerilla slavery: using proprietary formats, closed system media players and proprietary portable devices," Taylor says. "Why do they think they'll be able to handcuff users depending on format or device?"The whole area is ripe for change, she predicts. First, survival of the fittest will mean those who learn to give consumers what they want, as well as cross-sell to increase their own sales, will still be around as the industry begins an inevitable process of consolidation.More radically, Taylor believes users will not put up for long with the situation, in which the vendors are trying to control the market just as the music labels tried unsuccessfully before them."There's too much power in the hands of the Sonys and the iTunes and they're ignoring these little voices," Taylor says. Consumers will eventually force change - demanding open formats, open players and open devices.Online music has always been "grassroots and counter-culture driven," she says. "It's back to power of the people."RankingsBest store: Fnac&#183;has concert information and tickets&#183;has promotions (pre-payment discounts for buying multiple tracks)&#183;strong and consistent global navigation (new releases, genre browse, playlists, wish list, tutorial)&#183;only site offering a full video download serviceWorst store: HMV&#183;store not accessible by obvious URL&#183;poor music information&#183;library can only be browsed by genre or artist, and searched by track or artistBest player: iTunes&#183;has party shuffle&#183;can search own library by keywords: artist, composer, album name, tracks&#183;can print playlist in the form of cover inserts, create CD covers&#183;can convert all types of file (WMA, MP3, AIFF, WAV) to AAC and vice versa&#183;music can be shared (published in the iTunes store)Worst player: Sonic Stage&#183;No smart/auto playlist&#183;ATRAC3 format can't be converted to any other format&#183;limited functionality: no visual effects, playlist or radio; songs can't be rated
January 2005 may turn out to be the month in which e-government broke into the mainstream. Predictably, the story begins with a headline-making glitch.On Monday, the deadline for filing self-assessment tax returns, the Inland Revenue's web service was handling a record 4,800 returns an hour. Despite a 50% increase in capacity, it couldn't cope. While the service didn't crash, thousands of taxpayers could not log on. Others succeeded in filing but did not receive confirmation emails. The Inland Revenue said any failed submissions re-sent within 14 days would not be liable for the normal &#163;100 fine for late filing.The overload was an embarrassment - especially as it was the first tax deadline to be handled by the Inland Revenue's new IT contractor, Capgemini, which took over last July.But it was also a triumph. Although official figures are not yet available, the Inland Revenue was confident the number of people filing their returns electronically would exceed the record 1.1m achieved in 2002-03.With 9m people supposed to file self-assessment returns, and assuming that 50% are internet users, this means that more than 40% of the eligible population chose to do their taxes online this year. This is a respectable take-up figure and sits comfortably alongside the 65% of university application forms received electronically last year.More significant, says Alan Mather, former head of the Cabinet Office e-delivery unit, the large number of last-minute online submissions shows that people are beginning to trust government on the web.   However, this trust will not last long if government services continue to be overwhelmed by demand.This is not a new phenomenon. The potential of government web sites to attract unmanageable numbers of users first hit home in January 2002, when the Public Record Office's 1901 census website collapsed in its first week. The site was designed to cope with a maximum of 1.2m users in 24 hours. After a lot of publicity over the new year holiday, actual usage soared to 1.2m users per hour. The site was closed for 10 months; it now handles between 8,000 and 10,000 visitors a day.In January 2003, online government suffered another embarrassment when the Environment Agency's new flood warning website was itself flooded with demand.Such fiascos demanded a radical solution. Government IT chiefs came up with one - henceforth, public-facing web services would be set up with no publicity. This is one reason why almost no one knows you can pay car tax online; another is the continuing delay to the MOT test database, due to go live in November.Civil servants are getting bolder. On Monday, the Land Registry, responsible for proving title to properties in England and Wales, gave a very visible launch to its first public online service. Land Register Online lets you look up the title register of 19m properties. For &#163;2, the register reveals details of the owner and leaseholder; whether there is a mortgage outstanding; and, if the property has changed hands since April 2000, the price paid. For another &#163;2, users can download a plan of the property.Peter Collis, the Land Registry's chief executive, said the agency was playing very safe. The site has been running as an unpublicised pilot since March 2003. "We have tested to the most incredible extent," he says. "We're as confident as we can be."The system is hosted on eight servers owned by the registry but current traffic is not even stretching one. On Monday, after lots of publicity in Sunday newspapers, the site handled 11,330 transactions, including 4,788 people who paid &#163;4 each to view title deeds and plans.Collis would not reveal what kind of traffic the Land Registry is expecting. However, executives suspect that, in a nation obsessed with property prices, it will soon become mass market. The agency also has an incentive for publicity: it is required by the Treasury to recover the &#163;1.3m it cost to set up the service, plus an annual return, currently 3.5%.The registry has one advantage - demand for the site should be constant all year round. This should make capacity easy to plan. Other sites, as the Inland Revenue has discovered, will have to deal with peaks of demand. Commercial organisations have painfully discovered ways of handling such loads, for example stripping out graphics at busy times and hosting sites at shared service centres that can cope with peaks.Resilience is expensive, but Mather says there is no alternative if people are to turn en masse to e-government. "If any of this stuff is going to make a difference, it needs to be there all the time, accessible in an instant and comprehensive with its feedback. Otherwise, why would anyone be daft enough to make the switch?"Linkswww.inlandrevenue.gov.ukwww.census.pro.gov.ukwww.environment-agency.gov.uk/subjects/flood/floodwarningwww.landregisteronline.gov.uk
The BBC is to offer full live streaming video coverage of Six Nations internationals to rugby union fans with broadband through its website.Andrew Thompson, BBC Sport's head of development, new media and sports news, said the initiative was a response to the fact that there are now more than 5 million broadband subscribers in the UK.Broadband subscribers and ordinary internet users will be able to view the action from this weekend's opening Six Nations fixtures, including Wales v England and France v Scotland, by logging on to either the main BBC site or the tournament's official website.Mr Thompson said the Six Nations streaming video initiative was a one-off trial for this year's tournament, which runs until mid-March, adding that the BBC had not paid extra for the online rights."We approached the &#91;tournament organisers&#93; in the run-up to this year's Six Nations to see if they wanted to work with us on the trial. We are finding increasingly that people want to have the option of watching sport via broadband and the BBC wants to be at the front of the curve," he added."Hopefully it will also be a way of increasing the exposure of the Six Nations," Mr Thompson said."In addition to live coverage we will also be offering half-time highlights and full highlights within five minutes of a game finishing."The BBC will use special technology to ensure that the full video streaming coverage is only available to UK internet users - overseas rugby fans will only have access to highlights.Mr Thompson said the BBC was already regularly getting 50,000 unique broadband users accessing its Score Interactive football scores and results service on a Saturday afternoon via their computers."We are finding that a lot of people like to multi-task - watching broadband streaming of sports events on their PC while doing something else as well," he said.The BBC Six Nations broadband coverage follows its successful online video streaming service during the Athens Olympics last summer.BBC Sport has also experimented with providing broadband streaming video coverage of snooker and other sports.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Ubisoft, the French computer games developer which once looked at making a bid for Lara Croft creator Eidos, yesterday signalled a pick-up in the gaming market by investing &#163;300m in new programmers, games designers and computer animation specialists.The Paris-based creator of Prince of Persia and Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell, which has recently become the subject of takeover speculation itself, is doubling the size of its workforce in Montreal by hiring an extra 1,000 people over the next five years.The decision to invest heavily in new talent is a signal that the cyclical gaming market is headed for an upswing. Ubisoft said yesterday that it expects the global digital entertainment market to double over the next seven years.Some analysts, however, saw the move as a defensive ploy by Ubisoft to try to fend off a possible approach from Electronic Arts. The California-based developer, the world's largest creator of computer games, picked up a 19.9% stake in Ubisoft, one of Europe's top three games developers, just before Christmas. The move sparked speculation that the industry is headed for consolidation.Ubisoft, however, dismissed the Electronic Arts move as hostile and demanded more information about the company's intentions. The US company, meanwhile, has not ruled out a full-scale takeover but has hinted that it will not increase its stake without the French firm's approval.Since the Electronic Arts move, however, shares in Ubisoft have raced more than 80% higher on the Paris bourse.Analysts reckon that Ubisoft's operations in Canada, which have been responsible for some of the company's most successful games, could cause regulatory problems for Electronic Arts if the company launched an all-out   attack on the business. Ubisoft, however, said it chose Montreal over cities such as Orlando, Shanghai and Vancouver in part because of the tax climate of the region. Within the next five years Quebec's provincial government will grant the company more than &#163;20m in subsidies while the Canadian government has agreed to a &#163;2m development handout.Ubisoft's co-founder Gerard Guillemot yesterday reiterated his desire to see the business remain independent. "We think Ubisoft can create more value by remaining independent," he said.But the real decision is likely to lie with the shareholders who stopped the French company buying Eidos last year.Although Eidos never named its potential suitors, Ubisoft is understood to have progressed some way with due diligence. Shareholders, however, balked at the price being asked.Eidos is still in talks with other, unnamed bidders.
Months after Vodafone, and almost two years after 3, O2 finally unveiled its 3G offering for consumers last week. Yet in comparison with Vodafone's glitzy November launch, O2's was rather low key. And while group chief technical officer Dave Williams talked at length about how consumers would be able to download or stream music and video content, his emphasis was on what O2 would offer in the future - Super Fast 3G.This service, officially announced a few weeks ago, is based on a technology called High Speed Downlink Packet Access (HSDPA). HSDPA takes 3G from 384kbps (which in real-world usage is often about half that figure) to data speeds of up to 3Mbps - six times faster than many UK home broadband connections. Connection speeds of up to 15Mbps may be possible in the future.Williams even admitted that part of the reason for O2's sluggish roll-out of its 3G network was that it wanted to ensure the technology was easily upgradeable to HSDPA (it is, apparently, a simple software solution).The company plans to introduce the service this year on the Isle of Man - where it tested 3G - and will then go live across the UK, Germany and Ireland next year.O2 isn't the only network to have expressed an interest in HSDPA. At its 3G launch last year, Orange said it would deliver HSDPA, yet so far has only begun trialling the technology. Vodafone and T-Mobile are also almost certainly planning HSDPA upgrades to their existing 3G networks.For the Isle of Man trial, O2 is inserting HSDPA data cards into the OQO, an innovative mini Microsoft Windows-based laptop PC that features a pull-open keyboard. Mobile phones compatible with HSDPA probably won't arrive until next year.HSDPA's appeal to the business community is in its speed and applications, such as downloading huge files and making high-quality video conference calls.As for consumers, one intriguing prospect is that the networks might use HSDPA cards in PCs to take on broadband providers for the home, in theory offering faster data speeds at cheaper prices.But it is more likely that HSDPA's faster speeds will enable those who adopt the technology to deliver more reliable and sophisticated versions of current music and video download services.For the time being, however, the networks face an uphill struggle to convince cynical consumers that 3G's headline applications, such as video calling and streaming, are essential mobile phone features. If HSDPA improves the quality and efficiency of these applications, it could prove to be a canny investment.
Terra Novahas an interesting round up on the subject of virtual protests, a topic which was raised repeatedly on my whirlwind tour of the UK after the talk on the social life of virtual worlds. The question raised again and again was whether in-game social systems, like emergent governments and player-autonomy, could have a real-life effect on the daily running of the game, and whether this might eventually have an effect on the real world. As an example, one member of the Liverpool audience brought up the mass movement in Star Wars Galaxies against a designer-led decision. The result was a gathering of thousands of people and a crashed server.Another interesting example of this is a "revolt" by members of the Second Life community who claimed "tax" on their in-game currency by the game's creators was unfair.But ultimately, does it matter? So what if a bunch of disgruntled players lash out against the in-game system. Why should we care?Many virtual worlds thinkers have a slightly different take on the subject. They see it as something indicative of "nascent politics". As Edward Castronova argues in his post,"...the nature of these political events and their replication under different circumstances in different worlds suggests that they reveal something fundamental ... There's a nascent politics. There's policy. There's speech and assembly. There's terror and reaction. If destroying the world and banishing people are not terror and reaction, respectively, I don't know what would be."So is such "protest" an example of losing sight of the fundamental nature of the "game" or is something important going on here?
Only half of the UK's households signed up to broadband internet connections are satisfied with their service, a report from Which? magazine claims today.Companies marketing high-speed internet connections offer poor levels of support and make switching between providers a "headache", the report says.Only half of respondents to the Which survey say they are satisfied with the levels of support offered by their providers, while only two thirds think their service offers value for money."Several readers told us switching is hard due to a lack of co-operation between ISPs," the survey says, before noting that a new agreement between ISPs - but excluding cable companies like NTL and Telewest - "should improve things".But it adds that moving existing contracts was "fraught with difficulties" as providers didn't always seem able to move contracts to new addresses."Instead you may need to take out a new contract at a new address. This sometimes means signing up for another year," Which? says."This can sometimes take a couple of weeks and you may be charged £25 to £50 for a new line to be activated."Transferring email addresses is virtually impossible when providers are changed in the same way as mobile phone companies make it difficult to transfer telephone numbers.In terms of overall satisfaction with the big broadband providers, Telewest's Blueyonder came out ahead of BT and NTL.Only 8% of Blueyonder customers are dissatisfied with support levels with the same number believing the service poor value for money.Meanwhile, 29% of NTL customers think the company offers unsatisfactory levels of support, while 20% of BT customers said it offers poor value for money.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Amazon.com shares slumped 13% last night as the online retailer became the latest internet wonder stock clouded by concerns over its long-term prospects.Amazon said it had enjoyed strong Christmas sales which helped revenues in the crucial fourth quarter to jump 31% to over $2.5bn.It reported fourth-quarter earnings of $346.7m, up from $73.2m in the same period a year earlier. The latest figure though included a one-off tax gain of $244m. The performance failed to meet Wall Street expectations. Shares in eBay were also punished last month when it reported a 44% increase in fourth quarter earnings but missed forecasts.Analysts have raised concerns that intensifying competition from the likes of Wal-Mart, the US electronics retailer Best Buy and Overstock.com is forcing the market leading internet brands to spend more on marketing and retaining customers.Amazon.com had earlier yesterday introduced a new service called Amazon Prime which allows customers to pay an annual fee of $79 for unlimited two-day shipping on orders. The company admitted it was likely to dent profits. "Amazon Prime is all-you-can-eat express shipping," said chief executive Jeff Bezos. "Though expensive for the company in the short-term, it's a significant benefit and more convenient for customers. With Amazon Prime, there's no minimum purchase to think about, and no consolidating orders."EBay's figures were also held back in part by increased marketing costs. It is planning to increase the fees it charges users to list on the site as a means of offsetting higher costs, regarded as risky.Amazon had already introduced free shipping on orders over $25. There are fears among analysts that encroachment of other retailers into its space, particularly in areas such as books and consumer electronics could force further discounting. In after hours trading Amazon stock lost $5.58 to settle at $36.30.For the full year, Amazon reported earnings of $588.5m, on revenues of $6.92bn. That compared to 2003 profits of $35m and sales of $5.26bn. In the current year, Amazon is expecting sales to reach $8.65bn.The company said that consumer electronics outsold books for the first time over the Thanksgiving weekend in the US. During the quarter, the company opened new lines including DVD rentals in Britain and toys in Japan. US revenues grew 22% to $1.39bn during the quarter but international sales were 43% higher at $1.15bn.
Navman, purveyor of GPS systems for cars, is taking the technology into new areas with the launch of its Sports Tools range. The jogger's unit, the R300, is a small, light, triangular device that attaches to the upper arm and gives highly accurate measurements of data such as distance travelled, speed and calorie usage.To work, it needs to grab the GPS signal, so not only do you have to be outside, you might also have to wait a minute or two before starting.Operating the unit, especially inputting the settings, is slightly fiddly as it has just two buttons. You get used to it fairly quickly, though. The R300 works well in delivering the information, although it is not always easy to see your exact speed on the fairly small screen.Nevertheless, for outdoor sports enthusiasts wanting an accurate measurement of their exertions, it is &#163;100 well worth spending. Roll on the model with an MP3 player and GPS map data that displays the route to the nearest kebab shop.www.navman.co.uk
Young at heartThe Spongebob Squarepants Movie GamePS2, Xbox, GameCube, GBA, &#163;29.99Heavy Iron/THQ, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;American religious organisations recently accused Spongebob Squarepants of homosexuality because he holds hands with his best mate Patrick Starfish. Clearly, those self-appointed guardians of the world's morals neglected to play this game, based on the forthcoming movie, since it involves collecting manliness tokens to progress.The game's plot follows the movie's - Spongebob and Patrick set off on a quest to thwart Plankton's evil Plan Z, retrieve Neptune's crown and clear Mr Krabs' name. Unsurprisingly, this involves the sort of platform gameplay that is guaranteed to suck youngsters in and keep them absorbed for long periods. Each level features different challenges - Spongebob and Patrick might have to drive a hamburger on wheels or negotiate a crumbling slide in a bathtub.As the game progresses, both characters' moves are upgraded - Patrick develops the ability to perform cartwheels and swing from ice-blocks using his tongue - and each level includes challenges that involve dealing with waves of baddies or completing parts within a certain time.This is no half-hearted item of movie merchandising. Surreal touches, cleverly designed levels and gameplay that avoids the trap of repetitiveness mean it is one of the best platform games aimed at extreme youngsters to be released in recent years.Steve BoxerBest of the bunchDead or Alive UltimateXbox, &#163;39.99Tecmo/Microsoft, &#42;&#42;&#42;Fighting videogames - better known as "beat-'em-ups" - have had a long and violent history. From the early days of Exploding Fist on the Commodore 64 to the golden era of Street Fighter, these games have been appreciated most by serious gamers.While casual players could get by with random button-pressing, success came in mastering complex moves. Recently, the genre has moved into 3D, which has led to interesting developments, such as the underrated Powerstone on the Dreamcast.But the main change has been the graphical improvements. Dead or Alive was one of the finest-looking examples of the genre and the latest version, Ultimate, is no different. This is a beautiful game, with wonderful animation and backdrops. But what will get the teenage boys rushing out to buy this are the female characters. These beach babes are particularly well-animated, although the action is decent enough without these cheesy elements.New players should have no trouble picking it up; in fact, aficionados may find it a bit too easy. But play for a while and the button mashing turns to tactical combat. Online is catered for, too, so you can have your ass kicked by youths in Northampton or Nevada. And that's the point really.DOA: Ultimate is a gorgeous example of the genre and the best of its kind on the Xbox. But if you want something a little deeper from your videogaming, you won't find it here.Greg HowsonFun for fansSuikoden IVPlayStation 2, &#163;39.99Kcet/Konami, &#42;&#42;&#42;Japanese role playing games tend to be laws unto themselves - you either buy into the strangeness of it all or you don't. The Suikoden games are typical, with fans well entertained by this latest outing, leaving the rest of us scratching our heads.Set about a century before the last game, Suikoden IV initially bears little resemblance to the prequel - a mishmash of fighting and adventuring, doing neither a great deal of justice. Your quest is to collect 108 Stars of Destiny, scattered across an archipelago. To get between them in the early part of the game you have a galleon that moves tortuously slowly, extending an already long game.On top of that, random battles come so thick and fast they become irksome. A great mix of characters (from ninjas to sorcerers and mermaids) make the turn-based duelling unpredictable but rarely memorable. With parties restricted in size to four players, this is far from the most tactically satisfying RPG around.There are other niggles, too - a rubbish 3D camera that makes even the minimalist environments a chore to explore and a translation that packs all the depth of a Pokemon cartoon. All in all, it is hard to recommend this to anyone but RPG or Suikoden completists.Mike AnderieszTop 5 games:  Mobile Java downloads1.Monopoly2.Trivial Pursuit3.Tetris4.EA Sports Fifa Football 20055.Swat Sniper&#183;Source: Elspa
Quicken fixI should have known there was something fishy about WH Smith selling Intuit Quicken 2004 for &#163;9.99 - the product doesn't support my bank's online system (Nationwide), nor can it import files such as Excel. When I tried to contact the software company today, I got a screen saying they had given up the UK market.Paul MartinJack Schofield replies:Intuit stopped selling Quicken in the UK on January 31 and will withdraw support from January 31 next year (www.quicken.co.uk). It has also withdrawn the excellent TaxCalc program that it bought from Which?.One problem with software is that a large part of its value is based on the confidence that a program will continue to be updated and supported, and without that confidence, many programs are worthless. Quicken's UK software now has a negative value: it is not worth the time and cost of entering data into a program that has no future.You could try this argument on WH Smith, which is legally responsible as the retailer. If you mentioned at the time of purchase that you were buying it to work with Nationwide's banking system then you certainly should get your money back, but I suspect you did not do this.Many people in the UK started to use Quicken even before a localised version was available, and current fans should check to see whether it is practical to switch back to the US version. If not, it should be possible to find a UK version of a program    that will import Quicken files. Microsoft's MSN Money does this, and is cheap and widely available. There's also the free AceMoney Lite:www.mechcad.net/products/acemoney/index_lite.shtmlChain reactionI have received an email suggesting that I click on a link tothehungersite.com. Is this legitimate or some sort of scam?Jim McAllisterJS:I always recommend checking chain mails at the Snopes urban legends site, and this confirms The Hunger Site is legitimate. Seewww.snopes.com/inboxer/charity/hungersite.aspThe site, launched in 1999, gets sponsors to donate the cost of quarter of a cup of food to the United Nations World Food Program for each user who clicks on it that day.Blast from the pastHow can I prevent the Outlook Calendar from deleting all entries more than six months old?Mervyn MillarJS:By default, Outlook archives everything, so you should be able to re-import your old data from the archive.pst file. (Seehttp://masl.to/?N28D3215A). Outlook archives the data from Inbox, Calendar, Tasks, Notes, Journal and Drafts after six months; the Outbox after three months; and Sent Items and Deleted Items after two months. You can change these. For example, right-click on the Calendar icon, select Properties and go to the AutoArchive tab to change the number of months, or to stop Outlook from archiving automatically.Short cutsWhy do so many website addresses published in Guardian Online begin with http://masl.to/? followed by a long series of random letters and numbers?Dominic GlynnJS:Online uses a website called Make A Shorter Link (http://makeashorterlink.com) to reduce the length of links being published, as you discover when you follow one. Masl is an undocumented abbreviation of "make a shorter link", which is also too long. Rival services include TinyURL.com (http://tinyurl.com).Backchat&#183;Mike Vincer wanted to block emails with large attachments instead of downloading them. Michael Dowling uses The Bat (www.ritlabs.com/en/products/thebat) email software, which lets you view and tag messages on the server for download or deletion. Terry Hughes uses JBMail (http://jbmail.pc-utils.com). Emma D Shane and John Dean reminded me that MailWasher, which I have often recommended for blocking spam, also lets you mark messages for deletion.&#183;Cliff Watkins wanted to put a Windows Explorer icon on his desktop, but many readers pointed out there were other ways to run the program. Most use Windows keyboards: hit Windows-E to bring up Explorer. John Nicholson was the first to say: "You could also have added 'right-click Start, left-click Explore'. This opens the tree and is the way I always use." Stuart Cordon was the only one to mention that you can right-click the My Computer icon and select Explore. Finally, Nick Murphy perceptively pointed out that if you find a program from the Start button, you can right-click it and use Send To to send a shortcut to your desktop.&#183;Paul Swets wanted to move a photo from his Nikon camera to a Motorola phone, two devices that have nothing in common. David Dumbrill says: "I got round a similar problem by using an IE plug-in called Pix2fone (www.pix2fone.com). This uploads the picture to a Wap site, and you can then download it to your phone using Wap."
Chris Smith is a nice chap but, like most politicians, he has enemies. During the 1990s, powerful interests would have loved to expose the shadow health secretary and later culture secretary as HIV-positive. The fact that Smith was able to keep his secret for 17 years is testimony to the resilience of the medical profession's Hippocratic oath. "Whatever I see or hear ... which ought not to divulged, I will keep secret and tell no one."Can the 2,300-year-old oath survive the age of the joined-up electronic medical record? Yes, says the government: the care records service now under construction will flag up unauthorised attempts to look up anyone's medication record. No,   say sceptics: a system with a million users can never be secure. Even if the snooper is caught and disciplined, the damage will have been done.The debate is important. Most of us are not HIV-positive or public figures, but we can all imagine confiding in a doctor things we would want to keep secret from a parent, an insurance company or an employer. As a result, the NHS IT programme has stressed from the beginning that patients will be able to "opt out" of their records going on to the system.What this will mean in practice is still unclear.Last week, the care records development board, set up to advise the IT programme on ethical issues, agreed a form of words for the opt out, together with a guarantee of how the NHS will   safeguard personal data. The exact wording hasn't yet been released, but according to Harry Cayton, the board's chair, it amounts to: "You cannot refuse to have a record kept by your clinician, because they have a duty to keep records. But you can control who sees that record."That sounds fair enough: health professionals have rights, too, and we all have an interest in the NHS maintaining a robust evidence base of data. The problem is, the guidance seems to contradict the impression given at a press briefing earlier this month. (I cannot report what was said because journalists who write regularly on NHS IT were not invited.) Those who were there, however, quoted an assurance by health minister John Hutton that patients would be able to opt out of electronic   records entirely. It now seems that this will apply only in the most exceptional cases - HIV-positive politicians, perhaps.This needs to be sorted urgently, if the electronic health record - the famous "spine" designed to enable services such as electronic booking and prescribing - is to become reality.Perhaps, though, we're still asking the wrong question. Instead of working out a form of words for opting out, shouldn't we be asking patients whether they want to opt in? The onus would then be on the NHS to educate the public on the benefits of maintaining and sharing electronic health records, so patients can make informed choices.And isn't choice what this whole multibillion-pound IT revolution is supposed to be about?
Although Microsoft is most visible on the desktop, the company's server software has been its most impressive success. A decade ago, Microsoft had almost no server business. Today, it brings in $10bn a year and research firm IDC predicts Windows will be the leading server operating system by 2008, with 38.4% of the market.This is remarkable for a new and immature operating system. Windows NT (New Technology) was only launched in 1993 - the same year as Debian GNU/Linux - and faced almost overwhelming odds.The opposition included IBM, which has dominated corporate data processing since the 1930s, and most western governments, who had already mandated "open systems" Unix, partly as a way of   trying to break IBM's monopoly power. IBM still has about 40% of the server market by value, but this is split between its proprietary mainframes and minicomputers, and servers running its AIX version of Unix, Linux and Windows.The Windows Server business is growing fast. Microsoft's quarterly financial results, unveiled last week, show sales in its server and tools division grew by 18% to $2.52bn, while IDC thinks that in the fourth quarter of 2004, sales of Windows-based servers (including hardware) grew by 16.1%.However, it is unlikely to last. Microsoft's success has been helped by three major factors. First, there was Novell's failure to mount an adequate defence of its NetWare network operating system. Second, there was the Unix industry's suicidal inability to   unite behind common standards, even though all the participants said they knew this was necessary to stop Microsoft. Third, and most important, is the huge increase in the power of cheap Intel - and, recently, AMD - processors.Companies and local authorities running proprietary IBM and Unix servers have been able to make huge savings and perhaps get more performance by consolidating on servers based on PC technologies. Microsoft and its many third-party software houses developed the back-office applications needed to make this approach viable.Microsoft is still targeting NetWare and Unix users, but it could become harder to win new business. Novell's strategy is now to help defectors move to its SuSE Linux rather than Windows. More importantly, the 57 varieties of   Unix running on incompatible processors - IBM's AIX on PowerPC chips, Sun's Solaris on Sparc etc - can increasingly be replaced by distributions of Linux running on cheap Intel/AMD x86 chips.If the applications are available, companies that have been able to save money by moving to Windows on Intel servers will be able to make similar savings by moving to Linux on Intel servers. And since GNU/Linux is basically a clone of Unix, it should be much easier to move to Linux than to Windows.I don't expect Windows' share of the server market to grow beyond IDC's 38.4% projection, and I will not be surprised if Linux quadruples its 8.4% market share. Unix, Linux and Windows could be heading for about a third of the market each in about 2012.
How did you get involved with the 4 Kings Clan?I joined an online tournament held by Jolt (www.jolt.co.uk), an open tournament with 128 players. The best eight were invited to the LAN Finals in London where David Treacy and I won. We were invited to join as a result.You qualified for the CPL World computer pro-gaming tour. How are things going?The first World Tour stop is in Istanbul this month, and ends in December. I'll be competing in nine of the 10 stops but I'll have to qualify for the first few. I'm excited but will have to put in a lot of practice. I want to be able to make a living from doing something I really enjoy. There aren't many pro-gamers in the UK, but they seem to have a great   time - it's not easy as you have to play a lot and there's plenty of competition.Can professional gamers earn a living in the UK?The online gaming market is becoming much bigger but it's fairly hard. 4 Kings (http://4kings.esportsea.com) is offering a good chance for gamers. In the UK, we only had a few gaming clans because some folded due to lack of sponsorship, which mainly comes from hardware companies such as Intel (www.intel.com) and ATI (www.ati.com).Is the UK's broadband up to the demands of online gaming?Definitely. I only have a 512Kbps connection whereas a friends uses a 2Mbps lines and there's no difference in game-play between the two.Do you use special equipment?Most pro-gamers tend to use stuff you    don't find in general shops. A special mouse mat and high-quality mouse are important. I use an Ice Mat (www.icemat.com) and a Logitech MX510 (http://masl.to/?F2F862D5A) mouse. A good set of headphones is important, too. I built my PC myself from separates. I just got a heat sync fan so I can keep my CPU cool and over-clock it to make it faster.Is the pro-gaming world predominantly PC users?There are a lot of console users and tournaments at the World Cyber Games (www.worldcybergames.com) - CPL is holding one in summer and a lot of console players are intending to take part. I started playing Painkiller (http://www.painkillergame.com/index2.php) when it came out on PC as I'd heard it was going to be a CPL game. I used to play Soldier of Fortune 2 a lot and I love Quake World (www.quake3world.com) although not many play it online.Is the lack of TV coverage for computer gaming in the UK disappointing?It would be great if we had something like GigaTV (www.giga.de) in Germany, where they have channels dedicated to pro-gaming.&#183;Visit:http://4kings.esportsea.comandwww.cplworldtour.comAaron Foster's bookmarkswww.own-age.com&lt;A HREF="http://www.cyberfight.org"www.cyberfight.orgwww.google.co.ukhttp://twilight.gamemovies.net
More to gawk atNick Denton, the doyen of nano-publishing, has just added another two blogs to the expanding empire based around Gawker and Gizmodo. Both come with corporate sponsors, which is unusual. Lifehacker, about software, is sponsored by Sony, while Gridskipper, a "decadent" urban travel guide, is sponsored by Cheaptickets. Both look useful, and will be trying hard to become essential. The Gawker Media empire now stands at 11 blogs, with plenty of room for dozens more.www.lifehacker.comwww.gridskipper.comSolo searchMicrosoft has gradually been increasing the number of search results delivered by its own technology, instead of Yahoo's, and now the MSN Search site has gone live. It has not changed a lot since the beta test version, but the developers have taken on board some user feedback and will no doubt incorporate more. They have not taken my advice and put the Search Builder slider controls on the front page - as a shortcut, I've taken to pasting {frsh=100} {popl=100} next to my search term. It is still not as good as Google, but it is getting closer.http://search.msn.comwww.guardian.co.uk/business/story/0,3604,1349431,00.htmlChild safetyThe Virtual Global Taskforce, formed in December 2003, has launched a website to help fight online child abuse. The site is backed by the Australian High Tech Crime Centre, the National Crime Squad for England and Wales, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the US Department of Homeland Security and Interpol. The site says child abuse includes "searching for, sharing and downloading images of children being physically and   sexually abused and 'grooming' children in, for example, chat rooms." There is also a page for children, with advice on online safety and some useful links.www.virtualglobaltaskforce.comAn open bookThe Gutenberg Project - ordinary people typing in out-of-copyright books - has often been lauded in these pages, but the resulting texts do not circulate as widely as they might. Manybooks.net could help change that by making texts from the 2003 DVD available as ebooks that have been formatted for reading on a Palm, PocketPC or Zaurus handheld or a Symbian mobile phone, although you can also read them online. There is also a small ebook cover gallery and space to leave comments on books and make five recommendations. Everything is free, but you can make a small donation to support the site.www.manybooks.netAll together nowNova has gained an enviable reputation for making good popular science programs, and now it is doing a magazine-style TV series with a website of the same name, ScienceNow. The site offers a range of features including interactive profiles of scientists, a blog written by the production team, viewer forums and podcasts (sound files) to download - no iPod required. You can also watch an hour-long broadcast episode online. The site has been produced for PBS Online by the Boston TV station, WGBH.www.pbs.org/nova/sciencenowRank and fileThis week's challenger to Google has some interesting ideas. For example, it thinks the best way to rate a website is by the volume of traffic it gets, rather than Google's system of using external links (page rank). And rather than crawl the web for links, it uses a Whois database, and it lets web masters add and comment on their own sites. But it is basically a directory of sites and therefore is no real rival to Google, which is good at finding content.www.websbiggest.comIt's officialThe UN has been busy putting its ODS (Official Document System) online, so you can now search for and download papers and filings going back to 1993. The database contains about 800,000 documents, with another 100,000 being added every year, and whereas it used to be available only to subscribers, it is now free. Some of it is noticeably soporific, but it looks like an invaluable resource to NGOs and any organisation that has to deal with the UN.http://documents.un.orgSix of the best ways to get into the Valentine's Day moodThe historywww.historychannel.com/exhibits/valentineCupid's checklisthttp://holidays.lovingyou.com/valentineE-cardswww.valentinesdaycards.netFun for kidswww.masl.to/?N2C22606ASloppy name generatorhttp://members.fortunecity.co.uk/nickname/valantines_day.htmlYahoo directoryhttp://masl.to/?C1F25606A
Snaring fraudstersUS firm Iovation has launched ieSnare, a way of stopping online fraud, which uses proprietary DevicePrint software to create a unique fingerprint for each device that accesses a network. This is stored in a centralised database, which tracks the reputations of devices - whether they have previously been used for suspicious or unwanted behaviour, or fraudulent activities. It is the online equivalent of a credit checking bureau but does not contain any personal information. The company says ieSnare has been used with great success in the online betting industry and is now expanding into other areas.www.iovation.comForget them notHailing a cab is a serious risk to company data carried in mobile devices. In the past six months in London, 63,135 mobile phones, 5,838 PDAs and 4,973 laptops have been left in licensed taxi cabs - that's three mobiles per cab - according to Taxi, the Licensed Taxi Drivers Association magazine, and Pointsec, the security company. Surveys were carried out in nine cities around the world from Chicago to Sydney. Londoners were most likely to forget their laptops, passengers in Copenhagen most likely to leave their mobile phones, and those in Chicago most likely to lose their PDAs. London taxi drivers also collected a harp, a throne, &#163;100,000 worth of diamonds, 37 milk bottles, a dog, a suitcase from the fraud squad, condoms and a baby. The good news is that, globally, 96% of those who left their PDAs and laptops in licensed cabs, and 80% of those who left their mobiles, got them back.Record serviceThe social services departments of Leicester City Council and Shropshire Council are deploying electronic document records management (EDRM) to meet October's Electronic Social Care Record (ESCR) deadline. Both councils have chosen Square3 Technologies and OLM Group. The CareStore EDRM system will store emails, word   processed documents, case notes and assessment forms in a central location. The aim is to allow care workers to access all relevant information of any case assigned to them.www.square3.net/software/dsocial.aspZombie trackerEvery hour, 18,000 new zombie servers appear on the internet to churn out more spam, according to CipherTrust, a messaging security specialist. This was revealed when the company set up the anti-spam capabilities of new TrustedSource 3.0 software for its IronMail appliances. The software tracks reputation scores for about 50m IP addresses that send emails to 1,500 enterprise customers. The company found that a third of an enterprise's messages come from zombie servers - computers that have been compromised to distribute spam and viruses.http://masl.to/?E3F82206ASpot a fakeMicrosoft plans to clamp down on piracy by making users validate their copy of Windows before they download updates. The Windows Genuine Advantage programme has been a voluntary service. For a trial period, it is being made compulsory for the Norwegian, Czech and Simplified Chinese versions, with a plan to add all other languages soon. Having a pirate copy of Windows will not preclude users from getting security patches, but the site will give them the option of printing out a form to take to their vendor. If they do not get a refund, the vendor may be investigated.www.microsoft.com/resources/howtotell/uk/windowsBright ideaSilicon Graphics Inc (SGI) is entering the preconfigured cluster market with the latest Altix 1350 server system. This is an example of a bright cluster where interconnected servers acting as one are sold in the same way as preconfigured monolithic servers. SGI is using partnerships with Scali and Platform Computing to provide software to control the Linux/Itanium-based clusters with high-speed Voltaire InfiniBand network interconnections between server nodes. SGI will also provide the Altix Hybrid Cluster.www.sgi.comQuantum leapHP Labs Quantum Science Research group is claiming a breakthrough that could increase the power of computers a thousand fold. The nanotechnology team has devised a "crossbar latch" that performs the computing functions of a transistor gate but is a fraction of the size. The main problem is developing a way to produce the devices in commercial quantities. Although miniaturisation of on-chip components has been significant, a limit is being reached where they cease to function.http://tinyurl.com/5azso
The upgraded BBC Radio Player (January 27) has news, sport and weather added. Looks like I might be moving my listening habits from 6music and Radio 1 to 1Xtra. Recommended shows, if you are open for some new sounds: DJ Cameo's Pirate Sessions featuring Kano and Raw T, Tony Wilson's new proteges.www.halvorsen.orgGeorge Orwell had no idea, although he couldn't have envisaged the technological "advances" that have made a full surveillance society possible (Caught on camera, January 13). CCTV is ubiquitous, DNA sampling is commonplace and car licence plates can be read by cameras in milliseconds. But it's hard to believe cops would spend &#163;15m just to pick up the odd boy racer. No, this is aimed at Jane and Joe Public, you and I.www.fredriley.org.uk/weblogTalk is cheap when you have a Nintendo DS. A Guardian Gamesblog report records Nintendo senior managing director Yoshihiro Mori complaining: "DS software is not selling because users are playing the pre-installed PictoChat game." Hopefully, this will come to be seen as a strength, not a weakness.http://blackbeltjones.typepad.com/work/
emailonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include address and phone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say soPress releasesonline@guardian.co.ukSnailmailOnline, the Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ERTelephone020 7278 2332Fax020 7713 4154Display advertisingGavin Andrews: 020 7713 4418gavin.andrews@guardian.co.ukClassified advertisingGaby Bavidge 020 7611 9111gaby.bavidge@guardian.co.uk
As pointed out on our sisterNewsblog, the BBC's Ivan Noble - a journalist whowrote onlineabout his brain tumour - has sadlydied.Ivan's online diary showed many people what kind of power the internet had for the sharing of experiences, and for coping with problems. As Ivan wrote in his last entry, published on Sunday:I know now that people have found the diary useful, and it meant a lot to me in particular to know that there were people in a similar situation to me or caring for such people who got something out of it.The regular feedback from dozens and dozens of people every time I have written has been wonderful, especially in real times of crisis.I know that it has kept me going much longer than I would have without it and I am grateful.I am grateful to many people and this is probably the time to let them know.The bad news reminded me of another online diary about cancer, belonging to Utah radio workerDan Bammes. I interviewed Dan a couple of years ago as part of a feature abouthow people use the web to help cope with grief and illness, which also talked about Ivan and his BBC colleagueStuart Hughes. Dan's cancer is now in remission, and Stuart seems to be going from strength to strength. But they all helped others by putting their thoughts online.It is at sad times like this that you hope their contributions have helped a few other people get through trauma.Our thoughts go out to Ivan's family.
1.Monopoly (iFone)2.Trivial Pursuit (Mr Goodliving)3.Tetris (iFone)4.EA Sport Fifa Football 2005 (Digital Bridges)5.Swat Sniper (Elkware)6.Pacman (Namco)7.Pub Pool (Iomo)8.Pub Fruity (Iomo)9.3D Pool (Digital Bridges)10.Mafia Wars (Sumea)Compiled byElspa
It used to be said that when General Motors sneezed the US economy caught cold. These days when Bill Gates opens his wallet, the rest of the world gets an uplift. Yesterday it emerged that personal incomes in the US rose 3.7% in December, a rise most people would be glad to get in a year. America's big boost had one major cause: Microsoft's decision to pay a special dividend to shareholders of $32bn. The corporation's object was to cut the cash mountain built up over the years through its dominance of personal computer operating systems and linked software. Although fewer than 5 million shareholders benefited directly, the sum was so large that it fed through to the national statistics. The effect was comparable with the $38bn income tax rebate of 2001. To the extent that it is spent, the dividend will boost both the US and the world economy, because of America's appetite for imports.These are proving to be memorable times in the already colourful history of Microsoft. Only last week the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation donated a record $750m for medicines to save children's lives in the third world. And yesterday Microsoft launched a new version of its search engine in an attempt to catch up with the all-conquering Google. It may well be that, as with Andrew Carnegie nowadays, Mr Gates will eventually be remembered chiefly for his philanthropy. Cynics will, and do, say that the philanthropy was only possible because of the company's monopoly - that the US courts ruled was illegally maintained (though not illegally acquired). It is also argued that had Microsoft's profits been spread among a number of competing companies instead, they would have been too small and too diffused to have created such philanthropy.Meanwhile Mr Gates's image is experiencing yet another sea change. When the college drop-out took on IBM, computer buffs saw him as "one of us". When he aggressively built up his monopoly, he soon became "one of them". Now, in his third age, Mr Gates seems to be mellowing anew. One of us once more?
The ascent of Google continued last night when the search engine reported fourth-quarter profits of $204m (&#163;109m), more than a sevenfold increase on the $27.3m earned in the same period a year ago.It benefited from the widespread robust return of online advertising. Revenues in the period almost doubled to a little over $1bn, up from $512m a year earlier.Google's share price went crashing through the $200 mark in after-hours trading, rising 9% to $208.95. The company debuted on Wall Street last August at $85 a share.Ironically, Microsoft officially introduced its rival internet search engine yesterday after a soft launch in November. It is planning an advertising blitz in the hope of grabbing market share. It hopes to persuade its 350m users, many of them on its popular Hotmail and Messenger services, to also use the search engine.Microsoft and Yahoo are both aggressively chasing Google's lead. Anthony Noto, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, expects the worldwide market for search-related advertising to grow 45% this year to $8.4bn.Google has introduced a series of new search functions aimed at staying ahead of the   pack, allowing users to search books and other documents. Last week it added a feature allowing people to search video and television clips and transcripts. It has also announced plans to launch its own email service, a direct threat to Microsoft's MSN and Yahoo.In the full year, Google earned $399m, up from $105.6m in 2003. Revenues in 2004 were $3.2bn against $1.5bn. Fourth-quarter figures would have been higher but for a $60m charge related to stock options. Google has 35% of the US search market, according to industry figures.
In 1990, which is almost unimaginably long ago in internet years, the notion that computer scientists might one day create an artificial replacement for human memory was the stuff of science fiction. Literally so: the idea was the premise of Total Recall, the needlessly violent and confusing Arnold Schwarzenegger movie released that year by Twentieth Century Fox. (The future governor of California was cast - appropriately, some might have argued - as a man who has had part of his brain stolen.) Real computer science in 1990 was far more modest. At McGill University in Canada, one of its practitioners, a student named Alan Emtage, was busy developing a program that would enable people to find documents on the embryonic computer network known as the internet. He wanted to call it Archives, but the system he was using didn't allow names that long, so the first-ever search engine had to be called Archie instead.At least, that's probably how it happened: most of the information in the paragraph above comes - albeit double-checked - originally from sources reached through internet search engines. Emtage couldn't possibly have known at the time, but his invention gave birth to an idea that would come to change, at a fundamental level, the way we think. Its most feverish point was reached yesterday,   when Bill Gates officially launched MSN Search, Microsoft's long-awaited rival to Google, the website that has become a sort of outboard brain for millions of people in the information age.Google and its rivals no longer just point us in the direction of useful websites. They help us navigate through online dictionaries and telephone directories, scholarly journals and image libraries; one Google service launched this month allows clip-by-clip searching of American television news broadcasts. The company has announced plans to digitise a million books from Oxford University's Bodleian library, along with many millions more from Harvard, Stanford and the New York Public Library.Enter "time in Beijing" into the AskJeeves.com search engine and it will tell you the actual time in Beijing; put "John-Stevens New-Mexico" into Google and it will give you the phone numbers and home addresses of four people by that name in that state."It becomes an extension of my mind, an extension of my taste, my sensibility, my active memory," says Sherry Turkle, a philosopher at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Boston. We no longer need to remember, yet nor can we ever truly forget, because everything's out there, logged and stored. It's not so much that knowledge is power. Dominating the market in the tools people use to navigate   that knowledge - which is what Gates wants to do now - is the true source of power. Own that, and is it too much of an overstatement to say that you own a little piece of people's brains?In truth, Microsoft has been incredibly late in coming to the game. A recent survey, conducted before the full launch of MSN Search, showed that the site that 66% of Microsoft employees were using to do their searching was ... Google. The California-based company, founded in 1998 by the Stanford students Larry Page and Sergey Brin, revolutionised the concept of searching. Its system relies on the wisdom of crowds - the belief that the more people link to a page, the more authoritative it becomes.At a stroke, searching was democratised. There was no need for people to sit at desks, categorising pages according to their subject   matter; the classification of information on the internet became a self-supporting, organic structure. The power to find things on the internet was in the hands of the people, not the programmers. (MSN Search appears to follow a similar logic.)Google also happened upon an ingenious source of revenue for its ever-expanding operations. As web users became increasingly exhausted by louder and louder and more and more annoying advertising, Google introduced low-key advertising on its results pages, matched to the words being searched for. The ads got their value not by bludgeoning users around the head, but by being precisely targeted to their specific interests - an advertiser's demographic dream. Competition is hotting up: A9, the search facility attached to the website of the bookseller Amazon.com, allows visitors to search the text and footnotes of books - real books, made of paper - before committing to purchasing them.But do we really want all this new information? "The end result of a perfect search world is that as fast as answers are generated and consumed, new questions come quicker, with the consequence that ignorance expands," the internet guru Kevin Kelly writes in an email. "What we know we don't know expands faster than what we know. This has been true for a while and will only continue. Science, in fact, will come to be measured as the expansion of   our ignorance, rather than an expansion of our knowledge."Turkle, meanwhile, says she has noticed subtle transformations in the ways some of her students think and order their ideas. "There is this sense that the world is out there to be Googled," she says, "and there is this associative glut. But linking from one thing to another is not the same as having something to say. A structured thought is more than a link."Besides, she adds, something seems to be missing. She is organising a forthcoming trip to Bangkok with her daughter, and recently pulled up search results promising 50,000 websites related to her area of interest, where before she would clip cuttings from magazines and keep them in files. "But there's a superficiality, a sameness. I get 50,000 sites, but the one I cut out from a magazine came from somewhere quirky, or it was something one of my friends had sent me.."And then there's the question of accuracy. In fields where tracking down a completely correct fact is the very point of the job, people still regard search engines as very far from direct access points to the truth. David Elias, a professional verifier of answers for television quizzes, says he tends to mistrust the web - "There's so much rubbish out there"."The rule is that you have to have two independent sources saying the same thing," says Katie Purnell, who researched questions for   the quiz show Grand Slam. "We would very rarely go with a question if we could only find the answers by searching the internet. There's still something about the Encylopaedia Britannica." (Although the Encyclopaedia Britannica is, naturally, online.)But there is no sign of any diminution of our appetite for what aficionados now know simply by the noun "search". Over the past year, the battle between the search engines has intensified dramatically, and last year AOL and Yahoo launched their own search technologies. Google continues to be the market leader, and now commands around 42% of all internet searches - a commanding, but far from unassailable position. Enormous sums are involved: the company's flotation, last autumn, raised more than $1bn on the opening day, and its price now stands at almost $200 a share. It is all a very long way from just a few years ago, when what you put on the web was what mattered, not how you helped people find it.With the market consolidated between a handful of strong players, the biggest threat to Google and MSN Search will be from non-traditional companies who choose to do something daring: abandon Google's page-ranking model. Sites with names like Orase and Technorati are offering a new phenomenon, real-time searching, which catches events and web-pages as they are put on the internet, instead of sending "spiders" through the web to index them afterwards.   Meanwhile, a variety of new tools promise to seamlessly integrate searching for data on the web with searching for data on our own computers. It need not stop there: if internet telephone calls become as ubiquitous as email, why shouldn't we search through archives of our every conversation? Every new development is a new opportunity to deliver value to the user (and thus, not coincidentally, to advertise to them even more effectively). If search engines really do function as artificial memories, they are memories that are set to become ever larger and ever more rapidly updated.But will being able to access more information really help us do the things we want to do? Dr Eric Davies, a library scientist at Loughborough University, has seen it all: long rows of card index files, followed by proprietary computer-search systems installed in libraries, and now the internet. "Fundamentally the important point remains the same," he says. "Before you go anywhere near a keyboard or a catalogue, you have to define the subject you're after. These are disciplines we need to recover," he adds, with only the faintest trace of exasperation, "and instil in people who just have the Google mentality." You can't fight technology, Sherry Turkle says, but you can influence the way it changes your life. "I can't ask my students to pretend they don't live in this century," she says. "But you have to put the technology in its place."Which is the best engine to use?Simple searchingFor a no-frills query, good old Google remains the best. But if you're looking to organise and refine the results - eg, you're after Franz Ferdinand the band, but are bombarded with pages eulogising the assassinated archduke - you want a clustering site. These use a combination of major engine results, which are sorted into folders grouping similar items together. Clusty (http://clusty.com) is the most user friendly. Clusty can uncover unexpected results and relationships between items - who'd have thought McFly was not only a band and a character in Back to the Future, but an angling accessory too?NewsTo keep up with breaking stories, check out News Now (www.newsnow.co.uk). UK-based, this site casts a fast and wide net and refreshes every five minutes. Although you need to be a paying subscriber to perform your own searches, its "Hot Topic" feeds are excellent (yesterday these keywords included Michael Jackson, Hercules Crash and Guant&#225;namo). The presentation is clear and tidy, with national flags indicating the country of origin of each report.Audio and videoFor multimedia content, visit the Singing Fish. Unlike traditional search engines, it only indexes particular types of media files, including Windows Media, Real, QuickTime, and mp3s. Say you're a Kurt Vonnegut fan who would like nothing more than to hear him read from Slaughterhouse-Five. Type in his name and up pops a 10-minute excerpt. The search options are configurable, meaning that you can choose to search just for TV or radio, for example, and it is possible to save your settings.ExpertTeoma (www.teoma.com) uses something called Subject-Specific Popularity, which ranks a site based on the number of same-subject pages that reference it, not just general popularity. This means you get less speculative tosh muddled up with the most relevant results. Teoma's most interesting feature is its Resource tool, which can find and identify expert resources about a particular subject. These sites feature lists of other authoritative sites and links relating to the search topic. So if you do a search for "East Germany", as well as getting a standard list of results, you get a page of links on literature from the former GDR created by an American university.Helen Pidd
Chris Crawfordis, shall we say, opinionated. A veteran of the industry for over 20 years with titles dating way back to the Atari 800 days, six games designbooksunder his belt anda mission with NASA, the founder of the Game Developers Conference is enthusiastic, wily and unstoppable. He bounded across the stage at theAnimexevent on Monday, preaching from his pulpit to an engaged crowd of students, industry professionals and international animator superstars. I caught up with him afterwards to capture some of the enthusiasm into a tape recorder. While all I wanted was an extrapolation on the philosophy on his raison d'etre, interactive storytelling, I got a lot more.Read on for Crawford's Guide to what's gone wrong with the computer games industry, the reason women aren't playing computer games, why the UK companies should ignore the North American big bucks and what he would have done to make The Sims a better seller.You worked for Atari back in the days when home computing was a pipe dream. What was it like forging new territory?In those days we were just trying to get anything at all to work, so there wasn't a lot of room for grand dreams. Alan Kaye recruited me to set up games research at Atari, and my job was to look far into the future and come up with the grand dreams, which I did. I did a game at Atari Research called Excalibur, about the Arthurian legends. At the time it was very very complicated, very involved and so forth and actually still looks better than some of the modern games in terms of its richness and involvement.Atari collapsed in '84 and I went freelance, and that was when I started spreading out and doing my own thing. I really cut loose and did a game called Trust and Betrayal, which was the first game solely about interpersonal relationships. I'm very proud of that game; it was a real landmark, completely different to anything else out there. All you did in the game was talk with the other characters, but you spoke with an ESP-type of language that used symbols. You put symbols together to make new ones. It wasn't good enough, at that time. It was an interesting game, and certainly unique, but as a game, it just didn't have the grip.What was lacking?Well, polish. I was really breaking new ground in three or four different directions, and I didn't know what I was doing. While I was very proud of it as a breakthrough game, it was the first breakthrough that needed 10 breakthroughs before we had something really good.The industry was narrowing in its interest, while I was trying to broaden. I founded the Game Developers Conference and was using that lowly pulpit to try to preach to the industry to stop focussing on kiddie games, start doing better things. I was fighting a losing battle. In the early 90's I realised it wasn't going to work. I couldn't convince other people so the only way it was going to happen was for me to do it.Interaction is something that's very important to you.I became convinced that the whole essence of the computer revolution is interactivity. That was very early in my career. At the time I did that it was heresy. Nowadays everyone talks about interactivity, but when I started talking about this in the mid 80's people said I was crazy.What did they want?Computer games are all about graphics and sound, the interactivity is just one component in a great game. Nothing has changed, but nowadays at least pay lip service to the notion of interactivity.What is the essence of interactivity, from your early games to the products you're working on now?It's the choices, giving people lots of interesting choices. Actually, that's Sid Meier's definition of a good game too. It's just that you have to give choices that are intrinsically interesting, and that's why we have so intrinsically failed to address the female market. They are not interested in choices involving spatial reasoning and guns.Social reasoning is one of the primary entertainment impulses for women. You know, figuring out who likes whom, allies and enemies and that sort of thing. That's a major part of a woman's psychological or emotional life. That's what we should be doing. However it's a lot more complicated. It's easier to measure the trajectory of a bullet, but chasing people's feelings is a much more difficult job.Looking back on the traditional genres of computer gaming, which have come close to your notion of interactive storytelling?The role-players were the ones who came closest. They have tried the hardest in that direction, but they can't quite break out of the swords and sorcery mode, and that holds them back. The online stuff as well has generated a lot about the relationship aspect, but again if you look at the game there's not a lot about relationships in the game. Basically it's the same old game with a chat room. The chat room is where all the interpersonal stuff takes place. We still haven't addressed interpersonal relationships in a game, and I think that can be done.Will Wright spoke with me just as he began working on The Sims, and I urged him to put interpersonal relationships in. He chose not to.He's done quite well though.Oh yeah, it's far and away the greatest software success in history.What would you attribute his success to if interpersonal relationships aren't included in the software?Will's a genius. That genius shows up in the overall tone and polish of The Sims. The Sims is a swig of water to a dying man in the desert. It really doesn't offer that much that's interpersonal, but the games industry has been so utterly devoid of it that even the slight whiffs of it you get in The Sims set people on fire.The Sims isn't about people, it's a housekeeping sim. It's consumerism plus housekeeping. It works, it's certainly better than shooting, and that's its success. But interpersonal interaction is not about going to the bathroom. It's much much more. The Sims is ultimately a cold game. The interactions people have, have a really mechanistic feel.Do you have any feeling about the international games industry in relation to North America?I think the Americans are going to continue to dominate the Halo type of game, and they're going to get stuck in a rut. The Europeans are much more intent on talking about art. They talk about art a lot more than the Americans do. When the Americans talk about art what they really mean is "I want respect. I want to do the same games and be respected as an Artiste." The Europeans are much more aware of the aesthetic content of the games than the Americas are.It may well be that the Europeans aren't going to shine until we get into interactive storytelling, but so long as games are made like Halo the Europeans are going to be playing follow-up. These [Halo-style products] are all based upon capital. The Americans control more money at games, the games are always going to be better.The British should form companies that emphasise what's different about British outlook and culture, and run with that. When you try to copy other people at what they do better, you're going to lose. Don't worry about the graphics, don't even think about it. You start off and think what do we do really well, and then design from that strength. Don't ever say that we've got what we're doing now, but if we want to do it better we have to do it their way. That's when you're beat.
"Despite their image for being tech savvy, teenagers aren't as adept as adults when it comes to using the Internet, according to areportreleased Monday," reports theMercury News."Teens ages 13 to 17 were able to complete assigned tasks on the Web 55 percent of the time, compared with 66 percent for adults, according to Nielsen Norman in Fremont, a firm known for studying how consumers use technology. The teens were hampered by poor reading and research skills and were more prone to leave a site after encountering difficulties."'If things aren't immediately apparent, they go away,' said Jakob Nielsen, co-founder of the firm. 'Their distaste for reading was a big surprise. It has to be very short, brief text and big pictures'."Comment: Jakob has written a piece about the report on hisUse Itsite. One paragraph is particularly interesting:One surprising finding in this study:teenagers don't like tiny font sizesany more than adults do. We've often warned websites about using small text because of the negative implications for senior citizens -- and even people in their late 40s whose eyesight has begun to decline. We have always assumed that tiny text is predominant on the Web because most Web designers are young and still have perfect vision, so we didn't expect to find issues with font sizes when testing even younger users. However, small type often caused problems or provoked negative comments from the teen users in our study. Even though most teens are sufficiently sharp-eyed, they move too quickly and are too easily distracted to attend to small text.My own long-held theory is that Web designers use tiny font sizes because they are extremely stupid people, and a significant majority of them are completely clueless about this whole Web thing. This may sound harsh, but there is no shortage ofevidence.
There's a detailed, and decent,PSP reviewon the Reg. Meant to post this earlier but have been busy sorting out things for tomorrow. I'm off to a Konami event for their oddly titled new racing game, Enthusia, and have had to sort out some important packing issues - namely what games to take with my DS on the flight. Mario DS is a given, but I can't decide between the original Zelda on GBA or the ever-lastingGolden Sun. Anyway - net connection permitting - I'll blog from the Konami event over the next couple of days.
Further to Apple's brand success, they've announced thatthey're upping the specs of the G4 Powerbook.This means that the top of the range 17-inch PB now motors along at 1.67Ghz and comes in at £1,849. At the bottom end of the spread, the £1,049 12-inch book now hits 1.5Ghz and they all come with 512Mb memory as standard.It's no surprise - these changes were actually expected to be announced by Steve Jobs last month - but those itching to upgrade from existing laptops may want to wait for the G5, rumoured to be arriving some time around the middle of the year.
A survey byInterbrandhas brought Apple out as the world's top brand for 2004.After a two-year hiatus Apple has returned to win the 2004 Readers' Choice Awards for the brand with the most global impact—a title held by Google since 2002.It's hard to imagine a brand having a shinier year than Apple. Notably punctuated with iMacs, iPods and iTunes, Apple's 2004 presence was felt in the press, in ads and on the streets, with iPod coming to define the word "ubiquitous." Coupled with strong revenue, Apple reported a net profit of US$ 295 million in the last quarter of 2004 alone and a 2004 overall net income growth of 300 percent. Yes, 300 percent.Second in the list is the seemingly ubiquitous Google, followed by IKEA, Starbucks and, perhaps surprisingly, Arab satellite news channel al-Jazeera.Elsewhere, Nokia slipped three places on 2003 to 10th in the listing, and eBay comes in at number nine - a good show, all in all, from technology firms.
While most third-party developers are currently concentrating their PSP development on porting existing brands over to Sony's handheld, offbeat developer,Planet Moon, is working on a brand new third-person shooter that makes unique use of the console's Wi-Fi capabilities.In Infected, you must save New York from a terrible virus that's turning the city's inhabitants into psychotic zombies. Along with fast-paced action and double-helpings of gore, the game boasts a multiplayer mode that lets you infect other gamers with your own unique virus which then spreads from machine to machine.Is this a hint at the future of online gaming as redefined through Sony's incredible machine? Planet Moon producer Aaron Loeb explains all…So when did you stat work on Infected and what were your key influences for the title? From the description in the press release, I'm getting a 28 Days Later/Dawn of the Dead feel...Infected was born as an idea in April of last year, but we really got underway in September. The influences were the entire "zombie" genre, but particularly the new breed of fast, vicious zombies that don't have time to groan "braaaaains," because they're too busy tearing you to pieces with their teeth. Everyone is familiar with the idea of blowing up the walking dead, so we wanted to put our unique stamp on it – in this case that you're infected too and you can pass your infection on to other players.From a development standpoint, what have been the most interesting aspects of the PSP hardware so far?WiFi is top of the list. Every user will have the ability to play with their friends from day one. That means every game can and should take advantage of multiplayer. The clarity and fidelity of the screen coupled with the high-powered GPU also has a huge impact. It means you can make portable games with cutting-edge, crisp 3D graphics.Does the PSP hardware offer any interesting new possibilities in terms of, say, special effects, game physics, etc? Are there aspects of the hardware that are more advanced than those in, say, the PS2?Only a tiny percentage of PS2 users can play online. Only those with multitap can play with more than one other person. Out of the gate, PSP users will be able to play with up to 15 people in their vicinity and connect to the Internet through hot spots. Those are huge differences. The portability of data through memory sticks also allows players to customize their games, create unique player data, and pass those customizations and data on to their friends easily – either by passing memory sticks or over WiFi. Using memory cards on consoles has never achieved this ease of data exchange.During the development of the gameplay, have you treated the PSP as a standard console, just with a smaller screen, or have you taken into consideration the different ways in which gamers interact with portable platforms?We absolutely have taken the differences between the PSP and standard consoles into consideration and have designed the game from the ground up for the PSP. Infected has two major game modes: missions and the lab. Missions are fast paced and immediately fun – there's not a lot of running around waiting for the game part to happen. The second you start the game, there's an Infected on the map chasing down a civilian and passing on the infection. At the top of the screen, you have a balance of power showing you at all times how many civilians and how many Infected are on the map, meaning that at all times you are under "game pressure" and at every second you know the status of the game. This is great for a portable because you may have to pause for a second to pay your bus fare or to flush the toilet, and when you unpause, you want to get right back into it without having to read a mission briefing. The lab, on the other hand, is not time-critical and allows you to purchase upgrades for your character. This is perfect for when your attention is only half on the game – you're in a business meeting or your spouse is talking to you, for instance.What kind of weapons and enemies can we expect to see in the game? Are you trying anything new with these elements?It wouldn't be a Planet Moon game without new weapons. We will allow the player to call in air strikes and level large areas. We have guns that turn the Infected into clones of your character so they do your bidding. One weapon sets the Infected targeted on fire, and as he runs away from you, every Infected he passes also bursts into flame. There are tons of special weapons, upgrades and pickups in the player's arsenal in Infected.The viral element is fascinating. Could you expand a little on how this works. I take it that the player takes part in one-on-one fights and then transfers his avitar icon to the loser. But how does this avitar then spread to other users?It's pretty simple – and quite evil. You and I play a multiplayer deathmatch. I frag you more times than you frag me, so I win. Each of our avatars are infected with unique viruses that we get to name – I've called mine the Wicked Laughter virus; you've called yours the Unhappy Toad virus.When I beat you, I infect your PSP with the Wicked Laughter virus. This has two effects. When you go back to your single-player game, missions you'd already beaten in single-player have popped back up with a border around them showing they are Infected. When you play the missions, they show that the Infected in the mission all have Wicked Laughter. The enemies in your session all look like my unique avatar, chasing you down, killing you again and again. If you beat the three single-player missions I've infected with my virus, you clear it off your PSP.The second effect that passing my virus has on your PSP is that when you start a multiplayer session, rather than showing up with the Unhappy Toad virus, you instead have the Wicked Laughter virus. Anyone you beat in multiplayer gets infected with my virus instead of yours.There's an advantage to passing on my virus. Every player has ranking points against other players. When I beat you, I got a point for infecting you. When you beat someone else and infect them with my virus, you get a point and I get another point. When your victim passes on the virus to another person, he gets a point, you get a point and I get a point. There's a real advantage to being in one of these "chain letters" of infection – the more people in the chain, the more points you get. But if you don't care about points, you can just beat my virus in single-player or wait a few days and the infection will go away.I presume that the multiplayer option is LAN-based? If so, how do you track the spread of your virus?Tracking the spread of the virus will be done by connecting the PSP to the Internet. Games are played by LAN only and not over the Internet to ensure a satisfying gameplay experience for all involved.How do you see such viral gaming elements being developed in the future?Players passing around data and enhancing that data is one of the exciting areas of game design opened by the increased prominence of multiplayer. We're sure to see more player-created content in the future for consoles and handhelds – people creating challenges for their friends and passing them around. We're excited by ideas where one person creates something unique (for instance, a level), sends it to their friend, the way their friend plays it actually changes the level, then it goes to another person who changes it, and so on, until it eventually comes back to the creator and is a whole a new experience. All of this and more is possible due to: ease of interconnectivity (such as WiFi on the PSP) and increasingly cheap storage capacity (such as memory sticks).So did Planet Moon's Wi-Fi infection concept come from viral marketing?No, but please tell your friends that it did. And please tell them to tell their friends.
Microsoft today launched an internet search engine that it hopes will challenge the global dominance of Google.The newMSN Searchengine has been run on a  trial basis for several months, but the final version has now been officially launched in 24 countries and 10 languages.Analysts welcomed the launch, but said Microsoft was still playing "catch-up" and had some way to go before its search engine became as well recognised as Google.In aletterpublicised on the front page of the MSN website, the Microsoft chairman, Bill Gates, said the new search tool was "more precise and powerful", adding that it had been created with the aid of user feedback."Input from millions of our customers - including myself - was crucial to our efforts to make MSN Search the best it can be," Mr Gates wrote. "Searching the internet today is a challenge, and it is estimated that nearly half of customers' complex questions go unanswered. That's why we're proud of our new MSN Search service - a simple and powerful tool that helps you find the answers you want."The launch comes two years after the software giant vowed to compete with Google which, having started out as a small California-based firm, went on to become one of the biggest international business success stories of recent years. It floated last October amid much fanfare.Googlecurrently accounts for just over 60% of all search engine visits in the UK, according to the latest figures from market researchersHitwise. The previous search facility fromMSNwas operated by a division of Yahoo and had a relatively meagre 10.6% market share.Microsoft is making its money from MSN Search through "sponsored link" adverts - a similar method to that used by Google. These links appear at the top or down the side of the screen, and are relevant to the search being made.The new MSN Search claims to provide the most up to date information by refreshing its list of around 5bn websites every two days compared with other search engines' rate of every two weeks.This should allow users to access the latest results more easily and have a better chance of avoiding sites that are down. The search engine also incorporates new options for users to fine tune their results.A new feature Microsoft hopes will prove successful draws on an online version of its Encarta encyclopaedia, which has more than 1.4m entries and, until now, had been a paid for service. In a similar way to the Ask Jeeves website, if users asked a specific question such as: "What is the capital of Peru?", they should get a free response from the encyclopaedia."I think consumers, maybe two years ago, were wowed by the fact that you could enter a relatively obscure search term and you would get hundreds of thousands of results," Matt Whittingham, MSN's head of information services, said."In fact, there is perhaps too much information out there, and what consumers want is results that are tailored to them. They want search engines to be a bit smarter, to know where they are geographically, and to alter searches depending on the time of day and if they are at work or at home."Google reacted to news of the MSN launch by saying it had recently almost doubled the size of its search index to include more than 8bn web pages - around 3bn more than MSN Search."It's nice to see that they &#91;Microsoft&#93; have recognised the importance of quality search as well," Google said in a statement. "We welcome all advancements in search technology, because it's the users who ultimately win. We believe that competition is good for consumers. There is room for a number of companies to succeed in this space."Paul Douglas, the editor of the internet magazine.net, said: "It is always good for users to have a choice of search engines, but Google is still the name that most people know today."Danny Sullivan, the editor ofsearchenginewatch.com, said the new Microsoft was "good", but had not changed so dramatically that all users would necessarily notice the difference."It's got a good set of results, but they have a lot of work to do to catch up Google - although that's not mission impossible for Microsoft," Mr Sullivan said. "It's healthy that Microsoft does not dominate this area. What serves users is having a good selection of search engines - each one has its own voice."
Microsoft will unveil its attempt to take on Google and Yahoo! in the competitive search market today, launching its new search engine in 10 languages across 24 countries.The US software company is desperate to claw back ground on its competitors, viewing search as one of the keys to retaining its pre-eminence among the next generation of computer users. MSN Search, which goes live today having been launched as a trial version last year, is the company's attempt to close the gap on Google, Yahoo! and Ask Jeeves.Search marketing is the fastest-growing advertising sector of recent years. Analysts believe search engines will increasingly provide the starting point for all computer activities, from viewing TV shows to searching for information.MSN promises users "more precise and relevant answers"   from its library of five billion web pages, images and news sources. It hopes to persuade its 350 million users, many of them using its popular Hotmail and Messenger services, to also use the search engine.Matt Whittingham, head of information services at MSN, said: "Visitors to MSN Search can now find precisely what they're looking for in less time, and we're confident more and more people will make it their first-choice search engine."MSN claims to offer more up-to-date information than its rivals by trawling the web for new sites every two days rather than the industry standard of two weeks and will also try to attract users by offering fact-based answers and 40,000 articles from its Encarta encyclopedia.Google stole a march on its larger rivals by focusing exclusively on search at a time when they were concentrating on web content.
Okay, here's one for Aleks. THQ Wireless has developed a new Tamagotchi-style Hello Kitty game for mobile phones. In Hello Kitty My Best Friends, your role is to look after the loveable kitten or her sister Mimmy as they go about their cute little lives. If they look unhappy, you use a gloved hand cursor to point out fun stuff for them to do. And you can play along too thanks to a series of unlockable mini-games, including table tennis, disco dancing, baking and gardening, which all seem to have been modelled along the lines of Wario Ware Inc.I wouldn't usually bother with this sort of thing, but for one crucial factor......it turns out that Hello Kitty My Best Friends is compatible with theSiemens CX70 EMOTY handset. This offbeat little phone comes with a special cover that features shake, stroke and squeeze sensors, allowing users to interact with applications through touch and movement rather than merely stabbing at the buttons. According to Siemens, the concept behind the EMOTY interface is to aid and encourage emotional communication and interaction – and what better way to illustrate this than through the digital novocaine of a Hello Kitty game…Here, the motion sensors have specific functions depending on what Kitty is up to. Shaking the phone could just be a means of canceling an action, but in one mini-game it controls Kitty while she shakes a tree so that birds fly out. All very simple, of course, but this rudimentaryhapticinterface could have interesting ramifications for other game genres.In fact, this isn't the only THQ Wireless title set to support Siemens' technology. The publisher is working on a special version of Sphinx And The Cursed Mummy for the handset. While playing as the Sphinx character, you can squeeze the handset to fire a dart, or shake it to stun enemies in the vicinity. As mummy, stroking the screen refills his electricity and fire bars.This is a great way of addressing the unsuitability of most mobile phone keypads for gaming. Tiny buttons placed extremely close together may compliment the aesthetics of modern handset design and are fine for dialling numbers, but as the role of the mobile phone expands into entertainment and business functionality, we need a more user-friendly input system. Haptics may be the way ahead.Siemens certainly isn't the only manufacturer to think so. Last month in Korea, Samsung revealed a newhandsetwith more advanced haptic capabilities, allowing users to enter new numbers by simply wafting the phone around in the vague shape of the required digits. And in Japan yesterday, Vodafone revealed theToshiba V603SHhandset, which has a motion sensor that lets you navigate the options menu by moving the phone around. It also has a built-in TV tuner. And wait for it, it's gold!You see, that's why Japan leads the world in consumer electronics.
Yesterday at theAnimexconference, the steering committee for theWomen in Games ConferenceUK announced that this year's event will take place at the University of Abertay, Dundee on 9th, 10th and 11th August. Thewebpagehas details if you'd like to participate in the second outting from the first conference of this type in the world.After successfullysetting the scenelast year, the emphasis in 2005 is on questioning, commenting on and analysing current work in the field, from research-driven contemplations to demographic evidence to current assumptions. We've hooked up with some top notch international speakers to engage and enlighten delegates who wish to come along and offer their two pence.More information is available at thewebsite, where we've also posted a call for papers.This is an inclusive conference; we welcome participants from both genders. The men who did brave the waters last year had a great time!
The Inland Revenue has been forced to extend its deadline to people who tried to file their tax returns electronically after its website failed to cope with the deluge of last-minute applications over the weekend.Thousands of taxpayers and accountants who tried to file self-assessment tax returns before yesterday's deadline complained that the Revenue's website had all but ground to a halt. Users said they were unable to access advice pages, and many who thought they had filed their return were sent error messages or failed to receive confirmation.After first denying there had been problems, the Revenue yesterday bowed to pressure from several accountants' bodies and announced the extension. It said those that tried and failed to file a return over the weekend will not receive the £100 late payment fine if they re-submit their return within 14 days.More than 1 million of the 9.5 million taxpayers who have to fill in a tax return now use the Revenue's website to file it electronically. In the days running up to the deadline, 34,000 returns were sent in this way.Nearly 900,000 taxpayers missed the 31 January deadline last year and received an automatic £100 fine.In a statement, the Revenue said: "We hold a complete record of all submissions over the weekend and if any of those failed submissions are re-submitted within 14 days of the date when we sent out the 'submission failed' message, we will waive any late filing penalty notices."It also apologised for the disruption to the service and said there was no need to re-submit successful returns. Payments were still expected in the normal way. Late payers will still be charged the 7.5% interest on any money owed.Jane Moore, tax technical manager at the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England &amp; Wales, welcomed the Revenue's decision but suggested it should consider compensating those affected."Lots of practitioners experienced long delays over the busiest weekend of the year. Hours were wasted because the website was not up to the demands placed on it, and the Revenue should pick up the bill."The problems came as union leaders warned that plans to cut thousands of jobs at the Revenue could lead to errors and delays in dealing with tax returns in future years.The Public and Commercial Services union (PCS) said the government could be "storing up trouble" by shedding 10,000 Revenue jobs as part of civil service cuts. The Inland Revenue is to merge with Customs and Excise under plans to cut more than 100,000 jobs in the civil service over the next few years.Frank Campbell, PCS national officer, said: "Over the coming weeks we will begin to see just where the axe will fall in the Inland Revenue and Customs."As jobs are cut, it will become harder for people to get the correct tax advice in order to file their returns on time," he said.
You've probably seen the Half Life 2sales figuresthat were released. The game has shipped 1.7 million copies worldwide. Impressive obviously, especially for a PC game, but you have to wonder how many more they would have sold without theSteam debacle. It shows how high the anticipation and demand was for the game that so many people have bought it, despite the hassles. You can't imagine punters putting up with 3 hour long "activation" delays for, say,Playboy: The Mansion. Interestingly the 1.7 million figure doesn't include the download-only Steam sales. Sadly Valve are keeping those figures close to their chests at the moment. I wonder why?
So Gran Turismo 4 is finally finished and has a UK release date of March 9. Boasting over 700 cars, 50 race tracks, and near photo-realistic visuals, we are, of course, meant to be wetting ourselves with excitement. But I can't help wondering, has Polyphony missed the boat with this one?A lot has happened to racing game design since GT3 hit the shelves four long years ago. Titles like Burnout 3 and Toca Racer Driver 2 have got us all hot and flustered over beautifully choreographed collisions and physics-based damage systems. There's been a complete turnaround in how we treat our virtual vehicles. We want to personalise them, tear them away from rigidly conservative marques. Then we want to guide them into nightmarish smashes, watching breathlessly as the destructive ripple absorbs everything on the screen. The anal world of GT, where gamers pore lovingly over their pristine collections of spotless super cars seems a bit quaint.No hang on, it seems a bit sad. Amid the seductive chaos of Burnout 3's Crash mode, we can freebase car pile-ups til we're giddy. In the daft boy racer paradise of Need For Speed Underground 2 or the darker modding ghetto of Midnight Club 3 we can, for a few guiltily provocative hours, pretend to be working class rude boyz rather than middle class effetes huffily phoning the police every time someone revs an Impreza outside our home at two in the morning.I'm not sure that GT4's masturbatory Photo Mode - where you pose your car near world landmarks - can really compete. I'm not sure that the GT4 B-Spec mode, where you manage the pit stop and tuning strategies of an AI driver, is really going to get my palms sweating. It might have done four years ago, when the austere Gran Turismo universe made some kind of sense. But who wants sense nowadays? What place does sense have in the world?700 cars? Get a life. Unless you can smash them all to pieces I'm not interested.
A convoy of Bradley fighting vehicles, my unit's main combat power, along with a group of Iraqi National Guard (ING) and Iraqi Police (IP) vehicles escorted the blank ballots to the polling site in our little town. That was far from the first step taken to prepare ourselves for this day; really, everything we have done in Iraq has been in some measure to prepare for this day.  On January 30, 2005, Iraq had an election to establish their first governing body.  From way out there, it might seem a small thing, but from here, it is something a little different.  Here, it is my unit's final mission, our most important mission.Every cycle has a mission in Iraq.  The units we relieved, the first cycle, were called upon to defeat the major war elements of the Iraqi army, and oust Saddam. The ones that relieve us, the third cycle, will build up the strength of the Iraqi Security Forces (ISF).  Our job as the second cycle was to see that Iraq took over its own affairs, and kept the peace intact while they were doing so.  Soldiers of this cycle were in Samara and Falluja to do just that.  We have built schools and poured money into the infrastructure of this country, trying to get them to ready to stand on their own.  To me, that has always been the visible aspects of our mission.  That is the stuff that never seems to make CNN.For some time now, the battle has seemed to be a bit more uphill, all in anticipation of elections. ING and IP stations get some terrible attacks.  The vehicle-borne explosive devices against an ING bus weeks back led to dozens of casualties that we had to medevac from here.  We've seen improvised explosive devices more frequently.  Mortars hit us on election day.  But our combat power stays steady.  Our policy doesn't change.  Little is affected in all they do to us.  But the people out there, civilians, get nervous.  The thing we most need to ensure is that the people of Iraq continue to believe. That would be what I want most.  That these people want to see it through, whatever may come.We drew the line for this election. We built a dirt wall around the town where the voting was to be held. We blocked vehicle traffic, stepped up patrols. We raided every house in the town to find any hidden stockpiles of weapons; placed snipers and dismounted troops, extended our patrols. We made ourselves visible and ready.  My unit sucked it up for one last mission.  Overall, it seems to have worked, people can carry on with their lives around us.  Elections in our area went off pretty much without a hitch. Our last mission can be deemed a success.In the months I've been blogging, I've seen a big change in me.  I started originally, because I knew I'd have to get out of my head some of the pressure that has built up and overall, my site has helped me through much of this.  A one year deployment is very hard, on all of us.  My unit goes home soon, something they haven't really known for a year, and a hard year at that. But bitterness is dry by now, left behind in the joy of going home, and every step we take now is one closer to the plane home.For all the talk of this being a war for oil, I've seen hundreds of thousands of dollars of oil burn in industrial accidents without being ordered to lift a finger to help.  For all the talk of being a tool of the imperialist powers trying to take advantage of a little country, I've spent hours in the hot sun training the local forces to replace me, and endless hours waiting for our command to come out of local meetings where they hear the local problems and try to assist them.  And now, our last mission is complete, the elections went through and Iraq has taken another step toward its own freedom.  We can pass this country to the next unit knowing we have done the job.  This has been my Iraq and, someday, I want to look back and be proud.&#183;Specialist Nicholas Cademartori, aka Questing Cat, is a 22-year-old infantryman in the 1st Infantry Division. He has been serving in the army on active duty for about a year, and he has been writing about his experiences on hisblog.
Ever wondered how much your new neighbours paid for their house? For £2, you can now find out.The Land Registry today launched a service, calledLand Register Online, which allows anyone with internet access, a credit or debit card and an email address to access information on who owns a property, how much was paid for it (if it has been registered since April 2000), the length of any lease that might be held on it, and which lender provided the mortgage.It costs £2 for a pdf copy of the property's register and £2 for a pdf copy of the title deeds, or you can have both on one document for the same cost.The Land Registry holds a database of information on 19m properties in England and Wales. Peter Collis, chief land registrar and chief executive of Land Registry said: "The Land Register is a public database and as part of Land Registry's strategy we are committed to ensuring that it is accessible to everyone."The pilot has been enthusiastically received and we look forward to the site becoming the starting point for every member of the public who is interested in the property market."He added that Land Register Online would improve the transparency of buying or selling property and land in England and Wales.
I've been loath to mention this year'sBloggie awards- although I did trail them back inBlog watcha couple of weeks ago.Why? Well, mainly because there are a million-and-one blog awards these days, and because the nominations this year were pretty uninspiring, mainly gravitating (Nick Denton'sGawkerempire scored seven nominations), and old favourites (likeBoing Boing,Slashdotetc).Some of the most interesting political blogs (surely a movement in itself these days?) got short shrift, while the "lifetime achievement" cut-off date of January 2001 seems a bit far away these days.Still, it's all a bit of fun, and althoughOnlineblogdidn't repeat last year's nomination, our august publication does get a mention in the "Best article about weblogging" category - with thisinterview with Tom Reynolds, a lovely piece by Jane Perrone that shows the human side of what this technology can do. (The Observer also gets a nod forNew kids on the blog)Still, it's the taking part, not the winning. Then again, if you can take these things extremely seriously, why shouldn't you?TheBlogheraldcranks up the hysteria:The biggest shock in the nominations was the overlooking of any number of very high profile political blogs by the panel... A number of web pioneers have been overlooked again this year, notably Dave WinerGood luck everyone, and remember, it's just a bit of fun.
