Drone trucks could soon be plying US highways after Nevada authorities on Wednesday granted a license to test self-driving trucks on public roads.While companies such asGoogleand luxury brands like Lexus havedominated the headlineswith advances in driverless cars, Daimler board member Wolfgang Bernhard told reporters autonomous trucks were likely to hit the roads first.Daimler’s 18-wheel Inspiration has now been certified for use on public roads in the state, and yesterday the non-human (well, less-human) big rig rolled out across the Hoover Dam, negotiating some (but not all) turns and twists all by itself. For the tougher curves, it had some help from a driver inside the cab.Google’s own automated car is also licensed for use in Nevada; both the Daimler truck and the Google car are authorized for use under Nevada’s autonomous driving law, which “requires that drivers obtain a special endorsement on their driver’s licenses” according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.Bernhardtold reportersin Las Vegas that because trucks operate in “a less complicated traffic environment” they were ideal starting points for the coming automated vehicle market. But the real economic value of the invention, he said, would come when not just Nevada but other contiguous states license the vehicles, enabling trucking companies to use them to transport goods across long distances.The licensing process was a lengthy one, said a Nevada department of motor vehicles spokesman, David Sierro. “I’m just getting out of the truck now,” he told the Guardian. “You’re talking about a series of different technologies; crash avoidance, blindsight, camera technology,” he said. “Rather than being a single autonomous [device] it’s a series of technologies they’re developing. They’re building it in an incremental way.”Sierro said Daimler tested the truck on areas like the Las Vegas Motor Speedway, where the trucks could read pavement markings without endangering other drivers or pedestrians. “It’s fascinating to see how it’s reading the lines,” Sierro said. “When there’s something [too complex for the autopilot] coming up, there’s a warning that lets the driver know he’s going to have to take over.”Tony Illia, of the Nevada department of transportation, said the state gave Daimler the option to start out simply. “There are huge stretches of empty, government-owned land [in Nevada],” he said. “Our population is centered in the Reno area and the Las Vegas area”, so trucks going between the two mostly have to navigate long straightaways. Daimler had a request of the Nevada government, too: “The one thing [Daimler] did ask was to brighten up the lane-striping and the buttons, to make sure they were clean and bright,” Illia said. “I think that helps the cameras on the truck.”Still, there’s a lot more to be done before the truck makes any deliveries. Simonette Illi, a spokeswoman for Daimler, told the Guardian that the trucks should be available for purchase “from the middle of the coming decade (around 2025)” and that it’s important to have it available “at an attractive price”.“We consider a payback period of 18 to 24 months for our customers when the new technology goes into production,” she wrote.Companies like Lowell, Arkansas-based JB Hunt have reported a driver shortage across the country and are looking at consolidation in order to meet demand. The company is also worried about changing emissions standards for Class 8 trucks (that’s the class of truck demoed today, which Daimler says is more efficient), so a vehicle with a driver who has to do less work, or requires no driver at all, could provide companies like Hunt with a cost savings on labor.A spokeswoman for JB Hunt declined to comment for this story.
I was on the phone at 10pm on a Tuesday when I learned that I owed my housemate £13.61 towards the water bill. It was the moment I realised this new app had been a huge mistake.Splittable is a free download to help house-sharers get on top of living costs. The concept is simple: when you buy washing-up liquid or pay for repairs, you put the expense into the app, then everyone knows they need to pay up.It is aimed at people like me: house-sharing renters in their 20s who are reluctant to spend time on home admin. There was much optimism in our household at first. An app to keep us organised? Brilliant. An automated, accurate, efficient way of nagging and record-keeping, rolled into one? Sign me up.Then, a few drinks in to my Friday night, at the end of a long week, I was informed that a pack of 99p surface wipes had been acquired. You know when something you once found endearing begins to grate? Yeah, that. I shrugged it off, got on with my night and put my irritation down to bad timing.As the weekend wore on, though, the house became more and more divided. We were all creeping between kitchen and bedroom, bedroom and bathroom, doing anything to avoid each other. We were criminals in our own home, scared of getting caught out and forced into awkward conversation about who tipped the pizza guy last week.Half of us couldn’t stop checking the app; the other half chose to ignore it. All of our worst passive-aggressive tendencies had been digitised, emphasised and delivered to our phones without context or compassion.By the seventh day, the decision was unanimous: our relationship with Splittable wasn’t working out. It had to go.We resolved to fish out the whiteboard, bring back the Post-its, and return to leaving old-fashioned notes, pennies rounded up or down as appropriate.
“Kansas just shut down Uber, no pickups effective immediately,” was the message sent to Uber users in Kansas after state lawmakers voted through legislation that would force the company to carry out background checks on its drivers and carry additional car insurance.The controversial car service company said on Tuesday it would cease operations in Kansas immediately after state lawmakers vote for laws requiring Uber, and other taxi apps, to carry out background checks through the Kansas bureau of investigation and hold additional auto insurance coverage when they have Uber turned on in their cars.“Over the past several weeks, more than 6,600 Uber Kansas supporters urged their state legislators and Governor [Sam] Brownback to support ridesharing services, like uberX,”Uber said in a blogpost. “Unfortunately, Kansas lawmakers chose not to listen to their constituents, and special interests succeeded in securing an override of the Governor’s veto of SB 117 – a bill that makes it impossible for Uber to operate in the state.”Uber said it “ceased operations throughout Kansas” immediately after the vote at 2.45pm on Tuesday. The message was sent to Uber users statewide.The company said Kansas lawmakers had “destroyed hundreds of Kansas jobs and thousands of new earning opportunities in the coming years.“Drivers who opened the app to make a living, and riders who opened it to get a ride, were both denied the freedom to do so.”Uber said Kansas was “the first and only state in the nation that forced Uber out with unbalanced, backward regulations”, which was disappointing given that Kansas is “traditionally known for its support of free-market ideals and innovation”.Senator Jeff Longbine, an Emporia Republican, said Uber was acting too hastily to immediately withdraw its service. “Why they would cease operations this afternoon, I think shows some of the difficulty we’ve had in reaching a compromise,” he said.Chinese police on Wednesday visitedUberoffices in the city of Chengdu as the local authorities widen their investigation into Uber operations in China. In January, theChinese governmentbanned drivers of private cars from offering services like Uber via mobile phone apps.Last week police raided Uber offices in the southern city of Guangzhou, seizing thousands of iPhones and other equipment used to run the business. The city’s transport commission said it suspected Uber was operating an illegal taxi service without a proper business registration and threatened fines of 30,000 yuan ($4,860).Uber has been banned in several areas of India, including New Delhi, Hyderabad and the entire southern state of Karnataka.
Plans to reverse the fragmentation of internet shopping and other online services have been unveiled by the EU executive, which called for a digital single market in Europe covering everything from e-commerce to broadband spectrum, courier and parcel delivery rates, and uniform telecoms and copyright rules.Setting out an ambitious digital strategy that will run into fierce resistance in some of the 28 EU countries, the European commission vice-president, Andrus Ansip, said Europe would be left behind if it did not create a level playing field for internet shoppers and firms. Expected to take years to even partially realise, the proposals would also boost digital services across the EU, which lags far behind the US. Currently, not a single market leader among internet providers in the EU is European.Cross-border internet buying and selling is an unnavigable maze in the EU, hobbled by varying VAT rates, company tricks, the deliberate blocking of services and price rigging, while shoppers are also deterred from buying online in another country because they feel too much personal information is demanded.Ansip, the former prime minister of Estonia, said: “I want people to buy like at home and companies to sell like at home. We have to hurry up.”He said European GDP could be increased by €415bn (£308bn) a year if a harmonised market in digital services was established.“The aim of the digital single market is to tear down regulatory walls and finally move from 28 national markets to a single one,” said the commission.Only 15% of online shoppers in the EU buy something in another country, according to commission figures, while only 7% of small and medium-sized businesses sell across national borders.But Wednesday’s proposals included no specific calls for legislation and Ansip and Günther Oettinger, the commissioner for digital services, acknowledged that national governments would try to slow things down.Ansip complained that national leaders in the EU frequently agreed on policy moves only to have the policies sabotaged by national bureaucracies and politicians.Related:EU warns of 'point of no return' if internet firms are not regulated soonThe commission said it would convert Wednesday’s proposals into legislative initiatives by the end of next year. The problems will be formidable on everything from national VAT rates to broadband infrastructure investment and how national spectrum allocation can be harmonised. Development of 4G and 5G in Europe are suffering because national governments jealously guard their prerogatives over spectrum allocation.Ansip said there would be no possibility of a digital single market in Europe without “deep cooperation in the field of spectrum”.While Ansip unveiled his proposals, another arm of the commission responsible for policing the single market said it was launching an inquiry into possible e-commerce abuses and malpractices.Washington is increasingly alarmed that theEU is targeting US internet giants such as Google and Amazon, blaming governments and industry lobbies in Germany and France for forcing Brussels to get tough on the big American companies that utterly dominate web browsers and search engines.Oettinger, Germany’s commissioner in Brussels, has acquired a reputation for representing the views of his country’s big online publishing lobbies, which are eager to rein in Google. On Wednesday, in remarks that will be construed as directed at the US, he said that the EU had to regain the “digital sovereignty” it had forfeited and reassert its digital independence.
The Nepalese government has cracked down on unmanned aerial vehicles following the magnitude 7.8 that hit the country in late April.Operators who want to fly UAVs in Nepal will now have to ask for, and receive, permission from the country’s Civil Aviation Authority (CAAN), according to an official from the organisation.The Nepalese tourism ministrysaysthe new regulations have been put in place following complaints from citizens about the use of drones to collect news and pictures.Previously, use of non-combat drones in the country had been sparsely regulated.British NGOs have been using dronesto assess the extent of damage from the earthquake, as well as to aid search-and-rescue operations in the area.Similarly,a number of photographersin Nepal have used drones as part of their reportage from the epicentre of the earthquake,to highlight the “devastation” in the area.Butaccording to a statement given to the Indo Asian News Service, the Nepalese government is concerned that the footage also contains images of historic artefacts “which could be misused later”.In Britain, regulations enforced by the Civil Aviation Authority dictate that drones cannot be flown within 50m of a building or a person and within 150m of a built-up area without a specific license. In addition, the maximum flight height is 400 feet, and the drone has to remain in line of sight and within 500m of the pilot.For commercial purposes, pilots in the UK must complete a training course and apply for a permit to fly the drone from the CAA.
The first commercial model of Facebook’s much anticipated Oculus Rift virtual reality headset will go on sale in the first quarter of 2016, the company confirmed today.The announcement ends months of speculation that the release, which had been anticipated to happen by the end of 2015, would slip beyond Christmas. The most high profile device in the virtual reality market, Oculus Rift has been developed primarily for gaming but the technology is also being explored for occupational therapy, education and by film makers.Related:Oculus warns Sony to solve motion sickness before launching a VR headset“Extremely excited to announce that the Oculus Rift will be shipping Q1 2016! We can’t wait to get it in your hands,”tweeted Nate Mitchell, vice president of product at Oculus VR, whichFacebook bought for $2bn in 2013.Oculus VR’s blog followed up with more confirmation, noting that the consumer model “builds on the presence, immersion, and comfort of the Crescent Bay prototype with an improved tracking system that supports both seated and standing experiences, as well as a highly refined industrial design, and updated ergonomics for a more natural fit”.“In the weeks ahead, we’ll be revealing the details around hardware, software, input, and many of our unannounced made-for-VR games and experiences coming to the Rift. Next week, we’ll share more of the technical specifications here on the Oculus blog.”No price has been confirmed, although pre-orders will start later in 2015.Extremely excited to announce that the Oculus Rift will be shipping Q1 2016! We can&#39;t wait to get it in your hands.pic.twitter.com/TVquKTQJjx&mdash; Nate Mitchell (@natemitchell)May 6, 2015Mitchell is due to speak at the TechCrunch Disrupt conference in New York later in the day, where he is likely to provide more details on Oculus’ plans, as well as those of its parent company.Oculus Rift certainly will not have the virtual reality market to itself in 2016.Sony is launching its Morpheus VR headset for PlayStation 4in the first half of that year, having recently shown off a prototype that is close to a final consumer version.Oculus VR’s technology is already available in the form of the Gear VR, a smartphone-powered headset launched by Samsung and Oculus. Meanwhile, games firmValve is making a VR headset with HTC called the Vive VR, which will launch later in 2015.Related:Project Morpheus: Sony's plan to make virtual reality a social experienceApple is also eyeing the virtual reality market, having beenawarded a patent for a head-mounted display device which an iPhone slots into, while Google has launched its ownGoogle Cardboardproject for build-it-yourself headsets using Android devices.The related field of augmented reality (AR) headsets is also heating up thanks to devices likeMicrosoft’s Hololensand the plans ofMagic Leap, a startup that has raised $542m of funding from Google and other investors.Expectations that Oculus Rift would go on sale to the general public in 2015 have been high for some time, but Oculus VR has been backing away from the idea in recent months, as it finalised its plans.“We are not going to ship it until we get it right, and we don’t want that to be four or five years from now. We want it to be soon. We’re getting much closer: we like to say it’s months, not necessarily years away,”said chief executive Brendan Iribeat the Web Summit conference in November 2014.“It’s many months, not just a few months. Crescent Bay, I’ll go on the record as saying that hardware-wise for the headset, it’s arguably almost there for the consumer product, and now there are some other parts.”Oculus VR is also involved in mobile with Samsung.During Facebook’s last quarterly earnings call with analysts in April, chief financial officer David Wehner was alsocareful not to promise a 2015 release.“We have not announced any specific plans for shipment volumes in 2015 related to Oculus,” he said. “I just know that Oculus is very much in the development stage so it’s early to be talking about large shipment volumes.”When Oculus VR was an independent startup, its focus was firmly on games. Facebook has wider ambitions for the Rift, however.“This is just the start. After games, we’re going to make Oculus a platform for many other experiences. Imagine enjoying a court side seat at a game, studying in a classroom of students and teachers all over the world or consulting with a doctor face-to-face – just by putting on goggles in your home,”wrote chief executive Mark Zuckerbergin March 2014.Related:Virtual reality documentaries 'take the middle man out of journalism'“This is really a new communication platform. By feeling truly present, you can share unbounded spaces and experiences with the people in your life. Imagine sharing not just moments with your friends online, but entire experiences and adventures.”Facebookconfirmed in February 2015that it was “working on apps for VR”, with chief product officer Chris Cox citing experiences such as flying a fighter jet or sitting in a Mongolian yurt as inspiration, and describing the technology as “sending a fuller picture … You’ll do it, Beyoncé will do it”.The following month, chief technology officer Mike Schroepfertalked up the technology behind Oculus Riftat Facebook’s f8 conference.“After thousands of demos we know we are just on the cusp, just getting there to get that sense of presence where for a moment your conscious brain is overruled by the subconscious that says: ‘You are not where you think you are,’” he said.Developers and creators have been getting to grips with the prototypes of VR headsets and planning their own uses beyond gaming, too.Those include medical therapy, education and filmmaking, with Oculus VR having alreadyset up its own division called Story Studiostaffed by a team of veterans from companies like Pixar and Industrial Light &amp; Magic to explore VR movies.Its first short film, the four-minute Lost, made its debut at the Sundance Film Festival in January. “This is cinema running in a game engine in real time,” said Iribe at the time.There have already been music virtual reality apps fromThe Who,Paul McCartneyandBjörk, while filmmaker Chris Milk is releasing documentaries through his own VRSE startup in partnership with Vice, exploring VR’s potential for journalism.“With virtual reality, I’m not interested in the novelty factor,” hetold the Guardian in January 2015. “I’m interested in the foundations for a medium that could be more powerful than cinema, than theatre, than literature, than any other medium we’ve had before to connect one human being to another.”
Children’s streaming TV service Hopster started life as an iPad app, but now it’s making the leap to larger screens through the Apple TV set-top box.The British startup haslaunched on the device in the UK, using the same £3.99-a-month subscription model as the iOS version, with subscribers able to use both.The Apple TV version offers shows from Hopster’s licensed catalogue, including pre-school shows like Thomas &amp; Friends, Ben &amp; Holly’s Little Kingdom and Pingu.Missing, at least for now, are the educational games that are offered alongside the shows in Hopster’s iOS app, with Apple TV still a device more for watching video rather than interacting with more complex apps.Hopster is trying to make it easier for viewers of its big-screen version to find shows, with a “Discover” mode grouping programmes into categories like The World Around Me and Animals.“We’re using the simplicity of Apple TV to curate our shows in a unique way to help kids discover all of Hopster’s amazing content,” said chief executive Nick Walters. “Since it’s all under one subscription, they can hop from the big screen to the small screen seamlessly when they feel like getting active with our fun learning games.”Hopster’s existing app has been downloaded by more than 285,000 people in the UK since its launch in late 2013, but the Apple TV version is not its first expansion onto bigger screens.Related:Four of the top five YouTube channels are for kids (and the fifth is Taylor Swift)In December 2014, the companylaunched an app for Samsung’s range of connected TVs, securing a “U” rating from the British Board of Film Classification to emphasise its suitability for 2-6 year-old children.Hopster is also expanding globally, having recently announced plans to launch its iOS app in more than 100 countries, and is working on an Android version for imminent release.The startup faces tough competition from companies like Netflix, YouTube and Amazon, but has been pitching its independent underdog status as an advantage when striking licensing deals with television producers.“Does anyone, as a parent or as a content owner, want to be in a place where you only have one or two massive content warehouses doing all your video on demand? Or do you think there is room for people who offer something a bit different?”Walters told the Guardian in April.Other underdogs trying to offer that something different include Latin American servicePlayKids, which has expanded to 27 countries and recently raised $40m in funding, while citing stats from analytics firm Distimo claiming it was the top-grossing iOS children’s app globally in 2014.
The average free Android app silently connects to more than 100 different web addresses to serve adverts and track users, according to a paper from French research institute Eurecom.The worst offenders found on the Google Play store connect to orders of magnitude of up to 20 times more sites. One app that does nothing more than control volume “connects to almost 2,000 distinct URLs” when it’s booted up on a phone.After downloading more than 2,000 free apps from the Google Play store on to an older Samsung phone, the researchers, led by Luigi Vigneri, opened them one by one.By routing all the traffic through their own network, they were able to find out every web address requested by the applications, and then categorise them based on what they were returning, from adverts to tracking information.The researchers found that “unsurprisingly, nine of the top 10 in this set correspond to various web services run by Google. The most popular domain in the list, doubleclick.net, is an advertising platform that tracks end users, and also serves up advertisements”.More than 40% of the apps examined connected to DoubleClick alone, and the only non-Google service in the top ten was a Samsung site used to serve video ads.While the presence of advertising in free apps is unlikely to surprise users, the frequent involvement of sites that track personal information is less expected. The good news is that the “vast majority” (73.2%) of apps do not connect with any tracking website; but “a small number of apps do indeed communicate with them”.One app, Eurosport Player, connected with more than 800 individual tracking URLs; all of the top ten ranked by number of unique connections send information to more than 200 different URLs, with downloads ranging from just 100 up to 10m. Typically, such websites track information such as the “unique device identifier” (UDID) to follow a user across apps. “The issue of online tracking has been vigorously debated in the recent past, and privacy advocates argue that it allows for open-ended profiling of end users,” the paper argues. “Importantly, users are rarely aware of the actual entities that are tracking them, and to what degree ... the tracking ecosystem today lacks transparency.”Again, Google provided the most dominant tracking service applied on the Play Store, Google Analytics, but “in contrast to the results about ad-related destinations”, the researchers found “the mobile tracking ecosystem to be significantly more fragmented, with many more players”.The researchers argue that the findings demonstrate the downside of the relatively open nature of Android app stores. “The lack of oversight in Android Play Store makes it all too easy for end users to install applications of dubious origin, or those which silently carry out activity that might not be seen favourably by the user … Our results underscore the need for greater transparency in the network interaction of mobile applications on the Android App store [s],” they conclude.For many years, the Google Play Store only moderated apps after they had already gone live, in contrast to Apple, which has always acted as a rigid gatekeeper to its own mobile app store. But in March, the company shook up its store,introducing human moderatorsto check apps before they go live.
So far, film and television writers have managed to completely overlook the games business, a $60bn a year creative industry that has produced 40 years of sex, drugs and intrigue. Well OK – mostly intrigue. But in April, however, we all discovered that the BBC isplanning a drama about Grand Theft Auto publisher Rockstarand its legal face-offs with loose cannon lawyer Jack Thompson. There is considerable star power involved too, with Daniel Radcliffe set to play Rockstar co-founder Sam Houser and Bill Paxton lined up as anti-gamers campaigner, Thompson.So now the lid has been prised from the Pandora’s Box that is the games industry, what other juicy controversies could be mined for TV material? Here are eight candidates.Atari vs MagnavoxGerman-American game developer Ralph Baer showing off the prototype of the first games console he invented. In 1976, he gave evidence in the court case launched by Magnavox against Atari for patent infringement.Photograph: Jens Wolf/dpa/APThe story:In 1972, Atari launched its Pong arcade game, effectively kickstarting the global video game industry. However, two years later, tech rival Magnavox, creator of the Odyssey home console, filed a lawsuit against its competitor alleging that Atari had infringed several of its patented technologies. It was the first major video game court case, and could have destroyed Atari if the two hadn’t settled for thecomparatively low sum of $700,000, which paved the way for the hugely successful Atari 2600 console. The rest is video game history.The characters:Basically a who’s who of the early video game scene in the US with Nolan Bushnell, co-founder of Atari, Allan Alcorn, the designer of Pong, and Ralph Baer, the engineer behind the Magnavox Odyssey, who’s widely nicknamed “the father of video games”. You could even sneak in cameo appearances for Apple founders Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs, who helped design Atari’s Pong follow up, Breakout.The TV drama:The Pong Direction: how one courtroom decided the fate of the games industry. Starring Dominic West as Bushnell and Bob Balaban [Gosforth Park, Grand Budapest Hotel] as Baer.The death of Imagine SoftwareThe infamous Imagine Software advert for its ‘megagames’ Psyclapse and Bandersnatch. Neither was ever released in its intended form, although the remnants of the latter eventually re-surfaced in the 16bit home computer title Brataccas.Photograph: public domainThe story:Liverpool-based games developer Imagine Software was one of the UK industry’s biggest success stories in the early 1980s, through home-computer hits such as Arcadia and Ah Diddums. However, after signing a multimillion pound contract with publisher Marshall Cavendish, the company descended into artful hubriswhen it announced (and heavily advertised) two “mega games” – Bandersnatch and Psyclapse – that would never be released. Steeped in debt, the company was finally raided by bailiffs – a scene captured by a BBC film crew, which was ironicallymaking a documentaryabout the studio’s success.The characters:Founders Mark Butler and David Lawson were the archetypal 80s whizz kids with a penchant for fast cars and custom-built motorbikes. Bruce Everiss was the operations manager who desperately tried to keep the office running while the BBC crew discovered the cracks in Imagine’s PR story, and Ian Hetherington was the elusive financial manager who would later set up pivotal PlayStation studio, Psygnosis.The TV Drama:Imagine Everything, the tale of ambitious young Liverpudlians who discovered the big time and blew it all in Thatcher’s Britain. The film crew angle adds a nice meta touch. Frankie Goes to Hollywood soundtrack. It writes itself, quite frankly.Nintendo vs SegaThe story:In 1993, horrified by violent hits like Mortal Kombat and Night Trap, senator Joseph Lieberman called for an official hearing into the video game industry. Warring console manufacturers Sega and Nintendo were called in for questioning, and the two brought their increasingly bitter fight to the senate commission. Nintendo of America president Howard Lincoln used his time in the witness box to accuse Sega of deliberately marketing its horror title Night Trap at children, while a series of psychologists and educators criticised the medium in general. The result was the formation of a video games rating board and a standard age-ratings system.The characters:This is essentially the Rumble in the Jungle, but in a courtroom and with Lincoln versus Sega of America’s representative Bill White rather than Ali vs Foreman. Lieberman provides a censorious Emperor Palpatine-style presence in the background.The TV Drama:“Court of Kombat”. The wider console war between Sega and Nintendo is already the subject ofan upcoming movie from Seth Rogen, so the TV drama could focus entirely on the tense courtroom-style hearings, when a controversial industry was brought to heel by terrified conservatives.Codemasters vs NintendoThe story:In 1990, West Midlands-based game developer and publisher Codemasters created a product named the Game Genie, which could be plugged into a Nintendo Entertainment System console, allowing owners to run a variety of cheat codes. Unsurprisingly, Nintendo wasn’t happy, and a court battle with Game Genie’s US distributor Galoob followed. Eventually, the judge found in favour of Codemasters and Galoob and the Game Genie became a multimillion dollar business with versions release on several other major consoles of the day.The charactersThe key players here are the founders of Codemasters, the then twenty-something brothers, David and Richard Darling. The interesting stuff is how their coding teams circumnavigated patent laws by painstakingly reverse engineering the Nintendo hardware and keeping detailed notes of the process. It’s basically the Enigma Code of gaming.The TV drama:“Out of the Lantern: the Game Genie story”, starring – yes, I’m going to go there – Jedward as the Darlings. Writers could also weave in a related sub-plot – at about the same time as the Galoob case, Electronic Arts founder Trip Hawkins managed to bypass the security chipset in the new Sega Mega Drive game cartridges. He threatened to tell the rest of the industry how to manufacture their own carts (thereby saving them millions in licensing costs) if Sega did not give EA favourable terms to develop on its system. Sega relented. Jon Hamm as Trip Hawkins, obviously. (And there could be a cameo role for ... me! I helped write and test all the Game Genie codes for the Game Boy. True story.)The banning of CarmageddonCarmageddon offered bonus points for running over pedestrians, with multipliers available for group kills. How we laughed.Photograph: public domainThe story:Developed by Isle of Wight-based studio Stainless Games, Carmageddon is the notorious 1997 driving sim that gave players extra points for running over pedestrians. The BBFC refused to grant the game an age rating when it was submitted, effectively banning it until the blood and gore was removed. However, publisher SCi refused to give in and appealed the decision; 10 months later, the BBFC was forced to provide an age certificate and Carmageddon was released uncut in the UK.The characters:Stainless Media was (and perhaps still is) an eccentric bunch, led by co-founders Patrick Buckland and Neil Barnden, who had little regard for industry conventions. The game included a range of technical innovations, including destructible environments, while the pedestrian death animations were tested by actually driving a Chevy station wagon into the office handyman, Tony, and filming the results.The TV Drama:Car Trouble: the story of Britain’s most controversial video game, with the combined casts of The League of Gentlemen and The Inbetweeners as the Stainless Media management and staff.The rise and fall of GizmondoThe Gizmondo handheld in all its ‘glory’Photograph: public domainThe story:Swedish tech firm Tiger Telematics pitched its ridiculously-named Gizmondo device as a cutting edge handheld gaming console complete with multimedia and text messaging capabilities. However, the company’s founders quickly burned through millions in VC funding, renting shop spaces in Regent Street, organising ornate parties and hiring Jenson Button to star in TV adverts. Launched in 2005, the Gizmondo failed spectacularly, the company collapsed and executive Bo Stefan Eriksson went on to serve prison sentences in the US and Sweden.Thecharacters:Founder Carl Freer would be the obvious star – if it wasn’t for his colleague Stefan Eriksson one of three key executives linked by newspaper reports to the Swedish mafia. Eriksson later famouslycrashed a rare Ferarri Enzoon a Californian highway and tried to blame the incident on someone else.The TV drama:This one has everything – sex, drugs, gangsters, multimillion dollar investment deals and crashed cars. It’s got HBO written all over it. Obviously, we’re thinking True Blood star Alexander Skarsgård as Eriksson.The making of DaikatanaStrangely, gamers did not react well to this advert for DaikatanaPhotograph: public domainThe story:When Doom co-creators John Romero and Tom Hall left Id Software to set up their own studio, they thought big. Really big. The result was Ion Storm, based ina state-of-the-art $2m officeat the top of the luxurious Chase Tower in Dallas. Romero’s pet project would be Daikatana, an ambitious shooter set in Feudal Japan, that would go on to arrive three years late after millions of dollars of investment from UK publisher Eidos. When it finally arrived in 2000, the initially cutting edge title had been massively superseded by rivals like Quake III, Counter-Strike and Hitman.Thecharacters:John Romero is the star of course, but let’s not overlook the likes of chief operating officer Bob Wright who split from the company and then sued it in 1998, or designer Todd Porter whoallegedly led a coupto displace chief executive officer Mike Wilson and install himself as chief executive.The TV Drama:“Storm Warning”? “Imperfect Storm”? Whatever, the seething power struggles at the heart of the company would provide the focal point, with Daikatana providing the creative background. Mad Men meets Spinal Tap.The Launch of Xbox OneMicrosoft president Don Mattrick at the E3 show in Los Angeles. The unveiling of the console was an intriguing and delicious disasterPhotograph: Mario Anzuoni/ReutersThe Story:When Microsoft invited the world’s press to its Redmond campus in May 2013, everyone knew they were there to witness the unveiling of the new Xbox games console. Everyone, that is, apart from Microsoft. Instead the company billed the Xbox One as a multimedia player, focused its event almost entirely on live TV broadcasting and told potential purchasers that they’d need daily internet access and that second-hand game sales would be controlled via a new digital distribution platform. It was, to put it bluntly, a PR apocalypse.Thecharacters:There was Xbox chief Don Mattrick, who alienated gamers bytelling themthat if they didn’t have permanent internet access they should stick with the Xbox 360. And then there was corporate vice president Phil Harrison who sensed the Xbox One messaging was going awry in the hours after the unveiling and even asked reportersback into the interview roomto clarify the console’s confusing digital distribution systems. Both have now left the company, but not before Mattrick announceda humiliating u-turn.The TV Drama:“One Day in Redmond”, a The Thick of It-style behind-the-scenes glimpse at what went on at Microsoft during that fateful launch day. Aidan Gillen as Mattrick, Stephen Merchant as Phil Harrison, and Nolan North as Xbox chief Phil Spencer. Armando Iannucci to write and direct, naturally.What have we missed? Let us know which gaming controversiesyou’dlike to watch, below
Long before Candy Crush Saga, Clash of Clans and Angry Birds, Nokia’s Snake was the king of the mobile gaming world – not least because it was installed on every single mobile phone the company sold.Now the game is returning for modern smartphones courtesy of that mobile version’s creator Taneli Armanto and developer Rumilus Design, who will release Snake Rewind on 14 May.Snake wasn’t invented by Nokia – its ever-stretching gameplay had appeared on home computers since the late 1970s under various names – but Finnish developer Armanto was the person responsible for preloading it on Nokia’s 6110 handset in 1997.Snake Rewind will be released for iOS, Android and Windows Phone devices, with new features including the ability – purists, look away now – to “rewind the Snake to continue the game even after crashing” as well as new power-ups and levels.Rumilus Design has not announced details of how it will charge for Snake Rewind, butthe mention of a fruit store on its website– “boosters and items can be upgraded and purchased, using fruit that you collect while playing” – hints that the game may be freemium, using in-app purchases too.Related:Britney Spears to follow Kim Kardashian by launching her own mobile gameWill modern smartphone owners be as keen on Snake as people were in the late 1990s? There are dozens of unofficial versions of the game already available on Apple and Google’s app stores, too, providing competition for the official remake.Armanto worked at Nokia for nearly 16 years before leaving in 2011, and has since been self-employedaccording to his LinkedIn profile. In 2005, hetalked publicly about Snakeafter receiving a mobile industry award for his work.“When we created Snake for the Nokia 6110 in 1997, we wanted to give people an entertaining experience, but we never imagined that it would become the classic mobile game,” he said then.“It showed people that you could create a great game for a mobile phone. In particular, we wanted to take advantage of the infrared link in the Nokia 6110 – a first at that time – which would allow people to play against each other.”
An EU court has ruled that Microsoft’s Skype is too similar in name to Sky TV and that it could confuse the public.The ruling prevents Microsoft from registering a trademark for its voice, video and text chat service Skype as well as its light blue bulb logo in the EU, in the second blow against Microsoft revolving around Sky-like names in two years.“Conceptually, the figurative element conveys no concept, except perhaps that of a cloud,” said the judges ruling from general court of the European Union in Luxembourg. “[It] would further increase the likelihood of the element ‘Sky’ being recognised within the word element ‘Skype’, for clouds are to be found ‘in the sky’ and thus may readily be associated with the word ‘sky’.”Microsoft said it intends to appeal the decision.The case was brought by Microsoft challenging 2012 and 2013 decisions by the EU’s trademark authority, following a 2005 complaint from Sky UK, formerly known as British Sky Broadcasting.Microsoft cannot register Skype as a trademark but has not been blocked from using the Skype name, unlike the US tech company’s last tussle with Sky over its cloud storage service formerly known as SkyDrive.Microsoft was forced to rename the service OneDrive after a High Court ruling in June 2013 that found SkyDrive in breach of Sky UK’s trademark. The two companies settled, leading to switch to the OneDrive brand in 2014.The ruling opens the door to the possibility of Sky UK pursuing Microsoft for a licensing fee for the word “sky” in Skype.“Our intention has been to protect the Sky brand, with our research showing that similarities in name and logo have the potential to confuse customers,” said a Sky spokesperson in a statement without addressing the possibility of further action.
British firm Kano has raised $15m (£9.9m) of new funding to back its build-your-own-computer kit for children, while launching a new model six times faster than its predecessor.The company, originally backed by$1.5m of Kickstarter pledgesin 2013, is also returning to the crowd for investment,offering $500k of equity through crowdfunding site Quire.Kano is also trying to shift perceptions that the sole use for its £120 computer is about teaching children programming skills, even though this remains a key feature.Related:'Great big poo balls!' What it's like making a Kano computer with your kids“What we’re building here is a new kind of computer company, with creativity rather than consumption at its core. There’s a need and a hunger for a new type of creative computer around the world,” chief product officer Alex Klein told the Guardian.“Kids might start with using code to create a Minecraft castle or make music, but where it evolves is using a PC as a platform for invention and taking control of the world around you: talking to the internet of things rather than just consuming it. We’ve evolved from a cool Kickstarter kit to an end-to-end computer company.”Kano has sold 40,000 of its first-generation kits so far. Klein said that the company has been surprised at the range of uses children have found for it, from time-lapse photography to building games consoles, solar panels and weather stations.Moving beyond a “cool Kickstarter kit” is one reason why Kano has become a name to drop in Silicon Valley circles. The new funding round was led by US venture capitalist Jim Breyer, formerly of Accel Partners where he led investments in Facebook, Spotify and Etsy.His current role at his own firm Breyer Capital is just as important for Kano, which is the company’s first UK investment. “He understands education, and he’s the most pre-eminent western VC currently involved in China and Chinese projects,” said Klein.Kano’s first kit was unsurprisingly popular with tech-savvy parents in the UK and US, but the mention of China hints at the company’s global ambitions – including so-called “emerging” markets like China and India.Klein hasn’t been impressed by some previous attempts to launch computers for children in these countries.“There’s a lot of interest today in ‘Let’s build cheap computers for the emerging world! Let us westerners sit together in our cool offices with our cool whiteboards and design something that would be really good for an emerging market audience!” he said.“That’s well-meaning, but can sometimes lead to products designed quite condescendingly. What we want to do instead is design a series of computer kits and add-on kits that you build yourself, then connect to other devices in the world around you.”Kano OS.Photograph: PRFor now, that’s mainly a screen and keyboard for Kano, but Klein is keen for people to start thinking about what’s possible when the device is, say, a thermostat or solar panel.“It’s a great way to introduce yourself to personal computing that shows it doesn’t have to be through a sealed sapphire screen: it can be an open, human device that you make yourself,” he said.“We need a PC company now that takes advantage of all the new powers that the 21st century has given us. In sub-Saharan Africa, half a billion people are going to come online in the next decade: and that next generation will not be entering the digital age through a mechanism which is just about consumption, but which is creative.”Related:Parents! Focus less on worrying about Minecraft and more on understanding itKlein also stressed the point that Kano isn’t just about learning to code, suggesting that some of the recent drive towards children and programming may have suffered from “top-down” thinking that underestimated its audience.“The dialogue in this space initially was quite top-down: ‘We have to teach kids to code or they will be unemployed! Quick, remove arts form the curriculum and make it all about science, technology, engineering and maths!’ The message was learn to code or else,” he said.“It was all about rejigging the curriculum to create this prescriptive hierarchy of Python tutorials and making sure every child can code by the time they’re seven. And we’re involved in education – we partner with schools and Pearson – but one of the reasons we were able to grow quite quickly is that we turned that message on its head.”How? Kano’s marketing is now focused more around three concepts – “Make, learn, play” – with an emphasis on accessibility at a time when children have more access to open-source software, affordable computing hardware and online communities to get inspiration for creative projects.“What doesn’t exist is a computing platform to bring these together in a way that’s simple and playful and approachable. Kids – well, kids of all ages: beginners – don’t have a nice, human way in. We’ve divided up the arts and sciences and we’ve made programming into a purely technical, vocational skill,” said Klein.“But you don’t have to become a programmer and work at Google. There are 8.2bn connected devices in the world, and you should have a way to play with this new world whether you want to be an artist or a musician or a journalist or a shopkeeper or whatever.“It’s about understanding the world around you, and a PC that does this is a lot more mainstream than just a way of teaching kids how to code. Coding is a means to an end rather than the end itself.”Community is a big part of Kano’s strategy, in several ways. First, with the return to crowdfunding, albeit in return for equity in the company rather than computer kits this time.“The more participatory this next step is, the more our community has a chance to feel that the final products will be better and more successful. Kickstarter gave us so much interesting insight, from the case design to business models and school packages,” said Klein.“All kinds of interesting ideas bubbled up from the community. We don’t want to be the kind of company that is a bunch of smart people in cool offices standing around white boards, set apart. We want to be a new type of PC company built by and for the crowd.”Kano is putting more emphasis on children’s creations in its Kano World.The focus on community extends toKano World, the online repository for projects that children have created using their Kano computers.“It was conceived as a last-minute feature if I’m honest with you: a cloud storage platform for all the stuff you’d make on Kano as there was so little storage on the SD card itself,” said Klein.“It’s evolved into a user-generated carnival of kids’ creations, and a place to learn from one another rather than just from us.Related:BBC Micro Bit will complement Raspberry Pi not compete with it“The type of company we’re going to build is less about the hardware and the software than it is about the experience of making, and the community from which you learn and gain inspiration. It’s a new way of thinking about a PC company, but one maybe more suited to the various trends that are shaping personal computing today.”One risk is alienating that community by launching a new Kano that’s six times more powerful than the one some of them bought a few months ago, thanks to swapping its original Raspberry Pi guts for the newRaspberry Pi 2.“New Kano”, as the company describes it, is demonstrably faster than its predecessor, with new software including artistic app Make Art and game Terminal Quest, which blends adventuring with command-line Linux spells.What about people who bought an “Old Kano” though? They’re being offered a“Powerup Kit” for £69.99that includes a Raspberry Pi 2 to install in their existing Kano, while upgrading the swapped-out Pi 1 into an “internet of things toolkit for beginners”.“There’s a tendency to make devices that are ‘here’s the coolest new thing, you can throw out the old thing out now’. We feel a bit different: that having your new Kano shouldn’t mean the old one is useless,” said Klein.The Powerup Kit also sits neatly within Kano desire to make its kits about more than just coding by connecting them with other kinds of devices – something likely to be driven by their owners as much as the company and its investors.“This is the first generation of kids whose abilities may outstrip us while they’re still kids. They have access to more information, and fewer barriers in the way of invention,” said Klein.
Among its many other cultural and economic assets, Google is accumulating a rather comprehensive record of what is troubling us, from asking the search engine to diagnose our disease symptoms to whether we will ever find true love. It seems only natural, then, to turn to Google to decrypt the latest piece of technical jargon, “the internet of things”.It is a term that internet users have been peppering the search engine with questions about. But what does it mean for real life? We’ve taken the most commonly asked questions about the internet of things, and answered them using a real human being.What is the internet of things (and why does it matter)?The internet of things (or as it’s also known, IoT) isn’t new: tech companies and pundits have been discussing the idea for decades, and the first internet-connected toaster wasunveiled at a conference in 1989.At its core, IoT is simple: it’s about connecting devices over the internet, letting them talk to us, applications, and each other. The popular, if silly, example isthe smart fridge: what if your fridge could tell you it was out of milk, texting you if its internal cameras saw there was none left, or that the carton was past its use-by date?Where it’s most common, in Britain at least, is home heating and energy use – partially because the government is pushing energy companies to roll outsmart meters(althoughit has been questioned whether it can be delivered on schedule). They have clever functions that let you turn on heating remotely, set it to turn down the temperature if it’s a sunny day, or even turn off when there’s no-one home. Some can tell the latter with motion-sensing cameras, or simply by seeing that your smartphone (and therefore you) has left the premises.IoT is more than smart homes and connected appliances, however. It scales up to includesmart cities– think ofconnected traffic signalsthat monitor utility use, or smart bins that signal when they need to be emptied – and industry, with connected sensors for everything from tracking parts to monitoring crops.Why does it matter? There’s a reason the government is encouraging energy companies to hand you a smart meter: all that data and automated use is more efficient, meaning we use less energy. Many areas of IoT show such benefits, though some smart gadgets are more about whizz-bang effects than efficiency, which may well be why we’re seeing more smart heating than smart fridges in the UK.Is it safe? Can the internet of things be secured?Everything new and shiny has downsides, and security and privacy are the biggest challenges for IoT. All these devices and systems collect a lot of personal data about people – that smart meter knows when you’re home and what electronics you use when you’re there – and it’s shared with other devices and held in databases by companies.Security experts arguethat not enough is being done to build security and privacy into IoT at these early stages, and to prove their point have hacked a host of devices, fromconnected baby monitorstoautomated lightingandsmart fridges, as well as city wide systems such as traffic signals. Hackers haven’t, for the most part, put much attention to IoT; there’s likely not enough people using connected appliances for an attack against them to be worth the effort, but as ever, as soon as there’s a financial benefit to hacking smart homes, there will be a cyber criminal working away at it.So the short answer is yes, IoT is relatively safe: you’re not likely to face serious loss or damage because of your smart meter, any more than your home PC, at least. However, there’s no guarantee, and so far not enough is being done to ensure IoT isn’t the next big hacking target.How will the internet of things affect business and work?This all depends on your industry: manufacturing is perhaps the furthest ahead in terms of IoT, as it’s useful for organising tools, machines and people, and tracking where they are. Farmers have also been turning to connected sensors to monitor both crops and cattle, in thehopes of boosting production, efficiencyand tracking the health of their herds.The examples are endless, and all we can predict is that connected devices will likely creep into most businesses, just the way computers and the web have. When the efficiencies are with tools or plants, it’s easy to appreciate the potential benefit, but when it’s office workers who are being squeezed for more productivity, it could take on a bit of a dystopian shade: imagine your security access card being used to track where you are in the building, so your boss can tot up how much time you’re spending in the kitchen making tea.On the flip side, a smart tea maker that knows just when you’re in need of a cuppa could be very handy indeed.What does the internet of things mean for healthcare?Smart pillsand connected monitoring patches are already available, highlighting the life-saving potential of IoT, and many people are already strappingsmartwatchesor fitness bands to their wrists to track their steps or heartbeat while on a run.There’s a host of clever connected health ideas:Intel made a smart bandthat tracks how much patients with Parkinsons shake, collecting more accurate data than with paper and pen;Sonambamonitors daily activities of senior or ill people, to watch for dangerous anomalies; and people with heart disease can useAliveCoreto detect abnormal heart rhythms.Healthcare is one area where more data has the potential to save lives, by preventing disease, monitoring it and by analysing it to create new treatments. However, our health is also one of the most sensitive areas of our lives, so privacy and security will need a bit more preventative medicine first.Is the internet of things real?This is perhaps the best query being Googled about IoT: is it real?Surprisingly, it’s tough to answer. Technology is full of marketing and hype – it’s often difficult to decide early on whether an innovation is truly ground-breaking or not. After all, many tech punditsmocked the first iPhone.But the internet of things is one of those wider ideas that isn’t dependent on a single project or product. Smart fridges may well be the appliance of the future, or could fall by the wayside as too much tech for too little gain, but the idea of connected sensors and smart devices making decisions without our input will continue.A decade from now, everything could be connected or perhaps only bits and pieces with specific benefits, such as smart meters; and we may call it IoT, smart devices or not call it anything at all, the way smartphones have simply become phones.No matter where it is or what we call it, IoT is real – but what it will look like in the future is something even Google can’t answer.
Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer at Facebook, has used the social networking site to pay a moving tribute to her husband David Goldberg who died in an accident last week.On the day of an emotional memorial service, attended by hundreds of Silicon Valley’s most prominent executives, Sandberg posted a striking eulogy in which she said: “Dave was my rock.”“We had 11 truly joyful years of the deepest love, happiest marriage, and truest partnership that I could imagine.”Her post came after the service at Stanford University’s Memorial Auditorium for Goldberg, who died last Friday while on a family vacation at a villa near Puerto Vallarta, Mexico.The 47-year-old, who was CEO of SurveyMonkey, a commercial service for conducting online polls,slipped while exercising on a treadmillin the villa’s gym and struck his head officials have said.President Barack Obamaextended his sympathies to Sandbergand in a signed post on the White House Facebook page said: “His (Goldberg’s) skills as an entrepreneur created opportunity for many; his love for his family was a joy to behold, and his example as a husband and father was something we could all learn from.”The message drew online thanks from Sandberg, who described her relationship with Goldberg as a supportive, equal partnership in her 2013 book “Lean In” about the challenges faced by women in the workplace.Later she posted her tributeon her Facebook page.I want to thank all of our friends and family for the outpouring of love over the past few days. It has been extraordinary – and each story you have shared will help keepDavealive in our hearts and memories.I met Dave nearly 20 years ago when I first moved to LA. He became my best friend. He showed me the internet for the first time, planned fun outings, took me to temple for the Jewish holidays, introduced me to much cooler music than I had ever heard.We had 11 truly joyful years of the deepest love, happiest marriage, and truest partnership that I could imagine ... He gave me the experience of being deeply understood, truly supported and completely and utterly loved – and I will carry that with me always. Most importantly, he gave me the two most amazing children in the world.Dave was my rock. When I got upset, he stayed calm. When I was worried, he said it would be ok. When I wasn’t sure what to do, he figured it out. He was completely dedicated to his children in every way – and their strength these past few days is the best sign I could have that Dave is still here with us in spirit.Dave and I did not get nearly enough time together. But as heartbroken as I am today, I am equally grateful. Even in these last few days of completely unexpected hell – the darkest and saddest moments of my life – I know how lucky I have been. If the day I walked down that aisle with Dave someone had told me that this would happen – that he would be taken from us all in just 11 years – I would still have walked down that aisle. Because 11 years of being Dave Goldberg’s wife, and 10 years of being a parent with him is perhaps more luck and more happiness than I could have ever imagined. I am grateful for every minute we had.As we put the love of my life to rest today, we buried only his body. His spirit, his soul, his amazing ability to give is still with it. It lives on in the stories people are sharing of how he touched their lives, in the love that is visible in the eyes of our family and friends, in the spirit and resilience of our children. Things will never be the same – but the world is better for the years my beloved husband lived.Among those at Tuesday’s memorial in the heart of Silicon Valley were Hewlett-Packard’s chief executive, Meg Whitman, LinkedIn’s CEO, Jeff Weiner, prominent tech investor Reid Hoffman, along with Yelp chief executive, Jeremy Stoppelman, and PayPal co-founder Max Levchin.U2 vocalist Bono sang before an audience that included Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg, film director George Lucas and a host of tech company founders, executives and financiers.Afterward, mourners emerged teary-eyed from Stanford University’s Memorial Auditorium, many wearing Minnesota Vikings paraphernalia to commemorate the NFL team loved by Goldberg, a Minneapolis native.
Happy Wednesday!
LG’s latest flagship mobile phone is designed to meet the high expectations that no-compromise, power users of Android phones have been craving. Fortunately, it manages to meet most of those demands.The successor toone of the best phablets (phone-tablet) of last year, the G3, the G4 boasts a removable back, expandable storage and replaceable battery – the last remaining mainstream Android smartphone manufacturer to do so.Very slightly curvedThe curve is subtle, but makes it less likely the screen will shatter when dropped on an edge, according to LG.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianLike most of LG’s other smartphones, the G4’s design is rather understated. A plain black face, thin bezels, a dark chromed plastic edge and a simple plastic back.One version offers a leather back, although that’s not everyone’s cup of tea.LG is not going to win any design awards for the G4’s looks. It also feels a bit cheap in the hand compared with the likes of the Samsung Galaxy S6 or the iPhone 6 Plus.A very slight curve to the screen is unusual, and is meant to help the phone survive being dropped without smashing the screen. I didn’t put it to the test but, like its banana-shaped brother, the phone feels like it can take a knock or two.The power button and volume buttons are hidden on the back underneath the camera, which I quite like.The screen itself is one of the best ever fitted to a smartphone, with very black blacks, true-to-life colours and a pixel density of 538 pixels per inch making it pin-sharp. For comparison, Samsung’s Galaxy S6 screen has a pixel density of 577ppi and Apple’s iPhone 6 Plus 401ppi.SpecificationsScreen:5.5in quad HD (538ppi) “Quantum” displayProcessor:Six-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 808RAM:3GBStorage:32GB + microSD card slotOperating system:Android 5.1 LollipopCamera:16MP rear (F-stop 1.8), 8MP selfie-camConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi ac, BT 4.1, NFCDimensions:148.9 x 76.1 x 9.8mmWeight:155gTwo days per chargeExpandable storage of up to 200GB via microSD and a large, removable battery are what sets the G4 apart from the competition.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianLooking at the specifications, LG has made a curious choice of processor for the G4. Typically, flagship smartphones use top-of-the-line processors, but the G4 is fitted with Qualcomm’s six-core Snapdragon 808, not the chip company’s most powerful Octacore 810.That could be to do with reported overheating issues in the 810. Either way the G4 is snappy and responsive with no hint of lag or lack of performance.A side-by-side real-world test of the G4 against theSamsung Galaxy S6showed very little difference in response to loading apps, playing games and navigating through menus.Where the G4 has the edge is in battery life. I easily got two solid days of work out of the G4 on a single charge, with push email all day, many hundreds of push notifications, some streaming music and 20 or so camera snaps.The LG4 lacks built-in wireless charging, requiring an optional case, and charges slower than many of the competition, but then you have to charge it half as much.Simple, fast and tap-happyLG’s Smart Bulletin is a Google Now-style information screen, which works well enough, but can be safely ignored in favour of the latter if everything you do is plugged into the search giant’s ecosystem.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianLG customises the standard Android experience on its smartphones. Typically the system is colourful and full of options for the owner.The changes to G4’s Android are simpler and mostly welcome. For instance, users can customise the arrangement of the standard Android home, back and multi-tasking soft keys or change the typeface and text size. A super-simple interface for “beginners” – LG’s words – is also available.LG’s Smart Bulletin homescreen panel aims to be a Google Now replacement, pulling information from calendars, health tracking apps and the weather.Perhaps LG’s best addition to Android is its KnockOn and KnockCode – double tap to wake or sleep the screen, or tap out a lock code on a black screen to unlock the phone. Both work well and should be standard to Android.CameraThe camera’s manual controls are easy to use, with simple virtual scrolling wheels featuring manual focus, while the automatic mode manages most situations well.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe G4’s camera has some of the best low-light performance I have ever tested on a smartphone. It has an F-stop of 1.8 (a measure of the speed of the lens: the lower the number, the brighter the image captured).Most smartphones have camera lenses above two. The iPhone 6 has an F-stop of 2.2. Some, like the Galaxy S6, have F-stops of 1.9. For perspective, the prime lens on my Nikon digital SLR, which I used to take photos of the G4, has an F-stop of 1.8.Numbers aside, the G4 makes dull days and indoor shots look like bright sunlight, with no graining or artefacts. Images are sharp and detailed, colour-accurate and vibrant, while the camera focuses fast. The shallow depth of field is also quite remarkable, creating pleasing bokeh effects.The camera app has a manual mode, which gives users access to white balance, focus, ISO, shutter speed and RAW image files, each adjustable with an easy-to-use slider. The automatic mode does an excellent job of managing most situations, however.The front-facing camera is also one of the best I’ve tried, once you turn off the automatic make-up effect.The shallow depth of field of the G4 rivals digital SLR prime lenses.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPriceThe LG G4 will be available at the end of May, costing around £500 without a mobile phone contract.VerdictThe LG G4 is a power-user’s Android smartphone. A removable battery, expandable storage and brilliant camera make up for the cheap design and materials, as every other mainstream manufacturer prefers to spend on the latter. But it doesn’t feel as premium, and isn’t made from metal, although leather options are available.Aesthetics aside, solid performance, two-day battery life and a great 5.5in screen make the G4 one of the most usable and best phablets available.Pros:great screen, brilliant camera, two-day battery, expandable storage, removable battery, KnockCode.Cons:lack of premium materials, plastic back easily scratched, no built-in wireless charging.The fit and finish of the G4 with the plastic back isn’t quite up to par with rivals from Apple or Samsung.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOther reviews•Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge review: curves for pleasure, not function•Samsung Galaxy S6 review: the iPhone killer•LG G Flex 2 review: the second coming of the banana phone•Google Nexus 6 review: big is beautiful, but not manageable•Sony Xperia Z3 review: great battery life and quality camera
President Barack Obama has led tributes to Dave Goldberg, the boss of Silicon Valley startup SurveyMonkey and husband of Facebook’s Sheryl Sandberg, who died following a freak treadmill accident while on holiday in Mexico.Obama said the first family was “heartbroken” at the loss of a man who “embodied the definition of a real leader – someone who was always looking for ways to empower others”.Related:SurveyMonkey chief David Goldberg died of head injury due to treadmill fall“He was generous and kind with everybody, and cared less about the limelight than making sure that the people he worked with and loved succeeded in whatever they did,”Obama said in a Facebook post on the White House’s official page signed with his initials, “bo”. “His skills as an entrepreneur created opportunity for many; his love for his family was a joy to behold, and his example as a husband and father was something we could all learn from. We’re heartbroken by him leaving us far too soon – but we celebrate a remarkable legacy.”Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s founder and chief executive and close friend of Goldberg, was the first to comment on Obama’s post.“Thank you for this beautiful tribute,” he wrote.Silicon Valley, Hollywood and Wall Street have all paid tribute to Goldberg – mostly on Facebook.“Dave was a class act,” Bob Iger, chief executive of Walt Disney, wrote onGoldberg’s Facebook page, which has been turned into a memorial. “Everything he did was done with enthusiasm, commitment, and a warm and humble touch that we all loved and we will all remember.”Goldberg, who was 47, died of head trauma on Friday night after apparently falling off a treadmill and banging his head at a luxury beach resort in Mexico. He was discovered on the floor of the gym covered in blood by his brother Robert at about 7pm on Friday night after the family became anxious that Goldberg had not returned after leaving to work out at 4pm.An official for the local Mexican authorities said it appeared Goldberg “fell off the treadmill and cracked his head open”.Goldberg was taken from the resort in Punta Mita, near Puerto Vallarta in south-west Mexico, to Hospital San Javier in Nuevo Vallarta, where he died, the official said. The authorities said the death is being treated as accidental.The Four Seasons hotel in Punta Mita, where Goldberg was originally reported to have been staying, disputed accounts of his death. The companysaid on Tuesdaythat Goldberg had not been a guest and that the accident had not taken place at the Four Seasons.Robert Goldberg announced his brother’s death on Facebook on Saturday. “It’s with incredible shock and sadness that I’m letting our friends and family know that my amazing brother,Dave Goldberg, beloved husband ofSheryl Sandberg, father of two wonderful children, and son ofPaula Goldberg, passed away suddenly last night,”he wrote.The family was to hold a private memorial service at Stanford University’s Memorial Auditorium on Tuesday. Male attendees were urged not to wear ties to the service “in keeping with Dave’s lifelong hatred of ties”, according to email invites sent to friends of the couple. Mourners were asked not to take pictures or “post to social media from the event”.The Walt Disney Company moved the release of second-quarter earnings, due on Tuesday, so that executives can attend the funeral. Sandberg, who is Facebook’s chief operating officer, is on the board of Disney.Dick Costolo, chief executive of Twitter, said Goldberg was “one of the truly great people on the planet, Dave was of almost unimaginably remarkable character”.Jeff Weiner, chief executive of LinkedIn, said Goldberg was “one of kindest and most generous friends I’ve known”.Goldberg, who worked at Yahoo and venture capital firm Benchmark Capital before joining SurveyMonkey in 2009, married Sandberg in 2004.Venture capitalist Bill Gurley wrote ina blogpost titled “Be Like Dave”: “Dave was insanely funny. At first, I just thought he was kind-of funny, but the more time I was able to spend with him, the more I realized this guy was really f***ing funny. One of the funniest guys I have ever known. This was not jocular humor, but quite the opposite; witty creative humor. His intelligence soaked into his jokes the way syrup penetrates a pancake. And his humor was augmented by one of the most spectacular laughs I have ever heard.”Goldberg, who was known to his friends as “Goldie”, has been described as a lifelong feminist, who encouraged his wife and other Silicon Valley women to demand higher salaries and more flexible working hours.Goldberg’s parents read The Feminine Mystique, Betty Friedan’s 1969 book widely credited with sparking a second-wave feminism in the US. It was Goldberg’s father who introduced the book to his wife, according to Sandberg’s bestselling book Lean In, which encourages women to negotiate higher salaries and continue working after having children.
Apple’s retail boss Angela Ahrendts was the highest-paid female executive in America last year, earning $82.6m, according to apay survey by Bloomberg.Ahrendts’ pay was boosted by a massive signing-on bonus when she joined Apple from luxury British fashion house Burberry in May 2014.The second-highest earning US woman was Oracle’s Safra Catz, who was awarded $71.2m in her role as chief financial officer. She has subsequently been promoted to co-CEO of the company after Larry Ellison stood down.Yahoo’s CEO, Marissa Meyer, was the third highest earning woman collecting $59m.
SurveyMonkey chief executive David Goldberg died from a head injury sustained after falling off a treadmill at a private resort in Mexico on Friday, according to a spokesman for the local prosecutor’s office.The 47-year-old, who became head of the online survey company in 2009, was found on the floor of the gym in the Four Seasons resort in Punta Mita by his brother, Robert, approximately three hours after he was thought to have left his room.“He fell off the treadmill and cracked his head open,” said the Mexican official.A spokesman for SurveyMonkey told the Guardian on Monday: “According to a source close to the family, Dave Goldberg was on vacation with family and friends in Mexico. He collapsed while exercising in the gym. Efforts to revive him at the gym and at a local hospital were unsuccessful.”Goldberg had been married to Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, since 2004. In Sandberg’s book, Lean In, she wrote of Goldberg that he was a “true partner” who helped make her career possible.More than 60,000 Americans are injured every year by exercise equipment, with treadmills potentially responsible for up to half of the injuries, according to the US government’sNational Electronic Injury Surveillance System.As well as injuries from falls, the devices can cause serious abrasive damage, and over-exercising can induce heart problems in those susceptible.TheConsumer Reports title in the US recommendstreadmill users always use the safety key to ensure the machine turns off in case of a fall, and advises that exercise machines should be kept clear of potential obstructions at the back and sides.Mark Zuckerberg, founder of Facebook, shared a personal message of remembrance for Goldberg, calling him “an amazing person”.
On Friday, Midlands-based game developer Playtonic launched a Kickstarter funding project for its opening title, Yooka-Laylee. The studio was looking for £175,000 – enough to fund an initial release on PC and Mac, with a console version to follow. The company reached that target within 40 minutes. A few hours later, it hit £1m.“It’s so unexpected, we’re overwhelmed,” says studio head Gavin Price. “We’ve not really slept much in the last few days. With £175,000 we knew we could definitely launch on PC and then follow up on console, using the funds from initial sales to keep us going. All our fans wanted a console version – so that was very important. The whole campaign has been based on feedback from the community.”There is, of course, some vital background history here. Playtonic was set up by six veteran developers from the legendary UK studio Rare, responsible for some of the most revered and successful titles on the Nintendo SNES and N64 consoles. These guys worked on Donkey Kong Country and then masterminded the seminal 3D platforming hit Banjo-Kazooie – to which Yooka-Laylee is a spiritual successor. Their forthcoming game follows the eponymous lead characters – a chameleon and a bat – through a colourful 3D world, highly reminiscent of those 90s classics. It’s a love letter to the sort of games that developers Chris Sutherland, Steve Mayles and Steven Hurst used to make together.Related:Rare talent: inside the studio building Banjo-Kazooie's spiritual successorBut with Rare now owned by Microsoft and concentrating on the Kinect Sports titles, the group left to re-discover that creative energy. They knew there was still some affinity and nostalgia for the Banjo-Kazooie series: when Playtonic was officially announced earlier this year, the company’s Twitter account gained 40,000 followers in a matter of hours. So Kickstarter funding for their first game always seemed like a good idea.“We wanted to work in a particular way on games of a particular style – this was the only solution to do that,” says Price. “Fans were asking us to do it. So we thought, let’s do this as a big event and let’s make sure it allows us to deliver the game we want. We’re really happy with what we have planned for it.”But despite building a large, highly vocal community around the game, the reaction to the Kickstarter has still left the team somewhat stunned. “We all stayed in the office and watched the page go live. We thought it would take 20 minutes for people to digest the page, read through it all and then make a pledge. But straightaway the number started shooting up. We thought: ‘What’s going on?’. One of the lads went out – he was like: ‘I can’t watch, I can’t watch.’ Then we got a call from him saying: ‘I’m coming back! I’m bringing my daughter!’ He just wanted to be with the team.”Now, from the reasonably modest target of £175,000, the ambition has widened slightly. The company had in place a selection of stretch goals – additional game features that could be added if funding surpassed the target – most of those were ticked off within 24 hours of the launch, including local two-player co-op and four-player competitive modes. At £1m, the studio confirmed that it would be able to simultaneously launch the game on PC, Mac, Wii U, PS4 and Xbox One.From here, according to Price, it’s all going to be about adding polish rather than major new features. One thing we’ve seen from several high-profile Kickstarter projects is the addition of ambitious new features, which slow down development and ratchet up costs. Double Fine’s Broken Age adventure, eventually released in two parts, has been a widely discussed example of Kickstarter hubris.“We didn’t want to fall into the Kickstarter trap of adding more stuff to the game, which adds risk and bloats it,” he says. “We weren’t thinking about it from a business perspective, it was as fans of Kickstarter itself. We don’t like it when other people over-promise. If you take our stretch goal to add an orchestral score – that doesn’t add risk to the project. Any more that we add will just be giving specific features to the fans, we don’t want to make our lives worse by adding stuff that may well mean we miss our release date. We’re going to try to do the opposite of what a lot of people have done on Kickstarter – if a stretch-goal feature is vital to the game, then why wasn’t it in there to begin with? It’s important to learn from the lessons of others. We’ve had a lot of first-time Kickstarter backers, it’s our responsibility to show off the platform.”With launch slated for October 2016, Playtonic may well find itself in the nostalgic platform adventure market with its old employer: Rare is highly likely to announce a new Banjo-Kazooie title (or at least a game in the same genre) at this Junes’s E3 event in Los Angeles. Although it seems diplomatic relations are still good.“The creative director of Rare shared a link to our Kickstarter on Facebook,” says Price. “I’ve also had [senior Rare designer] Gregg Mayles jokingly offering to sell me unused Banjo-Kazooie assets. We’ve had tons of support from loads of our old colleagues. And I’m looking forward to what they announce this year, as well.”At the time of writing, the Yooka-Laylee project had reached just under £1.4m. The biggest UK games success on the platform was Elite: Dangerous, which closed at £1.5m in January 2013. “It would be a sort of honour to beat that,” says Price. “But really, by the time Yooka-Laylee launches, the Kickstarter will have been forgotten. All that will matter is how good the game is.”
Only last month, the government decided to launch a £4 million prototype fund to help start-ups in the video games sector as part of the chancellor George Osborne’s final budget of the current parliament.This government also announced an additional £4m funding over the next two years to support the Skills Investment Fund – a pot of match-funding for training within the video games industry and other creative sectors.These two initiatives are extremely welcome and it’s important that whoever forms the next government shows the same level of commitment to the future development of all creative industries that the coalition has shown to gaming.Those parties whose stated aim is to encourage Stem – science, technology, engineering and maths – need to produce Steam, and include the arts as central to a generation’s cultural education.The Green party is the only national party to promise public arts investment to the tune of £500m, along with the reinstatement of the “proper level of funding for local authorities, helping to keep local museums, theatres, libraries and art galleries open”.The Conservatives promise investment in big projects such as a state-of-the-art concert hall for London and a great exhibition in the North. On the subject of the tax incentives and funding for films, video games, animation and theatre, they say: “We will continue these reliefs and expand them when possible.”Meanwhile, it’s our responsibility to ensure that we, as the gaming industry, take our responsibilities towards family values and online security seriously so that gamers are entertained in a safe environment. The Conservatives back us on this by promising to protect IP and continuing to require internet service providers to block sites that carry large amounts of illegal content.Together with the next government, we need to ensure that the prototype fund is spent on projects that have real commercial potential so that we can show that, as an industry, we can turn £4m into £40m and make significant contributions to the country’s bottom line.Often with government subsidies, people with worthy yet unrealistic projects become adept at winning investment. This fund needs to pump-prime commercial projects so that we can grow it under a new political leadership in the future.Interestingly, all parties who mention creative industries support more investment in training and apprenticeships across the sector.Labour will guarantee a universal entitlement to a creative education “so that every young person has access to cultural activity and the arts by strengthening creative education in schools and after-school clubs”.The Liberal Democrats are the only party to include a specific mention of creative industries in their industrial strategy as one of the sectors “critical to Britain’s ability to trade internationally”.Their manifesto explicitly links “arts, creative industries and culture” together under a heading “pride in creativity” as being “crucial to Britain’s success and essential for personal fulfilment and quality of life”.Change always breeds uncertainty and the election on Thursday will be no different. However, as creatives, we are perhaps better placed to deal with change positively and adapt or react in a more creative way.It’s important, though, that whatever the outcome we continue to hold political parties to their promises and drive investment, training and development in the creative sector forward for new generations to enjoy.Jason Kingsley OBE is co-founder and creative director of games maker Rebellion and chair of the Independent Games Developers Association (Tiga). He sits onthe government’s Creative Industries Council.
More than 85 million people are using the MyFitnessPal app to track their diet and exercise. Now the company behind it is hoping some of them will pay for it.The firm, which wasacquired by US sportswear brand Under Armourfor $475m (£314m) in February, haslaunched a premium subscriptionfor its app, charging $9.99 a month or $49.99 a year for additional features.Those include recipes, meal plans and nutritional tips; the ability to set and track “macronutrient” goals; and the option to “jump to the front of the line” when needing customer support. MyFitnessPal is also removing its banner and news-feed advertising for subscribers.Like other apps in the health and diet-tracking market, MyFitnessPal built its audience with a completely free app, but now needs to figure out how to make money from it – even if being owned by a much larger company takes some of the short-term pressure off.Most people who start tracking their steps, calories or workouts in a health app don’t stop to think about whether the company providing it has a sustainable business model, but it’s an important question on privacy grounds alone.If people aren’t paying for their fitness app, chances are someone is paying for the data they’re putting into it: a study conducted by Evidon for the Financial Times in 2013 found that 20 of the most popular apps weresharing their users’ data with nearly 70 advertising and analytics companies.Related:Yes, those free health apps are sharing your data with other companiesTo some extent, this is necessary and does not involve handing over the actual health data – for example using demographic information to target advertising better, or using an external analytics company to understand how people are using an app and thus how it can be improved.Even so, large insurance companies are watching the fitness apps market with keen interest, which in turn should be sparking more discussion about how these apps make money, and how this sits alongside the privacy of their usersWith that in mind, the emergence of subscriptions for these apps should be a positive trend. If MyFitnessPal can persuade just 2% of its users to upgrade, that would be 1.7 million people paying $9.99 a month – a $200m annual business.This is small beans by the standards of the fitness and sportswear industries, but there may be potential for more partnerships with companies in both those areas: for example, gyms bundling a MyFitnessPal premium subscription in with their memberships.
It’s Mon ... no, sorry, Tuesday!
All right. Confession time. My favourite game release so far this year isn’t one of those new, shiny PS4 games with super-slick graphics and enormous open worlds. It’s not a Kickstarted iPad game with an intriguing physics mechanic. It’s not even one of those exciting Twine interactive fictions, taking advantage of the new tools available for non-coders to make games. No, my favourite game released thus far in 2015 was made in 1998. It’s calledGrim Fandangoand, as well as being an absolute masterpiece and comic delight, it’s a welcome sign of the games industry’s growing commitment to finding ways to port old games on to new platforms and to begin to create a canon of videogame classics.Grim Fandangois a simply brilliant piece of work. You play Manny Calavera, a lowly functionary in the office of the afterlife – Manny wasn’t a good enough soul in his time on earth to earn a luxury travel package to the Ninth Underworld so he’s working as a travel agent in the Department of Death. And that’s when the dame walks into his office; a dead dame, naturally, but a dame in trouble. Mercedes has been swindled out of her luxury express train journey and Manny determines to put it right. Half Aztec mythology, half noirish thriller,Grim Fandango(working title, The Long Siesta) is one of the most bonkers, creative, hilarious, touching and unexpected games ever made. If you described it asThe Maltese FalconmeetsCasablancaset in Mesoamerican heaven, you wouldn’t be far off. Comparing it to the sea of Identikit military first-person shooters and simulation games now on the market, its playful joy is even more astonishing. The creator, Tim Schafer, has funded a string of new games through Kickstarter, largely due to fond fan memories of this game.But the crazy thing is that all they could be for years were memories. I playedGrim Fandangoon my Gateway Tower PC, purchased in 1997. Now, I can still find ways to watch videotapes I bought in 1997, or audio cassettes, or even vinyl records I bought – anyone fancy a bop to Chumbawumba’s Tubthumping? And even if I can’t play my original version, most of the TV or radio programmes or songs I bought have been made available as digital downloads now. But computing technology moves fast and often doesn’t prioritise backward-compatibility. Unless I happened to keep an early 2000s computer in good working order,Grim Fandangowas gone. Old video games: they get knocked down, but – until very recently – they didn’t get back up again.Now, there have always been some brave men and women, spending their time carefully archiving games for future generations. TheCineteca di Bolognain Italy stores more than 4,300 videogame titles in pristine conditions, with carefully conserved consoles for scholars, researchers and fans to play them on. TheNational Videogame Archive, based in Bradford, is trying to do much the same thing. And there have always been rather complex technological ways to useemulators– virtual computers working on your more modern machine – to play the classics. But then, if you had to go to Bologna or Bradford – or learn how to hack into your television – to watch a print of any movie more than 15 or 20 years old, it’s hard to imagine that most of us would ever have seenThe Maltese FalconorCasablanca. And the potential for informed experimentation and building on past success must always be incredibly limited for a medium without a memory. So this is a trend worth celebrating. It’s not justGrim Fandango. Last year the richly imagined 1999 real-time strategy gameHomeworldwas made available on the digital platform Steam to arapturous welcomefrom a new generation of critics. The 1990sBroken Swordseries has found a new home on the iPad. The classic 1995 James Bond gameGoldeneyehas now been both remastered and “reimagined”. The list goes on.The work that goes into preserving these games and making them available is a gift. Give yourself a treat. PlayGrim Fandango:Mesoamerican noir heaven is as good today as it’s always been.
Cynical timesThe Apple Watch has faced a wealth of cynicism, not least from those who consider the wearable device an ill fit for gaming. Of course, people were cynical about games on mobile phones, and then there wasAngry Birds.HoweverOne outfit willing to consider the watch’s potential is Bossa Studios, a London-based team famed for tongue-in-cheek titles such asSurgeon Simulator. And now it is working on a smart piece of interactive fiction for Apple’s wearable.“We asked ourselves how we use a watch,” says Bossa’s Vince Farquharson. “You take it out maybe every 20 minutes, and use it for maybe three seconds. So we have to design a game that you play every 20 minutes for three to four seconds. That doesn’t exist.” Or at least, it didn’t exist. Bossa has filled the gap withSpy_Watch.Agents of changePlayers of Bossa’s game assume the role of a person wearing a futuristic watch. Really, then, it’s a live-action role-playing game. But it’s also an espionage-themed text adventure. Every 20 minutes, a fictional colleague in the field checks in through the watch, via real notifications, so messages come through among emails and texts from real-world contacts.The player simply has to tell their agent what to do to complete missions.Outside the watchIt’s an engaging, absorbing model. And rather than pull on the graphical power of the Apple Watch, the game uses words to guide the player’s creativity. “We provide the situation. Then the imagination bypasses the restrictions of the screen,” says Farquharson. There may be hope for smartwatch gaming.
Headphone cables can get caught in clothing, snagged on bags and trapped in doors, but it doesn’t have to be like that. Bluetooth wireless headphones can set you free of cables and connect effortlessly to almost any smartphone, tablet or computer.There is a dizzying array of Bluetooth headphones available ranging in price into the thousands. Here are five worth buying.Creative Sound Blaster JamThe Soundblaster Jams are difficult to beat for under £100 on sound for wireless headphones.Photograph: CreativePrice:£40Creative’s low-cost Sound Blaster Jams are budget Bluetooth headphones done right. They look and feel like a pair of headphones from the 80s but are relatively robust.Their simple foam ear pads fit on the ear without much padding, while their plastic headband is comfortable for shorter listening sessions, but not for hours on end.A big pause/play button takes up most of the right-hand ear cup, with volume and bass-boost buttons around the outside. The micro USB port and NFC spot for pairing are also on the right ear cup.The headphones have no standard jack, which means when the battery runs out, so does the music. Battery life is good, though, at approximately 12 hours per charge.They struggle with distortion at higher volumes and with powerful, driving beats, but overall they have excellent full sound, with solid bass and decent treble that is hard to beat for the price.The bass-boost button doesn’t do a lot, the noise isolation is poor and they leak sound more than the others in this group, although no where near as much as the cheap headphones that come with smartphones.Verdict:Best for the price-conscious who want to go wireless.Plantronics BackBeat Go 2The Backbeat Go 2s are about as wirefree as in-ear headphones get.Photograph: PlantronicsPrice:£50Not quite the holy grail of in-ear Bluetooth headphones – there is a cable between the two ear buds – the Plantronics BackBeat Go 2 are some of the best Bluetooth headphones for under £50.The two earbuds are larger than normal earphones, containing the chips and battery needed to make them work. They’re not too big and relatively comfortable, while removable rubber loops hook inside the ear to stop them coming out if needed.They sound as good as a £40 pair of in-ear headphones, with decent range, but lack real bass. Battery life is about six hours per charge via micro USB, while a remote with microphone on the flat cable changes tracks, adjusts volume and takes phone calls.They’re sweat-proof and light enough not to get in the way, making them ideal for the commute or working out.Verdict:Small, light and sweat-proof, a runner’s dream.Sony MDR10RBTSony’s mid-range Bluetooth headphones are light and comfortable, with long battery life.Photograph: SonyPrice:£169If you want light, comfortable headphones that last for hours, Sony’s MDR-10RBT are a great choice. The over-ear headphones last up to 18 hours per charge and are light, well-built and comfortable, with a soft padded headband and ear cups.The right-hand ear cup has separate pause, play, track-skip and volume buttons that work well, while the left-hand cup has the power button and headphones jack for using a cable.They have NFC for one-touch pairing with a smartphone and are rated for “hi-res audio”, if you have any better than CD music available.The Sonys are quite bass-heavy and have a concentrated, energetic sound, which won’t please those looking for neutral balance. They make the most out of popular and electronic music, and passively block out background noise well.Verdict:Long-lasting and comfortable to wear, with decent sound.Parrot Zik 2.0The most technologically advanced Bluetooth headphones currently available are adaptable and comfortable.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianPrice:£299Bluetooth headphones don’t come more technology-packed than the Parrot Zik 2.0s. Not only are they wireless headphones but they also have built-in active noise cancelling, responsive touch-sensitive controls and sensors that detect when they are taken off and pause the music.Controlled via a smartphone app, the Ziks have four levels of noise cancelling and a built-in digital signal processor that allows users to tweak the sound to their liking.Bass, treble, soundscape, direction of audio and reverb can all be adjusted through the app, with settings saved across all music or automatically adjusted for each song. The end result is great sounding audio no matter what your taste.They’re comfortable to wear and last around six hours per charge with all features active, or about 10 hours with only Bluetooth on. The battery is removable, but can only be charged inside the headphones. They can also be used via a standard headphones cable even when the battery runs out.Verdict:The most technologically advanced Bluetooth headphones.Parrot Zik 2.0 review: wireless headphones designed by Philippe StarckSennheiser Momentum WirelessPremium feel and sound at a premium price.Photograph: SennheiserPrice:£380The latest edition of Sennheiser’s high-end Momentum headphones now come without wires, and you pay a pretty penny for them at £380.The Momentums have a fashionably retro style, stitched leather headband and soft, almost sumptuous, earpads. They’re well built, fold down for travelling and are not light, but not overly heavy either, and comfortable to wear for extended periods.The thick ear cups feature active noise cancelling for blocking out the drone of a train or plane. This works well, but cheaper, dedicated noise-cancelling headphones would do a better job.The noise cancelling can’t be turned off, but the battery lasts more than 20 hours per charge. The single-control joystick works well, but it would have been nice to have separate volume, pause, play and track-skip buttons. They can also be used with a headphones cable with or without power.They sound rounded and full, with strong bass when required, but not with constant overpowering thump. Overall, they have a relatively deep but neutral sound, good for most music types.Verdict:Headphone luxury with quality sound to boot.Other reviews•Six of the best noise-cancelling headphones to silence the commute
I registered my surname as a .com domain for my website. I received an email from a company claiming to be the registry for China, telling me that someone wanted to register the same name. Then I then received an email from a Gareth Cui stating that he intended to go ahead and register my name in the .cn, .com.cn, .net.cn, and .org.cn domains.I do not understand why someone wants to register my name in China. I assume that there is a scam behind this, but what is it?MichaelThis is a very common scam, but not a particularly dangerous one. The idea is to persuade you to register a number of overpriced Chinese domain names that you don’t need. It’s covered in the Wikipedia article on domain name scams underFake Trademark Protection, and a HoaxSlayer page,Domain Name Application Scam.For even more information, see the Australian government’sScamwatchpage, or the comprehensive guide at theEuropean Domain Centre.I’m surprised you’ve been hit, because your personal name is obviously not a product trademark. This kind of scam only works on companies who are worried about websites with similar names either harming or benefiting from their business. Even then, not many companies are bothered about Chinese domains, especially after the recent Cambrian explosion that has brought us .eu, .uk, .xxx and, especially, .sucks!Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Related:Silicon Valley CEO Dave Goldberg, husband of Sheryl Sandberg, dies at 47David Goldberg, the chief executive of the online survey and research company Survey Monkey, died while exercising at a private resort in Mexico on Friday, a spokesman for the company said.“According to a source close to the family, Dave Goldberg was on vacation with family and friends in Mexico,” the spokesman told the Guardian on Monday. “He collapsed while exercising in the gym. Efforts to revive him at the gym and at a local hospital were unsuccessful.”BREAKING: Mexico official says SurveyMonkey CEO died of severe head trauma in exercise accident.&mdash; The Associated Press (@AP)May 4, 2015Goldberg, who was married to Facebook’s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, was 47 years old.The family is planning a private funeral and memorial in California, according to theNew York Times. On Monday aWalt Disneystaff member told the Guardian the company had moved its quarterly earnings report and conference call to early Tuesday morning, to allow employees to attend Goldberg’s funeral the same day.In a company statement, Disney said: “We are deeply saddened by the passing of David Goldberg, and our thoughts are with his wife, Disney board member Sheryl Sandberg, and their family.”Goldberg’s brother, Robert Goldberg, announced the news on Saturday.“It’s with incredible shock and sadness that I’m letting our friends and family know that my amazing brother,Dave Goldberg, beloved husband ofSheryl Sandberg, father of two wonderful children, and son ofPaula Goldberg, passed away suddenly last night,”he wrote in a Facebook post.Mark Zuckerberg, founder and president of Facebook, shared a message on his personal page. “Dave Goldbergwas an amazing person and I am glad I got to know him,” he said. “My thoughts and prayers are with Sheryl and her family. I hope friends will join me in celebrating his life by sharing your memories of Dave on his profile, as his brother Rob suggests.”“So deeply saddened and shocked by the death ofDave Goldberg,” the Huffington Post founder,Arianna Huffington, wrote on her Facebook page. “I was blessed to get to know him through his beloved wife Sheryl and to see firsthand what an amazing father, son, innovator, and caring friend he was.”Huffington also shared Sandberg’s acknowledgement from Lean In, her bestselling book on women in the workplace, in which Sandberg refers to Goldberg as her “best friend, closest advisor, dedicated coparent” and the love of her life.“He supported me every step of the way, as he always does, with patience, great insight, humor, and love,” Sandberg wrote.Goldberg joined Survey Monkey, which is valued at $2bn and is backed by big names including Google Ventures and Bain Capital, in 2009.Besides the Facebook message, the family has not issued a public statement.
Twitter CEO Dick Costolo has declared a winner in Saturday’s fight between Floyd Mayweather and Manny Pacquiao, and that winner is … piracy!And the winner is...@periscopeco&mdash; dick costolo (@dickc)May 3, 2015After the blockbuster fight concluded, Costolo claimed Twitter’s application Periscope was the real winner in Las Vegas. The live-streaming service was used by people with pay-per-view to lend a helping hand to those who struggled to get access, or didn’t want to pay.It’s a trend likely to displease HBO, which showed unparalleled speed, height and reach when it came tofiling lawsuitsagainst companies advertising pirated streams last week. (The siteswent downin a first-round knockout.)Of course, it didn’t help matters much that Time Warner Cable subscribers couldn’t get the fight in a large number of the markets where it was supposed to be available for a fee of up to $100; the company, along with competitor (andsuitor) Charter Communications had nationwide outage problems.Fight of the century!pic.twitter.com/HzoVhgXyW2&mdash; Frank Pallotta (@frankpallotta)May 3, 2015Lest anyone feel too sorry for HBO, it’s worth noting that the fight was both supremely popular and supremely lucrative: Deadline reported an estimated 3 million individual pay-per-view streams purchased, ringside seats cost some $5,000, and all told, HBO/Showtime made an estimated $400m off the bout.But the live-streaming of Pacquiao/Mayweather illustrates just how quickly companies like Twitter will have to act if they want to maintain cordial relations with Hollywood. And they do: one of HBO’s partners was, in fact, Periscope, which had a sponsored stream inside Manny Pacquiao’s dressing room last night.Related:Was Mayweather v Pacquiao the end of boxing as we know it? | Kevin MitchellBy the time anybody from Twitter is able to bust a user for piracy via the traditional takedown notice, observed Variety’s Andrew Wallenstein, the damage will already be done. “It will be absurd for Twitter to mount the defense that it complies with any takedown notices filed over copyright-infringing content,” Wallensteinwrote in an op-ed Sunday morning. “Because by the time the compliance occurs the livestream is already over, the company is going to need to figure out a better way to combat piracy on the fly.”That’s particularly true if Twitter is going to court TV networks and movie studios; recent promoted tweets on the service include a campaign for The Avengers and today’s Target promotion, pegged to Star Wars day (yes, May the Fourth).Playing whack-a-mole with pirates as they set up their streams may seem impossible, but it may also be the only way to retain the respect (and, much more importantly, the investment) of Hollywood. Twitter, after all, is ad-supported and having trouble with the advertising end of its business, according to itsmost recent quarterly results. And the very last thing the company needs at the moment is a popular new product seen as toxic to advertisers who would appear to be a natural fit, namely movie and TV companies.Consumers, however, seemed pretty gung-ho about the app. Costolo’s feed was filled with people thanking him and Twitter for allowing them to watch the fight (without paying for it) all over the world.
You float above a garden in Belgium. There’s not a soul in sight. In another picture a group of men stare up at you from the entrance of a church, eyes squinting in the sun. In another you drift across a charred landscape, black and scabbed, as if the desert has bubbled up in blisters. A caption by the user who uploaded the photo on to Dronestagr.am, Eric Hanscom, says: “I was at a seminar a while back where a man from the military explained that his strategy for drones was to put a drone in harm’s way before he would put a person. I took the same approach with my Bebop over the mud volcanoes of the Salton sea.”Bebop is a consumer multirotor aircraft, a personal drone, and sites such as Dronestagr.am allow users to upload and share photographs and videos taken using their drones.The images on Dronestagr.am are mostly scenes of natural beauty: grand vistas, panoramic shots of beaches and red-roofed villages tucked between rolling hills. These photos are charted across a world map on the front page of the website, clustered around Europe, North America and South East Asia. There are very few photographs on the website from the Middle East.Aside from Hanscom’s brief mention of military tactics, there is no trace on Dronestagr.am of drone warfare. These are drones in the growing commercial sense of the word, as luxury gadgets with grand, cinematic appeal.Likewise, British NGOs’ current use of drones in Nepal to assess earthquake damage and in search-and-rescue missions illustrates their humanitarian possibilities.Dronestagr.am recently partnered with the NYC Drone Film Festival. National Geographic sponsored the website’s annual competition in 2014. There are channels on Vimeo dedicated to “dronies”, selfies taken using drones. On YouTube, a recent video of a man running to save his drone from a watery grave has garnered millions of views. South Park even dedicated an episode to the subject.Coral Garden by Marama on Dronestagr.am.Photograph: Dronestagr.amAt the same time, drone warfare is in the headlines. There are regular strikes in Pakistan, Yemen and Afghanistan. Recently it was reported that a US drone strike killed an American and an Italian citizen held captive by al-Qaida. With two faces of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) developing side by side, what exactly do we talk about when we talk about drones?The founder of Dronestagr.am, Eric Dupin, makes a clear distinction between the 400g multirotor vehicles used by drone photographers and military drones like the MQ-9 Reaper, which has a maximum take-off weight of more than 4,500kg. “People still tend to get confused between ‘bad drones’ (drones with warfare or surveillance purposes) and ‘good drones’ (drones to help people and show the beauty of the world),” he says. “But I’m confident in the fact that it will probably change when people take personal drones for what they are: smart flying cameras that take stunning images of their surroundings.”It’s important to do our bit to make sure that drones are seen in a positive light, as a content creation toolThis tension between good and bad drones is evidently a frustration for many drone enthusiasts. In 2014, Joanne McNeil and Ingrid Burrington reported on a Drones and Aerial Robotics Conference in New York where an audience member accused the panel members of “racism towards drones”.Said “drone-ism” involves tarring personal drones with the same brush used to judge military drones: something that, according to drone enthusiasts, shows ignorance towards the history and culture of the technology. Are these frustrations grounded? Is it unfair to speak about drone warfare in the same breath as drone photography? Don’t drone owners, after all, just want to take nice photos?After clicking through his photos of mud volcanoes, I contacted Eric Hanscom and asked why he was so drawn to taking pictures with drones. “With drones, you can get much closer to an object and see it as though you were a bird,” he explains. “You can use a helicopter to get many of the shots you can take from a drone, but helicopters can cost thousands of dollars per hour. If you get a helicopter 18 inches above a flowering saguaro cactus, the flower will be blow to bits well before you can get the picture.”Light, agile, unmanned; UAVs can go places that would otherwise be too expensive or dangerous to reach. Dupin goes so far as to say that they offer a whole new framework for photographers to work within. “It is not selfies or ground photography, it’s a new pictorial language. When you are piloting a drone and you get photos and videos, in some way it’s like you’re a bird or a plane pilot. You can see your house, your district, your city or a landscape like you’ve never seen it.”Anyone who’s spent a substantial amount of time looking at their roof on Google Earth will understand the appeal of peering down at your surroundings. Seeing streets you know from an aerial perspective can be enjoyably defamiliarising, but there’s a tension here between the freeing bird’s-eye view that both Dupin and Hanscom espouse and the tactical language of surveillance.Members of the British NGO Serve On guide a drone above Chautara, Nepal.Photograph: Jessica Lea/DFIDI don’t think there was ever much of a public perception of the military ones before the civilian ones arrivedSurveillance is a word that tends to go along with “bad drones”, and there have been a number of recent news stories where good drones have been shown that they are capable of acting bad. Last week alone, French police investigated a number of personal drones that were seen to fly over several sensitive landmarks in Paris, and in a separate case a personal drone laced with radiation landed on the office of Japan’s prime minister.The association of drones with destructive weapons is hard to shake. Type dronestagram on to Google and the first result you get will be the photosharing site. The second result will be a project, also called Dronestagram, which shows the locations of drone strikes in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia. This site was founded by the British writer and artist James Bridle in 2012, a year before the creation of the photo-sharing site. Bridle uses records drawn from the Bureau of Investigative Journalism and images from Google Maps to chart the sites of drone attacks and upload them as they occur to Instagram.“Drones have been increasingly common in warfare for over a decade now, but it took them quite a while to reach public awareness,” Bridle explains.“And this really coincided with the rise of civilian drones – that is, remote-controlled aircraft capable of hovering, carrying cameras and so on. I don’t think there was ever much of a public perception of the military ones before the civilian ones arrived. It’s happened very quickly in the public imagination. For those of us who’ve been studying them for longer, it’s been a sudden change.”Related:Lords urge compulsory registration of all civilian dronesThis rise of drones in the public imagination looks set to continue. For the past few years, personal drone ownership has largely been the territory of wealthy hobbyists, but, as the technology becomes cheaper and more readily available, there are a growing number of companies looking to tap into the mass-market potential of drones. One prominent example is Zano, developed by British technology firm Torquing Group. Controlled by a smartphone, Zano aims to greatly increase the accessibility of aerial photography. It managed to raise more than £2 million on the crowdfunding site Kickstarter with the tagline “Taking your selfies to new heights”.“A lot of stories in the media about drones are about the obvious connotations of what’s happening in Palestine with drone attacks,” says Reece Crowther, marketing and business director of Torquing Group. “Bearing in mind that all of that is so far removed from consumer drone technology, for us it’s important to do our bit to make sure that drones are seen in a positive light, as a content creation tool.”Bali Barat by Capungaero on Dronestagr.am.Photograph: Dronestagr.am.Crowther says that in addition to taking photos, there is the scope for drones like Zano to be used in disaster areas to help locate survivors, to inspect buildings, to find people lost at sea. “Zano really is 10-15 per cent of what the actual platform is capable of doing,” says Crowther. “When we first envisioned Zano, we had this great technology platform, this autonomous intelligent swarming drone, and we thought, how do we bring this to a consumer? But there’s also the other 85 per cent of the platform: it’s a highly intelligent inspection tool. It can carry payloads. It can be used for thermal imaging.”Related:Is it possible to run a drone business with an ethical base? | Antony LoewensteinThe benefits are numerous, but you don’t have to look far to see the flipside.As well as Zano, Torquing Group are also developing a number of other models. These include Swift, which according to their website “provides an ultra-transportable immediate situational awareness solution for military and law enforcement as well as industrial and urban inspection”. There’s also the Sparrow model, which has “military, law enforcement, civilian or industrial applications” and a model called Firecrest, the only details of which are that it is “for military applications”.It may be easy to draw a mental line between a 400g camera and a 4,500kg weapon but, as the capabilities and uses of smaller drones increase, the division between good drones and bad drones seems to become progressively harder to follow. Will this cloud our understanding of what drones are and aren’t capable of doing? Does it make drone warfare more tangible in the West, or does it distance us further from the military use of UAVs?“I think the latter is what happens more often, but it doesn’t have to be that way,” says Bridle. “This entanglement of the domestic and the military highlights the connections between surveillance and violence, between personal privacy and public agency, which are necessary to discuss and illustrate in both contexts.”The perspective of the drone is a perspective of surveillance; of over-watch.In Drone Theory, the French philosopher Grégoire Chamayou talks about drones and kamikazes as being on opposite extremes of conflict. “Whereas the kamikaze implies a total fusion of the fighter’s body and weapon, the drone ensures their radical separation. The kamikaze: My body is a weapon. The drone: My weapon has no body.”Above the photographer, the drone watches without a body. The eye it looks out from is its own. Perhaps this is what makes the pictures of towns and fields, no matter their beauty, seem ghost-like.There’s a picture on Dronestagr.am of a graveyard in Astorville, Ontario. The snow is so deep that it reaches the tops of the headstones. The next photo is beside a grave where the snow is low enough to read the names of the dead.From the perspective of the photo you must be kneeling, but there are no footprints on the snow.
Smart watches are attempting to break into the mainstream. The massive marketing machines of Apple, Google and Samsung are trying to push their appeal beyond geeks and early adopters and get everyone wondering whether there’s a smartwatch for them.Smartwatches have existed, in various incarnations, for 10 years or so. Last year saw Pebble launch the second iteration of its successful smartwatch; Samsung unveil its fourth, fifth and sixth smartwatches; and Google enter the game with Android Wear.But as with the tablet, the smartphone and the MP3 player before it, the launch of Apple’s first smartwatch has thrown the whole technology into the spotlight.Related:Apple Watch review: beautiful hardware spoiled by complicated softwareBefore the Apple Watch, only 2% of the British public was aware of smartwatches, despite their being available in store and online, and few people were convinced of their need for such a thing,according to data from Ipsos Mori.Apple’s marketing around the watch focuses heavily on two things: health and fashion. With a plethora of straps, watch faces and case combinations, it is, in Apple’s words, its “most personal technology yet”.But at its heart a smartwatch is all about putting notifications on the wrist, transporting them from a buzzing phone to an at-a-glance location more readily available during the day.Notifications on your wrist? Android Wear.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThey are inherently for the notification-obsessed. If you don’t feel the urge to reach for your phone the moment it demands your attention, then a smartwatch is likely to add little value to your life.Even Google’s head of design, Matías Duarte, agrees, recentlytelling Bloombergthat “the smartwatch is like an electric can opener”: often bigger, more complicated, and ultimately not necessary.If, however, your life revolves around the constant ping of emails, texts and notifications, which sees you reaching for a phone every two minutes, then a smartwatch could save you time.You could argue that something is wrong if you’re that glued to the constant happenings of a smartphone. Do you really need to know about everything? Can’t it wait? Is it even healthy?But the truth is I am that obsessed and there are many like me. By moving the ping, bing and bong to the wrist you can remove at least some portion of phone-digging.For email you can immediately archive with a swipe, evaluate what needs attention and only break out the smartphone if necessary. That effort saving increases with the size of the phone. Today’s smartphones are significantly larger than even a few years ago. The average screen size of a new smartphone in 2007 was 3in; last year it was just under 5in. Now it’s not uncommon to be using a larger screen. Even Apple now sells a phablet – a smartphone with a screen 5.5in or bigger.Try fitting the 6in Nexus 6 in your pocket.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianAs the screen size grows, so does the difficulty in storing the device. Where should it be kept? Does it fit in a pocket? And if so, can you actually get it out again? Invariably the answer is a bag or a deep pocket, which means actually getting to a big phone is difficult.In the adoption of the Apple Watch, one interesting anecdotal observation is that women are often the most appreciative of it, as they don’t have to fish it out of a bag.You could argue that without needing to have pocketability, maximising screen size for consumption of content is the logical next step.For those who are notification-obsessed, smartwatches can also act as a filter, with the ability to restrict which apps send alerts to your wrist, the types of notifications that can come through and who you allow to contact you. You can tailor an experience where only important notifications disturb you.The same thing can be done on most smartphones, but the slow creep of notifications has meant many people have yet to restrict them. Notifications on the wrist can feel more like an invasion of privacy than those on a phone, and so the impetus to actually do something about it is greater.So who is a smartwatch for? Anyone with the money to spend on something totally unnecessary, an arguably unhealthy obsession with notifications and the will to tolerate the daily annoyance of charging yet another device. Is it for anyone else? Probably not.
Faster than Ryu KOing Ken, Twitter has killed off the ability to playMS-Dos games in tweets.Just last week, users discovered they could take advantage of Twitter’s embedding feature to turn links to the Internet Archive’s 2,600 strong collection of emulatedMS-Dos gamesinto playable widgets on the micro-blogging platform. They used the same system – called Twitter Cards – which allows videos, images and other rich media to be displayed in-line in Twitter’s stream. The same system also displays ads.But embedding interactive media, and specifically games, within Twitter Cards is against the social network’s terms of service.Listed under “what the approval team looks for” in its developer documentation for cards,Twitter states: “Do not build end-to-end interactive experiences inside the video or audio player unrelated to Player Card content, such as the following: purchasing, gaming, polling, messaging, and data entry.”Once there was a game, now there is just a link.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianAnd so Twitter has now disabled the feature, likely after seeing the various news reports and a stream of Street Fighter II, Wolfenstein 3D and Zool littering people’s timelines.It’s game over on Twitter, but you can stillvisit the Internet Archive directlyto get your 1980s gaming fix. Or play here.Street Fighter II from 1992
Originally released last year for home computers,Tower of Gunshas made the move to consoles, bringing a distinct spin on the first-person shooter to new audiences through a simple set-up on which several eccentric, fourth wall-breaking narratives are built.Tower of Guns’s titular structure is maze-like, packed with an array of cannons and turrets, but there’s a straightforward goal: reach the top and destroy the final boss. It’s also partially procedurally generated, meaning enemies, stage order and such like are semi-randomised through each playthrough. It’s a risky approach that has the potential to leave a game feeling shapeless and unfocused, but here it’s implemented with flair. The result is refined, unpredictable and remarkably rewarding.Its form also owes a little to arcade gaming.Tower of Gunsis difficult, fast, and dying means going back to the beginning. It’s the reason the game is short, but immensely replayable. And unlike most in the FPS genre, there’s lots of dodging bullets, marking something of a nod from the third dimension to 2D shooters such asGradius V. Visually the game is distinct but a shade underwhelming, and a dash more variety in bosses and enemies would not have gone amiss. But as a whole, this is a refreshing spin on the form, with much to recommend it.
Did you buy a smart TV or set-top box or tablet any time before January 2013? Do you watch YouTube on it, perhaps through an app? Bad news: Google has shut down the feed that pushed content into the app. You may have noticed this of course: one person contacted me on Twitter to complain their daughter now couldn’t watch an ad-free YouTube video on his first-generation iPad (that’s 2010) via the YouTube app. Millions of people will be having the same experience. It’s not only iPads; pricey Sony, Samsung and Panasonic “smart” TVs (with built-in app capabilities) were sold by the truckload, and the idea was that they would be the future.Mediatel forecast in November 2012that more than 100 million households would be “smart” by 2013, and by the end of that year Samsung said the apps were used on two out of every three North American smart TVsAs people tend to replace their TV about every 10 years, there’s not much chance those buyers are in the mood to update yet – especially as everything else will work, just not the YouTube app. (You might be able to access YouTube if the device has a web browser. Not all do, though.)Google explains that this disconnect is because the API – the software interface – for remote access to YouTube has been updated from version 2 to version 3 (v1 was buried back in 2009; v2 surfaced in August). V3, launched in December 2012, offers more capability – though nothing that really matters to someone watching on an iPad or smart TV.As a user, do you care that the data comes back as JSON, not XML? That you can search on topics, or that v3 has “audience support” for content creators? I’d guess not. For the average user, v3 has nothing to recommend it over v2; if you’ve got an affected device, the whole useless app thing doesn’t commend it.But of course you don’t get to decide whether Google moves from v2 to v3. And Google is perfectly within its rights to make that change. The v3 capabilities make sense in the context of how YouTube is changing – towards “channels”, and also integrating Google+ (which hasn’t quite died). This doesn’t mean people have to like it, though. Oddly, Google declined to discuss how many devices were still using v2 when it cut them off, though it must know because every device that connects to its servers identifies which API version it wants. Usually, when such a number is very small, companies say: “It’s really very small.” The absence of that statement seems odd.The bigger lesson from this, though, is that there’s now a new dimension to obsolescence. We usually fret about the hardware in our “smart” devices becoming superannuated as the ever-increasing demands of the web or whatever the internet throws up next will leave fixed processor power wheezing.Now we have to worry too about software spigots being turned off. That’s not a hardware problem; it’s a more deeply embedded system problem, where the hardware is fine, the supplier of the data feed heads off in another direction, and the hardware maker might or might not be willing to update its product. It’s not only smart TV makers who are affected; owners of early Google TV set-top boxes are out in the cold too. You’d think that Google might be able to update that software to cope with a new API? After all, it’s only a little remote reprogramming. But apparently not.In the face of this sort of systemic indifference from all the companies involved, the best option is clearly to spend as little as possible on anything with built-in processing power. Don’t buy a smart TV; buy a dumb one, and add a cheap set-top box or HDMI stick (Google’s Chromecast or Amazon’s Fire TV Stick or the Roku TV are about £40; the Apple TV is £59). Grit your teeth and scrap it when the hardware or software or API gets outdated.But if companies wonder why we don’t buy their big promises – 3D TVs spring to mind – this is an object lesson. When a smart TV costing thousands can be hobbled by a third party’s tweak to a software interface that brings no obvious user benefits, it erodes our trust in the edifice of the technology world.
The football season is drawing to a close and without the joys of a World Cup or European Championship fans could be left with a barren two months with nothing to do but head out into a British summer. But fear not. Sports Interactive has come to the rescue. After years of slimmed-down, portableFootball Manager, finally a fully fledged iteration arrives on the iPad.FM Classic, as its name suggests, was a mode introduced to appeal to old-school fans who didn’t fancy delving quite as deeply into this most addictive, and complex, management simulation.It proved a hit and so here it’s replicated to a T, but on a touchscreen. The 3D match engine is present and correct, as are the meticulously detailed options that have always defined this archetypal management simulation. Some of the loading screens can be a bit sluggish, and the amount of text on the screen can make selections imprecise at times, but it’s still a hugely enjoyable time-sink. Nothing is more rewarding than spending days leading a team from non-league to European glory, and now there’s the added bonus of being able to do it in the glorious outdoors. But, well, with that British summer, just make sure you have an umbrella handy.•The screen grab accompanying this article was changed on 6 May 2015, as the original one was from a different game
Back when arcade cabinets still attracted queues of eager gamers, theGradiusseries was a titan of the 2D shooter genre. To this day, the variousGradiusgames, sometimes known under the alternativeNemesismoniker, still enjoy great affection among fans, but new releases are all too rare. But now, at least, the magnificentGradius V, last seen passing under mainstream radar as a 2004 PS2 release, is available as a PS3 download.Developed by Treasure, the studio famed for crafting influential shooterIkaruga,Gradius Vboasts an epic atmosphere all too rare in a genre typically more concerned with game mechanics than tone, but it hasn’t forgotten its arcade heritage, delivering a pitilessly difficult challenge packed with subtle gameplay. It should be noted, however, that this is a bare-bones rerelease, with no HD update or new features, and there is a barely detectable control lag that may concern high-level players. Nonetheless it remains an opportunity not to be missed: a chance to play a design masterpiece of the genre.
I have tried to copy files from my old computer running Microsoft Windows 7 to my new one running Windows 8. When I try to open the files, I get a message telling me that I am not authorised to open them.MauriceWhen you use a Windows PC, you do it via your user account. This “owns” all the files you create, and lets you set permissions for sharing them (or not). This is handy when the same PC is used by several different people. However, when you move the file to a different PC, it can no longer find the account used to create it. If this happens, Windows will tell you that “you don’t currently have permission to access this file” or folder.You can click Continue and, usually, get permission to access a particular file. However, if you have a lot of files, this quickly becomes tedious. The solution is to use a utility that enables you to take ownership of many files at once. In this case, I suggest youdownload TakeOwnership.zipfrom the How-To Geek website.TakeOwnership.zip isn’t really a program – it’s only 622 bytes, including the uninstall part – it just modifies your Windows registry.Most people only run into this problem when they attach an old PC drive to a new PC to transfer data, perhaps by installing it in an external USB hard drive enclosure – which is how I came to use TakeOwnership.zip myself.The other way to take ownership of a whole drive is to right-click on it and select Properties. When the property sheet comes up, click the Security tab, select Authenticated Users, and then hit the Advanced button. This lets you change permissions for the one or more accounts on the hard drive.Techfleecehas an illustrated tutorial to show the process.Have you got a question? Email it toAsk.Jack@theguardian.com
Google’s latest doodle celebrates the 360th birthday of Bartolomeo Cristofori, the man widely credited with inventing the piano.Cristofori was born in Padua on this day in 1655 in what was then the Republic of Venice.According to Encyclopaedia Britannica, the instrument Cristofori invented was referred to during his lifetime as a harpsichord that plays soft and loud, from which its name is derived. In Italian, the phrase is gravicembalo col piano e forte.Related:A new 'human' piano is unveiled in BudapestOn the blog dedicated to its doodles, Google wrote that one of Cristofori’s “biggest innovations was creating a hammer mechanism that struck the strings on a keyboard to create sound. The use of a hammer made it possible to produce softer or louder sounds depending upon how light or hard a player pressed on the keys”.It added: “Being able to change the volume was a major breakthrough. And that’s exactly what doodler Leon Hong wanted to highlight in this interactive doodle.”Cristofori’s entry in Encyclopaedia Britannica notes that little is known of his life and that his invention was not well known in his lifetime, even if it has since become ubiquitous.It reads: “Cristofori apparently invented the piano around 1709, and, according to contemporary sources, four of his pianos existed in 1711.”
Facebook has been accused of a lot of things, from riding roughshod over people’s privacy to prudishly censoring the most innocuous of photographs.But it’s never gone so far as to annex an entire island of 50,000 people and dump it in another country.A couple of weeks ago, the residents of the sleepy island of Gotland in the Baltic sea off Sweden, started to notice that many of their Facebook entries were listing them as living in Norway, not Sweden.Before long they realised that, as far as Facebook was concerned, their entire island was in Norway. Search for Gotland on Facebook and the map takes you to a point just north of Oslo on the river Glåma.Facebook map showing the position of Gotland incorrectly.Photograph: Facebook“It’s ridiculous,” said Ulrica Fransson Ingelmark, editor of the Gotlands Allehanda newspaper, which first reported the bug.“It’s been weeks since companies and private persons got a new address in Norway, and we talked about it a lot on the island, and nothing changed, and then we wrote about it, and now it’s a viral success, and Facebook still hasn’t changed it.”According to Julia Bendelin, who works for an advertising agency on the island, the glitch is causing real inconvenience.“Last weekend I started a Facebook account for my son, and the first thing that happened was ads from Norway for young kids in Norwegian, and I was like: ‘No, we’re in the middle of the Baltic sea, far from Norway.’ We’ve been hi-jacked by Norway.”“Of course it’s a problem for small businesses,” she added. “We live off tourists and we don’t want them to go to Norway, we want them to come here! We don’t do fjords.”Digerhuvud nature reserve on Faro island, just north of Gotland – in Sweden.Photograph: AlamyMandarva Stenborg, whose public relations company represents Facebook in Sweden, said she was still waiting for a reply from the company, four days after first reporting the problem.“I reported it internally to Facebook on Thursday and they haven’t said anything more,” she said. “I guess that they have escalated it internally, but I don’t have any more information on whether it is a mistake or a bug or anything like that.”For Bendelin, this isn’t good enough. “Don’t investigate it, change it,” she said. “Give us back our island!”
Constructed from carbon fibre, a material commonly used in aviation,this longboardputs the lightweight technology to use on terra firma (although certainly not with the aim of keeping your feet firmly on the ground). The Gridboard, rather unsurprisingly, is designed in a grid pattern, with the desire to cut down every ounce resulting in an elegantly simple symmetry to the deck. The team from Germany are looking to raise €20,000 (£14,380) on Indiegogo with backers offered the choice of two different wheeled boards depending on whether they want to cruise or freestyle.Prices for the ready-to-ride models start at €389 (£280) and are expected to roll up on doorsteps next month.One man and his… GoSun Grill.First came the GoSun Stove. Now cometh the grill. A bigger and better solar cooker for sizzling dinner-party sized dishes, the GoSun Grill could be the answer for those who want the outdoor experience without cooking on coals. It uses reflectors to focus light on to a central, insulated tube, within which temperatures can reach an astonishing 290C.Prices start at $349 (£234) on Kickstarter, but for an extra $100 it will come fitted with a rechargeable thermal battery allowing you to cook at night. And worry not Brits, there’s no need to bring the BBQ out of hibernation – the grill even works in cloudy weather.The jet-propelled SipaBoard.As far as water sports are concerned, standup paddle-boarding is not how any self-respecting – and infinitely lazy – gadget fiend would take to the water. Until now. Enter theSipaBoard. By pledging $1,290 (£865) to the Slovenian-based company on Kickstarter, you can get your mitts on a blow-up paddle-board that boasts an electric pump, which after inflating the board, slots into the base and works as a jet propulsion system. The motor is wirelessly controlled by the paddle, which not only controls the speed, but switches the motor off when it is submerged(aka when you fall off). But take care. The battery only lasts three hours, so plan carefully – you don’t want to be up a creek with just a paddle.Keep your shrubs in style with DasEgg.With German engineering having cracked the motorcar, it has made the natural step into indoor greenhouses. DasEgg houses your most beloved shrubbery within an egg-shaped micro-environment. No longer must you leave the neighbours on watering duty while you’re away – now you can remotely water your home’s greenery using your smartphone, while an inbuilt HD camera allows you to check in on which plant is best in bloom. Featuring temperature and humidity sensors along with an airflow system and filter, it’s likely the plants will be living in more comfort than you. Butat $1,280 (£858) on Indiegogo, this life of leafy luxury isn’t cheap.Chop-sabers: not as clumsy and random as a knife and fork.Not even your takeaway is free from the reignited Star Wars fandom. Ahead of the big-screen arrival of Episode VII in December, Lucasfilm Ltd have given the green light to illuminated “chop sabers” allowing you to dine like a Jedi.Available on Fireboxfor £12.99, these gimmicky eating utensils come in either Darth red or Luke blue. Will you succumb to the dark side? Once you’ve mastered their use, the challenge then becomes trying to continue making the unmistakable sound effects with a face full of noodles.
And now for a wholly different area of politics. Here’s Google, the mightiest search engine in the universe, struggling to win press friends and get the European Union’s antitrust campaigners off its back. So here, in turn, is £107m (carved from some $66bn in revenues last year) to start a “Digital News Initiative” that will help eight European newspapers (including theGuardian) to devise fresh platform opportunities, train staff and – via the Reuters Foundation – learn more about the good digital things that are happening across the 28 EU nations. Oh, and we’re sorry we haven’t been softer and gentler down the years, a European main man tells anFTconference of the great, good and grateful. What’s not to like?There’s no instant reason to poll the lucky first eight perhaps – although their initial reaction is a bit suck-it-and-see. Google doesn’t do “nice”. Google is Godzilla, not Paddington Bear. But let’s dig around for theories that might underpin this beneficence.One is simply what it says on the label. News is content. We at Google need content to aggregate or string ads around. But we don’t do news ourselves: you guys do it for us, and you’re having a rough time. Let us play good Samaritan (up to a finite financial point). Let’s also get closer to publishing ourselves, and to the publishers that count.Another is spin doctoring. EU politicians are causing us a good deal of grief because they’re responding to the voluble grief of their printed press. But if we give publishers money, maybe they’ll go quiet in turn – and lo! a certain hush does descend. But now, in time-honoured electoral fashion, consider adding complexity to these approaches: the frisson-of-fear factor.Surely Google is so big, so powerful, that apprehensive frowns never cross corporate faces? Just last week, the Pew Center’s USState of the News Media 2015report showed that Google still gets 38% of online ads – but look at display, with Google stuck on a 14% share, and mobile, with 12%. Then click over to Facebook, taking 24% of digital display, 37% of mobile display and growing fast. It’s Godzilla versus King Kong, and the omens aren’t heartening. Does Google want to get mired in the kind of antitrust nightmare that took the wind out of Microsoft’s sails and once pushed IBM to the brink?One answer is to click back through 10 years of Pew reports. Where are the mobile display figures for 2005? There aren’t any. The iPhone came two years later, the iPad two more. Facebook was just starting. Yahoo and AOL were Google’s big rivals. There were other nasties called Monster and Craigslist. And could theNew York Timesfollow theWall Street Journaland start charging for digital subscriptions? Cue anxious comparisons with cable TV.It was a different world. But most of the newsrooms that served it are still around. Bricks, mortar and hands on keyboards still have a role. Someone needs to get the news in the first place. Not everything changes utterly. But what changes most of all is corporate hegemony once the flood of entrepreneurial force and technological wizardry subsides.Impermanence, 10 years on, seems a pretty permanent digital condition, rooted in fractured human relationships as well misfiring money machines. No wonder the ease with which Facebook’s algorithms control the money tap seems just as much threat as a promise. No wonder new challengers such as Twitter suddenly stumble into a wall. No wonder Google needs to be part of the continuing, evolving action. No wonder, up to an profoundly uncertain point, it wants to buy love not war.
Polling day looms and, as the clamour for our votes reaches a climax in this extraordinarily close-run election, it might be supposed that gaming has little to add to the debate. But whether democracy really works and how is a question the gaming industry has taken on and with interesting results.Factors that determine not just a fair election but a working, democratic government are, in reality, incredibly hard to track. But in games, complexities such as voting, governing and policy-making can be expressed through simple, interactive mechanics, in turn illustrating how our political system works.Take theTropicoseries, where you play the new leader of a banana republic. The population comprises capitalists, communists, religious zealots and both the rich and the poor, so giving all things to all people becomes impossible.Industrialists might complain the country doesn’t have enough productivity and demand more factories be built. At the same time, the Christians want a new cathedral and ecologists campaign for more green spaces. Political power inTropicobecomes less about following an ideology, or even doing what is basically right, and more about trying to appease as many people as possible to win the next election.It seems this is reflected in reality. In his bookServants of the People, theObserver’s Andrew Rawnsley detailed the absurd lengths New Labour took to take the pulse of the electorate, forming its policy based on surveys, vetting processes and focus groups; inTropicopolitical life is very similar – leading becomes merely the management of public whim. It’s a frustrating battle with the people and you can’t help but feel weak, but the alternative is much worse. Ruling as a despot allows you to build and run the country as you see fit, but results in the need to deny elections, crush dissidence and imprison and kill opponents. One cannot help but think of Churchill: “Democracy is the worst form of government, except for all the others.”“Even if you have the means to answer the needs and fashions of a larger part of your society, you can still be ousted by some hot-headed rebels challenging your government,” says Bisser Dyankov, producer on theTropicoseries. “The consequences are different if you tweak poll results or declare martial law, and from the developer’s perspective it’s imperative that these options are available to the player.”So democracy inTropicoworks, but only when ideology submits to the caprice of the electorate. In contrast,Democracy 3, by UK developer Cliff Harris, imagines a political world where concrete policy-making trumps the need for voter appeasement. The focus is not on spinning the press or contriving methods to secure another term. It offers a big-picture vision of politics, where a leader’s decisions matter more than his media appearance. A response to existing political video games,Democracy 3also reflects the coverage of this year’s general election, which has been peppered with images of Nigel Farage in the pub or Ed Miliband eating a sandwich.“It’s a reaction to my own irritation that people seem to vote based on whether they’d like to have a pint with the party leader,” says Harris. “I’m trying to raise the level of political debate. We don’t hear enough debate on the actual meat and potatoes of issues any more. ‘Should taxes go up or down?’ ‘Should the police carry guns?’ Those are the things that are interesting to me.”So in gaming, playing politics is instructive of how democracy functions perhaps best in the middle ground.Tropicopromotes deference to the people andDemocracy 3champions hard policy-making. Somewhere between the two, illustrated neatly through video games, is a working, beneficial government – in games at least.Leading rolesSim CityOperating at mayoral level, you must construct housing estates, industrial parks and transport links to create and maintain a working metropolis. You must also oversee crime levels, tax rates and utilities.The Race for the White HouseA simulation of the presidential election whereby you choose a Democrat or Republican candidate and must allocate your campaign budget towards either smearing your opponent or talking up yourself. Notable for its slightly altered names – play as Jack Ohama or Mick Ronney.CivilizationYou control an entire people, from primitive beginnings through the Renaissance up to today and beyond. Focusing more on big leaps forward than political nitty-gritty,Civilizationinvites you to choose between humanitarian leadership and despotism.
Price £21,995MPG 40.9Top speed 143mphDr Vicki Melfi of Paignton zoo says you can read a monkey’s bottom like a traffic light – except in reverse. To them, red means don’t stop! And to make sure the males don’t, fertile females create an eye-catching display with their swollen and scarlet derrières. A little like what Peugeot has done with its new 208 GTi – the matte-black front half contrasting dramatically with the glossy rear end. I’d love to have caused chimpy chaos by driving it through the monkey enclosure at Longleat, to see what they made of it…This hot hot-hatch is the30th-anniversary version of Peugeot’s 208 GTi.It’s been created as an homage to the much-loved 205 GTi which still brings a gulp of nostalgia to the throat of anyone who came of age in the mid-80s. It was the red piping and rally-inspired mud flaps that always got me. Sadly, I never managed to get behind the wheel to relish the “legendary performance” everyone always banged on about (which sounds like one of those emails I keep getting these days promising a “Stronger boner and a stronger marriage”). But 30 years on, I have at last been able to put that right – about the car, at least.You have been able to buy a regular 208 GTi for the past year or so, but for an extra £3,000 you can now upgrade to this anniversary model – a sort of collectors’ issue in car form.Racing demon: the 208 GTi shows what Peugeot Sport has done for it.After leaving the production line, the 208 GTi makes its way over to the in-house “speed tweakers” at Peugeot Sport. This department of auto-boffins then sets to work on your perfectly decent car and transforms it into something a little less refined and lot more fun.It gets the simian paint job and is lowered on its suspension. It’s given wider and bigger wheels, too. To add to the growing sense of drama, flared chrome exhausts and red-brake callipers all make an appearance. Inside, there is more hotness. The gear knob becomes a sculpted aluminium affair; the instrument panel is outlined with a glowing red running line; the steering wheel is topped with a scarlet loop of stitched leather which nicely references the flickering needle points of the speedo and tachometer. Up front you sit coddled in a pair of bespoke bucket seats. They are really something. Imagine being held firmly in the palm of a giant suede-gloved hand. Well, that’s the feeling…Inside story: the stylish cockpit with exceptionally comfortable seats.And so to that “legendary” GTi performance I’ve waited all this time to experience. The car has been fitted with a revised version of Peugeot’s award-winning turbocharged 1.6-litre engine which now produces a pleasingly literal 208bhp. Fire it up and it gurgles and throbs with intent. Hit the throttle and off you shoot.The car handles itself in the same way you would if a team of experts had worked hard to get you into shape. It has swagger and a sense of entitlement. It looks fierce and uncompromising, and that’s exactly how it drives. Hammer into corners and it whips round them unflustered. Stretch it out on the open road and it laps it up, jumping from lane to lane with impunity. Basically, it’s a cocky little sod. Which in many ways is exactly what the 205 always was…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166Follow the Observer Magazine on Twitter@ObsMagazine
Are your election candidates up to scratch on community issues? Whose opinions really chime with your own? And are ingrained allegiances clouding your judgement? Two teenagers have developed an app to help you find the answers.Offering the digital-savvy a way to scrutinise those braying for their votes, Votr is the brainchild of Londoners Zak Cutner and Freddie Poser who turned their coding skills to politics – despite being too young to vote themselves. “We found an electoral commission survey which showed that young people wanted to know more about their candidates,” says 16-year-old Cutner. “So we chose to do something to do with the candidates and then we tied-in Twitter.” The upshot is Votr – an app that uses your postcode to collate the tweets of those gunning for election in your area and invites you to swipe, like the Tinder dating app, right if you like the tweet, left if you don’t and up if it leaves you cold. The identity of the tweeter, as well as overt party references, are obscured while you judge the posts, however a swipe down reveals your candidates’ names, parties and how they are faring in winning your approval.Cutner and Poser believe that the party-blind nature of Votr’s system will challenge voters to consider policies, and candidates, without preconceptions. “It’s showing someone that there are other parties and they are saying sensible things – you can’t just write it off as right wing fascism and left wing socialism,” says Poser, 15. The pair also hope Votr will highlight the characters of local candidates, and their personal priorities. “The candidate is so important because they are going to be the person in the House of Commons,” says Poser. “So if you are voting for your candidate on the back of what their party believes maybe you’re not making a fully informed decision.” Ultimately, he believes, Votr offers a more nuanced portrait of candidates’ opinions and personalities. “What you are getting are the actual tweets of your candidates – it’s not a sanitised party line.”Created as a prototype during a coding festival run by Young Rewired State last year, Votr was released on Google Play and the App Store this spring. And it is already attracting attention – not least from Silicon Roundabout’s Eileen Burbidge, co-founder of venture capital firm Passion Capital. “In terms of the younger generation and the younger voters I think apps like this are extremely important,” she says. “Not only because it brings [politics] to them but it’s in the way that they consume information.” British politicians, she believes, are not doing enough to engage with digital natives in their election campaigns, pointing by contrast to Hillary Clinton’s use of a video-sharing website in her bid to become US president. “She announced her campaign on YouTube, it wasn’t one of the national broadcasters or televised broadcasting, it wasn’t a broadsheet.” It’s a sentiment echoed by Cutner and Poser who discovered Twitter use varies hugely between candidates, from those who habitually tweet about local issues to others who shun the site altogether. “If they are not tweeting enough, and not about the issues, they are losing a valuable opportunity to show people what they really think,” says Poser.
Dave Goldberg, the chief executive of the online survey and research companySurvey Monkeywho was married to the Facebook chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg, has died aged 47. The cause of his death was not immediately known.Goldberg’s brother, Robert, broke the newsin a Facebook poston Saturday.“It’s with incredible shock and sadness,” he wrote, “that I’m letting our friends and family know that my amazing brother, Dave Goldberg, beloved husband of Sheryl Sandberg, father of two wonderful children, and son of Paula Goldberg, passed away suddenly last night.”Goldberg married Sandberg, the author of the bestselling bookLean In: Women, Work and the Will to Lead, in 2004. The couple met while working for Yahoo.In her book, Sandberg attributed much of her own success to her marriage to Goldberg, who she said supported her career decisions and shared equally in the work of raising their young children.Goldberg was a “true partner,” she wrote in Lean In, and he helped make her career possible.“I truly believe that the single most important career decision that a woman makes is whether she will have a life partner and who that partner is,” Sandberg wrote.In an interview last month, Goldberg told how he ran up huge credit card bills in the early 1990s to fund one of his first internet ventures, a music site, before going on to work at other tech companies, including Yahoo.He joined Survey Monkey, which is valued at $2bn and is backed by big names including Google Ventures and Bain Capital, in 2009.“Dave’s genius, courage and leadership were overshadowed only by his compassion, friendship and heart,” the company said in a statement. “His greatest love was for his family. Our sympathy goes out to them and to all who were touched by this extraordinary man.”Facebook founder Mark Zuckerbergalso posted a statement to his website. He said: “Dave Goldberg was an amazing person and I am glad I got to know him. My thoughts and prayers are with Sheryl and her family.“I hope friends will join me in celebrating his life by sharing your memories of Dave on his profile, as his brother Rob suggests.”
Good news travels fast, but bad news even faster – especially if it’s the release of lacklustre results from Twitter. That’s what happened on Tuesday last week when, through no fault of the company’s,its first-quarter earnings appeared on its website for just 45 seconds, but an hour before their scheduled release.Twitter’s shares began falling within seconds of the release being spotted, bumping down 7% from the day’s start, and after the official release of the figures, kept going down, falling more than 18% on the day.The social media site may be beloved of news organisations, celebrities, Islamist propagandists and trolls, but Twitter has a problem: it isn’t growing its user base quickly enough and it isn’t making enough money from those it does have to satisfy Wall Street. Analysts now follows the firm’s every move – and hasn’t liked what it has seen recently.Related:Twitter misses forecasts after results are published early – on TwitterThe main issue is that the growth in the number of “monthly active users” who sign in at least once a month – up 18% year-on-year to 302 million – didn’t seem fast enough. And revenues, at $436m for the quarter, up 74% year-on-year, haven’t risen as fast as analysts expected. Meanwhile the company’s $146m operating loss was bigger than the previous year’s $129m.Twitter wasn’t the only social network to record poor results and offer discouraging guidance last week. In the following days both business network LinkedIn and reviewing site Yelp offered low-key numbers and outlooks, and also saw their shares sink. “The social media bubble has many similarities to the 1999/2000 dotcom bubble,” notes Richard Holway, an experienced analyst at TechMarketView. “Nobody doubts that social media is a mass market of huge potential … [but] overall the market has overvalued most of them.”The key problem for such networks, which are principally advertising-driven, is persuading advertisers that they will get value for money if they use that service, rather than Google (where your searches indicate an intent that an advertiser can latch on to) or Facebook (which is increasingly sweeping up online brand advertising).Twitter’s revenue mainly comes from showing “promoted tweets”, “sponsored tweets” and “cards”, which appear in the timelines of tweets from each user’s followers. Those tend to be static text or pictures – but Vine, for user-made six-second videos, and Periscope, for live video broadcasting to one’s Twitter followers, show its potential to move into more lucrative advertising fields.The trouble is, it hasn’t done that yet – and costs, especially of sales and marketing, are still rising rapidly.Dick Costolo, the social network’s chief executive since October 2010, clearly sees the problem. In a conference call after the results were published, he announced the purchase of TellApart, an ad targeting company; a regulatory filing revealed the price as $532m in stock, based on the lower price at the end of the day. The idea of buying TellApart is to better target specific groups of people on desktops or mobiles – as Facebook can do with the data users supply in their profiles and interactions.Though Twitter is a household name in many countries – there are 15m tweeters in the UK alone – and is used for free promotion by thousands of brands, its problem remains getting users to act on the ads pushed into their timelines, and to persuade advertisers of its benefits.But is the market overreacting, or does Twitter really have problems?Dick Costolo is aiming to take better control of Twitter’s network and make more use of the data it generates.Photograph: Rick Wilking/Reuters“There’s no place in the digital world other than Twitter where you can get the real-time information and interactivity that you get there,” says Debra Aho Williamson, principal analyst for social media at eMarketer, which analyses ad spending online. “Advertisers find that really, really useful. For ‘in-the-moment marketing’, Twitter is really well positioned to take advantage of that.”But advertisers mostly aren’t set up to cope with abrupt increases in interest – to take advantage, for instance, of Twitter buzz aboutPoldarkwhen the TV drama was on air and post promoted tweets for holidays in Cornwall. Brand advertisers in particular tend to react more slowly, and that leaves Twitter competing with slower networks, unable to take advantage of its unique selling point: speed.As a result the company has also done a deal that has surprised many: it is letting Google’s giant DoubleClick ad network sell some Twitter ads. At first sight that weakens its control of advertisers, but Aho Williamson sees potential benefit in reaching the gigantic number of clients who already use Google. “DoubleClick is a distribution platform. It might not be as profitable for Twitter to sell an ad there, but it can add revenue Twitter wouldn’t otherwise have got.”Under Costolo, Twitter is also taking more control of its network and seeking fresh revenue streams. Last month it summarily ended the contract that gave the British company DataSift access to the vast “firehose” of all tweets. DataSift had used it to perform “big data” analysis for clients in all sorts of fields. Companies wanting that insight will now have to turn to Twitter-owned Gnip, purchased just over a year ago. It has also made it increasingly hard for outside app makers to offer Twitter feeds. That means more people using Twitter’s own app, and so seeing Twitter’s ads.Costolo’s strategy, however, has its doubters. Ben Thompson, an independent technology analyst, thinks the Twitter boss should “make way for new leadership that has improved credibility with Wall Street, with developers, and within Twitter itself”.On his Stratechery blog, Thompson comments that Twitter’s problem is “their active user growth is simply too small given their current size”. It’s smaller, Thompson points out, than Messenger and Instagram (both owned by Facebook) and barely bigger than Snapchat. If and when Snapchat passes it for users, Twitter will be at a disadvantage in attracting advertisers.It’s a valuable and interesting company; getting $1bn of advertising per year is quite an achievement by any standardsDebra Aho Williamson, analystThe solution? Thompson thinks Twitter should split itself up, rather as Facebook did into Messenger, Instagram, and others, and capture users in different areas – messaging, video-sharing, photo-sharing – so that advertisers can get more targeting than they could in the general noise of hundreds of millions of tweets per day.Aho Williamson, however, does not see any great necessity for dramatic change. “What they have built, in terms of a place for real-time information and news, is unique,” she says. “It’s a valuable and interesting company; getting $1bn of advertising per year is quite an achievement by any standards.”Despite its losses, the idea of Twitter vanishing doesn’t seem possible; there are plenty of big companies that would be happy to buy it (and rumours continue to swirl about Google). Holway, though, thinks that, for investors at least, the key is timing: “Just like the dotcom days, you can have a great time as an investor until the music stops. Knowing when to go home is much more important than going to the dance in the first place.”SOCIAL RIVALSIt’s a simple but brutal competition. Twitter is trying to pull in advertisers but is up against fierce online competitors – principally Google and Facebook.Worldwide digital advertising spending last year, according to eMarketer, which tracks online ad spending, was $145bn. Twitter captured just 0.87% of that, up from 0.49% in 2013. Facebook grabbed nearly 8%, up from less than 6% a year earlier. Google had more than 31% - or 36 times more than Twitter.While Twitter claims just over 300 million users, the total internet population excluding China (where Google has effectively zero users) is 2.6 billion. With Google getting 36 times more cash on eight times the users, it’s about four times better at making money from users than Twitter.Twitter is also jostling with other social networks seeking ads. Besides Facebook, there are Instagram, Snapchat, Pinterest and Tumblr. They are all competing for the most lucrative adverts, which come in the form of video, where Facebook dominates. Twitter is making headway there with its Vine offshoot - which allows users to make six-second videos - and its new Periscope self-broadcasting app.
Given the public’s insatiable appetite for reviving anything from the 1980s, fromDallasto Spandau Ballet, it was only a matter of time before wily entrepreneurs brought back the computer that did as much to define the decade as shoulder pads and the Filofax.For a large number of people in their 40s, mention of the ZX Spectrum will bring back fond memories of hours spent using a pad with rubber keys to type elementary code while waiting to upload a game via a tape recorder that emitted a succession of high pitched bleeps and whistles.Fans, however, will argue that the games were worth the wait. From Manic Miner to Football Manager, everyone will have their favourite. And now a new generation will have the opportunity to play them once again.The first Sinclair ZX Spectrum Vega games consoles will be distributed at the end of this month to the 1,000 customers who have ordered them. Costing £100, they will come loaded with 1,000 games. A further 3,000 consoles will be distributed in June and there are plans to produce another 10,000 in August or September if demand takes off.Games already confirmed as loaded included Hungry Horace, Desert Patrol 3D, BMX Ninja, Tank Command, Bear Bovver and Flight Simulator.The company behind the comeback,Retro Computers, chaired by the Spectrum’s maverick creator, Sir Clive Sinclair, was able to bring the product to market after raising more than £150,000 via a crowdfunding campaign completed within 36 hours.“We’ve been able to get into production so quickly largely due to the great success of our campaign on Indiegogo,” Sinclair said. “Crowdfunding is really an inventor’s dream, because it can not only bring in the finance needed to get to market but also it’s a test of how the market is likely to react to the product.”Chris Smith, a former ZX Spectrum games developer, who designed the Vega, said they had consulted fans of the original ZX Spectrum, which sold more than five million units in the 80s.“We are especially grateful to those Spectrum fans who have made suggestions as to additional features they would like to see in the Vega, and we have taken all those suggestions seriously,” Smith said.Retro’s chief executive, Dr David Levy, a British chess master who is president of the International Computer Games Association, said he first wanted to bring the Spectrum back some 15 years ago but his close friend Sinclair was lukewarm on the idea when they discussed it following their weekly poker games.“I’m glad we didn’t launch back then,” Levy said. “I think we wouldn’t be as successful as now. The internet wasn’t as well developed for getting your message out back then.”It was Paul Andrews, Retro’s managing director, who eventually persuaded Sinclair that the time was right for a revival. “I have personally been collecting retro technology, and especially Sinclair innovations, for many years,” Andrews said. “It’s a growing trend, as people look back nostalgically to what was their youth in the 70s and 80s, when technology started becoming part of everybody’s lives rather than the elite few. If you talk to people of a certain age, they will tell you, dewy eyed, about being huddled over a retro computer such as a Sinclair Spectrum or Commodore C64 plugged into a portable TV, playing games which by today’s modern standards are very simple, often very silly, but had a fun factor never seen before till that point in time.”Revival of the Spectrum brand will boost the profile of the 74-year-old Sinclair, who launched his first mass-market consumer product in 1962. “He prefers to remain in the background,” Levy said. “He’s a very shy person but he is enormously pleased by the success we’ve had.”An expert at miniaturization, Sinclair has launched more than a hundred consumer products, including the world’s first pocket television in 1966 and the world’s first pocket calculator in 1972. But the Spectrum is perhaps his most famous invention.“Clive’s genius was for developing products that were clever technology and low cost,” Levy said. “The Spectrum had only four chips. Its closest rival had more than 40 and sold for around £120. That’s £330 in today’s money.”The consoles, which are being manufactured by SMS Electronics Ltd in Beeston, Nottinghamshire, will allow owners to download extra games from the internet. It is estimated that 11,000 games were written for the Spectrum and a further 20,000 programs.Ultimately, Andrews believes people are not buying into a technology but a mood. “People know that the graphics and sound are not as good as modern consoles, but they want to get that warm feeling they had back as a kid, and I think this is why the Vega has had such a warm reception.”A growing nostalgia for the Eighties may help explain why other defunct technologies and formats are also making a comeback.Global vinyl album sales have surpassed the 9m mark for the first time in 20 years. The SodaStream is enjoying a renaissance. Top of the Pops is rumoured to be making a return on Friday nights. Levy said Retro Computers is looking to launch two further products after the Vega console comes to market.Levy, however, is unequivocal on one score. “Retro Computers has no interest in bringing back the C5.”
Are you a gadget fiend or a technophobe?A technophobe. It’s probably something to do with admiration for my dad [Tom Stoppard].Are you a fan of Skype auditions?I have Skyped with directors to discuss a role, I don’t think I have ever auditioned over Skype. I have done self-tapes [audition tapes], but it has always been a ridiculously ham-fisted process at my end. It took me years to get a video account and I still can’t quite remember how to log on to it.How has technology changed an actor’s life?Obviously being able to email scripts. I have actually got jobs from self-tapes which I otherwise wouldn’t have got, so clearly the advantages are huge.Do you use the web to research roles?Definitely. I do also go to the library. I am playing a character at the moment who was an anatomist of the early 19th century so I certainly did look things up on the internet but then at the same time I read books which had relevance. I also went to the British Library and asked them to get me out some 200-year-old anatomy books. Which, when push comes to shove, is more useful than just Wikipedia-ing something.Would you like to see theatre productions become more hi-tech?My father did a trilogy of plays at the National Theatre about 15 years ago and the designer used projections on to these big screens. It was set in the mid-19th century so he was projecting Russian landscapes. It was kind of wonderful. As long as the technology is enlightening me, is helping to unlock the play for me, then terrific.Your new ITV series, Home Fires, is set in the second world war - how did it feel being transported back to a pre-internet period?Oh, I’m much more comfortable in the 1940s. It’s my milieu, my era. I think of myself as something of a Luddite and I am sure my wife and my children think I am quite backward.Do you have gadgets you’ve bought but never used?I’ve got a drawer in my study which is just filled with wires and of course I don’t know what any of them do. I shall hang on to them thinking that one day I will be trying to attach some appliance to something else and in that drawer I will find a wire that will fit both ends and I will feel an inordinate sense of triumph.What’s the first thing you’d make with a 3D printer?On my way home last night on the train I came across an article about this company calledE-nable. One in every 1,000 kids is born with missing fingers. The company, if I’ve understood it, will find institutions or even individuals who own 3D printers and say can we use your 3D printer to print a hand? The cost of the conventional prosthetic hands runs into the thousands of dollars but the materials for these [3D-printed] hands cost between $20 and $50. If I actually found myself with a 3D printer I’d contact E-nable and go: “Hi I’ve got a 3D printer; do you want me to print a prosthetic limb for some kid?”What social media do you use?I’m not on Facebook. About a year ago I opened a Twitter account and I quite grandly, but also quite pathetically, thought I am going to subvert Twitter from the inside. So I don’t adhere to the 140-character thing – my tweets end in the middle of a sentence and then the sentence continues with my next tweet. Essentially I just ramble. I’ll do 11 tweets in 20 minutes because I am rambling about something and then nothing happens for four weeks.Do you use any fitness trackers?My wife did have this thing on her phone. I took it and went out for a couple of runs and I’d run for two minutes and this voice would go “now walk” so I’d walk a bit and then it would go “jog!” so I’d start jogging.Then I just worked out that I’ve got a fairly good idea of what two minutes feels like. It just doesn’t have to be that precise – I am not Mo Farah.Do you have any apps?I’ve got apps on my phone – I can check the stock market using an app. But I don’t own any stocks, I don’t have any shares. I’d like to get rid of [it] but it’s like it has been tattooed to my phone.Are there any apps you do use?The National Rail one. And Safari, that’s it. I am appalled. Hang on, let me check again. Maps, Safari and national rail. It’s pathetic. I know that there are apps out there that I would love to have, even if it is just one that [posts] me a newspaper everyday.There is a Guardian and Observer app...I like to buy the Observer, I like to physically have the newspaper. I wouldn’t want to read it on my phone. That would be like buying a newspaper and reading it through the wrong end of a telescope.Time travel - where to?Pre-industrial revolution, like mid-18th century. I would [also] like to go to Shakespeare’s Globe. Maybe I could just hop around in my time machine.
The Lexus only penetrated my consciousness when the Putin-like Russian president inHouse Of Cardsaccused Frank Underwood of offering him a Lotus deal when he deserved a Lexus. The metaphor distilled the profound mistakenness of the expensive-car-fancier: “I’m rich because of some innate superhuman power, mirrored in the power of this extremely expensive engine, which I can afford because – did I mention? – I am rich. Plus, I am young and slim, because my car is new and slim.” Circular logic, category error, primitivism, plain delusion: all play a part in the purchase of a car for £66,415. And the big-ticket car itself, trying to keep up with the status hopes vested in it, is packed with features that pretend to be about driving but no regular act of driving could possibly unleash.So, the Lexus RC F Sport is low, red, racetrack-ready. You could beat anyone off the lights; I don’t think I came across another car with this horsepower (450bhph, their most powerful engine ever), let alone the eight-speed sports direct shift. I don’t know what I’d have done if I had. Maybe bared my teeth or done a moonie. The handling is solid and nimble, but then I’d dropped (hypothetically) £3.5k on a torque-vectoring differential – it transmits torque independently to each wheel – so if the traction hadn’t been better than a regular human driver would have any use for, I’d want my (hypothetical) money back.I surrendered to more of its charms on the motorway; I can’t imagine what acceleration you’d have to require to see this car struggle. Across speeds that are anything like legal, it glides, like a cheetah. The cabin’s like a Tardis. Executive pewter seats are hard-upholstered, I guess to give you the impression you’re driving for your life, not going 50 yards in a 20mph residential zone, to show off.The other downside of being at the cutting edge of everything (apart from all this amorphous suspicion you generate, from people like me) is that nothing seems very intuitive. I could have grown a beard trying to figure out the satnav; I had to open the manual to discover that all the features were controlled by an unmarked grey touchpad I’d been using as a cup-holder. Emissions and fuel economy, as you may have guessed, are woeful – I didn’t even know tax disc bands went down to L. It’s like finding a new GCSE grade between E and U. Combined mpg is 26, but I don’t think I got even that. I was constantly thinking about petrol.Never let anyone tell you this isn’t an enjoyable drive. Is it enjoyable enough to warrant this heady waste? Of course not; to be that much fun, it would have to have a personality. Maybe wings.Lexus RC F SportPrice£66, 415 (starts from £60,000)Acceleration0-62mph in 4.5 secondsCombined fuel consumption26mpgCO2emissions252g/kmEcorating1/10Coolrating6/10
Four of the five most popular YouTube channels in March are aimed at children, and they racked up nearly 1.5bn video views between them that month.The latest chartfrom online video analytics firm OpenSlate and industry site Tubefilter shows that US-based toy unboxing channelFuntoys Collectorwas the biggest YouTube channel by some distance in March, with 477.5m views.Related:Little Baby Bum: how UK couple built world's fifth-biggest YouTube channelIt was joined in the top five by second-placedLittle Baby Bum, the British nursery rhymes channel, with 385.1m views that month. Two Russian cartoon channels,Masha and the BearandGet Movies, ranked fourth and fifth with 323.1m and 311.2m views respectively.Only musicianTaylor Swiftprevented a kids’ clean sweep of the top five with her channel’s 355.5m views in March, although if her views tail off in the near future, sixth-placed channelThe Diamond Minecart, with its child-friendly Minecraft videos, could swoop in: it had just under 298m views last month.The rise of children’s channels on YouTube has been rapid, yet also under the radar of the traditional television industry – at least until therecent launch of the YouTube Kids app.The trend has even pushed one of the biggest YouTube-born stars, gamerPewDiePie, down the chart: his was the seventh most popular channel in March with 295.5m views, although with 35.7m subscribers, he remains the most followed channel on Google’s online video service.Child-friendly gamerStampy, who used to be a fixture near the top of the OpenSlate/Tubefilter chart, has also been overtaken in recent months: with a still-impressive 210.3m views in March, he was only the 20th most popular channel on YouTube that month.The launch of YouTube Kids was pitched as a way for parents to be sure their children wouldn’t stray into unsuitable videos or advertising on the main YouTube service, although the app – still US-only for now – has caused controversy of its own.Watchdog groups have complained to the Federal Trade Commission(FTC) about the app, claiming it blurs the boundaries between advertising and children’s shows – including potential product placement in toy-unboxing channels.Related:YouTube backs digital star Stampy's new Minecraft show Wonder QuestSeparately, YouTube has begun investing in children’s shows on its service,buying up exclusive rightsto the first series of Stampy’s new Wonder Quest educational series, for example.“They’re definitely understanding that the younger audience is coming into YouTube,”Stampy creator Joseph Garrett told the Guardian in an interview. “Google saw potential in the show.”Some of the children’s channel owners that have been catapulted to global popularity are now working hard to build sustainable businesses. Little Baby Bum, for example, was founded by a UK-based couple in 2011 because they were disappointed with the quality of nursery rhyme videos on YouTube.“This wasn’t by design, it was by luck – we were in the right place at the right time,” co-founder Derek Holder told the Guardian in an interview. “It’s been mindblowing. Staggering. We pinch ourselves every day.”
