Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewAlthough Mario and Luigi are ostensibly plumbers, they spend surprisingly little time on the job with their hands down other people's U-bends. Their usual job is saving Princess Peach, as is the case in Dream Team, the brothers' fourth RPG outing. Cue lashings of exploring, levelling up and turn-based fights. Although set on Pi'illo Island, Mario can also traverse Luigi's dreams, a series of side-scrolling 2D levels that you conquer with prods to the sleeping Luigi on the touch screen. Jolly, entertaining and made even more enjoyable thanks to Nintendo's customary level of pristine polish.
Hulu's owners, 21st Century Fox, Disney and NBCUniversal, said they would provide a cash infusion of about $750 million to ensure its future growth.The on-again, off-again sale of Hulu is off — again.Hulu's owners, 21st Century Fox, Disney and NBCUniversal, said on Friday that they will remain owners of the online video service, while providing a cash infusion of about $750 million to ensure its future growth.The owners accepted formal bids for Hulu as recently as last week as part of their second attempt in three years to sell the company. But Friday's announcement suggests the bids were too low. Reports pegged the high end of bidding around $1 billion, which is half of what Hulu was valued at when the existing owners bought out Providence Equity Partners' 10% stake for $200 million in April 2012.Among the bidders were DirecTV as well as AT&amp;T in partnership with a group led by former Fox executive Peter Chernin. Time Warner Cable Inc. was reportedly interested in buying a stake in Hulu, rather than taking it over completely.21st Century Fox President Chase Carey said in a statement that taking Hulu off the market is the "best path forward.""We had meaningful conversations with a number of potential partners and buyers, each with impressive plans and offers to match, but with 21st Century Fox and Disney fully aligned in our collective vision and goals for the business, we decided to continue to empower the Hulu team, in this fashion, to continue the incredible momentum they've built over the last few years," he said.21st Century Fox last month split from News Corp., which maintains the conglomerate's publishing assets. Hulu's other owners are The Walt Disney Co. and Comcast Corp.'s NBCUniversal. Comcast is a silent partner as a condition of its purchase of NBCUniversal in January 2011.Hulu, which carries older movies and recently aired TV shows from Disney's ABC, Fox, NBC and other networks, has more than 4 million paying subscribers to its Hulu Plus premium plan.The $8-a-month plan allows greater access to back episodes and lets viewers watch content on multiple devices like mobile phones, tablet computers and game consoles. A free version of Hulu only allows viewing on computers. Both versions come with ads. Last year, the service generated about $690 million in revenue, but it wasn't profitable.
The abrupt resignation this week of William Lynch, the 43-year-old Barnes &amp; Noble chief executive, was only the latest in a catalogue of troubles at one of the US's biggest book chains. If this were a business whodunnit, nobody could fail to spot the culprit: Amazon.Still, with bookshops everywhere in retreat as the internet takes an ever greater slice of their trade, it seemed to many that a chain with its own dedicated e-reader – the Nook – could have the answer. But with Barnes &amp; Noble's device struggling to make any headway against Amazon's Kindle, that strategy, and the US bookseller's very survival, are now in question.The business is already looking troubled. In the three months to 30 April it saw revenues at stores open for at least a year fall 8.8%, while total online and physical sales fell 10% as some stores closed. In all, it made an underlying $118m loss in the quarter – weighed down by a $177m loss in the Nook division, compared with a $77m loss a year earlier.The Kindle has swept all before it in the global e-reader market and Amazon has millions of stores right on peoples' desks, smartphones and tablets through its website and Kindle app. Authoritative estimates for the UK market underline the Kindle's power, with Amazon believed to account for nine out of 10 ebook sales – an indication of the Kindle's penetration.Lynch, a former executive at smartphone company Palm, was hired from home shopping network HSN in February 2009 to head B&amp;N's online business, where he expanded its digital offerings and oversaw the Nook's launch. In February 2010 he was made chief executive, bringing his e-commerce skills to bear in charge of a chain with 675 bookstores in 50 US states, and 686 college bookshops. Now, he's gone.But this business whodunnit has a twist: the question being asked now is whether the e-reader category, including the Kindle, introduced in November 2007, has a long-term future. Global sales are plummetting in the face of competition from tablets, like the iPad, and smartphones."[Worldwide] e-reader sales have dropped dramatically to 17.9m in 2012, and will reach only 16.1m in 2013," says Hughes De La Vergne, who follows the sector for the research group Gartner. "Tablets costing $199 or less have become much more common and make it difficult for many users to accept the need for a stand-alone e-reader."According to eMarketer, another analysis company, the e-reader market is becoming saturated, if we take the dominant US market as an example. The number of US users has reached 63.5 million but people now buy tablets like the iPad mini, Amazon Kindle Fire HD and Google Nexus 7 in huge numbers. The amount of US tablet users is expected to rise 31% this year to hit 123 million.With tablets outnumbering dedicated e-readers, the ebook business is expected to split in the tablet's favour. On one side are the "bookworms" who buy a book a week or more, and want a dedicated e-reader; and then there is the much larger group who buy the occasional ebook but prefer a tablet for its ability to deal with email, web browsing and more.Nook Media, the Barnes &amp; Noble subsidiary that makes the Nook tablet, is already cutting back in the face of these changes. It won't make any more of its colour touchscreen tablets, where it was the first to the market in November 2009, a couple of months ahead of the first iPad. It has also slashed the price of the cheapest Nook reader to £29 in the UK. "That's made it really take off at retailers," says Lisa Campbell, senior reporter at The Bookseller magazine. "Some say they've sold out. But it's famously tough here for companies that aren't Amazon."While Amazon has never given Kindle sales figures, publishers are acutely aware that it dominates the ebook market, giving it the power to set book prices – even at a loss. Apple tried to break that stranglehold but this week a US federal judge ruled that the technology giant violated US anti-trust law by orchestrating a conspiracy to raise ebook prices with five big publishers."Apple did not conspire to fix ebook pricing and we will continue to fight against these false accusations," said Apple spokesman Tom Neumayr .The publishers have already struck settlement deals worth tens of millions of dollars to be paid out to consumers who had been over-charged as a result of the conspiracy.For those who are trying to make money from ebooks, the reality is that Amazon is now the only game in town, says Andrew Rhomberg, co-founder and chief executive of ebook seller Jellybooks.com, which aims to be as easy to browse as a real bookshop."Amazon is the 800lb gorilla," Rhomberg says. "You can't compete with them using the same model as they do. The booksellers' idea of competition is to have Google or Apple knock the stuffing out of them. But the whole e-reader category is shrinking." In fact, says Rhomberg, the suspicion is that Apple, rather than Amazon, has grabbed all the Nook business after improving its iBooks offering and introducing its eight-inch iPad mini tablet last October. "But people still use their iPad and buy from Amazon, using the Kindle app," he says. "It's the logical place to go. Tablets need video and games and music, which Amazon does too. You can't sell a tablet just with books."But you can sell e-readers to those who love books. Ebooks are booming for genres such as thrillers, romances and crime, with bookworms in those categories downloading and consuming so regularly that 50% or more of sales can be electronic. Coffee-table books which rely on pictures, meanwhile, don't sell in any number on tablets: "we still haven't mastered the layout and perception problems on tablets," Rhomberg says.For the Nook, there could still be a happy ending however, courtesy of a white knight. In April 2012 Microsoft spent $300m to buy a 17.6% slice of the Nook Media business in effect valuing the tablet arm at $1.7bn, more than its parent B&amp;N. Pearson, the educational publisher which also owns the FT, took a 5% stake in December for $89.5m, nudging the value slightly higher at $1.79bn. If Microsoft sees value in keeping the Nook going, it could get it at a fire-sale price.Douglas McCabe, who follows the e-reader sector for Enders Analysis, says: "People are moving to using tablets; it may be that the window of opportunity around [e-reader] products was very short."But he thinks the Kindle is the exception. "Because of the sheer scale that Amazon has built up over the years."Barnes &amp; Noble, he says, "is under a lot of pressure. It's in trouble." The only gleam of light, he suggests, is that the bookworms will continue to visit real bookshops. Barnes &amp; Noble's best chance might be to dump the e-reader and focus again on human readers."What they keep forgetting," says Jellybooks' Rhomberg, "is that Google didn't defeat Microsoft by building a better operating system for the PC; it built a search engine for the internet. And Facebook didn't beat Google by building a search engine. You just have to have a strategy that keeps you out of Amazon's shadow."
A perennial question that revolves around Nokia is: why didn't it choose to go with Android to replace Symbian when it decided to kill that as its smartphone operating system in late 2010?It's known that Nokia did discuss the idea with Google - but didn't follow through. That led to thetweet from Google's Vic Gundotrajust ahead of the announcement of the Windows Phone tieup in February 2011 that "two turkeys do not make an eagle".#feb11&quot;Two turkeys do not make an Eagle&quot;.&mdash; vicgundotra (@vicgundotra)February 9, 2011(That slightly sour jibe led toGundotra's boss telling him to stop tweeting.)But what, precisely, was wrong with Android in 2010? Elop expanded on this at a round table with journalists including the Guardian and other European papers. The question: did he ever regret not choosing Android as the platform for Nokia's post-Symbian smartphones?"I'm very happy with the decision we made," he said. "What we were worried about a couple of years ago was the very high risk that one hardware manufacturer could come to dominate Android. We had a suspicion of who it might be, because of the resources available, the vertical integration, and we were respectful of the fact that we were quite late in making that decision. Many others were in that space already."Now fast forward to today and examine the Android ecosystem, and there's a lot of good devices from many different companies, but one company has essentially now become the dominant player."This, he continues, becomes important in negotiations with carriers - who are the gatekeepers to getting a phone in front of so many people, especially in the US."Strategically that's important for us [to be offering an alternative OS] because having a conversation with [chief executive] Ralph de la Vega at AT&amp;T, the first step in the conversation is the recognition that we're not Apple, we're not Samsung/Android - used to be Android/Samsung, it's actually about Samsung now - we're a third alternative."And as an operator he wants to negotiate with different people and keep pressure on everybody and have the best range of options, he wants that third alternative. So strategically we have an opening with AT&amp;T and every other operator in the world - because we've taken that path as the third ecosystem."Now, it's hard - it's very difficult because we are starting as a challenger, we're having to build that credibility; but with partners like AT&amp;T we're gaining that traction . But it was the right decision. You look at a number of other Android providers right now and they're in a tough spot."Whether Windows Phone has definitely staked its claim as the third ecosystem ahead of BlackBerry should become clear on Thursday, when Nokia will announce its second-quarter results. That will bring figures for handset shipments. In its latest quarter to the end of May BlackBerry shipped 6.8m handsets; if Nokia can beat that (and the forecasts from analysts are that it has: they're putting the figure at between 7m and 8m handsets) it will begin to have credibility as the third ecosystem. Certainly there will be more Windows Phone 8 handsets out there than BB10 handsets; however there could be some way to go to beat the 75m BlackBerry subscribers worldwide, as Windows Phone has only shipped about 30m handsets in total.But for those who were wondering why Nokia didn't go with Android, Elop's reasoning is pretty clear: he and his team reckoned that Samsung would be well-placed (because of its manufacturing capability and history in the mobile space) to dominate, which would leave no room for anyone else.They've certainly been proved right - HTC's figures show continuing falls in revenue despite the critical plaudits for the HTC One. It's impossible to know, of course, whether it was the right decision - but at least we know why it was made.
Every year, hundreds of games industry professionals, from CEOs to students, pack Brighton's Hilton hotel for the three-dayDevelop conference. It's really a business-focused event, tracking the changes in the development environment, digging out the trends. There are sessions in which experienced industry veterans give lofty mission statements, but there are also technical talks on coding, on audio, on – ugh – monetisation models. It's not the creative love-in of GDC or the all-out consumer assault of E3. It's more reflective, more guarded.Wrapping up at Develop yesterday, Alice Taylor CEO and Founder of Makie Labs, Andrew Oliver of Blitz Games, and Jonathan Smith of Traveller's Tales sat down to discuss the highlights of the conference with Develop Magazine's Editor, Will Freeman.Jonathan Smith's first pick was Barry Meade of Fireproof Games' "desperately inspiring" talk on the 'craft of searching for joy'. The developer of the hit iOS game The Room gave a talk on the importance of following creative instincts and how his small team avoided industry obsessions with QA and marketing analysis to make the game they wanted to make. Smith thought there was something incredibly 'sexy', almost seductive in the idea that games development and design should 'be about searching for pleasure'. It was, he said, motivational and aspirational for anyone in the room.Alice Taylor was also full of admiration for Meade. She said that he reminded her of the artist filmmaker who says 'fuck Hollywood, I'm going to do it my way'. However, she was concerned for those developers who might not have so much reputation and experience – Meade has previously worked at legendary British studios Bullfrog and Criterion. 'He's a genius and he's got 20 years under his belt', she said, but others with less of those chops might run into trouble.Andrew Oliver discussed Blitz's late relationship with the now defunct publisher, THQ, and said that it was a shame creativity often had to be curtailed. In context of the discussion about Fireproof Games' recent success, Will Freeman asked Andrew if he was ever, "not giving a shit and going for it?" Oliver replied with a lament on his early years as a bedroom coder, working with his brother, Philip on titles like Super Robin Hood and Dizzy: "It was just the two of us and we'd do what we liked. We went skiing and we decided to make a skiing simulator!" Jonathan Smith joked that skiing then becomes a tax write-off. "But it's scary days these days, having your publishers go down ... A funny time for the industry," Oliver said.Alice Taylor said her highlight was Marvelous AQL's Harry Holmwood and his session entitled, 'East Meets West - Lessons from Japan, the Most Profitable F2P Market'. Holmwood talked about how the country is the highest monetising mobile games market in the world, with some games enjoying ARPPUs of up to $300 per month. "What's become really clear is that we're just behind Japan", Taylor said. "Everything they do we just do a couple years later." Taylor went on to say that the best thing about the Develop conference is that people talk about units and numbers and data, which is a particularly meaty topic for her. Smith agreed, observing that even indie developers such as Mike Bithell have talked in detail about sales figures at this year's conference.The topic changed to new non-traditional consoles, the next exciting thing to happen to the games industry. Andrew Oliver spoke sentimentally of the Spectrum, the BBC, the Dragon, and the MSX and remembered the era that brought these left-field devices was an exciting time where you could build something and sell it off-the-shelf. Now ARM GNU/Linux box Raspberry Pi has appeared, selling at a very cheap price, and other non-traditional consoles such as Gamestick are appearing. Alice Taylor agreed. "Oculus Rift is amazing", she said, before pointing out the only downside: "you end up looking like those dudes out of Flash Gordon". A minor inconvenience though, beside the thrill of being able to design, fund and distribute offbeat gadgets. "I love that people can just make hardware," she said. "If Samsung just came out with a console, everyone would be like 'woah'", Andrew Oliver added, but it's something that is now possible.The topic changed to Alice Taylor's talk with Dr Jo Twist on funding: 'Raising Equity From Within the UK: A Story From the Frontline, How, Where &amp; When to Raise From VCs'. Taylor's impression was that the funding landscape is, "becoming way more positive" and that "there are now more seed investors that ever...angels... VCs. It's actually really good," proving that the traditional publisher model isn't the only way anymore. Andrew Oliver nodded, saying that he didn't see that 10 years ago. "It was nice and predictable in a way..." he said, but much more restricted.How should game developers feel about the tax breaks for British developers that has just been approved? Jonathan Smith said with much candour that British developers should be grateful to Jo Twist [CEO of UKie]. He argued that this new system was, "creating an environment where British game developers can compete across the world" and said that it was a very positive move, and invested in cultural awareness. "Were this not to happen we'd be in real trouble," Alice Taylor added. "Britain is expensive."The panel turned to discussing the details on the cultural test necessary for the tax relief: Anna Mansi, the Head of Certification from BFI administers it. The new UK Creative Sector Tax Reliefs were launched on 29 April with an event hosted by the British Film Commission. The event provided an overview of the new tax reliefs and their potential impact on the UK high-end television, animation and games industries. The panel agreed that at the event, it was exciting to see someone break down Terry Cavanagh's Super Hexagon in a nuanced and realistic way, to show how the tax breaks would help game developers. Jonathan Smith also observed that though you can get a maximum of four points for setting your game in Britain, you can make it set in an undisclosed place and still get three points, proving there are more subtle ways to gain your tax relief than you'd think.Smith then brought up the talk on 'The Future of Game AI', a panel discussing how extra horsepower available in future generations of consoles, combined with an ever-better understanding of how to build engaging worlds is affecting the landscape of game development. Design by data was discussed by the panel: the idea that all of our devices are connected and can give feedback through analytics, influencing how features are put in. If you make sure your game is entirely driven on variables, then it can affect the design more. Andrew Oliver mentioned that Blitz's iOS title Paper Titans, "can tell there are hotspots of difficulty - there's a dropoff", he said, indicating, "those players are not coming back". The game can then enable a change of difficulty based on people's approach. Alice Taylor wondered aloud if this was over-implemented, whether it would start to feel wrong, remarking "This is the system gaming you". "It's sort of working," Oliver countered.'From Start-Up to Stability: Making a Studio Sustainable Outside the Work-for-Hire Model' was a talk given by Dan Pinchbeck of the Chinese Room on making studios and indies sustainable. Alice Taylor remarked that there was lots of discussion on how to start a business now, and that this is amazing. "But is the number of start-ups reaching critical mass?" Will Freeman wondered."There is so much money going into the mobile area," Andrew Oliver said. "It is a market you cannot saturate. If you release a game now... it can probably keep selling and selling and selling". But Alice Taylor wasn't so sure. "How will it get noticed?" she asked. "If you don't get featured by Apple you are kinda screwed. ...To get to the top ten you have to spend a million pounds, apparently. Again it's like, who's got that?"Taylor also mentioned cases of games like Sweatshop HD, the politically charged game about garment workers that Taylor helped commission while at Channel 4. Apple pulled the title from its App Store, and Taylor suggested this was part of the reason its developer, Littleloud, closed a few weeks ago. The mobile market can still be a hazardous place.Finally, questions were taken from the audience. One attendee wondered whether Android markets were now going to take over from Apple. "No one stays at the top forever", Taylor remarked. She said that she thought that the "speed of play" had increased markedly in the last few years, when people were initially talking about the "Future of Social" where "whales are the only way to make money". Now, it seems, 'dolphins' are the new demographic being marketed to. Jonathan Smith ended things on a philosophical note, one that pretty much encompassed the feel of Develop this year: "everything changes all the time..."How was the Develop for us?The Guardian's two attendees, Cara Ellison and Keith Stuart, give their thoughts on the eventCara Ellison:Develop conference as a whole was saturated with optimism: from the successful independent developers such as Mike Bithell and Barry Meade, to the likes of Sony's Mark Cerny telling conference attendees how Sony prototyped the PS4 controllers so that eight-year-olds will find them more accessible, more and more of our key industry people are concerned with how we can extend our hands out to those people we have never reached before. The mobile market has enabled people to game on their commute, and the charity SpecialEffect is working to have technology reach people who are otherwise alienated by the complex, button-reliant games that our AAA industry produces. Develop underlined inclusivity, experimentation and growth. Under the glow of the Brighton sun, along with the new proliferation of non-traditional consoles that the panel mentioned such as Gamestick and the Oculus Rift, the new support from the British government with the games industry tax relief, and the new space that independent developers like Lady Shotgun and Fireproof Games have found for themselves, Develop seemed to indicate that the UK games industry is poised to flourish.Keith Stuart:I definitely got some of that optimism, but there were also elements of Develop that I found alienating this year. The obsession with free-to-play mechanics on the first 'Evolve' day was galling; I'm not one of those 'F2P is evil' zealots, but flooding the conference streams with what is effectively a complex and controversial monetisation model seems a little unbalanced. F2P needs to be wrapped around really well-designed games; Evolve was more about ensuring the right buzzword was catered for rather than actually helping anyone to use it wisely. After this, there were some really interesting talks: Berni Good on psychopathy in game characters, Tim Sweeney of Epic on the rise of photorealism in games – the latter caused a Twitter storm, but that is exactly what an event like this should be aiming for.I just feel it lacked a little ... soul. A one day pass costs up to £365 or £225 for students, cutting out a lot of interested youngsters and smaller studios. Sure, the modest 'expo' area was free to attend, but this is little more than a recruitment jamboree. GDC is much larger of course, but it also seeks to be more inclusive, with free talks and seminars in and around the main venue.Cara Ellison:A nice counterpoint to the soullessness of Evolve was the Mock The Geek panel game hosted by Simon Byron at the end of the conference - there was a lot of humour in reflecting on the 'monetising', dollar-grabbing tendencies of the industry. Along with the handing out of free beer and acerbic wit, there was space for us to feel a little better about being collectively alienated by the emphasis on gouging cash from consumers. There was a sense about how there are parts of the industry that we don't all identify with or like but at least there was room to be passionate about the creativity still taking place.Keith Stuart:That's great, but I think they should have had more of it. Develop sessions can't all be about, 'oh god, how are we making money THIS year' – but the problem is, because the entry price is so high, those are the ones everyone feels they have to go to. The panel Edge did, which was all about the culture of games as a media, had about 15 people in the audience. I know it's a serious business event, but games – like movies – exist in a space between art and industry and you need to reflect both elements. I don't mean to put the whole thing down; it was very interesting and revealing at times, but I wish it was a bit braver.Cara Ellison:I did see a real absence in the schedule of talks about games having more of a wider cultural relevance or context, but Alice Taylor's point about the fact that Develop focusses on facts and figures perhaps indicates that Develop actually has more of a dry business pedigree than the remit that GDC has. GDC is definitely much larger in scope and as a result it really manages to bring the cultural stuff to the fore. Having said that - Develop's programming did resemble the business track of GDC much more than it covered other aspects of the industry. One point though: Dan Grill (Develop's photographer) mentioned that the audio track this year was the most interesting and audacious one out of all the others, and I didn't even attend them. I feel a tad ashamed of that.Keith Stuart:I missed them too! Rebecca Parnell's talk – Hearing the Unseen: An Exploration of Off-Screen and Acousmatic Sound – was fascinating apparently. She's a freelance sound designer and she was talking about how describing 'unseen' and offscreen events through audio is a really powerful way of adding emotion and atmosphere to virtual worlds. Next year, I'll give the F2P talks a miss (although by then, there will be another faddish monetisation method to obsess over), and do sound instead!
On a terrace outside the Hilton hotel in Brighton, I'm sitting with the man who co-wrote Elite, one of the greatest space games of all time. "It's hot, I'm going to change tops," he declares. And surrounded by delegates attending the packedDevelop 2013 conference, he does just that. I glance down at my notes and think about how surreal it always is to meet David Braben, having spent months of my early gaming life zooming through the universe he co-created, trading narcotics and luxury goods on far-off space stations. Now we are about to talk about Elite's long-awaited new instalment. As soon as he's got his top back on.It's been an interesting month forFrontier Developments, the studio set up by Braben in 1994. It has just been admitted toAIM, the London-based stock exchange for smaller companies, with a market capitalisation of £39.4m. Shares will begin trading on 15 July. This follows a round of investor funding in June that raised another £2.8m. At a time in which UK developers are struggling to find a place in the global games business, this is ambitious stuff.So why an IPO now? "The time was right," says Braben simply. "Essentially, we have an additional £10m of cash now; we already had a fair amount in the business, but it allows us to move to the next stage. The industry is changing so rapidly –look at the rise of digital sales across all platforms. It presents amazing opportunities to do really exciting things."One of those things is, of course, Elite: Dangerous, a fourth title in the legendary series of space combat and trading simulations. But Braben is facing controversy here: last year, the title was crowdfunded via Kickstarter, raising over £1.5m from more than 25,000 backers. Now, many of those supporters areflooding the Elite project page with angry questions– if there were plans to raise cash through an IPO, and if there was already money in the company coffers, why did Frontier turn to Kickstarter? This comes after all the anger focused at Double Fine last week; Tim Schafer's studio will have to release its latest title, Broken Age, in two segments, the former helping to fund the latter, even after raising $3.3m for the game – again on Kickstarter. There have always been questions about more established studios using crowdfunding sites – another ambiguous case study won't help.Elite: Dangerous: raised more than £1.5m from KickstarterBraben though is unrepentant. "The Elite Kickstarter was very important for  three reasons," he explains. "To prove that there really were people seriously interested in the game; to provide a great sounding board to validate ideas and plans for the game we were making; and to provide funds to reduce the risks of development. Though it wasn't the whole fund for development, it makes a big difference."So Kickstarter was only ever part of process for bringing the game into development? Braben says not. "Kickstarter was solely responsible for getting the game off the ground. We were already doing 'skunkworks' development on it, but the successful Kickstarter was needed to give us the confidence to commit a big portion of our available resources – people and money – to the game." As for concerns over whether shareholders will now threaten the creative autonomy of the studio, he's similarly adamant. "We're doing it to getgreatercontrol. Look at what we're doing with Elite; we have the flexibility to make the games we really want to make, to keep moving things forward."It's tricky, because there is still clearly a disparity between the way some gamers view Kickstarter and the way some developers use it. It's a mistake to see the site as an ethos – it's a funding platform for businesses; funders need to understand that. But studios must also be ready to answer questions and face flak from people who put money into projects they care about. The executive producer of Elite, Michael Brookes, has been on the Kickstarter forum, assuring backers about the process; explaining that the IPO is about the security of the whole company. Elite is safe, he says, and your money made it happen. But he's not dealing with shareholders, he's dealing with the emotional investments of fans. It's an ambiguous relationship. And at the centre of it, is this very exciting, much-anticipated game.Due out on PC and Mac in March 2014, Elite: Dangerous is certainly a leap forward. As in the 1984 original, players will begin with a small spaceship and 100 credits, and the aim is to make money by trading between planets, improving your craft, indulging in aerial combat, and gradually ranking up. This all takes place in a procedurally generated universe, densely packed with stars and space stations; players will be able to explore the galaxies offline, but there is also a massively multiplayer component, complete with a dynamic economy and political system. Prices will fall and rise in different systems depending on the trading conditions; and NPC police craft will patrol deep space, hunting down pilots who blast innocent passers-by into star dust.Elite: Dangerous: a leap forwardBeyond this, there will be dozens of ships to buy and upgrade, all with fully 3D cockpits (and later, players may even be able to move around inside the craft). You'll be able to slipstream other players through hyperspace, share navi-com data with friends on team quests and become involved in a wider narrative of galactic war. There are hints in Braben's Kickstarter developer diaries that other platforms may eventually be added to the roll-out.It is a huge expansion of the Elite premise, and Frontier is keeping funders up to date with video diaries and polls on key design decisions. Is there pressure in having to appease hardcore fans while still appealing to newcomers? "What we're trying to do is make the game as well as we possibly can," he says. "I've said from the beginning that we're not going to get hung up on this focus group approach; we will build the best game that we want to play… I probably sit somewhere between the camps. I love the nostalgia of the old game, but I also see what we can improve."Tellingly, Braben talks a lot about the connected era of game design; of improved broadband access and digital distribution making it easier for developers to add content post-release. It's likely Elite will take the whole "game-as-platform" approach, with regular updates and additions added after initial release. "All the things I've always wanted to do with the game we have the opportunity to do," he says. "We won't necessarily do them all for day one – we can say, this feature will derail the launch massively, let's bring it out slightly later. There's been a lot of talk about landing on planets, a lot of partisan discussion. It will be phenomenal and I want to do it, but I want to get it just right and I don't want it to delay things."Elsewhere, the company is planning to license elements of its proprietary Cobra engine to other developers, and it has several unannounced projects in production. Considering the studio's work on important Kinect titles like Kinectimals and Disneyland Adventures, surely there must be Xbox One projects on its itinerary. Microsoft certainly needs advocates for its ever-present motion tracking gadget and Braben sees the omnipresence of Kinect in a positive light. "The beauty of the technology just being there is that developers can use it as much or as little as they like," he says. "I think one of the uses of the original Kinect was in Skyrim – just being able to shout at the screen while still frantically button mashing was fantastic. And with first-person shooters, the ability to tilt your head to look round corners is wonderful as well. It's that sort of thing, subtle implementations, rather than pure motion-controlled experiences. We'll see things change, we'll see genres mutate and merge."There is alsoRaspberry Pi, the mini-PC designed by Eben Upton and several colleagues from the University of Cambridge, and built with Braben's assistance. The hope was to create a computer cheap enough to introduce as many children as possible to programming. The size of a large matchbox, it features an ARM processor and HD video capabilities, and will run a variety of software applications, including coding languages. Since its launch, the device has been adopted in schools as well as by researchers and has a thriving developer community."There's been so much support for the whole concept," says Braben. "There were 10 years in which we had no teaching of coding in schools; terms like nerd and geek made it embarrassing for kids to admit their interest – that was a tragedy. Hopefully, we've turned that a little bit with Raspberry Pi. When we made the first 10,000 units, we thought that was all the developer units we'd be able to sell – but we sold out in seconds. We're now selling that many every day. We're coming up to the point at which the Raspberry Pi will have sold as many as the BBC Micro – that's a significant number."So what have been some of his favourite uses? "I love some of the robotics implementations, and there have been some high profile uses in space flights, but for me what's more important is that so many people are using it individually and in schools. Just seeing teachers backing this … we're giving them ammo to teach subjects they care about. It matters that those people have engaged so positively. In the same way that I got started through computers like the Acorn Atom, I hope that in 10 or 20 years' time there will be developers giving interviews saying 'I got where I am today because of Raspberry Pi.'"Braben is always interesting to interview – he exudes the typical enthusiasm of the original bedroom coders; the ones who basically had to fight 8bit technology to get it to play games. But he's also a businessman, and some of that comes through while we're chatting about the IPO. At one point I suggest that becoming a public company has not always benefited UK developers. I mention Argonaut, a key British studio of the eighties and nineties that floated in 1999, only to go bust five years later. There's a gasp of shock and incredulity from Braben and Frontier's COO David Walsh, who's also at the table. It's followed swiftly by laughter. "Oh don't give me that," protests Braben. "That was a long time ago and I so strongly disagreed with what happened there."Later, feeling suitably chastened, I speak to Nick Gibson, an industry veteran and analyst at Games Investor Consulting. He reels off a list of developers that crashed after high profile public floatations: Gremlin, Rage, Kuju, Warthog… "It would be contentious to suggest that these companies went under because they floated," he says. "Some were fundamentally unsustainable businesses that would have disappeared whether listed or private. What this list demonstrates is that the UK has had a very poor history of games company listings."But things were different then: several studios were undone by the dotcom collapse of 2000, others by an overreliance on capricious publishers in an era when self-publishing via digital distribution was impossible. The industry has evolved considerably in the past five years and Frontier can benefit from the opportunities offered by digital distribution and a range of new platforms. "The key will be to under-promise and over-deliver," says Gibson. "In other words, to manage investor expectations and then to achieve consistent earnings and sales growth over many years."Right now, Braben can't say a lot about the company's future plans, only that there will be announcements in the next few month. He's still wading through the AIM paperwork and there are apparently rules on what newly floated companies can reveal about coming projects. Chatting to him in the Brighton sunshine, he has the confidence of someone who has been in this industry for 30 years, who has ridden with its peaks and troughs. "We've always had a very broad portfolio, we do all different kinds of games, which keeps us fresh," he says. "It's important that we perform, it's important that we do exciting things."
Twitter has handed French authorities data which could identify the users behind a spate of antisemitic tweetsafter a long court battlebegun by anti-racism campaigners.In a rare move, the microblogging site announced on Friday that "in response to a valid legal request" it had provided the Paris prosecutor with "data that may enable the identification of certain users that the vice-prosecutor believes have violated French law". Twitter said this gesture put an end to the long legal dispute.In October last year, there was outrage after numerous antisemitic comments were tweeted under the hashtags #UnBonJuif (a good Jew) and #UnJuifMort (a dead Jew). When alerted to the tweets, Twitter immediately removed them.The French Union of Jewish Students (UEJF), backed by anti-racism groups, appealed to a judge to force Twitter to hand over personal details of users who had posted the tweets so they could be prosecuted under French laws against publishing racist and discriminatory hate speech.Twitter contested the case but in January the Paris high court ruled against the site, saying it must hand over user data. The judge said the messages violated French laws against hate speech and Holocaust denial.Last month, the Paris appeals court decided not to hear Twitter's appeal and reiterated that it must hand over the user details.In March the UEJF had launched a civil suit against Twitter for failing to hand over the details, claiming €38.5m (£33m) in damages which it said it would hand over to the Shoah Memorial Fund. It also announced it would sue Twitter's chief executive, Dick Costolo.Twitter, in its statement on Friday, also vowed to continue to "fight against racism and antisemitism". It said this included "taking measures to improve the accessibility of the reporting procedure of illegal tweets".Last year, Twitter was ordered to hand over almost three months' worth of messagesfrom an Occupy Wall Street protester, Malcolm Harris, after losing a legal challenge to prosecutors' demands for the old tweets that were no longer on its public site. Twitter is backing an appeal by Harris.In 2011, Twitterchallenged a court orderobtained by the US justice department requesting user details from some accounts associated with WikiLeaks.In 2012, in an unprecedented move in Germany, Twitter complied with a request by authoritiesto block the account of a banned neo-Nazi groupin accordance with German law.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Hideo Kojima "Depressed" by Grand Theft Auto V | IGNThis is sort of incredible really:Hideo Kojima has revealed he's depressed by the quality of Grand Theft Auto V, as he doesn't think Metal Gear Solid V will be able to measure up to it.Taking to his Twitter, the legendary game designer expressed his admiration for Rockstar and said the studio's upcoming game would raise the bar for all other developers.Poor Kojima! And his concerns reflect a dialogue in the industry at the moment that GTA V could seriously affect the early sales of next-gen consoles, due to its (at the moment theoretical) sheer brilliance.Oculus Rift CEO open to PS4 and Xbox One compatibility | MCVWow:Oculus Rift CEO Brendan Iribe hopes Sony and Microsoft are paying attention to the growing VR/AR space, stating that he'd love to see the two develop headsets of their own or employ the Oculus Rift itself.Iribe spoke withOXMduring the Develop conference, explaining that while the company is currently focused entirely on support for PC and Android, he'd be open to next-gen console compatibility down the road.Imagine Halo VR! Imagine Gran Turismo!Xbox exclusive GAME store opens in London | imediamonkeyAn Xbox-dedicated "one-of-a-kind concept store" has been opened by GAME in the BoxPark Retail Mall on Bethnal Green Road, Shoreditch.The concept store will be exclusively promoting and retailing Xbox products, with the sale of hardware and software, including limited edition "My Xbox" console skins and the new slim line Xbox 360. The store will also feature a head-to-head challenge area and playable gaming pods for customer interaction with the products.This is actually just upstairs from the Guardian cafe! I can pop up with a latte and play Dead Rising 3!Worms 3 arriving on iOS devices in Q3 2013 | PolygonGood news for fans of turn-based wormy warfare:Worms 3, the next installment in Team17's worm-centric artillery strategy game, is slated for a Q3 2013 release on the App Store for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch, the company announced today.At launch, Worms 3 will feature 27 single-player missions across Beach, Spooky, Farmyard and Sewer themes. There is also a single-player mode called BodyCount, which increases in difficulty as the player progresses.The game offers Forts and Deathmatch multiplayer modes. Multiplayer capabilities include asynchronous online multiplayer in ranked or friendly matches and pass-and-play with up to four players. Using pass-and-play in conjunction with Airplay, users can display the game on an Apple TV and play on one device with up to four players.What do you call your worm warriors? We used to play the Dreamcast version a lot on DC-UK magazine and I always named mine after members of S-Club-7. Don't ask.Microsoft: Restructure will help us win next-gen | VideoGamer.comHere's Videogamer's David Scammell following up on the whole Microsoft reshuffle story:The major corporate restructure announced by Microsoft earlier today will open up ways to "provide more value" to Xbox customers and partners, and streamline resources to help it "win in this devices and services era", the company has told VideoGamer.com.In a statement provided to VideoGamer.com this evening explaining how the restructure will affect its Xbox business, Microsoft said:"This new structure allows us to move faster and provide more value for our customers and partners with Xbox as well as align our resources to win in this devices and services era."The existing IEB leadership will now report into the new Microsoft structure and we remain focused on shipping Xbox One and the amazing experiences we have planned for this holiday."Microsoft's plan to "win in this devices and services era" suggests that the firm may not be only going after Sony's PlayStation 4 with its upcoming Xbox One, but other rival platforms and services, too.That all sounds reasonable.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Microsoft has announced a deep reorganisation of the company that chief executive Steve Ballmer hopes will boost its "speed, efficiency and capability" as it responds to strong threats to its traditional PC software business.In a lengthy email sent to all employees, and published on the company's press site, Ballmer outlined the corporate reorganisation, and the strategy behind it.The company will be organised by function: Engineering, Marketing, Business Development and Evangelism, Advanced Strategy and Research, Finance, HR, Legal and COO (the latter of which includes field, support, commercial operations and IT)."There will be four engineering areas: OS, Apps, Cloud, and Devices," explained Ballmer, in what may be the key change for Microsoft as it strives to make its Windows, Xbox and Windows Phone platforms work more seamlessly together.One of the key roles in the new structure goes to Julie Larson-Green, who will lead Microsoft's Device and Studios Engineering Group.She will thus control "all hardware development and supply chain from the smallest to the largest devices we build", as well as overseeing Microsoft's games, music, video and other entertainment operations.Terry Myerson will head Microsoft's operating systems engineering group, which will "span all our OS work for console, to mobile device, to PC, to back-end systems", according to Ballmer.Current president of the Microsoft Office division Kurt DelBene is retiring as part of the changes."We will plan across the company, so we can better deliver compelling integrated devices and services for the high-value experiences and core technologies around which we organise," explained Ballmer in the email.Microsoft is far from the only technology company grappling with these challenges.There are shades of Apple's reorganisation in October 2012, when senior vice president of iOS Software Scott Forstall – reportedly a divisive figure internally – left the company as part of a reorganisation designed to "encourage even more collaboration between the company's world-class hardware, software and services teams".Microsoft is trying to break out of its own silos, with Ballmer announcing that "process wise, each major initiative of the company (product or high-value scenario) will have a team that spans groups to ensure we succeed against our goals."Each of those major initiatives will have an individual "champion" reporting directly to Ballmer, who outlined the key pillars of what he hopes will be Microsoft's growth going forward."Certainly, succeeding with mobile devices, Windows, Office 365 and Azure will be foundational. Xbox and Bing will also be key future contributors to financial success," he wrote."Our focus on high-value activities – serious fun, meetings, tasks, research, information assurance and IT/Dev workloads – also will get top-level championship."
There's no doubt about it: photographs taken with Nokia's new Lumia 1020 device are enormously impressive if you print them out onto a large-format high-quality print measuring, say, 1.3m wide by a metre deep. Here at Pier 42, where the launch took place earlier on Thursday, there are a number of prints showing photos taken in the past few days here in New York.One of the most striking (not online yet, but coming at Nokia's press site) shows a view towards the apartments overlooking Central Park. The lines of the apartments are razor-sharp; the grass in Central Park is vigorously green; the pools of water are pellucid blue. Viewing it online doesn't really do the 41-megapixel shot justice.Along with the other dozen shots hanging in a sort of gallery, you need to see it published professionally to comprehend it. And that's before you learn that it was taken from a helicopter. "That's a challenge for most smartphones," said one of Nokia's engineers, who has worked on the device for quite some time. "But we've got optical image stabilisation…" He wasn't too fazed at thespecificationsleaking outahead of the official announcement. "41 megapixels is just a number," he said. "That doesn't tell you what it's like to look at."Yet here's a strange thing: if Nokia were to release the 1020 as a stand-alone camera, stripping out the mobile phone element, it would certainly bomb. The compact camera market "is in free fall", to quote the writer from Amateur Photographer (who is also out here as a guest of Nokia). People have given up buying compact cameras because they're digital, just like their smartphones, and take nice pictures, just like their smartphones, but they don't have the capability to send their pictures to social networks such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Vine or Snapchat. And the cameras on smartphones are generally "good enough" - just as MP3-quality sound has generally been found to be "good enough" by the vast majority of buyers.By making the Lumia 1020 a superlative camera that has a phone attached, Nokia seems to be going after a very specific segment of the market: "prosumers" who want to take really good photos and have the connectivity that a smartphone provides. It's not, however, going to attract the sort of people who want to take a picture and upload it to the main social networks.Price of successFor one thing, there's the price. The Lumia 1020 will cost $299 upfront for the basic 32GB model plus the cost of a contract from AT&amp;T in the US; for comparison, theAT&amp;T iPhone 5 is $199 for the base 16GB modelbefore the contract. (Update: the 32GB iPhone costs $399, so the price is the same if you equalise those specifications. However there isn't a 16GB Lumia 1020, which means price-conscious buyers might stop at the 16GB iPhone.) For another, there's the fact that it's Windows Phone - which still doesn't have native apps for Vine, Instagram or Snapchat. Chief executive Stephen Elop points out that there are third-party apps which will do the posting to Instagram (via Hipstamatic, a company whichwent through its own near-death experience last Augustwhen it fired all but six of its staff). You can post to Instagram via Hipstamatic, and then read Instagram via an app called Instance. And there's a Snapchat-compatible app.Yet none of this is like having the native apps. And the question of whether ordinary people will really pay top whack for a fantastic camera is already answered by the compact camera market; and of whether they'll pay top whack for a top-end smartphone seems increasingly to be "no" as sales forecasts for the Samsung Galaxy S4 are revised down, along with those for the iPhone.So what is the purpose of the Lumia 1020? I think it's to show off a top-end capability that Nokia can then push down to its lower-end phones - rather as Samsung does with the Galaxy S range, where the top-end phone is the flag carrier for the cheaper range that follows it.People who appreciate high-quality photography (in terms of pixels captured) tend to assume that everyone will want just the same, if only they're shown the chance to get it. But this is rather like the argument that hi-fi manufacturers fooled themselves with a decade or so ago, thinking that by offering "24-bit" audio quality on Super Audio CD and DVD-Audio they would tempt people away from lo-fi MP3 listening.Sound argumentThe reality is that most people listen to music in very low quality from car radios, small bookshelf speakers, lousy headphones. MP3s weren't, and aren't, much worse - sometimes, better - than what they used to get. And you have to have ridiculously good hearing to distinguish the difference in 24-bit sound (and even thatmight be imaginary). SACD and DVD-Audio died like dogs in a ditch.Now, we're much better at distinguishing differences in quality in photos, particularly when they're printed out; but viewed on a 5in smartphone screen or even a standard laptop screen, the lack of quality in most of the photos we take isn't visible. Nokia's best hope may be that screen technology improves so rapidly that the difference in picture quality becomes more visible. For the meantime, though, it will be the cheaper Lumias - the520and610particularly - which will be the bedrock of its sales. (In fact, as I wrote this article, Kantar WorldPanel ComTechtweetedthat the Lumia 520 had helped Nokia to reach its highest smartphone share in the UK since April 2011 - back in the days when Nokia still sold Symbian. It didn't however specify how high that is.)Even then, what Stephen Elop really needs more than Lumias with fantastic cameras is for Vine, Snapchat and Instagram to write native apps for the Windows Phone platform. Unfortunately, that doesn't seem to be in his hands.• This article was amended on 16 July 2013. An earlier version said that Hipstamatic had laid of all but one of its staff. It fired five of its 11 employees.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Microsoft Reorg v Google: lots of engineering, no ads &amp; social or search execs &gt;&gt; Marketing LandDanny Sullivan:Microsoft is all about engineering, whereas Google is more product-focused, it seems. And unlike Microsoft, Google has top management positions to cover its ads and social efforts, plus "Knowledge," Google's fancy name for search. Let's take a look.For this comparison, I'm largely drawing off Microsoft'smemotoday and comparing that to Google's managementpage, to see what correspondences, if any, there are.Microsoft's now seems to be more functionally organised: there are "applications &amp; systems", and there are "devices &amp; studios".Introducing uberX // Same Uber quality but cheaper than a black cab &gt;&gt; Uber BlogEffective today, uberX prices are 40% cheaper than Addison Lee and 30-50% cheaper than a Black Cab, depending on the tariff level*. We're merging the value of minicabs with the efficiency and instant gratification of Uber. That means you can still make an entrance at the club tonight in the backseat of an UberLUX Jag XJ or S-Class but tomorrow morning you can nurse your hangover on the way to work in a lower-cost uberX BMW 3 Series or Toyota Prius equivalent.Note that asterisk after "tariff level" in the first sentence. Except quite what it means - especially the comparison to a black cab - isn't explained anywhere. Uber still makes more sense in the US, where there isn't much of a cab business outside metropolitan centres, than in London.Dance in a Year &gt;&gt; 'Karen'Hi, I'm Karen. I leaned to dance in a year.People who watch me dance today sometimes assume I've been dancing for many years. I made this video so you could see the awkward body that started just one year ago.Here's my secret: I practiced everywhere. At bus stops. In line at the grocery store. At work — Using the mouse with my right hand and practicing drills with my left hand. You don't have to train hardcore for years to become a dancer. But you must be willing to practice and you better be hungry.This isn't a story about dancing, though. It's about having a dream and not knowing how to get there — but starting anyway.With fantastic video which will surely go viral.Ebook ruling gives Amazon an advantage &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"The Justice Department's guns seem pointed in the wrong direction," Mr. [Paul] Aiken [executive director of the Authors' Guild] said.But the more pressing concern for the industry is the fate of Barnes &amp; Noble. When Borders collapsed two years ago, analysts said there was an unexpected consequence to the loss of 400 stores: the e-book growth rate began to taper off, as readers could no longer examine new titles before ordering them from Amazon.E-books, in other words, were not a magical technology that could shed all the existing infrastructure of publishing. They needed the existing ecosystem.Apple store unearths hospital ruins &gt;&gt; EL PAÍSApple's new flagship Spanish store — a 6,000-square-meter building in the center of Madrid — contains a genuine treasure trove in its basement. Along with stacks of mobile phones and other 21st-century gadgets designed in California and made in China, sit the remains of a hospital built six centuries ago.The teen horror movie pretty much writes itself, doesn't it?We've been happy to hear so many of you enjoying the interface &gt;&gt; Google Maps on Google+We've been happy to hear so many of you enjoying the interface and features of the new Google Maps app for Android, but we know some of you are missing an easy way to access maps offline. That's why our engineering team has been working around the clock to add a "Make this map area available offline" card below the search box for easier access. And, if you still want some #thumbercise, typing "ok maps" will work too!Wouldn't it have made more sense to include the dedicated card in the first place, instead of just the easter egg, since it had been decided there was demand for the feature? Classic "forty shades of blue" process from Google.Follow the money: Twitter fundraising is now legal &gt;&gt; Fast CompanyStartups can now announce that they're seeking funding and investment via social media and print publications. The Securities and Exchange Commission announced the change earlier today. It's the result of section 201(a) of the JOBS act, which reverses 80-year-old limits on fundraising advertising. While the bureaucratic details may be boring, the implications aren't: Startups can now solicit funding from the general public - and everything that entails.This is going to make those penny stock spam emails look like a tea party.Your digital game library will be accessible from any PlayStation 4, says Sony"You can visit your friend's house you can log into your account and play any game from your digital library," he said. Paired with the console's "Play As You Download" functionality, [Sony R&amp;D leader Dan] Brown promised that users will be able to instantly jump into their full library of digital games from any PS4 after signing in with their PSN ID. "This makes a digital library a practical option in the real world," he added.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
UK-based startupSuperAwesomehas formally unveiled its Kids Mobile Network mobile ad network for children's apps and mobile sites.The company will work with developers to place ads within their apps from a range of well-known children's brands drawn initially from the film, toy and book industries.SuperAwesome says that a panel of parents will choose every developer accepted for the network, and claims that "several top-twenty" games developers have already been approved to take part, with apps collectively generating tens of millions of monthly impressions.The company, which already runs an online ad network for children's sites called Kids Network, is launching the mobile version to provide developers with an alternative to in-app purchases (IAP) to make money from their apps.After several examples ofchildren spending large sums on IAPon their parents' iTunes accounts, and aclass-action lawsuit against Applein the US that was settled by the company earlier this year, SuperAwesome says a growing number of developers see in-app ads as a suitable alternative."It started by quite a few of our [online] clients coming to us and saying 'look, here's what we're doing on mobile and tablet, can you help us in terms of monetisation?'," says chief executive Dylan Collins."They want to look at alternatives to IAP, which is not in the eyes of many brands the perfect model to be going out with, for all the controversial reasons that we know. We're not saying it's bad, but with kids, there is this whole other set of considerations that everyone has to be mindful of."Some developers have included advertising in their free children's apps in the past, but the results have sometimes been just as controversial as the worse examples of IAP abuse.For example, Outfit7's Talking Friends apps were founddisplaying Wonga payday cash-loan adsin October 2012, and then ads for a competition thattried to sign people up to a £4-a-week ringtones subscriptionin February 2013.In both cases, the problem was ads that weren't (or shouldn't) have been targeted at children finding their way into kids' apps through general ad networks. That's what SuperAwesome is hoping to prevent with its new network."Advertising has funded kids' content for decades, and if it's not been advertising, then it's been merchandising and licensing," says Collins."We're trying to help the sustainability of the entire kids' content market. At the end of the day, if companies can't make money from this [mobile] sector, they're not going to be able to make exciting, fun new content for kids. As an industry, we've got to find a way of tackling this problem properly, while protecting kids."The first campaign from a big brand will go live on the Kids Mobile Network in three weeks' time. For now, the network is focused on Europe.SuperAwesome is working to ensure it is compliant with recent changes to the US Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) legislation, which came into force on 1 July and cover what data developers and ad networks are not allowed to collect from children aged under 13."For now we're rolling this out in Europe, but obviously the US is where we're heading in the longer term," says Collins. "COPPA does put some interesting technical requirements in place for any premium ad network, so we are working on those at the moment."
A full specifications sheet of the Nokia Lumia 1020 has been leaked only hours before the phone's launch event in New York.The details of the phone,leaked to UnleashThePhones, appear to confirm much of the speculation.• 41 MP camera, which will have the potential to record video in 1080p and a Xenon flash• 3X zoom and six-lens camera, and secondary camera with wide-angle lens• 4.5" AMOLED HD+ display with resolution of 1280x768 (very high quality, but not the highest quality HD currently available)• Screen made of Gorilla Glass 3• 1.5GHz dual-core processor supplied by Snapdragon (edition yet to be named)• 2GB of RAM and 32GB of internal memory.• Talk-time of 13.3 hours on 3G (compared with eight on the iPhone 5), extending to 16 days standby time• Available in three different colours – black, white and yellow• Optional camera grip and tripod attachment, and dedicated shutter buttonResearch from the Finnish firm has found that smartphones users primarily use their handsets for taking pictures.But this research is perhaps not unexpected, as native photo apps on the Windows phones are severely lacking. Popular apps such as Instagram and Snapchat, for example, can only be accessed by third-party applications.And while many commenters are impressed by what the Lumia has to offer, the feeling is not universal.John Biggs at Techcrunch wrote:Nokia is famous for making goofy phones. It seems there is some predilection towards brief insanity that manifests itself every few months and the last thing Nokia needs right now is to look like it's out of control. A 41-megapixel phone looks great behind the glass of a mall kiosk, and that's exactly where it will stay as customers buy Nokia's actual phones and ignore this chimera.There are also rumours that O2 UK will exclusively sell a 62GB version of the handset and while O2 confirmed that they will stock the Lumia 1020, they said that they do not comment on rumours or speculation.
The collapse of the PC business is accelerating. Worldwide shipments fell by more than 10% year on year in the second quarter, recording an unprecedented fifth successive period of decline as the market undergoes a fundamental shift towards tablets, smartphones and touch devices.China's Lenovo emerged as the top seller according to separate data from research companiesIDCandGartner– though even it saw a year-on-year fall in total sales.But amid a market where Taiwan's Acer and Asus saw shipments crash by more than 30% and 20% respectively, Lenovo's emergence at the top over long-time leader HP, the American PC maker and technology company, marked a figurative passing of the torch. Its principal market was China, which represented more than 50% of its 12.7m shipments.Gartner says worldwide PC shipments fell to 76.0m, from 85.3m in the second quarter of 2012; IDC put the figures at 75.6m, and 85.4m in 2012. Gartner also revised down its figure for PC shipments in the year-ago period, from 87.5m.Worldwide PC shipments by quarter, 1999-2013. Source: Gartner/IDCAll regions saw a fall in PC shipments compared with the year-ago period – suggesting that economic factors are not the key ones."We are seeing the PC market reduction directly tied to the shrinking installed base of PCs, as inexpensive tablets displace the low-end machines used primarily for consumption in mature and developed markets," said Mikako Kitagawa, principal analyst at Gartner. "In emerging markets, inexpensive tablets have become the first computing device for many people, who at best are deferring the purchase of a PC. This is also accounting for the collapse of the mini notebook market."The fall suggests that not only is the marketing shrinking, but that the shrinkage is accelerating. The year-ago period, just ahead of the launch of Windows 8, saw an expected slowdown of 2% as PC OEMs and businesses paused while they waited for new products and new software from Microsoft.But Windows 8 has not proved to be the hoped-for shot in the arm for the PC business, which has been losing attention as consumers – who make up half of purchasers – shift to buying tablets and smartphones.PC market growth, 1998-2013. Source: GartnerIDC forecast in May that tablets will outsell laptops this year, and that by the end of 2015 they will outsell the entire PC segment.The only ray of hope is that the US market – where Apple emerged as a surprise third place, behind HP and Dell, despite shipping only 1.8m units there – is showing some signs that enterprises are beginning to shift from Windows XP, which is approaching the end of its support period 12 years after launch, to Windows 7.As well as a rise in Dell's enterprise-focused PC business – crucial if the company is to survive its shift to a private entity – Bob O'Donnell of IDC said: "We're also starting to see more stabilisation in shipments [in the US], which we think is a reflection of PC lifetimes finally starting to even out after a long period of gradual increase. The end result should be more PC replacements, even if consumers and companies are selective in making replacements and wait until PCs are older before replacing them."
Imagine someone started talking about how castles were built – except, before meeting them, you'd never heard of stone. Such is Rogue Legacy, a 2D platformer that builds on classic gaming genres to create something new; a kind of portmanteau, and a reference-spotter's dream. The only thing that matters in either case, of course, is whether the thing stands up.The dominant influence on Rogue Legacy is a genre of platformer long ago christened Metroidvania. This rather ugly designation comes from two 8-bit games, Nintendo's Metroid and Konami's Castlevania; if you've played a platformer with a map, destructible scenery, backtracking or an upgradeable main character, that's Metroidvania.The fact this word even exists speaks to how the basics of this design have been expanded and embellished by a succession of heirs. Rogue Legacy is one of them but it also, following in the footsteps of Spelunky (see below), brings in DNA from early 80s game Rogue. Its defining features are random generation and punishing difficulty – it's&nbsp;a different game every time.Rogue Legacy, then, is Metroidvania in a castle of ever-moving parts. You control a knightly figure and explore as far into the dread environments as possible. The sword-swinging combat seems simple at first, but soon your knights begin developing into precision-based swiss army knives. And in the end, every single one will fall to the castle's macabre lineup of enemies – lurid skulls, flame-hooved horses, corrupted nobility, giant eyeballs and other vicious phantasmagoria.Rogue Legacy: another major influence is the peerless Dark Souls. Enemies include a toothy mimic disguised as a treasure chestDeath is not the end in Rogue Legacy; it's a new and better beginning. When your character dies you're given a choice of three heirs with which to start over, in a newly randomised castle. That's not the only thing that changes: each of your character's children will be of different classes (archmage? miner? shinobi?) and with different attributes (dwarfism, OCD, colour-blindness).The idea of controlling heirs could have been a cosmetic way of giving the player infinite lives, but the importance of classes and abilities soon become crucial – a damage-dealing hokage with dwarfism and no sensation in his or her feet (so spikes don't hurt) is my personal dream ticket. But equally I love picking the spelunker for a change of pace, plumbing the deepest depths to snuffle out as much gold as possible and avoiding fights altogether.There is no shortage of games that randomly smoosh together niche genres in the hope they're somehow onto a hit, but in Rogue Legacy's case the blend is brilliant. The appeal of Rogue-like games is in learning how to play – so that each fresh attempt at the dungeon sees you get a few inches further. In Metroidvania games, persistent progression is key. These seem contradictory approaches, but Rogue Legacy's solution is to make each run at the castle feed into an overarching hoard of family goodies – that is, all the gold and kit and upgrades stay in place, and pass on from parent to child. So the game keeps on changing, but your big achievements (and even the little ones) stay permanent.Rogue Legacy: the 2. heir selection screen. The abilities straddle the funny and practical – coprophilia's always a laughThis will be anathema to many Rogue purists, who see the punishing difficulty and chance of losing everything as the core of the genre's appeal. But Rogue Legacy makes it work so well by scaling its difficulty to adapt to your increasingly buff knights. The incremental stat boosts, fancy equipment and runes that grant new abilities (like a double-jump, or vampirism) are amazing, but soon the enemies are tougher in more challenging room layouts. So as you get better, and your characters become more powerful, the game not only sustains its difficulty but tightens the screw.One touch ties all of this together, and after a few hours convinced me that Rogue Legacy is a keeper. This is the architect that turns up fairly early, and lets you choose to retain the previous heir's castle layout – rather than playing a newly randomised one. You lose a hefty cut of the treasure by taking him up on the offer, but what it does is let you have another shot at a boss, or another attempt at that fairy chest challenge. A key quality of Rogue-alikes is the cruel twist of fate that always brings your greatest heroes down. In giving you the option to try again, infinite times if you want to, Rogue Legacy offers a chance to put things right. For a price.In offering what is in effect a retry button, Rogue Legacy steps well outside the comfort zone of the games it so loves – after all, if fate can't kick you in the teeth then whither the challenge? But it works because the challenge scales so well and, even though you can practice, it still takes a special effort to beat even one boss. It's the kind of touch that could have broken a lesser game, but here is the final flourish on a structure of awesome complexity. Old and new at once, Rogue Legacy lives up to the history behind its title – a different game every time. And all of them are fantastic.Metroidvania and Roguelikes – the classicsSuper Metroid (Nintendo)Super Metroid: minimalist atmosphere and cavernous mapIf you own a Nintendo console you'll be able to get a hold of the classic Metroid titles on the eShop – the one to go for is Super Metroid, as the NES originals don't hold up so well. Super Metroid's minimalist atmosphere and cavernous map, on the other hand, are as fresh as the day of release. Perhaps Metroid's signature quality is how the hero Samus Aran evolves throughout each game; and by the end of Super Metroid she can run like the Flash and jump like Hulk. Triple-A classic.Castlevania: Symphony of the Night (Konami)Castlevania: Symphony of the Night: Dracula quotes André MalreauxCastlevania: Symphony of the Night is what you want. Developed for the original Playstation, and now on XBLA and Playstation Network, SOTN is the the grandest Castlevania – a labyrinthine castle, Dracula at his best, and a perfect-paced dripfeed of new abilities and awe-inspiring bosses. The endgame flips the genre on its head, and feeds directly into one of Rogue Legacy's best gags. Also famously contains Count Dracula quoting André Malreaux.Cave Story (Pixel)Cave Story: miniature masterpieceThe work of one man over many years, Cave Story is a miniature masterpiece. It takes the structure of what had come before and crafts within it a minimalist sci-fi story – told through its environments as much as the elliptical, strange cast. Recently jazzed up for a 3DS release,the original is available free for PC here.Spelunky (Mossmouth Games)Spelunky: feels fresh every single timeAn all-time great, Spelunky perfected and popularised the adoption of roguelike mechanics into a classic style of 2D platforming. But that's only half the story.Spelunky's rich and mysterious depthsfeel fresh every single time, its simple elements always somehow surprising you with a new trick. The progressive scaling and layered structure, which sees you progressing through varied environments and eventually working out a grander purpose, is one of its many gifts to Rogue Legacy.The PC original can be had for free here, though I wholeheartedly recommend XBLA's Spelunky HD (which will be out on PC on 8 August).FTL (Subset Games)FTL: routes and encounters are randomly generatedIf you've ever watched and enjoyed any science fiction that has spaceships, you should playFTL. You guide a small ship in its escape from the evil rebel fleet, directing crew members to where they're needed during battle and refitting the guns in quiet moments – but each game the routes and encounters are randomly generated. FTL is a belter.The Binding of Isaac (Edmund McMillen/Florian Himsl)The Binding of Isaac: personal and beautifully polishedI don't think this is a direct influence on Rogue Legacy, except perhaps in popularising realtime roguelikes, butThe Binding of Isaacis the finest work of Edmund McMillen, better known for the hit platformer Super Meat Boy, and co-developer Florian Himsl. A squishy top-down 2D shooter where you control a crying boy, running through randomly generated dungeons to escape a tyrannical mother, it's both a deeply personal and beautifully polished piece of work.
The co-founders of music recommendation site Last.fm are launch a new discovery service today, using 10 years of experience around recommendation tools to developLumi.do.Initially a browser plugin for Chrome and Firefox, Lumi uses the browsing history to suggest related content including news, arts, sport and entertainment.Consumers have come to negatively associate cookies - small files that cumulatively create a browsing history – with having their activity tracked, but cookies also allow services to be targeted, relevant and useful, says Stiksel."I've been browsing the web for 15 years and I've got nothing to show for it,"  he said. "It's that same Last.fm principle of using data that people have lying around, in this case to help them discover new things. They understand that their data is valuable and normally it is used in a commercial environment being used by advertisers, but they don't know what else can be done with it."Lumi doesn't collect user data but presents different suggestions based on their local browsing history, so results improve and update as the user keeps browsing. A side menu offers more tailored options for certain subjects.It's four years since the pair last worked at Last.fm following the acquisition. "There are different challenges working in a corporate environment to a startup, yes," said Miller. But they reject that in their absensce, Last.fm isflaggingand has been usurped by Spotify. "All the music was always available anyway, and Last.fm links well into Spotify – a playlist jumping off point. But Last.fm made Spotify realise they needed to do something in recommendation."Stiksel and Miller both admit they were not looking for another startup project – Miller described running a startup as "a pain in the arse" – but they had identified a need for more intelligent web browsing and felt their Last.fm experience meant they were best placed to do it.Given that CBS paid $280m (£142m) for Last.fm in 2007, it's no surprise that building revenue is not a priority for Lumi at the moment, though the potential for informed, contextualised information, particularly around brands and retail, seems obvious.For the small team of nine, the focus is to build the service out beyond the trial userbase of 10,000 people. The next challenge will be to build for mobile devices, where most data is inaccessible and couldn't be used to customise Lumi's results.After that, there's even scope for a smart TV app, said Miller. "There's a need for a more tangible stream of content on screen and better way to navigate all that," he said. "Maybe you come home from work and want a few minutes of content delivered to you rather than having to go to websites or filter thousands of tweets. Very much a lean-back experience.""We spent 11 years on Last.fm, and everything we did on that site was derived from real human activity created by a real person. That was the underlying theme and the most powerful thing about recommendation. It's the commonsense approach."
Following arecent discussionon buying a new desktop PC, I would like to ask whether it's a good idea/alternative to keep my old PC and monitor and only upgrade the operating system from Windows XP to Windows 8. This would obviously be better for my wallet, and for the environment.I have an HP Pavilion w5129 from 2005 with 3GB of memory, AMD Athlon 64, and ATI Radeon 4350 (no HDMI, USB3, etc). It crashes occasionally, for which I can't find any specific reason, but my guess is that it's a software fault which could be 'repaired' by installing Windows 8 from scratch.It seems that the graphics card is compatible but the monitor resolution is too low (1280 x 1024 pixels).B ZeimetzThis is a personal decision, and one I took about 18 months ago. As mentioned in the previous answer, I replaced a Dell Dimension 8400 purchased in April 2005 (seeThe art of buying a desktop) with a Dell Vostro 460 MT running Windows 7 Pro. (I chose the Pro version so that I could use the free XP Mode, though I haven't needed it.)I reckon a modern desktop PC should last for about five years, if it's given a "mid-life kicker". In my case, I had upgraded the memory, added a new graphics card, and reinstalled XP. I could have upgraded it to Windows 7 but I would have missed out on USB3 and HDMI, as you mention. I would probably have wanted another graphics card upgrade and a new hard drive (the old 160GB model was almost full), but I'd still have been stuck with a slow, single-core Pentium and a 32-bit operating system.After six years, I was also starting to worry about component failures. Would the hard drive or power supply fail? When would the system battery run out?Replacing the PC brought a few unexpected benefits. The new system is smaller, runs much quieter, and consumes less power (which is good for the environment). Further, the new widescreen monitor is much brighter than the original, to the point where I can't stand to use the old one, even as a second screen.Spec for Windows 8You're in much the same position. You could upgrade the operating system, but your PC is old and could fail at any time. Upgrading the operating system won't actually provide the speed of a new PC, and other useful features.Technically, Windows 8 should run on your HP Pavilion w5129: it meets the bareWindows 8 system requirements, including PAE (Physical Address Extension), NX Bit and SSE2. However, I'd expect it to be somewhat slow. If your PC has the Athlon 64 3200 version of the processor, this isslower than a 1.5GHz Intel Atom N550, which no one would pick for a Windows 8 desktop PC today. (The CPU's Socket 939 was superseded in 2006, so there probably aren't any good upgrades, either.)The ATI Radeon HD 4350 (I'm assuming the HD) graphics card was good value when you did the upgrade, but it has beenleft behindby more recent graphics cards. Also, although Windows 8 can useDX9and this card supports DX10, DX11 has been out since 2009 and we're currently on DX11.2.With the arrival of Windows 8, hardware designs have moved on again, although many of the changes are aimed at exploiting touch-sensitive screens on laptops and tablets. They include the replacement of the old BIOS chip by UEFI firmware, support for solid state drives (SSDs), and fast startup.Windows 8 does need a screen resolution of 1366 x 768 pixels or higher for some functions, but your monitor resolution (1280 x 1024) is not too low to run Windows 8 or to access the Windows Store. It is too low for the "snap" function to work with full-screen Windows 8 apps from the Windows Store, but that doesn't affect standard Windows programs run from the desktop.Pros and consNow, you asked whether it was "a good idea/alternative to keep [your] old PC and monitor" and change just the operating system. I'm pretty sure that you can just change the operating system if you want to. Windows 8 will run, and it could run at a similar speed to Windows XP. Whether it will repair the software crashes is another matter, because these could be due to an intermittent hardware fault.However, you will be missing out on the extra performance and new features that you would get from a new PC, including smoother and more consistent operation, the extra speed of USB3 connections, faster graphics and a much bigger hard drive. PC hardware really has improved over the past eight years.The real problem is that an operating system upgrade will only put off the inevitable. At some point, hardware unreliability, component failures, or simply the need to use increasingly bloated websites will prompt you to upgrade. The question is whether installing Windows 8 will delay that new PC purchase by a year, or two years, or more?Since you can get an upgrade from Windows XP SP3 to Windows 8 Pro for only£49.50at Amazon.co.uk, it could be worth upgrading, even if it only lasts a year.Planning for upgradesOtherwise, I think it's best to take a businesslike approach to buying PCs, and budget for a new desktop every four or five years whether you need one or not. You can take this literally by sticking £2 a week into a piggy bank. Forego a designer coffee if necessary. Then the question isn't whether to upgrade your PC, but when is the best time to do it.The coming Christmas sales season, which kicks off in November, looks like being a good time to upgrade, or possibly just before that. There are two reasons. First, PCs with Intel Haswell processors should be widely available, Haswell being the fourth generation of the familiar Intel Core iX range. (The previous versions were codenamed Sandy Bridge and Ivy Bridge.) Second, Microsoft has said that it will ship Windows 8.1 to PC manufacturers by the end of August, so it should be available pre-installed by leading desktop PC manufacturers such as HP, Dell and Lenovo.Haswell chipsaren't that much fasterthan the Ivy Bridge versions, but they are much more power efficient, which will reduce running costs on a desktop PC. (They are really aimed at expanding battery life on portables.) They also offer better built-in graphics, though still not up to AMD levels. However, they do require new motherboards.Windows 8.1 has a number of improvements that should make it more palatable to someone upgrading from Windows XP. Some of these are mostly cosmetic, such as putting the Start Screen menu over the top of your desktop background, bringing back a Start button (but not the Start menu), and allowing users to boot straight to the desktop. Either way, the performance remains impressive, which is why Windows 8 is being adopted faster by gamers such as Steam users. Currently,Windows 8 is at 13%, though Windows 7 still dominates with 66%, and 32-bit XP trails with 7%.In a business environment, there's an economic case for upgrading from Windows XP even if the hardware isn't decrepit, because of the reduced number of reboots and the reduced risk of viruses, among other things (see the white paper onWhy Sticking with Windows XP is a Bad Idea). There's also an economic case for upgrading hardware after three or four years because of the increase in hardware problems. For home users, it boils down to whether you put any value on your time, and on having a better computing experience. That's really up to you.
Good news for fans of first-world problem-solving! You can now embed Instagram photos and videos on websites. Grab a friend, pop The Pogues' Fiesta on the stereo, and celebrate (while, obviously, Instagramming a tilt-shifted Hudson-filtered snap of your capering for posterity).Yes, it's fair to say that the inability to easily embed Instagram content outside social networks hasn't been a huge problem for most of the app's 130m users, who've seemed happy with its ability to share pics and vids on Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, Flickr and Foursquare as well as Instagram itself.Those people will be blissfully unaware of Instagram's announcement of "Instagram web embeds" yesterday, but it's interesting for another reason: how it positions Instagram as a source for the media against rivals like Twitter's Vine.It's easy enough to embed something from Instagram on a website now, as the company'sannouncement blog postexplains:Now, when you visit an Instagram photo or video page on your desktop web browser, you'll see a new share button on the right side of your photo (just under the comments button). Click the button to see the embed code. Copy the block of text it gives you and paste it into your blog, website or article. When you hit publish, the photo or video will appear.As always, you own your photos and videos, and we want to make sure that's understood no matter where your content appears. Whether you want to embed your video on your blog or a friend wants to feature your photo on a website, everyone will clearly see that your content belongs to you. Your embedded photo or video appears with your Instagram username, and clicking on the Instagram logo will take people to your page on Instagram.com where they can discover more of your photos and videos.It's certainly easy, even if the default dimensions of 612x710 pixels mean you'll have to do some calculations if you want to squeeze it into a smaller space (for example, the 460-wide dimensions used here):The new feature patches one of the holes in Instagram from a journalist's point of view, which was that to embed photos or videos in an article, you had to turn to external services likeEmbedly. That worked well enough, but embeds from within Instagram are better.Journalists are just one reason why embedding is a good idea for Instagram. Celebrities and musicians are another – those who want to embed snaps from their official accounts elsewhere, anyway. And don't forget the brands who've been flocking to Instagram, and areintrigued by the potential in its new video features.Videos posted using Twitter's Vine app have been embeddable for a while now, and Twitter has been thinking about how tweets are presented elsewhere on the web for some time too.It has worked hard to persuade journalists to embed tweets rather than simply quoting their text, and in September 2012 launcheda widget to embed entire Twitter timelines within websites. It also providesresources for media companiestrying to use Twitter more effectively, and has just launched a dedicatedTwitter Media blogto highlight what it sees as best practice.It's tempting to think about Facebook (and Instagram), Twitter and other services as engaged purely in a battle for users. But they're also engaged in a battle for media of various kinds, positioning themselves as a source for social content, but a source that maintains control over how that content is presented.What about control for the people actually shooting the photos and videos? "Is your content private? Then nothing has changed. Embed code is only available to those whose photos and videos are public," explains Instagram.Which, of course, raises the question of how the land lies for people who want their content to be public, but not embeddable. YouTube has a tickbox that controls whether your videos are embeddable or not, but for now, Instagram appears to be taking a different approach.
Quietly,IFTTThas become an indispensable tool for a growing number of internet users, making connections between web services including Facebook, Gmail, Dropbox and a host of others.The name stands for If This Then That, a phrase that represents the way its "triggers" (this) and "actions" (that) are used for the different "channels". If this happens in Facebook, do that in Dropbox. If this is posted on Instagram or SoundCloud, do that with it in my Gmail inbox. And so on.Now there's an app for that (and this).IFTTT's iPhone appwas released this morning on Apple's App Store as a free download. It helps IFTTT users build new recipes – the term it uses for the connections forged using the service – with optional push notifications when those recipes are triggered.It also adds three new channels from within Apple's iOS software: Photos, Contacts and Reminders. A small but potentially useful step in opening iPhones up that little bit more beyond Apple's own services.Chief executive Linden Tibbets says the inspiration for IFTTT came from the way we interact with physical objects in the world around us, and use them to solve problems."Using your foot to hold a door open, standing a coffee cup on papers to stop them blowing across your desk. Simple modifications of your environment that everyone does 100 times a day," he says."That same behaviour has been largely missing once you moved to the abstract digital software space. People were getting acclimatised with these tools: sending emails, posting tweets, uploading photos. But to define how these things interacted with one another, you needed a four-year computer science degree."It's not that all these web services – IFTTT currently supports 67 and is aiming to add at least one a week – couldn't work together: they had APIs for that very purpose. It's just that you had to be a developer to do it."We wanted to build a service to solve that problem, and empower people to do way more with the services and devices that they were already using," says Tibbets."That's what we've been working on for the last year and a half: identifying more and more connections and interactions between these objects."Recipes for successI've been using IFTTT for a while now, but still sometimes struggle to explain the concept to friends and family. Actually, though, the simplest way may be to list some of the recipes that have been created using it.One that's fresh for the app is a recipe to save your iOS photos automatically to your Dropbox cloud storage. You can backup your Instagram snaps by saving them to Flickr or emailing them to yourself.You can add a note to your Google Calendar whenever you add a new contact on your iPhone; automatically post links on a Facebook page when new stories go live on your WordPress blog; connect fitness devices made by Jawbone and Withings to a host of web services; and…This is the point about IFTTT: as it adds more channels, so the possible number of recipes grows ever larger, from the big "how do I make sure all my photos end up backed up in the same place?" examples to super-niche tools.One limitation on that growth is that for now, IFTTT is adding the channels itself. "We want to connect literally anything that has an API. if it's connected to the internet in some way, we can build a channel around it," says Tibbets."Right now we can only build so many ourselves, so one of the very-obvious things we're working on is how do we open it up for other people to plug in their devices and services?"The new app is iPhone-only for now, but Tibbets says that IFTTT realises it needs to move onto other platforms like Android as quickly as possible. The company recently redesigned its website to be responsive, to work better on smartphones and tablets, as a step in that direction."Mobile has always been in our plans. This app has been in the works for the better part of the last year," says Tibbets, who's backed up by his colleague Devin Foley, who led the app project."A large proportion of traffic to our website has always been mobile, even before we had the mobile-optimised website," he says. "We wanted to provide them with a better experience."Tibbets chips back in. "What's taken us a while to figure out is not just how to make IFTTT.com work on mobile, but how can we really take advantage and think about what IFTTT is about for the mobile? This isn't just IFTTT.com for your phone, it's really the first step towards what will become IFTTT version two."IFTTT is hoping the new app's simplicity will appeal to a wider audienceThat includes a more-prominent element of curation, with the app suggesting recipes that people may find useful.More than 100k recipes have been created and shared so far on IFTTT, so picking out the best and putting them in front of users will be increasingly important – especially if IFTTT wants to appeal beyond geeks like me."We're working hard to identify the recipes that are going to be incredibly useful for anybody using these services, and then making them easier for that audience to find and use them," says Tibbets."When you have so many different options, you have to make sure people feel this sense of quick satisfaction. People get very little time these days, so they need to be told some things before they'll get confident enough to dig through the rest of what you do."There are two interesting trends in the kinds of channels that IFTTT is adding. First: hardware, such as the fitness gadgets, but also Philips' Hue lighting and Belkin's WeMo home automation gadgets."A lot of the growth in the channels we're going to see in the next couple of years is going to happen in the physical world," says Tibbets."We think you're going to be able to do some really cool stuff, and a lot of those things can't be prescribed from the top down. There are hundreds of things somebody might want to do with that connected toothbrush, so let the people on the ground decide how that should work."That might not be the best example, if you're a connected-toothbrush cynic (and let's be honest, most people are). Connected TVs and set-top boxes, games consoles, home automation, streaming hi-fis and other devices have plenty of potential to play nicer with web services, though.The second area of interest for IFTTT is media. The company worked with ESPN in 2012 for the Olympic Games, enabling users to create recipes to deliver notifications (via SMS, email, Twitter, Facebook and other means) when specific triggers happened: "Send me an SMS whenever Team GB wins a medal" for example.Other media may follow. "For someone like The Guardian or the New York Times, what they're really looking to do is get their media out there, read and consumed – or at least clicked back to," says Tibbets."IFTTT gives people very powerful filter tool about how they want to consume that. It could be articles by a specific author, or which mention a specific topic or category. Think of it as a way to follow that content with any service, whether it's Pocket, Instapaper, email or SMS. Media is a really interesting space for us."
Apple has been found guilty of conspiring with book publishers to raise ebook prices, in one of the biggest anti-trust lawsuits ever brought by US federal authorities.US district judge Denise Cote ruled on Wednesday that the company played a "central role" in a conspiracy with the biggest book publishers in the US to fix  prices in violation of antitrust law.Executives from the companies would meet in the private dining rooms of upscale New York restaurants to bemoan the low prices charged by the ebooks market leader Amazon, and what they could do about it, Cote said in her ruling.Cote ruled that that damages would be determined at a new hearing. Apple continued to deny on Wednesday that it had done anything wrong, and said it planned an appeal.The ruling was not unexpected, as Cote had earlier suggested that Apple's defense would fail, and the publishers – Hachette Book Group Inc, Macmillan, HarperCollins Publishers LLC, Penguin Group and Simon &amp; Schuster – settled with the Department of Justice ahead of the trial. With Random House, these six firms are the largest publishers of trade books in the United States."The plaintiffs have shown that the publisher defendants conspired with each other to eliminate retail price competition in order to raise e-book prices, and that Apple played a central role in facilitating and executing that conspiracy,"Cote said in the decision (pdf). "Without Apple's orchestration of this conspiracy, it would not have succeeded as it did in the spring of 2010."The US Department of Justice said the conspiracy was created to challenge Amazon's dominance in the ebook market. The publishers and Apple sought to raise e-book prices above the $9.99 price tag favored by Amazon.According to the court, Apple and the publishers began meeting in mid-December 2009 to discuss "their abhorrence of Amazon's pricing". Apple suggested raising prices to $12.99 and $14.99.During these talks, Apple said it wanted to announce the iBookstore at the 27 January 2010 launch of the iPad, but would only do so if it was assured the company could make a profit."With a full appreciation of each other's interests, Apple and the publisher defendants agreed to work together to eliminate retail price competition in the e-book market and raise the price of e-books above $9.99," said Cote.As early as 2008, executives at MacMillan and Hachette discussed ways to get Amazon to increase ebook prices. All of the publishers expressed frustration in 2009 and began campaigning for prices to be raised in newspapers and in private dinner meetings."On a fairly regular basis, roughly once a quarter, the CEOs of the publishers held dinners in the private dining rooms of New York restaurants, without counsel or assistants present, in order to discuss the common challenges they faced, including most prominently Amazon's pricing policies," said Cote.The judge's ruling highlighted the influence in the policy of Steve Jobs, Apple's founder, who was ill at the time it was discussed. She quoted Eddy Cue, senior vice-president of internet software and services at Apple, who had a significant role in creating the iBookstore, saying he had ad personal motivations for pushing negotiations with publishers."Cue knew that Jobs was seriously ill and that this would be one of his last opportunities to bring to life one of Jobs's visions and to demonstrate his devotion to the man who had given him the opportunity to help transform American culture," said Cote.The antitrust suit was filed against Apple by the Department of Justice, 33 US states and territories in April 2012.In a statement after the ruling, Apple said:Apple did not conspire to fix ebook pricing and we will continue to fight against these false accusations. When we introduced the iBookstore in 2010, we gave customers more choice, injecting much needed innovation and competition into the market, breaking Amazon's monopolistic grip on the publishing industry. We've done nothing wrong and we will appeal the judge's decision.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA new Google Maps app for smartphones and tablets &gt;&gt; Google Official BlogOne important change you should know about is that Latitude and check-ins will be retired. These features will no longer be a part of the new Google Maps app, and will stop functioning in older versions by 9 August. We understand some of you still want to see your friends and family on a map, which is why we've added location sharing and check-ins to Google+ for Android (coming soon to iOS). More details about Latitude and check-in changes can be found in our help center.The offline maps feature for Android is also no longer available. Instead we've created a new way for you to access maps offline by simply entering "OK Maps" into the search box when viewing the area you want for later. Finally, My Maps functionality is not supported in this release but will return to future versions of the app.So Latitude is now part of Google+ - as everything will eventually be. The offline capability isn't important enough to merit a menu option, yet is important enough to be implemented. Odd.The limits of Facebook's search tool &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comVindu Goel:In practice, Graph Search has many limitations. Because Facebook uses so-called structured search technology to scan the boxes and buttons that users fill out on the site, it's only as good as the boxes checked.For example, when I searched my social network for "friends who like ice cream," Facebook only returned 12 results. Left out was the silent majority who regularly lick cones and never bothered to tell Facebook.Graph Search also tends to be too literal, often failing to discern the broader meaning of specific data points. For example, a search for "my friends who work at newspapers" returned no results, even though several hundred of my Facebook friends have listed specific newspapers as employers.Latter point is tricky if you don't have structured data. Former point is just, well, life.40% of consumers are unaware that Google Adwords are adverts &gt;&gt; EconsultancyWhile conducting a research project for an insurance sector client, Bunnyfoot discovered that 81% of users clicked on Google Adwords listings as opposed to natural search results.Further investigation of this surprising bias revealed that 41 out of the 100 individuals tested did not know that Adwords were paid-for adverts, believing them instead to be the most authoritative links.Looking at a Google results page for 'car insurance', the paid ads do stand out thanks to the background shading, while Google does add the label 'ads related to car insurance' at the top.The survey seems to be robust (people were recruited in the street, and eye-tracking was used to see what they looked at). If verified more widely, it would be ammunition for Google's detractors in its fight with the European Commission's antitrust arm.Behavioral economics of Free to Play games &gt;&gt; Boing BoingRamin Shokrizade's "Top F2P Monetization Tricks" shows how the free-to-play world deploys practical behavioral economics to convince players to spend more than they intend to, adapting to players to hook them and then pry open their wallets wider and wider. I was very interested to learn that some games look for behaviors that mark out "spenders" and convert themselves from "skill games" (win by being good at them) to "money games" (win only by spending).Pirate Bay plans encrypted messaging app where 'no one can listen in' &gt;&gt; The VergeIn the wake of recent revelations about NSA surveillance efforts, the co-founder of The Pirate Bay has launched a drive to crowdsource funding for a new mobile messaging app — one so secure that its creators say they couldn't turn over people's messages even if they wanted to. Hemlis (it means "secret" in Swedish), is being developed by Peter Sunde, one of the individuals behind The Pirate Bay, along with Linus Olsson and Leif Högberg. It's described as an easy to use messaging app in the vein of WhatsApp or iMessage, with one important twist: it uses end-to-end encryption to ensure that nobody can monitor your messages. "No one can listen in," the Hemlis site promises. "Not even us."UK.gov's digi-by-default plan slammed &gt;&gt; The RegisterA letter that demands answers to a wide range of concerns expressed by MPs about the government's digital-by-default has landed on Cabinet Office Minister Francis Maude's desk. The Science and Technology Select Committee's chair Andrew Miller fired off the missive (PDF) to Maude, after gaping holes were spotted in evidence submitted to the panel during a public grilling last month.It is now calling on the minister to provide responses to unanswered questions about cost; security; awareness and uptake; identity assurance and data accuracy; and public confidence.Glass, Home and solipsism &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansWhen I was watching the launch event for Facebook Home, a loud alarm bell started ringing for me when Mark Zuckerberg said words to the effect that "phones should be about more than apps - they should be about people" - by which of course he means "about Facebook". The problem with this is that actually, we've spent the last six years making phones about more than just people. People use Facebook on their phones a LOT, yes, but they do a lot of other things as well. If all I wanted was a phone about people I'd be using a $20 Nokia with a battery that lasts a month.The same point, I think, applies to Google Glass. If you spend all day in the Googleplex, thinking googly thoughts about data ingestion and Now and the interest graph, then having 'Google' hovering in front of your eyes instead of rubbing on a phone seems like a really obvious progression.It's a wider musing on the meaning of "customer". But when did Google change from being a company that wanted to send you away from its site to the best search result as fast as possible into one which wanted to wrap itself, Alien-like, around your face all day?Dropbox now has 175 millions users &gt;&gt; TechCrunchDRopbox is so big it now has its own conference, during which it announced a datastore API, Dropbox integration with Yahoo Mail for Android and revealed its latest user numbers.The company now has 175 million users, up from 100 million in November 2012. DBX also saw the launch of several new APIs for the 100,000 apps on the Dropbox platform.Still, most stunning might be Dropbox's growth. It reportedly turned down some serious acquisition offers and the bet on itself seems to be paying off. Days storage is no longer an nerdy niche service. It's becoming a necessity of modern life.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Happy birthday, Apple's App Store. It launched on 10 July 2008, a year after the first iPhone went on sale, with 500 apps available.More than 850k apps, 50bn downloads and $10bn paid out to iOS developers later, the store is celebrating its fifth anniversary. It's seen a lot of success stories, a fair few high-profile failures, and plenty of controversy along the way.Here are 10 key moments that not only defined the App Store, but had a wider impact on the worlds of media, entertainment and technology, for better or worse.Steve Jobs changes his mind (2007)The most pivotal moment in the App Store's history might just have been the moment then-CEO Steve Jobs was persuaded to have one. Walter Isaacson's authorised biography of Jobs explained that he wasinitially unconvinced that third-party apps would be a good thing for iPhone."He didn't want outsiders to create applications for the iPhone that could mess it up, infect it with viruses, or pollute its integrity," wrote Isaacson, before quoting Apple board member Art Levinson on his efforts to change Jobs' mind."I called him a half dozen times to lobby for the potential of the apps. I couldn't imagine that we would create something as powerful as the iPhone and not empower developers to make lots of apps. I knew customers would love them," said Levinson. "Every time the conversation happened, Steve seemed a little more open."App Store launches (July 2008)The App Storefinally went live on 10 July 2008with around 500 apps available. I was writing for mobile games website Pocket Gamer at the time, and rememberrooting through the launch-day selectionto pick out titles like Super Monkey Ball, Apple's own Texas Hold 'em and Cro-Mag Rally.The store's biggest impact at the time was the contrast with what had gone before. Mobile applications were well-established, with every mobile operator having their own games portal – yes, many of the operators didn't see much value in non-gaming software – while there was plenty of downloadable software for Symbian, Windows Mobile, Palm OS and other platforms.These stores were often clunky, requiring many clicks to browse and buy an application. Many operators tended to prioritise big-brand games based on films and console games, even if they were rubbish, over the kind of quirky, creative indie fare that existed, but just didn't get much of a push.The fact that there was a sizeable industry making Java and BREW games for mobile phones before Apple weighed in is often forgotten, but it's also true that the App Store's browsing and buying experience felt streets ahead right from the start. Apple's canny rebranding of mobile applications as "apps" underlined that sense of a new start.Trism was one of the first iOS indie hitsiPhone game Trism makes $250k (September 2008)There were several notable success stories in the early months of the App Store. Super Monkey Ball sold 300k copies and made Sega $3m in its first month, for example. But if you're looking for the roots of the bustling smartphone games industry that exists today, the news thatpuzzle game Trism had made $250kfor its one-man developer Steve Demeter in its first two months on the App Store seems pretty pivotal.It was one of the first big independently-developed success stories on Apple's store – the first of many. Another one-man band, Ethan Nicholas, made even bigger waves when hemade $600k in a single monthwith his artillery game iShoot in early 2009.Cue hundreds, then thousands, then tens of thousands of independent developers bringing their ideas to the App Store. Most didn't have lucrative hits, but the likes of Flight Control, Doodle Jump, Tiny Wings and others over the next five years established iOS as an environment where the smallest studios could dream of having a monster hit.Free iOS apps get in-app purchases (October 2009)In-app purchases were already part of the App Store in October 2009, but they were restricted to paid apps only. Then Apple made IAP available across the board, telling developers "Now you can use In App Purchase in your free apps to sell content, subscriptions, and digital services".The next month, a US publisher named ngmoco launchedEliminate, an entirely freemium first-person shooter game. Fast forward to 2013, and 44 of the 50 top grossing iPhone games in the UK App Store are free-to-play, making their money from in-app purchases.The freemium model turned the mobile games industry on its head, with entire conferences devoted to the science of free-to-play, and heated debates among developers and gamers alike about the ethics of freemium.Apple's move in 2009 has led to an industry where indie developers like Supercell and GungHo can make hundreds of millions of dollars from a handful of games, but it's also an industry where children's game developers see no ethical problem in selling virtual items in bundles worth £69.99.Angry Birds takes flight (Early 2010)Angry Birds wasn't a hit when it first launched. The game quietly appeared on the App Store in late 2009, before a combination of word-of-mouth and being featured by Apple made it popular. Then things snowballed.Angry Birds ended 2012 with 263m monthly active players, a joint game with Star Wars in which both brands took equal weight, and a business for its developer Rovio where 45% of the revenues came from plush toys and other licensed products, rather than games.Angry Birds hasn't been the most lucrative mobile gaming franchise for some time now, but its importance isn't so much about the money. It was the first truly global brand born on mobile during the App Store era (we'll politely forget Crazy Frog from the pre-App Store era).It was a reminder that smartphones and tablets – because Android also played a vital role in Angry Birds' growth – were a new gaming medium that could spawn characters and franchises worthy of competing with far more established fare from the console, TV and film worlds. Outfit7's Talking Friends stands out as the other such brand.Steve Jobs at WWDC 2010. Photo: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesiOS developers make their first $1bn (June 2010)The iPhone 4 may have taken centre stage during Apple's WWDC keynote in June 2010, but there were some important stats from the App Store too. Jobs announced thatApple had paid out $1bn to iOS developerssince the store's launch, based on more than 5bn app downloads.Since then, there have been many such milestones: $2bn paid out by March 2011, $4bn by January 2012, and now $10bn by June 2013, based on 50bn downloads. Possibly interesting fact: the payout-per-download has remained constant at $0.20 over that time.I think Jobs' first payout announcement was significant for another reason though: one of the first signs of Apple feeling truly competitive with (and thus threatened by?) the growth of Android and its own app store.Apple and Google have traded download milestones ever since, but Apple's regular boasting about its developer payouts has been a clear attempt to reinforce perceptions that iOS is where the money is to be made, even if Android has the bigger reach.Apple publishes App Store Review guidelines (September 2010)Apple's approval policy for iOS apps has long been a subject for speculation and squabbles: every time the company rejects a high-profile app (or, as seems to increasingly be the case with Google's iOS apps, is thought to be dragging its heels over approving one) it makes more headlines.In September 2010, Apple took the surprise step of publishing someApp Store Review Guidelines"to help developers understand how we review submitted apps" in the hope that "it will make us more transparent". It was a fascinating document for the insight it gave into how Apple saw its gatekeeper role:"We view Apps different than books or songs, which we do not curate. If you want to criticize a religion, write a book. If you want to describe sex, write a book or a song, or create a medical app. It can get complicated, but we have decided to not allow certain kinds of content in the App Store...We will reject Apps for any content or behavior that we believe is over the line. What line, you ask? Well, as a Supreme Court Justice once said, 'I'll know it when I see it'. And we think that you will also know it when you cross it."Did that squash the squabbling? Hardly. Frombanning satirical game Phone Storyin September 2011 throughnixing Sweatshop HD and Endgame:Syriain 2013, Apple has consistently indicated that it doesn't see so-called "serious" games as suitable satirical tools – a disappointing policy.Even this year, there have been launches and hasty removals for dating (well, I saydating) appBang With Friends, and a still-confusing policy over apps that recommend other apps, epitomised bythe removal of the popular AppGratis appfrom the App Store in April. Apple has plenty of work to do to improve the way people discover needles in the App Store's 900k-apps haystack, but it seems developers who do too good a job of duplicating and improving on its features face being removed.Financial Times switches to HTML5 (June 2011)The Financial Times isn't the kind of media institution that delights in picking fights, but its dignified withdrawal from the App Store in 2011 was an important moment. At the time, FT.com managing director Rob Grimshawdescribed the situation as a "Mexican standoff"over Apple's desired 30% cut of subscription revenues to the FT's app, as well as its wish to retain control over key customer data.Apple tends to prevail in such standoffs with the media and entertainment industries, but the Financial Times held fast, removing its app from the App Store and launching an HTML5 version instead, accessed through the browser. 10 months later,it had attracted more than 2m users, by which point mobile was accounting for 12% of its subscriptions and 19% of its traffic.By April 2013,Grimshaw was telling The Guardianthat "34% of our traffic overall is coming on mobile devices, and for subscribers it's rather higher... 15-20% of new subscriptions each week are being sold on a mobile device."What the FT proved was that there was a viable alternative for subscription-based businesses on iOS devices outside the App Store, even if few of its peers have chosen to follow in its footsteps as yet.Clash of Clans has been a lucrative successSupercell goes mobile gaming (Summer 2012)Remember those days when $250k of revenues in two months was a startling success on the App Store? By April 2013, Finnish developer Supercell was making$2.4m every dayfrom just two iOS games: Clash of Clans and Hay Day. Games released in summer the year before, after the company pivoted from moderate success on Facebook.Supercell epitomises the potential scale of App Store success in 2013: a company that released its first mobile game in July 2012 was valued at $770m, andpulled in $179m of revenues for the first three months of 2013– well ahead of Zynga and EA's mobile division. Candy Crush Saga, Puzzle &amp; Dragons and other free-to-play games are enjoying similar success.That's certainly the story of games on the App Store: new winners emerging all the time to disrupt the old guard. It's true of other categories too: Instagram in social networking, for example.Tim Cook's Apple Maps apology (September 2012)Things you don't expect a senior Apple executive to say:"At Apple, we strive to make world-class products that deliver the best experience possible to our customers. With the launch of our new Maps last week, we fell short on this commitment. We are extremely sorry for the frustration this has caused our customers and we are doing everything we can to make Maps better."That was CEO Tim Cook in September 2012, after the high-profile teething issues (to say the least) around the launch of Apple Maps, designed as it was as an alternative to Google Maps after the latter was thrown out of the iOS software. But the really startling bit inCook's letter to customerscame later:"While we're improving Maps, you can try alternatives by downloading map apps from the App Store like Bing, MapQuest and Waze, or use Google or Nokia maps by going to their websites and creating an icon on your home screen to their web app."It was a reminder that for all its kingmaking abilities in the apps world, Apple doesn't always get its own apps right. And it was a reminder to those and other companies making apps that duplicated Apple's own software that they could also improve on it. Arguably healthy for iOS as a whole, if intensely embarrassing for the platform owner.
It's Thursday.
Yahoo has called on Fisa, the secretive US surveillance court, to let it publish its legal argument against a case that gave the government "powerful leverage" in persuading tech companies to co-operate with a controversial data-gathering program.In a court filingfirst reported by San Jose Mercury Newsthe company argues the release would demonstrate that Yahoo "objected strenuously" in a key 2008 case after the National Security Agency (NSA) demanded Yahoo customers' information.In June Yahoo, along with Apple, Google, Facebook, Microsoft and other companies, were identified in NSA documents as participating in a secret surveillance scheme known as Prism. The documents, obtained by the former NSA contractor Edward Snowden and first disclosed by the Guardian and Washington Post, claimed "direct access" to the servers of top tech firms. This particular characterisation of the program has been the source of strenuous dispute by the companies."Release of this court's decision and the parties' briefing is necessary to inform the growing public debate about how this court considers and examines the government's use of directives," Yahoo said in the filing to the foreign intelligence surveillance (Fisa) court, which rules on surveillance orders sought by the federal government.  "Courts have long recognised the public has a right to access court records."Yahoo lost a 2008 ruling at the Fisa court that has subsequently been seen as a key case in the government's arguments for pushing the tech firms' peers to comply with similar requests. Under federal law the ruling and Yahoo's arguments against it have been treated as classified information."The directives at issue in this debate are at the centre of a robust national debate represented by countless news articles, a statement from the director of national intelligence and congressional hearings," Yahoo said in the filing. Providing more information would "inform this debate and prevent misunderstandings", the company said."Disclosure of the directives and the briefs in this case would also allow Yahoo to demonstrate that it objected strenuously to the directives that are now the subject of debate, and objected at every stage of the proceedings, but that theses objections were overruled and its request for stay was denied," said Yahoo.Yahoo's move comes as its rivals have also pushed for the government to provide more public clarity on their surveillance of people's online lives. Both Google and Microsoft are lobbying for permission to reveal more information about the numbers and types of requests for information they receive under national security programs.
Amazon is getting into comics and graphic novels publishing – both physical and digital – with the launch of an imprint called Jet City Comics.The imprint already has some high-profile authors and illustrators signed up, including Game of Thrones writer George R.R. Martin, whose short story Meathouse Man is being adapted into a graphic novel for release in October 2013.Amazon will also release new digital editions of the out-of-print graphic novels based on Martin's stories The Hedge Knight and The Sworn Sword in November 2013 and early 2014 respectively.Science fiction author Neal Stephenson and Hugh Howey are also on board, with the latter's series of Wool short stories is already a notable self-publishing success through Amazon's Kindle ebooks store.Amazon says that Jet City Comics books will be released digitally through its Kindle store in standalone and serialised form, but also published as print editions. It's the company's latest venture into publishing its own book as well as selling those from other publishers.Amazon already has imprints for cult fiction (47North), thrillers (Thomas &amp; Mercer), romance (Montlake Romance), children's books (Amazon Children's Publishing), foreign literature (AmazonCrossing), as well as its main imprint AmazonEncore, which launched in 2009."Comics and graphic novels, especially in digital format, represent a unique area for innovation," said Amazon Publishing vice president Jeff Belle in a statement."Our focus will be on adapting great books for this medium as a means of expanding the audience for our authors, pushing boundaries with new ideas that combine visual and narrative storytelling, and creating compelling new experiences for readers."Amazon and comics go back a little way already though, and not always without controversy. In 2011, the companylaunched its Kindle Format 8 (KF8) ebook format, with more tools for comics and graphic novel publishers.The same year,Amazon struck a deal with DC Comicsfor exclusive access to the digital editions of 100 of its graphic novels, as part of the launch of its Kindle Fire tablet. Rival retailer Barnes &amp; Noblepulled the print editions of those books from its shelvesin protest at the deal.Now Amazon will be competing with DC Comics, Marvel Comics and other publishers as well as selling their products – a tightrope the company is already walking with its existing digital and physical imprints.Jet City Comics is just the latest digital disruption for the comics and graphic novels industry. Its announcement came asMarvel released one digital-only series– Wolverine: Japan's Most Wanted – and announced another, Iron Man: Fatal Frontier.Both are being released as part of Marvel's Infinite Comics digital-only imprint, which wasannounced in March 2012as "a new technique in comics storytelling that is built specifically for the digital world yet in a very elegant way manages to keep the purity of what makes a comic a 'comic,'".Marvel has since launchedMarvel Unlimited, a subscription service for digital comics that costs $9.99 a month or $69 a year, offering unlimited access to the company's archives and new issues online, or on iOS and Android devices.Meanwhile, companies likeComiXologyare striking deals with publishers to sell digital editions of their comics. The company reached 100m downloads through its web, iOS, Android and Kindle Fire apps in October 2012, and now sells more than 35k comics from more than 75 publishers.ComiXology is also nowselling subscription-based accessto its catalogue, as well as offering bundles of "curated collections" of comics through its apps, including some of Marvel's most famous series.
Emailing, instant messaging and texting have long replaced phone calls as a quick way to get information. The idea of phoning someone to get information seems somewhat superfluous unless you need the information instantly - and even then, an email will often suffice.ThePrism scandal, however, raised great concerns about the privacy of information and a co-founder of Pirate Bay, Peter Sunde, has a solution – a messaging service that encrypts information on both ends. This means that not only can the app owners not access the information but neither can ISPs or other external agencies such as the government.Heml.is looks to provide users with an accessible app that protects their information.The app, calledHemlis, the Swedish word for "secret", will be free to download but users will be able to pay extra for more features such as sending images. The base product will simply allow users to send text messages.Hemlis will be a crowdfunded project and it has so far raised 29% of its desired goal, $100,000. Depending on the level of funding that you provide, you will receive a higher number of unlock codes for the app as well as being able to pre-register user names before the app is released.Initial designs show the app will take after iOS 7's interface as well as taking some inspiration fromAny.doand the focus is on creating a secure, and very accessible, app. When released, Hemlis will be available on both Android and iOS devices and will very specifically not have any advertising.On the app's website, the team allude to the recentPrism scandal, adding that the app is a clear response:"Companies like Facebook, Twitter, Apple and Google have been forced to open up their systems and hand out information about their users. At the same time they have been forbidden to tell anyone about it!"We're building a message app where no one can listen in, not even us. We would rather close down the service before letting anyone in."Considering the plethora of messaging apps currently available, such asWhatsapp, MessageMe and Text+, it will be interesting to see the development of Hemlis.
More than 175m people are now using Dropbox to store photos, documents, videos and other files, having added 75m since November 2012.The company announced the new figure at its DBX developer conference in Fort Mason, while also revealing new ways for developers to integrate Dropbox into their applications.Earlier this year,Dropbox launched its Sync APIfor iOS and Android, making it easier for smartphone and tablet apps to use Dropbox as their external file storage. Now Dropbox has unveiled a new Datastore API that goes beyond that."Our Sync and Core APIs already take care of syncing files and folders, but as people use mobile apps more and more, a lot of their stuff doesn't really look like a file at all,"explained co-founders Drew Houston and Arash Ferdowsiin a blog post."It could be anything — settings, contacts, to-do list items, or the latest doodle you drew. With the Datastore API, we're moving beyond files and providing a new model for effortlessly storing and syncing app data."Sounds familiar? Apple's iCloud service is designed to do that for iOS and Mac applications, but has faced sustained criticism from developers struggling to implement iCloud in their apps.The opportunity for Dropbox has not just been to work better for apps on Apple devices, but to also provide cross-platform syncing between iOS and Android. More than 100k apps have been built using Dropbox's APIs so far, helping the service grow to a point where people are saving 1bn files to it every day."Today is about making life easier for all of you," Houston told developers at the DBX conference,according to TechCrunch. "We have all these companies making all this amazing stuff, but they're punching each other in the face."The event also saw Dropbox announce new "drop-ins" for developers called Chooser and Saver, which will help them add the ability to access files in Dropbox and upload new files from apps "with just a few lines of code".Stock-photos service Shutterstock and email apps Yahoo Mail and Mailbox are the first apps to make use of the new drop-ins.Dropbox bought iOS app Mailboxin March for a rumoured $100m. Its latest update will make emailed links to Dropbox files work like regular attachments.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIs the Drug Enforcement Agency closing in on Silk Road? &gt;&gt; The Daily DotAs the case of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency's firstseizureof Bitcoins unfolds, the future looks bleak for the controversial online drug marketplace Silk Road.According to a noticepostedby the agency, the DEA seized 11.02 BTC, worth about $814, from a 31-year-old South Carolina man, Eric Daniel Hughes, for violating the Controlled Substances Act on Silk Road.&amp;nbsp;Little else is yet known for certain about the case. But since news of the seizure broke, several parties have begun trying to piece the details together.Would it be surprising if the DEA were infiltrating Silk Road? Not at all.Apple, Amazon end 'app store' lawsuit &gt;&gt; ReutersMartin Glick, a lawyer for Amazon, said in an interview, "This was a decision by Apple to unilaterally abandon the case, and leave Amazon free to use 'appstore.'""We're gratified that the court has conclusively dismissed this case," Amazon spokeswoman Mary Osako said. "We look forward to continuing our focus on delivering the best possible appstore experience to customers and developers.""We no longer see a need to pursue our case," Apple spokeswoman Kristin Huguet said. "With more than 900,000 apps and 50 billion downloads, customers know where they can purchase their favorite apps."Dropbox blows up the box, connecting every app, file, and device &gt;&gt; Wired.comMarcus Wohlsen:since starting Dropbox in 2007, [co-founder and chief executive Drew] Houston and co-founder Arash Ferdowsi have taken the opposite approach to running their company. The pair set out to solve a simple, irritating problem and never got distracted. They didn't concern themselves with bells and whistles — or the equivalent of effects pedals [Houston is a guitar fan]. They focused on finding the most elegant way to sync files across devices, so you wouldn't have to email them to yourself. Instead of letting groovy digital stompboxes dazzle them, they practiced their scales and chords until they laid a seemingly unshakable foundation in the fundamentals.The result is a product used by 175 million people — and a company valued at billions of dollars.Fascinating profile.Why I bailed on my Pebble smartwatch order &gt;&gt; ReadWriteNick Statt:I pre-ordered a Pebble in June of 2012 shortly after its Kickstarter had netted the tiny team over $10m, primarily because I felt it would be more ethical as someone who might eventually write about the Pebble to refrain from backing the project. I waited a year for the moment when the company said my device would ship (May 2013), and then when it still didn't two months later, the Best Buy news was a punch in the gut. So much so that I decided the company had lost my business, no matter how much time and money had since become sunk costs to me.Arguably, Pebble's biggest problem has been its success. When the Kickstarter element was such a success it added features such as waterproofing - creating more time lag.Former Windows chief explains why it's so hard to go cross-platform &gt;&gt; CITEworldSteve Sinofsky explains why the diversity of devices is making developing so challenging:When a new platform emerges, it's usually fairly "trivial" to integrate with that platform early on -- developers can take much of what they've already done and rejigger it for the new platform, sometimes reusing common "platform agnostic" code, sometimes relying heavily on web services that can be easily adapted to each platform. APIs and design elements tend to be common, or similar, across platforms.The woman at the heart of everything Google builds &gt;&gt; WiredMeet Melody Meckfessel - wine maker, and manager of all Google's internal code projects."The developer tools overseen by Meckfessel aren't used outside the search giant, but that's because Google wants it that way. Like so many other Google software creations, the company views these tools as a kind of trade secret best keep hidden from competitors — though it has open sourced small pieces of them.These tools include everything from the software used to compile the company's software code to the review and testing tools used to refine it, to the systems that eventually push the compiled software onto machines in Google's massive data centers."'I filmed the first fight and arrest through Google Glass' &gt;&gt; VentureBeat"I think if I had a bigger camera there, the kid would probably have punched me," [Chris] Barrett told me. "But I was able to capture the action with Glass and I didn't have to hold up a cell phone and press record."Barrett thinks it's a revolution in citizen journalism and perhaps even documentary film-making. It's certainly continuing the change that cheap portable video recording equipment has been ushering in ever since Rodney King — and probably stepping it up a notch, too."This is a huge step in citizen journalism," Barrett said. "If Google Glass takes off, everyone's going to have their entire life captured … first words, first steps … but also people getting shot, and natural disasters."Broadcasters worry about 'Zero TV' homes &gt;&gt; Associated PressSome people have had it with TV. They've had enough of the 100-plus channel universe. They don't like timing their lives around network show schedules. They're tired of $100-plus monthly bills.A growing number of them have stopped paying for cable and satellite TV service, and don't even use an antenna to get free signals over the air. These people are watching shows and movies on the Internet, sometimes via cellphone connections. Last month, the Nielsen Co. started labeling people in this group "Zero TV" households, because they fall outside the traditional definition of a TV home. There are 5m of these residences in the US, up from 2m in 2007.And 100.4m homes in the US which do have service. But new ones aren't adding TV. Would this happen in the UK, where a TV licence is very, very much cheaper than those US cable bills? (Thanks @EMComments for the link.)Getting hooked on WhoSampled &gt;&gt; hypebotWhoSampled stands alone among music apps, because it is entirely focused on tracing samples as they wend their way from wherever they originally appeared into sample-oriented music including Hip-Hop, EDM, and other genres. It helps fans of those genres delve deeper into music they thought they already knew.Paying homage to music that came before by creating something new out of it isn't a novel idea, and in fact, musicians were borrowing riffs and lyrics from each other before the advent of recorded music, but this ability to trace samples through a simple app is. Back in the day, you had to read through a CD's pamphlet to find out where the group had cleared its samples, and then seek out the original recording — and even then, you'd miss all the unofficial samples.Bet it's a favourite with record execs looking for some extra royalties. (Thanks @slimbowski for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
This week on Tech Weekly, Aleks Krotoski talks to Dr Claire Hardaker abouther recent Guardian blogwhich unpacked the various types of troll and asked questions about online controls around the phenomenon.Aleks is also joined by Guardian head of technology Jemima Kiss and technology editor Charles Arthur discuss wearable tech, the demise of BBC 3D TV and Microsoft TV.
The Iranian government has announced that it willassign citizens with official state email addresses, setting a new norm for how the government interacts with its citizens, according to Communications Minister Mohammad Hassan Nami.In a vaguely worded statement that lacked detail, the government made no mention of whether private email addresses would banned nor whether the state email addresses would be obligatory.Meanwhile, Iran is also working on creating its own national intranet, largely allowing only those within Iran to get information from one another. How it will affect expat Iranian citizens is not yet known.If the basis for the email network was that it would only be accessible within their intranet - theIranternet,if you like - none of those living outside the country would be able to respond to official government information.Iran's digerati may also be troubled by the government's plans to launch the intranet, despite various ways in which they manage to route around the country's fairly strict limitations on regulations and censorship. A fully-developed intranet might require more technical skills to break the barriers, leaving behind many without advanced skills.In one more twist, Iran's president-elect Hassan Rouhani will take over his more hardline predecessor in August.Rouhani is very much perceived the moderate politician, often calling for less state intervention in citizens' lives as well as a less online censorship during his election campaign. His position on the intranet is unknown but if he does not tackle it head on, with a clear intent that it will not be implemented, his position as a moderate will not be long lasting.
Ahead of Apple's Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) in June, there was mounting expectation that the keynote announcements would include APIs which would let third-party apps become the defaults - or at least, that third-party keyboards would be enabled.Come the speech itself, however, there was nothing of the sort - and nothing in the followup developer sessions, and no APIs exposed in the beta.Cue mournful faces from companies like Britain's Swiftkey, which had been hoping for a one-two this year. Its keyboard is already the default on BlackBerry's BB10, introduced earlier this year; it has beendownloaded more than 10m times(and less than 50m) from the Google Play store. Ahead of the keynote, the company had high - extremely high - hopes of good news.The reason: Tim Cook had hinted at "opening up" iOS while on stage at the All Things Digital conference in May. Joe Braidwood, chief marketing officer of Swiftkey told me this week: "We were being hopeful based on Tim's comments at D11. We were disappointed that Apple didn't liberalise its mobile OS to allow third parties to innovate the typing experience. We'd hoped this would happen, based on Tim Cook's comments at D11 that iOS would be opened up in the future."Braidwood adds: "We're strong believers that improving the text input experience is one of the real areas for improvement in iOS, and some of the tweaks that have happened to the autocorrection engine in iOS 7 only act to underline that assertion."Certainly over at iMore, which aims at Apple readers,a poll found that nearly 40% want third-party software keyboards on the iPhone, and that 26% said "options are good". That's two-thirds of respondents who definitely or probably would like a third-party keyboard. (If you want to turn it on its head, around 60% haven't expressed a definite desire for a third-party keyboard. But that would be hairsplitting.)Given that apparent depth of feeling, why hasn't Apple done so? One point that Rene Ritchie makes at iMore is that having optional keyboards is the exception, rather than the rule. You can't use a third-party keyboard on Windows Phone. Nor on BB10 - the Swiftkey interface is what you get. Of course, you can't change it on iOS. Android is the only place where you can. There, keyboards such as Swiftkey (between 10m and 50m downloads) and Swype (around 1m downloads for the trial and paid versions together) certainly have their fans - though compared to an active Android population of, very conservatively, 600m phones outside China (as those in China can't access the Google Play store), a maximum of 8% of people (50m of 600m) have bothered to change their keyboardeven when they can.In fact, just as on the desktop,95% of people don't change defaults.Yet my understanding, from what we could call "sources familiar with Apple's thinking on the matter", is that the lack of default keyboards isn't just because relatively few people do it.Instead, it's what could sound like a more paranoid reason: opening up the keyboard to third parties could open the platform to keylogging - which would irrevocably destroy user confidence .This might sound daft. After all, surely you can tell if a keyboard is sending data to an outside site, as a keylogger would need to? Not necessarily. After all, if you're in a web browser, then the keystrokes that you type have to be sent to the website, otherwise nothing can happen. So what if you had a very sneaky keylogger which waited until you were in a web browser and then sent its keylogging payload to its collection site?The problem is - the sources suggest - that by definition you can't block the keyboard from seeing everything that you type. Logically, the OS can't know whether what you're typing and where it's being sent matches the URL that you're seeing (because you can be typing inside a frame - think of the Verified By Visa frame that appears on so many transactions). And third-party keyboards would be a gigantic target for hackers who would try to create innocent-looking ones with malicious purposes.Braidwood says this doesn't make sense, though. "As Apple specifically and meticulously approves every app update that they publish, this poses little or no threat," he told me. "Malware isn't a problem on iOS as far as I'm aware. The auto-update process [coming in iOS 7, where updated apps are downloaded in the background] would make no difference."The real point that we've heard here relates to wanting to protect the user's experience, which is what Tim Cook said in his D11 interview. This would seem to be framed around wanting to avoid confusion and inconsistency rather than the risk of malware. But given our success on Android we think the risk of confusion and inconsistency is a small concern versus the benefit of having a typing experience that's truly personalised and far less frustrating."However, "little or no threat" is not quite the same as "no threat" - and it's that arbitrage Apple is keen to avoid.In fact, Swiftkey has managed to get onto iOS - in a medical app, where the complex terminology would be tedious to spell out in full but can be composed in a flash from a few alternatives once you have a few letters. But that, crucially, is sandboxed inside the app - it can't see or record anything happening outside it.Perhaps, the sources suggest, if there's a way to create a system keyboard which is in effect sandboxed just as an in-app keyboard is, then things can proceed. But until then? No way.There are two ways of viewing Apple's position. You can think the malware/keylogging position is honestly held. Given that Steve Jobs was against the whole third-party apps thing in the first place (he wanted apps to just run as web apps), it's continuing its cautious approach to allowing outside companies onto the platform. Having taken years to begin infiltrating enterprises and begin to be trusted, to have a third-party keyboard blow apart a hard-won reputation for security would be disastrous.And Apple has tightened up the security around iOS 6: jailbreaking (effectively, cracking the OS) is much harder than it ever was before. No holes seem to have been found since therelease of iOS 6.1.3in March 2013, so that jailbreakers Evasi0ndon't offer a crackif you're using iOS 6.1.3 or later. (Three months without a crack is a lifetime in jailbreaking time.)An alternative view is that Apple doesn't want the experience of using iOS to vary too much - that that might create confusion for its support people and those at mobile networks who have to deal with calls from people having trouble with their phones. (If you've ever done any sort of telephone support - even for a relative - you'll know how important it is to know precisely what software they're running. Even having a different keyboard can complicate things.)And another view is that Apple is simply using an excuse to hang on to its position and deny app providers the chance to challenge it. After all, there's never been any evidence of third-party keyboard apps leaking or stealing data on Android, and Swiftkey and Swype have excellent reputations. Except that if you download apps from non-Play stores,you could get keylogged by a pirate copy.Note too that Apple didn't yield in iOS 7 on the "default apps" ground either: you can't make a different browser or mail client or messages app be the default. You can in Android, but not in any other mobile OS. In that sense, Android's extreme flexibility begins to look like the exception, not the rule.Even so, why isn't Apple allowing people to change the default app? The sources suggest that this really is a case where it's Apple's way or the highway. Apple thinks it does this stuff better than alternative offerings. If you disagree, you can always download another app (there are plenty of calendar and mail and browser apps for the iPhone) and just use those - or, indeed, try another phone. It might well sound arrogant - but Apple's approach has never been to try to capture the business of people whodon'tlike how it does things. It's always been about pleasing those whodolike how it does things. It's after that 95% who don't change the defaults.For that reason, it's probably going to be a cold day in hell before it allows you to change the default iPhone keyboard - or the default apps. iOS 7 certainly looks different. But as far as opening it up to the outside world goes, Apple is definitely not thinking different. It's thinking just the same as it always has.
A French anti-piracy law that would disconnect those suspected of copyright infringement has been overturned and replaced with a system of automatic fines,it has been announced in a official government report.Mired in controversy, the "Hadopi law" succumbed to the pressure of the entertainment industry and would disconnect those suspected of piracy from the internet.  Users were first sent two written warnings, in what was called a "graduated response", and if they did not reply their internet connection would be cut off on the final warning.The report says that instead of simply disconnecting users, those suspected of copyright could be fined if they did not reply to warnings, with a relatively low fine (€60) to begin, and the size of the fine would increase depending on the number of infractions.French anti-piracy will now their focus – instead of handing heavy punishments to individual users, the government is looking towards penalising "commercial piracy" and "sites that profit from pirated material",according to an official spokesperson.The Hadopi law was introduced in 2009 by the then president, Nicolas Sarkozy, but suffered great controversy when France's highest court, the Constitutional Council, declaredaccess to the internet a basic human right.The government has spent millions on the agency that patrols the system and during its implementation, it only ever fined one individual €150, disconnecting their internet access for 15 days.In 2009, Sarkozy defended the Hadopi law, insisting that the government should protect "lawlessness" in all parts of its territory, including in the online world:"How can there be areas of lawlessness in areas of our society? How can one simultaneously claim that the economy is regulated but the internet is not so? How can we accept that the rules that apply to society as a whole are not binding on the internet?…By defending copyright I do not just defend artistic creation, I also defend my idea of a free society where everyone's freedom is based on respect for the rights of others. I am also defending the future of our culture. It is the future of creation."
With more than 300m downloads of its mobile games on iOS and Android, Backflip Studios was one of the earliest free-to-play success stories on the app stores.Now that success has attracted a bigger fish from the entertainment world, Hasbro, which has paid $112m in cash for a 70% stake in the developer, whose hits include DragonVale, NinJump and Paper Toss.Hasbro says that Backflip will continue to develop its own games under the company's current management, while also making titles "featuring many of Hasbro's best known brands".That's intriguing, because the deal comes just a week after Hasbro announced a new licensing deal with Electronic Arts to make mobile games based on, yes, "several of Hasbro's best-selling gaming brands".That deal will see EA make mobile games based on Monopoly, Scrabble, The Game of Life, Battleship, Boggle, Clue, Risk and Yahtzee.Other Hasbro subsidiaries, for example Magic: The Gathering owner Wizards of the Coast, already publish their own mobile games. Brands like My Little Pony, Transformers and Jenga have also previously been licensed out for mobile games (respectively to Gameloft, DeNA and NaturalMotion)."As mobile play continues its rapid growth, Backflip's leadership position, great games and established network of users, makes Hasbro a more meaningful participant in digital gaming," said Hasbro president and chief executive Brian Goldner of the new deal."Aligning our mobile games alongside such an influential portfolio and a company who has great game design baked into its DNA, positions us well for the future growth of mobile entertainment," said Backflip Studios chief executive Julian Farrior, in his own statement.Backflip first came to prominence with Paper Toss, a casual game involving tossing paper balls into a bin that was released in June 2009.By November that year, it had beendownloaded more than 10m times, helping Backflip make $1.25m from sales of paid apps and $500k from ads in the company's first seven months on the App Store.By March 2010,Backflip was making $500k a monthafter 22m downloads of its games, and then by the end of 2010 the company hadpassed 65m downloads on iOS and Android, with 20m monthly active users (MAUs) playing its games.By September 2011,Backflip's games had been downloaded 150m times, with an audience of 27m MAUs and 3m daily active users (DAUs), as it launched freemium game DragonVale.That proved to be the company's biggest hit yet – even in July 2013, it's still inside the top 20 of the Top Grossing apps chart in the US App Store, and according to analytics firm Distimo,Backflip was the ninth biggest games publisherfor revenues across iOS and Android in 2012.Hasbro will be hoping Backflip's team can bring similar success to some of the toymaker's biggest brands, while potentially taking some of its own IP in the other direction. With Hasbro alreadythe main toy licensee for Rovio's Angry Birds franchise, it would not be surprising to see DragonVale receive similar treatment.
Cancel your plans for the afternoon, Rockstar has launched the first gameplay trailer from Grand Theft Auto 5. And here it is:The footage shows sections of the helicopter missionrevealed to The Guardian last October, as well as glimpses at the lifestyles of lead characters Michael, Trevor and Franklin. Golf, tennis and cycling are all available between missions, while the huge map is open and explorable from the outset.Set in the sleazy city of Los Santos, GTAV is structured around a series of increasingly ambitious heists. Players plan each robbery themselves, arranging getaway cars and deciding on all-out attacks or more intelligent stealth-based approaches. In one trailer snippet we see knock out gas being fed into a jewelry store.As revealed previously, you also get to build your own crew, opting either for expensive veterans or cheapo newcomers.The new trailer also mentions the game's re-worked mechanics, which appear to include an improved cover and targeting system – the latter is set to be customisable, with players able to choose between auto-aim and free-aim with several variations in between. There will be a wealth of options when it comes to spending hard-earned cash: from cool tattoos to investing in real estate, to customising sports cars, the world has a lot to offer criminal masterminds.The trailer ends with a teaser of the game's multiplayer mode, which shows gangs of players running about the city. It's likely there will be options similar to the free-roaming online options found in GTA IV and Red Dead Redemption.GTA V is hitting PS3 and Xbox 360 on 17 September. There's no word on possible PC or next-gen console versions.
On Monday,Manhattan-based startup Fancy received $53m in its latest round of funding, with investors now includingWill Smithand American Express.But just what does the company do – and why has it beenvalued at $600m?If users 'fancy' an item, the product will appear on their profile•Fancy.comis a website where users upload the products that they "fancy" or "want". The items then appear on a user's public profile – though users can tweak their privacy settings to make their fantasy list private.• The similar look toPinteresthas, perhaps naively, meant that the social commerce website has often been compared to the online pinboard. But the ambitions are much, much bigger; in an interview with Business Insider last year, chief executive Joseph Einhorn said that he wanted Fancy to be a "'newer version" of Amazon.• A user profile resembles an Amazon wish list, with users able to "feature" products as well as having a separate tab with items that they specifically "want".Users can choose to feature products on their site and have the option of keeping their profile private• Similar to Facebook's News Feed, the website's home page displays products that people you follow have uploaded or "fancied", as well as a list of the most popular items on the site. These will often range from expensive watches and hot tubs to cheaper, but unnecessary, items such as alaser cut map of Londonor astaple-free stapler.5. The company reportedly generates £3m of revenue a month by taking a 10% commission on orders through the site, and selling $39 monthly subscriptions  to a "Fancy box" – the contents of which are worth about $80.6. In addition to its new film star investor, itsrecent filingalso discloses that among its directors areTwitterand Square co-founderJack Dorsey, owner of football club AS Roma James Pallotta and editor-in-chief ofThe New RepublicChris Hughes.7. It is interesting to note that Joseph's brother, Jack, is the pesident of the parent company, Thing Daemon. Perhaps they're looking to be the next famous entrepreneurial family, à la Winklevoss.
Without wishing to get too Sliding Doors about it, imagine how different the Xbox One console might have been if Microsoft had acquired social games publisher Zynga in 2010.Fanciful speculation? Maybe not. Bloomberg claims thatMicrosoft was in active talks with Zyngathree years ago about an acquisition deal, with the talks led on Microsoft's side by Don Mattrick – the Xbox executive who has just become Zynga's chief executive."The idea was to bolster Microsoft's Xbox lineup with social games that then were adding millions of users on Facebook Inc. (FB)'s network each week. The discussions ultimately fell apart," claim Bloomberg's sources.Microsoft continued with its drive to make the Xbox 360 a streaming-entertainment hub for homes as well as a games console, while working on its plans for the next-generation Xbox One.And Zynga? Well, Zynga has had an interesting three years to say the least. Its hotly-anticipated IPO in December 2011 with shares priced at $10 was followed by a year and a half of bruising scrutiny of the company's financial performance and strategy.Now, in July 2013, the share price is $3.29 at the time of writing, andZynga's founder Mark Pincus has stepped downfrom his CEO role to be replaced by Mattrick – although Pincus remains chief product officer and company chairman.Analysis ofwhat went wrong for Zyngacontinues, but the Bloomberg report shifts it in a new direction: what might have goneright(or, indeed, wrong) if Microsoft had bought Zynga in 2010?Just as whenElectronic Arts bought social games publisher Playfishin 2009, acquiring Zynga would have brought a great deal of knowledge of the emerging free-to-play (F2P) games sector in-house for Microsoft, to be applied to the rest of its business.We'd surely have seen FarmVille, Zynga Poker and other games on Xbox 360 by now, but the more intriguing thought is how MicroZynga would have affected Microsoft's plans for the Xbox One – and, indeed, the wider console market – in terms of F2P games.Facebook social games used the F2P model from the start, and it has turned the mobile games market on its head in the last three years.You may have seen the stats on the latter trend:$179m of revenues for Finnish developer Supercellin the first quarter of 2013 from two iOS games alone;$303m for Japanese developer GungHo, mainly from its Puzzle &amp; Dragons game; and claims thatKing's Candy Crush Saga is earning $633k a dayin the US on iOS alone.Oh, and the stark fact that 44 of the 50 top-grossing iPhone games in the UK right now are F2P games (for the US, it's 45 of the top 50). It's not that youcan'tmake money from paid mobile games – Minecraft and Football Manager Handheld being two obvious examples – but mobile games is almost all about F2P in 2013.And console? It's coming, but more slowly. Xbox One launch gameKiller Instinct will be free-to-play, with one character available to play for free, and others sold as in-game purchases. World-building gameProject Sparkwill also be F2P from launch.Happy Wars for Xbox 360Xbox 360's first F2P game was released last year: Happy Wars. Microsoft has since confirmed it sees the model as increasingly important."Having a box that is natively connected means that the digital distribution of content be even more prevalent, which I think is a good thing," Microsoft Studios' corporate vice president Phil Spencertold Official Xbox Magazinein May this year."More service-based games on our system, like Happy Wars, is a good thing - and these services can grow over time."Similar trends can be seen on Sony's PlayStation 3, with Namco Bandai'sTekken RevolutionF2P beat 'em up launched in June, with players spending "Battle Coins" to fight online, with the option to buy more when they run out.PlayStation 4 already has several F2P games confirmed for release in 2013, including Planetside 2, DC Universe Online, Blacklight: Retribution and Warframe. While some F2P games will require a subscription to Sony's PlayStation Plus service to play online,publishers will be free to choose not to make this a requirement.F2P has been making its way onto consoles, then, but the preferred model – and a controversial one in some cases where gamers have felt screwed – is to charge for the initial game then charge again for additional downloadable content.Which brings us back to Zynga, and how an acquisition by Microsoft might have shaped the company's future, but also the priority of F2P models in plans for the Xbox One – and in turn, the rival consoles.The worlds of social/mobile/F2P and console gaming are drawing nearer regardless. There's a growing buzz in the former industry about "midcore" games: titles sitting in between the "casual" puzzle games (although Candy Crush Saga addicts are anything but casual in their gameplay habits) and deeper console experiences. Clash of Clans being a good example.This year, it's the developers of these games who may be more likely to attract the acquisitive attention of Microsoft and Sony as they consider how to bolster their first-party publishing across a variety of platforms, not just their own consoles.Microsoft may not have bought Zynga, in short. But it would be surprising if the console giants weren't at least sniffing around the likes of Supercell in 2013.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Bethesda: Xbox One is a "nice, robust machine", cross-platform work is a "nightmare" | The Official MagazineYou know how we've spent the last year telling you how the PS4 and Xbox One are virtually identical from a technology perspective? Erm, apparently not:Bethesda is finding the transition to Xbox One and PS4 relatively easy, the publisher's vice-president Pete Hines has told OXM, as the two consoles are structured much like beefy gaming PCs. That said, developer ZeniMax Online Studios has its work cut out bringing new MMO The Elder Scrolls Online to all three platforms simultaneously."It's really not easy, but it's certainly much easier," Hines observed in an E3 chat. "I'm not trying to insult Sony or Microsoft, but they're high-end PCs, the way they're architectured. Though they're still in development, they're not done, they're much easier to develop for."That's providing, of course, you're not working on all the machines in parallel. "They don't all play with each other. PC and Mac play together, but Xbox One is its own thing and PS4 is its own thing. The whole cross-platform thing is just a nightmare."Although heistalking about an MMO, which requires separate servers for each platform, complicating things considerably. But then, with more games expected to include 'persistent online world' features, this could become more of an issue...Miyamoto says Nintendo "underestimated" challenge of HD games | Edge OnlineNintendo has published its most recent shareholder Q&amp;A, during which participants had the chance to quiz president Satoru Iwata on all aspects of the business.During a question relating to Nintendo's challenge in growing its business and continuing to deliver innovative games, Shigeru Miyamoto was brought in and discussed the struggles of making high-definition games."When it comes to the scale of software development," he said, "Wii U with HD graphics requires about twice the human resources than before. Please allow me to explain that we may have underestimated the scale of this change and as a result, the overall software development took more time than originally anticipated just as we tried to polish the software at the completion phase of development. However, we are almost out of this phase, and we are also trying to create something unique utilizing an easier development approach called "Nintendo Web Framework.""Oh, Nintendo!The Last of Us sells over 3.4 million copies | GamesIndustry InternationalBetween digital sales and shipped Blu-ray copies, Sony Computer Entertainment is celebrating 3.4 million global sales of its post-apocalyptic adventure The Last Of Us.Sony added the game had exceeded sales expectations and as of July 3 had become the fastest-selling PS3 title of 2013.Given the astonishing review scores and general word-of-mouth buzz, this shouldn't come as a surprise. So will Naughty Dog follow it up somehow? A sequel with the same characters seems unnecessary, but maybe another story in the same universe?Next Saints Row to "continue in a different direction" | Gamereactor UKIs this the end of the Saints Row series as it currently stands? The design director revealed that the series may continue, but this particular strand was concluding in the incoming game: "We're definitely considering Saints Row IV sort of the end of that saga of this character and the Saints as they are. So if there's any more future Saints Rows - which you know we always hope there will be, we hope there's fans for future games like that - they will probably continue in a different direction."Wait, Saints Row has a story?!The Weblog Browser Pick: Molyjam puzzle A Tale of Two Maps solves Molyneux's mini-map angst | IndieGames.comThis is quite funny..."Mini-maps are shit. They're shit because you make these multimillion-dollar games, and people play them staring at these little dots." - developer Peter Molyneux's words, which served as inspiration for puzzler A Tale of Two Maps. You will spend some time looking at a mini-map, but you'll also look at the main map and the silly narrative found in neither map while trying to reach the street-level exit of each stage.The goal takes using both maps together, as each has information to help the other. You take the main level stairs down to the underground; however, you have to first rearrange the dingy, underground pathways to make sure you can resurface closer to your ultimate goal.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple closer to Android in the US as carrier distribution grows &gt;&gt; Kantar WorldpanelThrough the three-month period ending May 2013, Android continues to lead smartphone sales at 52%. Close behind is iOS with 41.9% of sales. Windows [Phone] remains in third with 4.6% of sales, up 0.9% versus the same period last year.Little movement is seen within the carriers, with Verizon leading smartphone sales at 34.6%, AT&amp;T in second (29%), and Sprint in third (12.7%). Most notably, T-Mobile remains in fourth place with 10.1% of smartphone sales, down 3.4% versus the three months ending May 2012.The data is derived from Kantar Worldpanel ComTech USA's consumer panel, which is the largest continuous consumer research mobile phone panel of its kind in the world.Kantar emphasises that it records sales rather than "market share" - though doesn't make clear what it thinks the difference is.But: Android + iOS = 93.9%. Add in Windows Phone, and you've got just 1.5% left for BlackBerry.Pinterest rival The Fancy gets $53m from Will Smith and American Express and is valued at $600 million &gt;&gt; GigaOmThe Pinterest rival, having changed its name from Thing Daemon, has sales of $3m a month and counts Twitter co-founder jack Dorsey as an investor. On this investment it is valued at $600m."This pinterest-ization of the web is leading to a new behavior that will influence how people will buy things. Wanelo CEO Deena Varshavskaya at a conference put it well when she said that we are about to see a shift in power when it comes to commerce. Today, we have brands telling us what to buy, and in the future, thanks to information gleaned through peer-networks such as Pinterest, Wanelo and The Fancy, we are going to make buying decisions based on relevancy."NHS spends £300,000 on US exchange &gt;&gt; E-Health InsiderThe NHS is spending nearly £300,000 on an exchange programme with the US Veteran's Health Administration to investigate its use of open source software and telehealth.Information obtained by EHI via the Freedom of Information Act reveals that the Department of Health allocated £285,000 over three years, "to support the NHS and their work with US Veteran Affairs in relation to digital health solutions."Investigating an NHS version of the VA's open source electronic medical record.Almost every major consumer electronics manufacturer is now working on a smart watch &gt;&gt; QuartzAnalysts are declaring 2013the year of the smart watch, and seem sure that an entirely new product category is about to be born. Watches are already a $60bn a year business worldwide, so perhaps the Rolexes and Seikos of the world could see new competition from a motley crew of manufacturers usually associated with PCs, smartphones and televisions. (For what it's worth, luxury watch makers say they're not scared.)"Astounding fact: BlackBerry produced a smart watch in February 2010.Michael Birch's Bebo prequel &gt;&gt; PandoDailyAdam Penenberg:Birch was lucky, but he also made his own luck. While he's often viewed as a ponytailed Brit who came out of nowhere to hit pay dirt, the man paid his dues. The first three startups he launched after toiling for six years in London for an insurance company, failed miserably. Each was designed to be a viral business but they didn't scale. Nevertheless, Birch learned from his mistakes. It was these failures, I would argue, that made Bebo possible.29-Year-Old gets $15m to decipher song lyrics &gt;&gt; Yahoo! FinanceRap Geniusis a site filled with the lyrics to more than 1 million songs. How it works is pretty simple: Users click on a word or line of their favorite song and a box pops up with an explanation. Those explanations, or annotations as they're called on the site, can include text, links, photos and even videos posted on the site by other users, and sometimes even the artists themselves.Zechory told CNBC, "We're changing the way people consume music." That may sound like an exaggeration, but one of Silicon Valley's biggest investors is betting he's right and lots of big artists and millions of fans are on board.UK.gov's G-Cloud to to end big IT outsourcing deals &gt;&gt; The RegisterA wave of huge government IT outsourcing contracts finishing this year won't be renewed as No.10 snatches back control of Whitehall technology from tech firms. Civil servants will now be expected to take greater responsibility for their departments' systems and policy, and only engage with suppliers through G-Cloud. Liam Maxwell, the government's chief technology officer, said at an Economist CIO Forum this week that "the majority" of large outsourcing contracts expire in 2014 and 2015."Facebook patent points to enhanced Instagram video &gt;&gt; TechCrunchFacial recognition, landmark detection, and even audio cues picked up through your phone's microphone could let Instagram Video intelligently suggest a cover frame for mini-movies or even tag them, according to recent Facebook patents.HTML5-based Smart TV operators hit a snag: YouTube &gt;&gt; ETNews KoreaAccording to industry insiders, Google has demanded HTML5-based smart TV operators should place the YouTube app on the main service page and pass Google US headquarters' smart TV browser conformity tests.The relevant industry is criticizing Google's such rules as a violation of their right of choice. Smart TV operators have opted for HTML5 to escape from the clout of Android-based Google TV, so Google's new requirements put brakes on HTML5-based smart TV operators.An industry insider said, "Telling us where the YouTube app should be placed is an act of coercive sales tactics."Can take up to three months to get approval, apparently.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Michael Mace is co-founder of Zekira, and author ofMap The Future, a book on how to create better business strategies. He was previously chief competitive office and vice-president of competitive planning at Palm. His work before that included time at Apple as director of worldwide customer &amp; competitive analysis and director of Macintosh Platform Marketing. This post isrepublished from his blogwith permission."What does Google want?"A favourite pastime among people who watch the tech industry is trying to figure out why Google does things.The Verge was downright plaintive about itthe other day, and I get the question frequently from financial analysts and reporters. But the topic also comes up regularly in conversations with my Silicon Valley friends.It's a puzzle because Google doesn't seem to respond to the rules and logic used by the rest of the business world. It passes up what look like obvious opportunities, invests heavily in things that look like black holes, and proudly announces product cancellations that the rest of us would view as an embarrassment. Google's behaviour drives customers and partners nuts, but is especially troubling to financial analysts who have to tell people whether or not to buy Google's stock. Every time Google has a less than stellar quarter, the issue surges up again.As Iwrote recently when discussing Dell, it's a mistake to assume there's a logical reason for everything a company does. Sometimes managers act out of fear or ignorance or just plain stupidity, and trying to retrofit logic onto their actions is as pointless as a primitive shaman using goat entrails to explain a volcano.But in Google's case, I think its actions do make sense – even the deeply weird stuff like the purchase of Motorola. The issue, I believe, is that Google follows a different set of rules than most other companies. Apple uses "Think Different" as its slogan, but in many ways Google is the company that truly thinks differently. It's not just marching to a different drummer; sometimes I think it hears an entirely different orchestra.Google's orchestra is unique because of three factors: corporate culture, governance, and personal politics. Let's start with the culture.Google culture: you are what you doThe strategic thinking of most companies is shaped by the way they do business. For example, a farmer thinks in terms of annual seasons and crops; everything revolves around that yearly cycle. Manufacturing companies, the traditional foundation of a 20th century economy, plan in terms of big projects that take a long time to implement and require a lot of preparation. If you're building a car or a plane or even a smartphone, you have to plan its features well in advance, drive hardware and software to completion at the same time, and arrange manufacturing and distribution long before you actually build anything. The companies that build complex physical things naturally plan their products in terms of lifecycles lasting at least 12 to 24 months, and sometimes much longer.That long planning cycle dominated big companies in the 20th century, and was driven into all our heads through generations of business books and business school classes. It's how most of our brains were formatted.An internet company, like Google, works at a fundamentally different pace. Web software changes continuously. You don't plan it rigidly; you evolve it day by day in response to the behaviour of customers. The faster and more flexibly you evolve, the more successful your products will be.This evolutionary approach, and the Agile design processes that support it, is built into the fibre and psyche of web companies. They don't think in terms of long-term detailed plans; they think in terms of stimulus and response.This is a dramatic change in the history of business. In the past, the nimble companies were always the little ones. The larger your company, the more it valued planning and the long-term view. Google is one of the first very large tech companies ever to pride itself on rapid response rather than rigid planning.On top of this quick-turn bias there's the cultural training of Google's senior management. Most big companies end up being run by professional managers who came up through business school or finance, where they get trained in the rhythms and personality of traditional big business. They learn a shared vocabulary and set of values that are very familiar and comfortable to investors. By contrast, Google is completely controlled by engineering PhDs. They speak the language of science rather than business, and they're contemptuous of the vague directional platitudes and reassuring noises made by modern finance and marketing.I think most reporters and analysts don't understand how fundamentally different the engineering mindset is from traditional business thinking. It's a very distinct paradigm,unfamiliar to most people who haven't studied science.One key element of the engineering mindset is the use of scientific method: you encourage a Darwinian marketplace of ideas, you test those ideas through controlled experiments, and you make decisions based on experimental data.In its behaviour and vocabulary, Google oozes scientific method. A couple of times recently I've heard Google executivessay in public, "if you can't measure it, you can't improve it". It's an old quote, dating back at least to Lord Kelvin in the 1800s. It's also a subtle twist on the traditional mantra used in web design: "that which you measure, you can improve." The web design version says you should measure everything you can; the Google executive version implies that nothing really matters unless you can measure it.That's a very scientific, rational point of view, but I couldn't help thinking that if you had said something like that to Steve Jobs, he would have taken your head off with a dull knife. The whole idea of vision at a place like Apple is that you pursue things you can't fully quantify or measure; that great product design is an art, and the most important changes are the ones you intuit rather than prove in advance.But engineers are trained not to act on intuition. You are allowed to have intuition, of course, but you use it to make hypotheses, which you then test. You act on the results of those tests.There have been other big companies run by engineers, of course. HP in its glory days was a great example. But those companies were almost always wedded to traditional long-term planning cycles. What makes Google unusual is its combination of an engineer's love of scientific method with the web's rapid iterative development. Put those two characteristics together, and Google often behaves like a big bundle of short-term science experiments.Why did you kill my favourite product?Take Google's bizarre practice of publicly killing products. To most companies, killing a product is a shameful thing. It disappoints customers, and it hurts your own ego because it's an admission that you failed. Most companies hide their product cancellations: they try to disguise them as a "reallocation" or "new focus" or some other doublespeak.Google does the exact opposite – a couple of times a year it trumpets to the world that it's terminating products and services that millions of people love and rely on. Google isn't merely up front about these cancellations; it's downright cheerful, as if turning off Google Reader or Google Desktop is an accomplishment to be proud of.And to Google, maybe it is. If you look at the world through the eyes of the scientific method, every Google project is an experiment, and experiments must be periodically reviewed. When an experiment is completed, you either choose to follow up on it, or you terminate it and move on to something else. A scientist doesn't get emotional about this; it's the way the system works, and everyone knows that it's all for the best.By announcing its terminated experiments, I think Google isn't admitting failure, it's proudly demonstrating that scientific principles are in use. I think Google's management views the cancellations as proof that it's being focused and logical.Google management: who's in charge here?The second unusual aspect of Google is its ownership structure. Never forget: Google is not really a public company. Sure, it has stock and all the other attributes of a normal public company, but 56.7% of Google's voting shares areheld by cofounders Sergey Brin and Larry Page. As long as they remain friends, they can do whatever they want with the company, and they cannot be fired.I don't have a problem with that. Google has always been up front about it, and besides I've seen many large public companies manage themselves into ruin in pursuit of quarterly returns. It's refreshing to see a big company that doesn't enslave itself to the quarterly report.As Page put it in 2004, "by investing in Google, you are placing an unusual long term bet on the team, especially Sergey and me".How long term is that bet? I'm not sure Google's senior management even thinks in terms of annual returns, let alone quarterly. Brin and Page are both about 40 years old as of 2013. They have a life expectancy of about 38 more years, to about 2050, and I have no reason to think that they plan to work anywhere else in their lives. So I think Google's planning horizon goes to at least the year 2050. Page himself likes to talk about his 50-year planning horizon, so he may well be thinking out to the 2060s.To put that in context,some scientists predictthat we'll achieve superhuman machine intelligence well before 2050. I'm not endorsing that timeline, by the way; I think it may be optimistic. But my point is, Google could be planning almostanything.Combine the first two unique things about Google and you get an interesting picture. Most companies have a long, detailed planning cycle in pursuit of quarterly goals. That often makes them very predictable. It also makes it hard for them to get anything done – when your planning cycle is longer than your goal cycle, you'll often change goals faster than you can achieve any of them.Google does just the opposite. It has a short, unpredictable planning cycle in pursuit of very long-term objectives. It's likely to pursue those objectives relentlessly, but its near term actions will look random, because they're just Darwinian experiments along the way.In other words, there is probably a method to Google's madness, but they're not going to tell you what it is.But there's one more factor about Google that we need to consider: it's run by human beings. Larry Page is not Spock. No matter how logical and dispassionate he tries to be, he and the rest of Google's managers have psychological needs and reactions that they cannot transcend. That means Google has corporate politics.Google politics: the coming-out party of Larry PageI don't think you can fully explain Google's behaviour over the last several years without looking at the relationship between its CEOs during that time, Eric Schmidt and Larry Page. Google's first CEO, in its very early days, was Page. Investors convinced Page and Brin that they needed to bring in professional management to organise the company. Reluctantly they agreed, and supposedly Steve Jobs was at the top of their wish list. That raises some fascinating what-if scenarios, but Jobs was already occupied, and eventually they settled on Eric Schmidt, formerly of Sun.A video of Page from 2000 gives an interesting insight into his thinking at the time. It was recorded a year before Schmidt joined Google. A nonprofit called the Academy of Achievement recorded video interviews with Page and Brin. The videos are a fascinating window into the early thinking of both men. In one clip, Page isasked aboutthe challenges of being a CEO at age 27. He replies:"If you manage people for 20 years, or something like that, you pick up things. So I certainly lack experience there, and that's an issue. But I sort of make up for that, I think, in terms of understanding where things are going to go, having a vision about the future, and really understanding the industry I am in, and what the company does."So Page acknowledged his need for tutoring in management, but at the same time he went out of his way to call himself a visionary. I haven't met Larry Page, but there's one thing I know for sure: anyone who calls himself a visionary at age 27 does not lack for confidence.Schmidt arrived soon after, and for the next ten years Page served a kind of management apprenticeship under him. I don't want to overstate Schmidt's role; even then, Page and Brin had control of the company, and could have ousted Schmidt if they really wanted to. But even if Page agreed that working for Schmidt was necessary, it can't have been easy.Early in Schmidt's tenure, he and Page appeared together to address students at Stanford. The session was recorded on video, andStanford posted it online. The whole video is worth watching, but the segment I've embedded below is especially interesting because it shows the sometimes awkward interaction between Schmidt and Page.Schmidt is the more articulate of the two. He interrupts to preface things before Page can make a comment, and sometimes comes back afterward to put a different spin on something Page said. In this clip, watch Page's face when Schmidt interrupts him to deliver the punchline at the end. You should judge it for yourself, but to me Schmidt and Page look like one of those married couples who value each other but also get on each-other's nerves. [Sidenote: the "legal issues" are a lawsuit filed by Overture against Google in 2000, claiming that Google stole the idea of auctioning keywords for ads against searches. It waseventually settled in 2004: Google gave Yahoo, which had bought Overture, 2.7m shares at a cost of around $270m - Tech.Ed.]No matter how much Page appreciated Schmidt's wisdom, no matter how fruitful their collaboration, it can't have been easy for Page to be mentored like this for ten years. If I were in his shoes, I'd have compiled a long list of things I wanted to change as soon as I was in charge.That time came in 2011, when Page returned as CEO and Schmidt was kicked upstairs to be Google's chairman andchief explainer.Page acted quickly, reorganising the company andaccelerating the termination of projects. I think that helped reinforce the use of the scientific method. It also helped Page assert his authority.Then Page bought Motorola Mobility for over $12bn. I don't think you can understand the Motorola deal without taking into account the management change at Google. It was Page's first major business deal as CEO, a chance to finally spread his wings and put his distinctive stamp on the company. Any human being with Page's experience and ego would want to do something like that. So I believe ego played a role in the Motorola deal. But I don't think that was the only motivation.My take on why Google bought MotorolaRemember Google's business situation in 2011. It still had huge economic resources, but it was no longer the dynamic new kid in the industry. That crown had fallen to Facebook, which was growing like a weed and which was not Google's friend. At the time, Google was kicking itself for failing to recognise the threat earlier, and for responding to it so ineptly. I'm sure Page was adamant that he didn't want to repeat that mistake.Like social networking, mobile was a critical growth area for Google. The threat in mobile was Apple, which was doing a great job of integrating hardware and software to produce superior products. Many people at the time felt Google was destined to play second fiddle to Apple in mobile forever.Then the opportunity came along to buy Motorola. Here's how I think that parsed to Google:– If people are right about Apple's power in system design, we may need to move much more aggressively into mobile hardware than we have to date. If that happens, owning Motorola gives us a head start.– Even if we don't end up needing Motorola's hardware business, we'll learn an enormous amount from managing the company. Those skills and insights will help us manage our other hardware licensees.– We're going to pay a bunch of money for the patents anyway, so why not buy the whole thing? We might end up writing off most of the purchase, but who cares about annual returns? It's better to have a bad year than take the risk of being blind-sided the way we were by Facebook.I think the Motorola deal wasn't just about the patents or about making a profit in device sales. It was about buying insurance against a surprise from mobile device manufacturers, especially Apple. If you think of Google as a company that sets long-term objectives and then runs experiments in pursuit of them, the Motorola deal is just an unusually large experiment along the road to mobile.Add to that chain of logic Page's natural desire to exercise his new powers, and the Motorola deal starts to look very understandable to me.So was the deal worth the money? It's too early to tell, but I doubt Larry Page is even asking that question. As long as Google learns from the purchase and doesn't get blindsided in hardware, the deal served its purpose.What happens next?If you're an investor, you should expect more off-the-wall acquisitions and product cancellations from Google. They're built into the system. But I think Google's unusual culture and management structure give it some other fairly predictable weaknesses. Those are potential opportunities for competitors, vulnerabilities for Google to guard against, and issues for investors to consider.Weakness #1: Wandering vision.Google's iterative development approach is very effective for pursuing a long-term goal when the company has a clear idea of its destination. The company's development of self-driving cars is a good example: by relentlessly testing and tweaking the design, they've made much more progress than I believed was possible. Like most people in Silicon Valley, I've had the experience of driving on the freeway alongside those Google cars, and it's very impressive (except for the fact that they adhere rigidly to the speed limit, but that's a subject for a different post).Google is much less effective when its original goal in a market changes. Because of its quick-reaction nature, Google frequently launches projects that seem very important at the time, but later turn out to be not so critical after all. The market evolves, priorities change, maybe a competitor becomes less prominent. When that happens, the Google projects are in danger of cancellation, and nobody likes working on a canceled project. So the teams frequently start iterating on their goals the same way they would on their features. Usually they end up chasing the latest trendy issue in search of a revenue stream and continued existence.That's usually the road to hell. Once a project starts changing goals, it's almost impossible to diagnose the cause of any problems it has with market acceptance. Did we choose the wrong goal, or did we execute poorly? It's usually impossible to tell.To put it in scientific terms, it's like running an experiment in which you have several independent variables. Good luck interpreting your results.Google Docs is a great example. It was launched to undercut Microsoft's Office franchise. Over time as Microsoft became weaker, that was no longer a compelling reason for existence, and Docs was merged into Drive and repurposed as a competitor to the newly-trendy Dropbox. Feature evolution in the core applications moved at a crawl.Now there are two new challenges to Drive/Docs: Apple is turning iWork into a cross-platform web app, andFlickr has upped the stakesin the free storage race to a terabyte (yes, I know Flickr is photos only, but you don'treallythink Yahoo will stop there, do you?) Which threat will the Drive team respond to? I don't know, but because of the way they've been wandering there's a very good chance they'll end up below critical mass against all of their chosen competitors.Weakness #2: Poor external communication.Scientists aren't generally knows as great public communicators, and there's a reason for that. PR is the art of telling a story in a way that people are open to hearing. To the scientific mindset, that comes across like dishonesty and manipulation. A scientist wants people to believe things because they make logical sense, not because their emotions are engaged.Adding to that challenge, Google is very bad at anticipating how people and companies will react to its initiatives. Time and again, Google has taken actions that it tried earnestly to explain logically, and been surprised and hurt when people didn't understand. I think Google views itself as a highly principled company pursuing the good of humanity; it expects people to give it the benefit of the doubt when there's confusion, and to understand the good intent behind its actions. Google's management doesn't seem to understand that a hyper-rich company whose founders have private jumbo jets is automatically an object of envy and suspicion. Or if they do understand it, they aren't willing to take the steps necessary to counter it.One prominent example of Google's communication problem was book digitisation. Google was trying to make out-of-print books more available to the public, a noble goal by almost anyone's standards. But Google handled the process so clumsily and arrogantly that it frightened authors into allying with publishers, an outcome equivalent to getting wild cats and dogs to sit down together for tea.A second example was the backlash from the purchase of Motorola. It's hard to overstate what a profound shock the Motorola deal was to Google's Android licensees. Before the deal, the handset companies and operators viewed Google as a benign giant who could be trusted to champion mobile data without preying on its licensees. After the deal, they viewed Google as a villain little different from Microsoft.The irony of the deal is that the threat from Apple has receded somewhat, so the Motorola experiment probably wasn't needed. The rising challenge to Google now is that an increasingly feisty Samsung has too much market power in the Android space, and there's a rising Amazon-inspired movement to fork Android and take control of it away from Google. The Motorola acquisition made companies like Samsung much more likely to cooperate with a non-Google OS. In trying to prevent a Facebook-style breakout in mobile, Google actually weakened its position in the mobile market.Even casual public comments can create trouble for Google. In response to a question at the Google IO conference in 2013, Larry Pagesaid of Oracle: "We've had a difficult relationship with Oracle.... money is probably more important to them than having any kind of collaboration."There are several problems with this statement. First, if you want a cooperative relationship with Oracle, calling them a bunch of greedy bastards isn't the way to get it. Second, public companies aresupposedto put making money ahead of collaboration. That's what their shareholders expect. This is a good example of how Google's thinking is out of step with typical corporate governance.The third problem is that Page's comments came across to some people as hypocrisy:Om Malik: "I think Larry (and all other technology industry leaders) should actually practise what they preach."Slate: "Page criticized Microsoft for treating Google as a rival, blasted Oracle for caring too much about money, and then whined about everyone being so negative. Heck, if it weren't for those other companies standing in the way, Google would have probably already solved world hunger. Well, except for all the laws and bureaucrats and journalists who are also standing in the way."John Gruber: "Google is a hyper-competitive company, and they repeatedly enter markets that already exist and crush competitors. Nothing wrong with that. That's how capitalism is supposed to work, and Google's successes are admirable. But there's nothing stupid about seeing Google being pitted "versus" other companies. They want everything; their ambition is boundless."Gruber's comments show the trouble that Google gets itself into when poor communication combines with its wandering product goals. Google doesn't see itself as a predator eating tech startups, but when its internal projects start iterating on their goals, they inevitably target successful startups because that seems like the logical thing to do. The behaviour is a natural outcome of the way the company works. Larry Page says he's all about cooperation and I think he means it, but his product teams relentlessly stalk the latest hot startup. The result is a company that talks like a charitable foundation but acts like a pack of wolves.No wonder he gets labelled a hypocrite.Google's trouble communicating its own intentions, and the mismatch between its words and behaviour, becomes a serious problem whenever the company has to deal with big political or PR battles. Google's competitors are often better at courting public opinion, and that opinion often drives the outcome of political processes. If you want an example, watch Google struggle with European Union regulators.Weakness #3: Science vs. art in product management.Google's strength in science and quick response makes it very fast at incrementally improving the performance and reliability of its products. But that same process makes it almost impossible for Google to lead in features or product ideas that can't be proved or verified through research. That's why Google struggles in user experience, creating new product categories, and fitting its products to the latent needs of users: all of those are intuition-led activities in which it's very hard to prove ahead of time what's right or wrong. Even if there are people within Google who have extraordinary taste and vision, it's very hard for them to drive action because their ideas can't pass the science-style review process that Google uses for decision-making.That puts Google at a disadvantage when competing with vision-led companies. The most obvious example of this is Google vs. Apple. When Apple is implementing its strategy properly, it comes up with new product categories faster than Google can co-opt them, and executes them with more taste and usability. As long as Apple can keep moving the bar, Google is forced to play catch-up to Apple's leadership.(The big question post-Steve Jobs is whether Apple can continue to move the bar. But that's another topic for a separate article.)The exception to normal Google decision-making is the special projects run by Sergey Brin. In those projects, Google chooses a few long-term product goals that can't necessarily be justified logically, but that look possible and would have a big impact if they succeeded. It's a logical way for an analytical company to try to inject some vision into its business.What we don't know yet about those special projects is whether Google can apply the smaller dashes of intuition that are needed throughout the development process to pioneer a new product category. The iPod wasn't just a good idea, it was a long series of clever decisions that Apple made in the design of the device, software, store, and ecosystem. They all fit together to make a great music management system. Can Google make a similar series of great, coordinated decisions to create a compelling user need for Glass, or will its glasses just be a technophile toy? I don't think we've seen the answer yet. Until we do, there's a strong danger that Google is just doing the advanced R&amp;D that some other company will use to make a successful wearable computing device.Should Google try to change?Every successful company has weaknesses. The strengths that make it powerful always create corresponding blind spots and vulnerabilities. Google's strengths are unusually well suited to its core business of search advertising. The Internet is so big that you have to use some sort of algorithmic process to organise it, and it takes a vast series of logical experiments to gradually tune search results and the delivery of advertising around them.The question for investors is if or when Google will run out of room to grow in the search advertising market. At that time, to maintain its growth (and stock value), it'll need other substantial sources of profit. Can Google find other businesses in which its analytical, experimental culture will produce winners? Or can it adapt its culture to the needs of other markets?So far, the signs aren't promising. Google is very good at giving away technology (Android, for example), but not very effective at making large amounts of money from it. Google's product experiments have produced many failures and a few popular services, but very little in terms of major incremental profit. In fact, some financial analysts refer to two Googles – the search engine company that makes all the profit, and the other Google that sucks away some of that profit.It's easy for someone like me to say that Google should change its culture to give it a better chance of success in other markets, but in the real world those culture-changing experiments often fail catastrophically. You end up destroying the source of your previous success, without successfully transitioning to a new winning culture. In that vein, I worry that even the Motorola deal is a risk for Google, as it brought into the company a huge number of employees trained in a very different, famously dysfunctional culture.For now, the search business is so strong that I don't think Google is likely to make major changes in the way it works. Companies rarely change until they have to. Until and unless that happens, Google is likely to continue its scientific management, and competitors are likely to continue countering it through vision, public communication, and product management.If you're a Google investor, I think the situation is still the same as it was at Google's IPO: You've made an unusual long-term bet on Page and Brin and their scientific approach to running a tech company. It's quirky and it's different from the way most other companies operate, but it does make its own logical sense - if you look at the world through the eyes of an engineer.
If yourFacebooklanguage is set to US English, you might find that your account has added a new feature from today.Facebook is rolling outGraph Search, a new search tool that will allow users to quickly find out information from across the site. Essentially, it's an attempt tokeep hold of an active user baseby keeping them on the site for longer.In some ways, Graph Search is simply a natural extension to the News Feed. In the book about her experiences while at Facebook,The Boy Kings, Katherine Losse writes:"The general concept of News Feed was simple: An algorithm was now surfacing content that it believed, based on your activity on the site (what you looked at), you would find interesting."Now, instead of having to follow a social graph containing your friends' activities, Graph Search opens up your information even further. You can askFacebookquestions about your friends and find out the results, quickly.Facebook would argue that they are making it easier to find useful information that's relevant to you. Say, for example, you're planning a holiday to Istanbul and you're looking for somewhere to stay. You've gone throughTrip Advisorand every hotel that you've looked at has one of those delightful one-star reviews ("I was sitting by the side of the glorious pool when I suddenly saw one of the catering staff push a little child into the pool. DO NOT RECOMMEND.").Facebook allows you to add details of 'life experiences' such as where and when you have travelled somewhere. Screenshot: Facebook.In such a scenario, Graph Search would claim to offer more relevant information by looking for recommendations from a friend. Searching 'Friends that have gone to Istanbul on holiday' would bring up a list of all the friends in your network who have either listed Istanbul as somewhere they have visited on their timeline or havechecked in to a location in that city. You can then message them and get a recommendation.Building on this example, Graph Search could provide a pseudo Lonely Planet. If you use it to search for images of Istanbul, you would find publicly uploaded images, as well as images uploaded to the site by your friends. Going through this, you could browse the places they visited during their trip.Yet Graph Search extends beyond simply 'useful information' and makes it easier to look for information that you want. It's well-known thatMark Zuckerberglikes being able to get data efficiently - but in user terms, what does this mean? You could use Graph Search to find friends who speak a specific language, look for pictures that include you or a friend, or just search for photos that you have 'liked'. IfFacebookcan't provide an answer, it will list results from the internet.Any new product launch, however, especially atFacebook, brings along with ita new privacy scare. Do you really want friends to be able to search through everything that you have 'liked' from around the web?Welisted some of these problems in January:In a blog launched on Wednesday, a series of controversial search results have been made public, showing the extent to which those who share photos, personal information and 'likes' onFacebookcould have their privacy invaded.Graph Search has served up lists of family members of people who live in China and like Falun Gong, people who like the extreme rightwing group the English Defence League but also enjoy a curry, and Islamic men who are interested in other men and live in Tehran, where homosexuality is persecuted.Other lists included Tesco employees who like horses - a reference to the discovery of horse DNA in burgers sold by the supermarket chain - and spouses of people who like Ashley Madison, a dating site for people already in relationships.Facebookhas anticipated this, however, and in December released a blog post entitled, 'Better controls for managing your content'.  This accompanied a new set of tools that they launched to make it apparently easier for users to control where their information appears across the site.But for most Facebook users, the reality is that if you have been sharing information on the site for a number of years, you probably haven't paid attention to who it was being shared with or how. The permanent addition of Graph Search will most certainly bring about yet another wave of controversy around privacy and the social network's use of users' data. Haven't we been here before?
Google's latest doodle celebrates the 66th anniversary of the so-calledRoswell incident- which generations of UFO enthusiasts and others believe involved an alien landing outside the New Mexico town.Conspiracy theorists have claimed that US military had captured a crashedalien aircraftoutside Roswell in July 1947, but authorities insisted that the incident merely involved the recovery of debris from a top secret surveillance balloon.Much suspicion about the incident was originally ignited by a press release issued by a local US military base, which mentioned that the crash involved a flying disk.Seeking to put conspiracies to rest in June 1997, the US Air Force released a 231-page report titled "Case Closed: Final Report on the Roswell Crash". It asserted that alien bodies witnesses reported seeing at the crash scene were actually life-sized anthropomorphic test dummies.However, interest in the incident was stoked once again in 1995, when a London-based entrepreneur called Ray Santilli  claimed that he possessed film footage showing an autopsy being peformed on one of the Roswell aliens. Santilli said in 2006 that the film was a reconstruction of what he insisted was real events.The Google doodle errs on the side of humour, allowing users to control a small animated alien figure as it goes about a series of tasks on a Roswell-like landscape.
Twitter has become the latest in a growing list of companies to cause raised eyebrows over its tax affairs. Over the weekend, it wasreported in the Guardianthat Twitter had retained profits in the UK last year of just £92,408. It seems a somewhat paltry sum considering the company is being tipped for an $11bn (£7.3bn) flotation."The abbreviated UK accounts point to the booming company using controversial corporate structures in Ireland to book fast-growing sales from British advertisers," noted the Guardian. Twitter refused to confirm that its UK sales are being routed through Ireland, but the revelation has further angered those demanding tax reforms.However, a fundamental problem confronts those who might be considering a consumer boycott of any such company: is it realistic, or even possible, to live without the online services offered by companies such as Google, Amazon and Twitter, all of which have attracted negative headlines due to their tax affairs? After all, such companies boast a dominant position in their field and many would struggle to operate without them.Tim Hunt is the director ofEthical Consumermagazine, which has been "helping people challenge corporate power since 1989". He says a "multiplicity of tactics" is needed to force change: "Everything fromUK Uncut-style direct action through to writing a letter to your MP; all these actions are valid and necessary. We run aBoycott Amazonemail campaign at the moment, but it has not been that successful. Our alternative buyer's guide is far more successful."Hunt doesn't agree that there are no online alternatives to Amazon – Ethical Consumer currently recommendsBetter World Books,Books etcandHive.co.uk– but does accept that boycotting Twitter would prove harder: "Twitter is a community. It is difficult to ask people to cut themselves off from their community. But Twitter users tend to connect well to social justice issues, so a Twitter storm over this issue is possible."If the idea of Twitter users calling for a boycott of Twitter via Twitter is too postmodern for you, then Hunt says the tried-and-tested methods of protest still work. "No one is too sure what the best tactic is," he says. "The issue of tax avoidance is a grey area. There are no straight lines. But we know we need more transparency and tighter regulations, and policing of existing ones. Online petitions and letters to MPs are able to force change." (Websites such asWrite to Themnow let you email your MP directly. But avoid form letters. Succinct, personalised letters have more impact, says Hunt.)He cites the success of theChange.org petitiondemanding that Amazon pay its "fair share" of tax in the UK, which attracted more than 169,000 signatures and prompted a debate in the Commons. He also says that companies "hate bad PR", as was proved when the coffee shop chain Starbucks voluntarilyhanded over £5m to the UK taxman last monthfollowing customer outrage over its tax affairs. "It was a huge admission of guilt when Starbucks gave that money," says Hunt. "It wasa massive victory for UK Uncutand showed that direct action really works."So don't fret too much about the method of your protest, insists Hunt. If you are prepared to make a noise, it will be heard, especially if you are part of a collective wave of anger.
An analysis of all Wimbledon-related tweets during the Championship by IBM have yielded some fairly expected results:•Andy Murrayproved to be the most popular player of the tournament, being mentioned on Twitter more than 1.1 million times. He was also Twitter's most popular player last year. There's little surprise, too, especially since helikes to interact with his fans on Twitter- and on Vine, too.I did not. Maybe the trophy will get lucky tonight! RT@jode_d@andy_murraydid you go to sleep with the trophy in bed next to you?#AskAndy&mdash; Andy Murray (@andy_murray)July 8, 2013•The final was mentioned in 120,000 tweets per minutetowards the end of the match, according to Twitter, equivalent to 2000 tweets per second. An ace forsecond screen technology...• AsMurray was celebratinghis victory, only two (out of 10) trending topics within the UK werenot related to Wimbledon.• Wimbledon was mentioned in 2.5 million tweets during the 2012 championship but 5.3 million times this year - not a great shock considering thegrowth in Twitter's userbase, as well as the fact that a Brit won the final.• Work still needs to be done to raise the profile on the ladies' events; the most-tweeted about player from the ladies' singles, overall runner up Sabine Lisicki, received only 300,721 mentions.Photo byRobbie DaleonFlickr.Some rights reserved.However, there are certainly some surprising revelations:• Despite thesexist remarks made by John Inverdaleabout Marion Bartoli, she was still only mentioned in 208,404 tweets.• While it's not surprising that Britain's tennis stars received the highest proportion of supportive tweets, it wasLaura Robsonand not Andy Murray who came out on top. Of the tweets Robson was mentioned in, 94.7% were positive.• The two men's finalists heavily outweighed mentions on Twitter when compared to their colleagues. By way of comparison, Murray and Djokovic received just shy of 2 million mentions. The other three stars in the top-five list, Juan Mertin Del Potro, Rafael Nadal and Fernando Verdasco were mentioned just over half a million times in total.Celebrity tweets certainly bolstered the number of people tweeting about the Championship. Here are some tweets from Jimmy Carr, Victoria Beckham and the Mayor of London.Andy Murray winning Wimbledon is my 1966 World Cup moment. What an incredible thing to witness.pic.twitter.com/fyK7lwgMw2&mdash; Jimmy Carr (@jimmycarr)July 7, 2013-Congratulations to@andy_murrayand his family. Wonderful day at#wimbledon!! So proud to be British! X vbpic.twitter.com/thRt63TFl4&mdash; Victoria Beckham (@victoriabeckham)July 7, 2013Boris Johnson got involved in the online commentary too, in fairly typical fashion.-Congratulations to my one time doubles partner@andy_murrayon his glorious Wimbledon victory!#historymaker#wimbledon&mdash; Boris Johnson (@MayorofLondon)July 7, 2013
As search engine fans may well have noticed, Monday's Google doodle is celebrating the 66th anniversary of the Roswell incident, when aliens crash-landed into the New Mexico desert, quickly disguising their craft as a surveillance balloon and themselves as dummies in order to fool the authorities. Or something. Anyway, whatever did happen out there in 1947, the event has had a huge impact on science fiction literature, movies and, of course, video games ever since.So to celebrate the abiding influence of this legendary saucer malfunction, here are eight great games about alien invasion.Half-Life 2(Valve, 2004)Although scientist Gordon Freeman accidentally let a few aliens on to Earth in Half-Life, it wasn't until Valve's brilliant sequel that marauding space bullies The Combine squirmed through en masse and took over the planet. This game has everything, from the nightmarish post-apocalyptic setting of City 17, to astonishing extraterrestrial beasts, brilliant physics, compelling characters and a riveting resistance narrative.UFO: Enemy Unknown(Microprose/Mythos Games, 1994)The original X-COM title is a strategy masterpiece in which players lead a crack international defence team against swarms of alien aggressors. The genius is in its dual set-up – during the home base sequences you must manage resources, employ team members and research new technologies; then you send squads down to battle invading aliens in tense turn-based skirmishes. Fraught, challenging and hugely atmospheric, it was followed by several sequels and more recently, a great console reboot.Mass Effect 3(BioWare, 2012)The computerised Reaper empire finally reaches Earth, intent on spreading its unpopular message of universal mega-destruction. BioWare's vision of a destroyed planet, in which gigantic lander craft stomp over skyscrapers while laser blasting everything that moves, is truly awesome, setting in motion an epic Magnificent Seven-style story of galactic war and brotherhood.Resistance: Fall of Man(Insomniac, 2006)Insomniac's now criminally overlooked trilogy kicks off with this intriguing sci-fi chiller, in which an alien force known as the Chimera decimates Europe, turning everyone into violent servile monsters. But all is not lost as Sgt. Nathan Hale turns up with a US task force to lead a fight back. The gritty British locations (Bristol! Grimbsy!), post-WWII setting and sinister nature of the Chimeran threat make this an altogether darker adventure – as though Ken Loach had directed Independence Day.Contra III: The Alien Wars(Konami, 1992)While the previous titles in Konami's legendary scrolling shooter series featured minor alien squabbles, Contra III has an all-out invasion force – and it cranks up the difficulty level accordingly. With its perfectly balanced weapons upgrade system, challenging co-op play and beautiful 2D visuals (including Mode 7-powered overhead sequences) it provides one of the highlights of the run-and-gun genre.Duke Nukem 3D(3D Realms, 1996)Forget the horrendous Duke Nukem Forever and instead let us recall this trashy, politically incorrect but horribly compelling first-person gun-n-gag romp, where the eponymous idiot dispatches as many action movie cliches as he does alien scumbags. Rampaging through a futuristic Los Angeles consisting entirely of strip clubs, prisons and subways, the game's anarchic humour and raw action put it up beside Doom as a seminal first-person shooter.Perfect Dark(Rare, 2000)Rare's follow-up to the classic N64 shooter GoldenEye was this paranoid thriller in which shady corporation dataDyne is suspected of facilitating a potential alien invasion in exchange for advanced technologies. Enter secret agent Joanna Dark who, like James Bond, uses a range of cool weapons and gadgets to take out foes – very stylishly. Featuring a similar multi-task structure to the GoldenEye campaign, Perfect Dark cleverly rewards thorough exploration and player mastery, adding innovative co-op and competitive modes to the astonishing multiplayer array.Halo 2(Bungie, 2004)In the 26th century, mankind has colonised the galaxy thanks to faster-than-light travel, but a powerful alien force known as the Covenant sees humanity as a horrendous heretical blot on the universal landscape (fair enough) and decides to eradicate it. Bungie's sequel to the epoch-shattering Xbox blaster, Halo: Combat Evolved centres on the Covenant invasion of Earth, with Master Chief once again in the midst of the carnage. The premise is made more interesting by the political intrigues within the Covenant collective, presenting a more complex narrative than the usual Alien-hive-mind-destroys-planet-because-of-reasons set-up.What have I missed, then? Put me straight in the comments section!
If you've been hoarding Bitcoins, there are an increasing number of ways to spend your virtual currency, frombuying pints in Londonorrecords in Berlinthrough tocurrency speculation.And then there's gambling. Games developer eGenesis is launching a public beta ofDragon's Tale, which it's describing as "the first massively multiplayer role-playing casino... The Disneyland of gambling, and it's powered entirely by Bitcoins!"Set in a 3D world, Dragon's Tale is a collection of mini-games for people to play and bet on. "You can tip cows, hunt for Dragon's Eggs, catch fish, run monkeys through mazes, feed ducks," explains eGenesis."There are 60 different games so far, with new ones being added all the time, and every one of them is a new take on gambling. About half the games are luck-based and half are skill-based."The beta test starts on 12 July, but Dragon's Tale has been around for several years in its pre-beta form. Creator Andrew Tepperfirst announced the game in 2010on a Bitcoin-related forum."What if there were a truly different kind of casino that existed as a persistent world? A world where everything that you see, everything that you can touch, was in fact some sort of game," he wrote."No traditional slot machines, card games, dice, but an RPG where your character advances by success at games of chance. Bitcoins rekindled that idea, and since learning of them, I've been brainstorming such a world."The MMORPG aspect involves players chatting to one another and levelling up their characters' skills as they play, as Tepper explained as he announced the new beta test for Dragon's Tale."The first thing that stuck me about online gambling today is that it's a pretty lonely experience, typically one player in a web browser, watching a 2D slot machine," he said."I've taken what I've learned in the last 15 years building MMORPGs and for the first time applied that to gambling. I've created an intensely social world where players can explore the game world together, share techniques, and rely on each other as they level up by completing gambling quests."Bitcoins aren't the only currency used for gambling in Dragon's Tale though: the game also supports credit cards.Will players be happy to stake their hard-earned Bitcoins on a still-beta game of this nature? On its site, eGenesis warns that the gamemay experience the odd server crash, forcing its servers to "roll back a few minutes".That wouldn't be good news for players who'd just won big, though. "If you lose Bitcoins due to a server crash, we'll do everything we can to verify any lost jackpots, and reimburse you for them," promises the developer.Dragon's Tale is far from the only online game where people can gamble their Bitcoins, even if it's the first to add the MMORPG aspects.Other examples of Bitcoin gambling services include Bit777, Bitino, SatoshiDice and BitZino. On the non-gambling side of gaming, the SteamBits website sells a selection of console and PC games in exchange for Bitcoins.
Jay-Z'sMagna Carta Holy Grailis one of the most anticipated album releases of 2013, so the announcement thatup to a million fans would get a free copyseveral days before its official release courtesy of a deal with Samsung was big news.The music was to be delivered through an Android app for several of Samsung's smartphones, but as the album was released, some fans balked at the amount of personal data the app was trying to access.The app – which has since been removed from the Google Play store by Samsung – wasdescribed by the technology site Ars Technicaas "positively PRISM-like in its requests for your information", with fans prompted to agree to a number of app permissions before installing it.Some of those permissions were necessary: for example, to store the downloaded files on fans' handsets.Others, such as its request to access the device's location and information about other apps running on the phone, and to read the phone's status and identify when it's being used for voice calls, were more questionable.In the run-up to the music's release, fans were also able to browse lyric sheets for the tracks – but only if they posted a tweet or Facebook status update promoting the fact that they had unlocked each lyric.Ars Technica wasn't the only site to suggest that Jay-Z's app went too far, given recent news stories involving personal data and privacy."I can't be the only one who thinks it's creepy, especially when Edward J. Snowden's revelations have shown the extent of government surveillance of emails and phone records,"wrote the New York Times' Jon Pareles."If Jay-Z wants to know about my phone calls and email accounts, why doesn't he join the National Security Agency? Nor is it particularly reassuring, to me anyway, that this example of data collection and forced speech was required by corporations – Samsung and Jay-Z's Roc Nation rather than the government."Samsung reportedly paid Jay-Z $5m (£3.4m) for the rights to give away 1m digital copies of Magna Carta Holy Grail, in a deal hailed at the time as a positive example of brands and musicians working together.Before the app's removal from Google Play, a significant proportion of reviews from the well over 500,000 people who'd installed it were positive, indicating that for many fans the app permissions weren't a concern.At least the app was official. Last week, the internet security firm McAfee identified a fake version with Trojan malware embedded in it."On the surface, the malware app functions identically to the legit app. But in the background, the malware sends info about the infected device to an external server every time the phone restarts,"explained McAfee's Irfan Asrarin a blog post."The malware then attempts to download and install additional packages … To paraphrase lyrics from Jay-Z, it seems Android malware has 99 problems and Android/AntiObscan just became another."Some fans eschewed both apps in favour of turning to BitTorrent to download Magna Carta Holy Grail for nothing. The technology site TorrentFreak claims that the album was downloaded through torrent sitesmore than 200,000 times in a single dayafter its release within the app.It's too early to tell what effect the app promotion and piracy will have on sales and streams of the new album, which was released on Monday in most of the world, and comes out on Tuesday in the US.Apple's iTunes is selling the album digitally in the UK, while Spotify appears to have secured an exclusive – for this week at least – on the streaming version of Magna Carta Holy Grail.
