CBS launched its own direct download service after last night's episode of Survivor, rather than offering it through Apple's iTumes Music Store (iTMS).The LA Timesnotes:CBS already has an arrangement to make "CSI: Crime Scene Investigation," "Survivor" and "The Amazing Race" available on Google Video. But Google Inc. is still testing that service, and by simultaneously offering "Survivor" on both sites, CBS will quickly see which website has more traction with viewers.TheSurvivor on demandvideo is for US users only, for Windows 2000/XP users only (it's a Windows wmv file with DRM), and you only have 24 hours to watch it. (The download button is labelled "rent now" not "buy now".) You can't burn it to CD/DVD. This seems a rather poor deal compared with just recording the broadcast with an HD recorder or VCR, or downloading it via a file-sharing service....
Thomas Hawk reports ona preview of 83 Degree's latest project,30 Boxes. It's a calendar with built-in social networking. It should be available on Sunday. Check the30Beta Blogfor details.Alternatives includeAirSetandSpongeCellandHipCal, according to comments to the post, and of course there's the age-old Yahoo Calendar (which means there must also be a Google Calendar on the way).Indeed, with the Ajaxing versions of Yahoo and Microsoft Live apps now in beta, the window of opportunity for these sites must be very small. If you already have mail, contacts, bookmarks, notes, a blog and a messenger service that work with your calendar, why would you go to an external site?And if you already use Microsoft Outlook's functionality -- eg, drop an email on the calendar to create an appointment -- and it automatically syncs with your PDA and/or phone, then an online service that doesn't sync is completely worthless.
A rapacious range of new interactive "brain power" products have taken over Japan, boosting the already-bullish sales of the Nintendo DS handheld. So-called "Brain Training" games are aimed at the reticent gamer, who views interactive pleasures as "a waste" or "something that rots your brain".Greg's doneaverygoodjobof pinning down Nintendo's thought process behind the forthcoming launch of these titles, and the release of games likeBrain TrainingandBrain Flexcouldn't come at a better time. Researchers at the University of South Wales in Oz recentlypublisheda report urging a rapidly-ageing population to "use it or lose it": mental activity reduces the likelihood of dementia.However, while the professors are flocking to the games companies with a new interest in interactivity, there are some limitations to this exciting turn. Over onGame|Life, Wired's game-related blog, Chris Kohler play-tested one of these "smart" releases out in the US later this year,Practical Intelligence Quotientfor the PSP. He was not impressed.Of course, I doubt how accurate the game's assessments (in areas like logic, efficiency, and perceptiveness) truly are. For one, I haven't been rated yet -- I only played the first ten puzzles, and realized afterwards that you actually have to play through all one hundred before you get any results. This sucks. People need rapid feedback. ... the puzzles are identical every time you play the game, so you can go back and play them again. This would run contrary to the idea of a test that measures your intelligence -- at the end of the day, all it measures is either how well you remember what you learned or how obsessive-compulsive you are based on how many times you'll play the exact same thing to achieve perfection.Sure, it'd be like buying a book on how to improve your IQ and then taking the test. You're simply "testing" how well you trained. But before all of these titles get tarnished with the same brush, this is only one game.I do wonder, however, whether such games will inspire the over-45's to lay out a substantial amount on a games console, for something that they are arguably not catered for beyond one or two (potentially) gimmicky titles. Furthermore, couldn't they get the same kind of brain training from a newspaper or a web-browser?If Nintendo are able to consistently produce budget titles that are more worthwhile thanPQsounds, they may be on to something. They could hold on to the gift recipient/new owners of Nintendogs, rather than finding that their DS consoles overfloweth in the bargain basement bins.Indeed, this is actually a good way to broaden their increasingly broad audience. Considering that research suggests that non-traditional gamers (i.e., over 45's, women) choose software because they feel it can teach them something (e.g., "How to do your taxes" CD-Roms at games emporia), this is software that claims to teach something.I certainly look forward to theadvertising campaigns, during Countdown and on Saga.
From now on, according to the government, owners of motor vehicles will no longer have to queue at the post office to renew their road tax disc.Electronic vehicle licensing is one of the last public-facing services in Britain's five-year e-government programme to go live. After a two-year "soft launch" while systems were tested and installed, Alistair Darling, the transport secretary, publicly unveiledwww.vehiclelicence.gov.ukin January, a month after the prime minister's deadline for all public services to be "e-enabled".For the moment, however, there are two classes of service. While all owners of vehicles less than three years old can go straight to the website, the banger-owning majority may have to wait up to another year for the convenience.Car tax is an important benchmark for e-government. It was a natural service to put online because it is one of the few regular over-the-counter transactions that healthy, working people carry out with government. This is because they need to show original insurance and MOT certificates, which many motorists prefer not to risk in the post.Another reason to make electronic vehicle licensing a priority is social profile: car owners tend to be internet users, and vice versa. A poll for the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency found that 64% of drivers would prefer to do the chore online. In 2002 the prime minister identified car tax renewal as one of the core services to be e-enabled.Putting the vision into practice took rather longer than expected. It involved coordinating three separate databases: those at the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency, the motor insurance industry and, most painfully, the records of MOT tests.The process of computerising the country's 20,000 MOT testing stations was due to begin in 2002. Apart from enabling e-licensing, a central database is supposed to prevent the theft and forgery of certificates. The database is available for police to check, and to secondhand car buyers atwww.motinfo.gov.uk(you will need a reference number from the vehicle's registration certificate). In 2000, Siemens Business Services won a &pound;24m contract to develop and implement the system. Rollout began last year; all garages are supposed to have the new system by March. The cost of the programme is now over &pound;30m.In the meantime, owners of vehicles with old-style MOTs cannot use electronic licensing. (The clue is whether your renewal form, the V11 for the bureaucratically minded, carries a 16-digit unique number in a yellow box on the front. If it's there, you can renew on the web.) "Computer-generated MOTs will take another couple of months to work through the system," said a spokesperson for the agency.Million strongSo far, according to the agency, more than 1 million people have used the electronic service; about 3% of the market. The plan is for 30% of the market to go online by 2007. The DVLA's main IT contractor, IBM, says the e-service will help cut costs in line with the government's new drive for efficiency in the public sector.Despite the delays, officials and outside commentators are hailing electronic vehicle licensing as a success. Last week, the project won a national award for e-government. So far, however, e-licensing has not yet lived up to e-government aspirations - it has automated a piece of bureaucracy, rather than transforming or eradicating it. Here, the e-programme clashes with other public policy priorities.As a next step, officials at the licensing agency would like to do away with the tax disc, which still has to be sent out through the post. The idea is that police, and local officers such as traffic wardens, will check whether a car is taxed by keying into the database. Some local authorities are already issuing street wardens with wireless terminals capable of reading number plates automatically. Abolishing the paper disc would need a change in the law requiring vehicles to display it. Politicians are reluctant to take this step as the lack of tax discs today provides an instant indication to police (and the public) that a vehicle may be suspect.Government may also have to consider the feelings of people who provide the existing service. In a letter to the prime minister last month, the National Federation of Subpostmasters said e-licensing would add to the woes of post offices already facing the end of the Post Office Card Account for paying benefits: "We have no argument with greater choice, but the secretary of state for transport did not even mention that the Post Office continues to provide this service." The federation will not say how much postmasters receive for handling tax discs.William Davies, of the Institute for Public Policy Research, says that government should pay heed to such voices rather than rush headlong into providing e-services. "The social value of institutions such as post offices exists not only in spite of the inconvenience of queues and bureaucrats, but almost because of them."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
No, even if you're a wizard at image editing. The Home Office is very firm that even though you might think it's a great idea to take your new passport photo with a digital camera, and then remove a few lines and wrinkles, you'll create all sorts of problems for yourself in the future with biometric systems.But how would the system know an image had been retouched, since well-tweaked pixels don't leave smudges? "The biometrics in the passport will be checked against you. If you don't look like your photo, then it won't be much good," explains a Home Office spokesman.From August, all new British passports will be "e-passports" with embedded biometric data, based on facial characteristics such as the distances between the eyes, nose, mouth and ears. If you monkey around with them, say by digitally shaving off some avoirdupois gained over Christmas before you posed for your picture, you might also alter those ratios - and make it seem like you have faked your own passport.The advent of digital cameras and particularly of home printers has caused a number of headaches for the UK Passport Service, which this year will process 7m new passports - second only to the US, which, with five times the population, will issue 8m. In all, 80% of UK citizens hold passports, compared to 24% in the mid-1980s. But the boom in travel plus the boom in home photoprinting has led to many more grainy pictures. When scanned into the Home Office system, these produce insufficient detail for the expected biometric tests."The issue isn't the digital cameras, it's the printing," confirms the spokesman. "You have to print out at a resolution of 1200dpi [dots per inch] or it isn't good enough. The problem is whether the image is of sufficient quality when you come to any border in the future to give a good biometric match."The introduction last year of new standards for passport photos has led to more rejections - though not principally because of poor cameras. (A two megapixel camera will capture enough detail to give a legal passport photo.) If you want your photo to be approved, don't invest in a printer, buy a comb. "Hair obscuring face" is the most common reason for photos being rejected.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
We still can't buy Psychonauts.You have to wonder why. Following rapturous reviews, the game was expected to arrive last November. At the last second that changed, its release being pushed back to February 10. Another game missing Christmas. While disappointing, it is hardly unprecedented. One last-minute delay in development or production and suddenly a "2005" in a corporate ledger charting release dates turns into a "2006". It happens.What's more unusual is that the game was already out in the US. What's wrong with Britain?Usually such delays are about localisation. Despite sharing a language with the US, the British release is normally the European one, so it has to wait for the game to be converted into whichever continental languages the publisher wishes to support. This is expensive and time-consuming, with the voice conversion alone costing up to &pound;16,000, without even thinking about including celebrity voices.'Tis the seasonBut that explanation doesn't apply here. Psychonauts had been out since last April. It takes time to localise a game, but not that much time. THQ, the publishers, decided for some reason to deliberately push the release back into this year. Why? When pressed, they declined to comment.However, for industry watchers, this month's debut of Psychonauts isn't that surprising. "Despite some claims to the contrary, our business is still largely seasonal - with the biggest sales coming in the run up to Christmas," explains David Wilson, Sony Computer Entertainment Europe's UK head of PR."Of course, there are exceptions to every rule - Gran Turismo titles seem to have a habit of appearing mid-summer and breaking sales records. The titles that tend to dominate the Christmas period are largely the massive franchises, either blockbuster licenses or well-established franchises. There tends to be a lot of polarisation in the Christmas chart with the top three or so titles that head up the chart outselling the next highest sellers by significant multiples. In this climate a new original title - especially one that is a little leftfield in its design or gameplay - would probably not stand a chance."While justifiably critically acclaimed, Psychonauts is not Grand Theft Auto or any of the gaming super-brands guaranteed to shift vast numbers. Instead, as its US sales of less than 100,000 across three formats in 2005 attest, it's a more cultish affair. It's about as "leftfield" as a commercial game gets. A glance at this month's releases shows that it is hardly alone.Christmas is for the games that everyone has heard of. February, if only by default, is for the games people have not. "It's not as if gamers understand that 'February is art-house month'," says Tim Clark, associate editor of Official Playstation 2 Magazine, "It's more a case that publishers just end up with titles they don't really know what to do with so ship them as soon as the Christmas maelstrom calms down".Equally the games that appear aren't necessarily weirder - just unproven. More commercial games can use the relative quiet to find their audience. "Last year we released the first Fifa Street game, a brand new franchise, in March, which went on to become one of best selling games of 2005," says Electronic Arts's Keith Ramsdale, vice president and UK manager. However, alongside more mainstream games, EA is still releasing the oddball Katamari Damacy in February.This month has another advantage for targeting the more devoted gamer: the boredom of January. Gamers crave for something, anything, new. "I have a range of regular customers who'll go "has anything come out yet?" says Michelle Crab, manager of Games Exchange in Bedminster."So everyone's going to be so desperate come February that they'll buy anything released, and I'd imagine they'd sell quite well. Not kiddie games - it'll be things like Psychonauts, Stubbs the Zombies and Shadow of the Colossus." It's a peak, but not a peak like Christmas where people are buying games for someone else. February is more about gamers buying games for themselves.Pivotal roleAs well as providing an interested audience, the spring release also makes it easier for a more imaginative game to generate interest. "There is more space in the media devoted to games reviews," David Wilson says. "Games reviewers play a pivotal role as they tend to champion and appreciate more original content." In the specialist press, fewer games in February means more room for what does appear. Or, as Tim Clark puts it when asked what his response is on hearing that a game has missed Christmas: "That's one less I have to squeeze in."Canny publishers will cash in on these natural advantages. An unconventional game leads to unconventional marketing. Sony's quirky, atmospheric and beautiful Shadow of the Colossus, due to appear in this period, is a good example. "Passionate gamers require a more experiential approach to marketing," argues Liam Quigley, Sony Computer Entertainment UK's product manager. For example, nationwide events where the game will be projected 16m wide to show off its painterly vistas.There is one irony to February's surfeit of strangeness. To avoid being crushed at Christmas, market forces and marketing strategy has pushed these more singular games together. "It would probably be a bad thing for quirky games to always arrive at the same time because it's not like they're attached to any corresponding event - 'Yay, it's Weirduary!' - so ultimately they're going to be competing for the same cash," muses Tim Clark.The finances of those who love abstruse videogames are going to be sorely stretched.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
If you'd managed to wrap your head around the alphabet soup of wireless internet standards - which began in 1999 with 802.11b, aka "Wi-Fi", then moved to the faster 802.11g, while shunning the quicker 802.11a because it was incompatible with the first one - then I'm afraid to tell you the work is going to begin again. There's another standard in town: 802.11n, for which the draft has just been approved by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers' relevant task group.The great thing about 802.11n is that it will transfer data at a theoretical maximum speed of 600 megabits per second (Mbps) - faster, as a headline figure, than USB2, which uses old-fashioned "wire" stuff.That compares with 54Mbps for 802.11g, and an apparently lowly 11Mbps for 802.11b. Lowly, that is, until you consider that a 1 megabit broadband line, which is what most people have, only manages 1Mbps. So an 802.11b network can easily transmit as much data as your broadband line squirts into it.Well, sometimes. In fact you'll get less than 11Mbps from an 802.11b connection, because of overheads; the best you'll actually get is about 4-5Mbps (seehttp://tinyurl.com/4z7dh) and more likely around 2 or 3Mbps, falling off with distance and interference. But even that is as fast as most broadband lines.Similarly, 802.11g networks get a maximum data transfer that's 25% to 50% better than 802.11b. If a computer with an 802.11b chip joins, the whole network slows to the slower speed.So take these headline numbers with a pinch of salt. The 802.11n network will probably manage "only" about 100Mbps of data throughput. But that's about as fast as most people's local, wired Ethernet network at the office.The approval of the draft of 802.11n has chip makers excited: Broadcom and Atheros have announced products to use it, even though the wrinkles won't be out of the standard for another year.But what will we use it for? If your broadband line is chugging along at 1Mbps (though perhaps up to 8Mbps later this year once BT rolls out next-generation broadband, ADSL2) why have a home network that'll be drumming its fingers while the data wheezes up the phone line from the exchange?The answer increasingly seems to be home entertainment and, particularly, moving big video files around the home. With the high-definition (HD) TV allegedly tearing towards us (although HD content is notably hard to find), we need to be able to transmit films from one room to another without requiring rolls of Ethernet cable. And that is the segment that 802.11n is aimed at. Vendors were quick to say that an 802.11n network could support multiple HD video streams. Of course, to achieve (or need) that you'd have to buy multiple HD TVs. Yet I see a fly in this wireless ointment. I can envisage a time when some people own central servers that are hooked up via such high-speed networks to HD TVs around their homes, and beam crystal-clear pictures to them.But I don't foresee many. That's because setting up wireless networks is still too hard; for example I've never managed to get anyone with a Windows computer to join our password-protected one at home, despite knowing the password and faithfully typing it in both in ASCII and then (Lord help me) hexadecimal.Even though 802.11n will be backward-compatible, without one other key element - total ease of secure use - those dreams of TV streams will not be fulfilled, and marketing executives will once more wonder at what might have been. The flaw will not be in the communications engineering, but the software we use. There's the real irony: something so brilliant as a wireless network that runs as fast as something with wires could be made pointless by bad software.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I've been thinking a lot about what PS3 and Xbox 360 games will look like. The disappointing first generation of 360 titles hasn't answered the question, so I've been chatting to programmers about their next-generation projects. "The increase in processing power and demands for more realism will mean lighting becomes the natural focus," said one.Lighting? I thought it was going to be photorealistic texture maps or billion-polygon 3D models. But no. We're going to see videogame artists using light in the same way as great chiaroscuro painters and cinematographers, employing subtle shades and cadences to bring life, three dimensionality and atmosphere to each scene - rather than bunging enormous coloured explosions around the screen.A key technique will be high dynamic range (HDR) lighting, a processor-intensive means of simulating the vast range of luminescence perceptible to the eye. Usually, this range is hopelessly reduced on conventional and flat screens, but HRD lighting allows a greater contrast in extreme conditions, letting the player pick out scenic details in very bright and very dark environments.This may sound trivial, but light has become important in games. Stealth adventures such as Thief and Splinter Cell require you to seek out shadow, to use shade as a form of camouflage. With next-gen lighting, this is about to become infinitely more complex. In the survival horror genre, you spend most of your time creeping about in the dark. Imagine how much more disturbing it would be if you could enter a room and gradually make out, from shadows in the corner, the outline of a lurking figure. Processing power, you see, is all about subtlety.HDR lighting also allows for the over-saturation of brightness - to mimic scorching sunshine, for example. A few PS2 and Xbox titles toyed with this effect, notably Ico, but it will be huge on PS3 and Xbox 360. Two forthcoming PS3 horror titles - Resident Evil 5 and Possession - have abandoned the usual gloomy environments to take advantage of this effect: both are set in hot weather and look to capture the sickly nausea of relentless heat - the disorientation of walking outside and being momentarily blinded by daylight. Expect Summer Horror to be a major genre next year.Advanced lighting will change the way designers think and, consequently, the way games work. Other effects, like subsurface scattering, which mimics the way light permeates semi-translucent objects such as human skin, and ambient occlusion, which adds ambient and reflected light to objects, creating a more harmonious mise-en-scene, will provide game worlds of varied texture and depth. This, hopefully, is what the next generation will be about. This is why light must be the focus.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A Japanese game reaches the end of its development and is sent out to Japanese shops. Maybe it wasn't designed as part of a global strategy. For every crossover hit (such as Katamari) there are countless foreign games we never hear about.By the time American and European gamers demand a translated version, the development team will have dispersed or been assigned to new projects.Eventually, the publishers decide that an international version will be profitable. They schedule localisation time for some of the old team, or assemble a new team specifically for the task.Now, a typical game script is a folder the size of a phone book. I've sometimes brought home game design documents to show my nephews, and anyone who sees them is surprised how much text there is, even in a simple game!Specialist firms or an internal translating team then go about translating the text. This is a very tricky task as everything has to be crosschecked for accuracy. The entire testing phase of the game has to be redone in each language. Often, text will overspill from boxes, (German is particularly bad for this). Certain phrases might have to be rewritten just to fit.Some fictional names turn out to be inappropriate when translated, so they have to be recreated. If text appears in artwork, rather than code, then new artwork has to be added to the game. Now the manuals and packaging need to go through the same procedure.Some countries have restrictions: no use of Nazi insignia, no blood, etc. Publishers have to decide if it's worth changing their game for these markets. I think a certain proportion of media sold in Canada has to be available in French.Eventually, the game is submitted to Sony, Microsoft and/or Nintendo for approval by their test departments. Developers have to pay each time they submit and they get narrow windows in which to fix any problems. If they miss the window, they have to resubmit and wait another six weeks or more.Finally, the game is submitted to the various classification organisations in each country for approval. Assuming they like it and the publisher likes the rating it gets, then it can go to the printers and distributors. If not, then you can add another few months of coding.It's only at this point that the publisher will make announcements and deal with the press, shops and advertisers. They have to decide, say, whether it's worth releasing a snowboarding game in the southern hemisphere when it's summertime, or whether to wait until winter.So that's why it takes at least nine months for a game to get a worldwide release. If a game is a surefire hit, such as Mario, then it will be developed in all languages right from the start. If not, it's just not worth adding all that expense.&#183;This is an edited version of a comment on the Gamesblog by an anonymous developer. Seehttp://tinyurl.com/ey57x&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Google officially took its Google News service out of beta last week but save for the disappearance of the small word "beta" from the home page, few would have noticed the difference. The service had been in beta since its launch in April 2002; many desktop software products go through an entire revision (from 1.0 to 2.0 and beyond) in less time.Google News isn't the only service that stretched the idea of the beta test to the point where it is almost meaningless. The line between beta and non-beta has blurred thanks to a combination of sly marketing and a change in the way software is used.When companies spoke of beta tests in the past, everyone knew what they meant. "It was a deal you did with a vendor. They would give you access to something for free, and a very low upgrade fee for the final version, in return for you being patient with them and taking time to report on any issues," says Gary Barnett, research director at research company Ovum. "It presumed a certain level of testing." Usually, beta programs would be limited to a core group of power users who could be trusted to report bugs intelligently, and run for a defined time period.The first company to break that use was arguably Netscape in March 1995 when it offered version 1.1 of its Navigator browser for download by anyone - while warning it was a "public beta enabling users to provider feedback... on features and functionality" ahead of the full release "due in April". At least it offered an end date.These days, the term is used much more loosely. The Flickr photo site is still in beta nearly two years after its April 2004 launch. Windows Live Local launched last July but is still tagged with the beta label. But perhaps the honour of longest beta test goes to Google Groups, which launched in 2001 and is still in beta. Many online service providers, including AOL, Skype and Yahoo, are offering beta services with no set time period and an unrestricted user base.Forbidden fruitDoes this more liberal use of the term mean that our attitudes to software are changing, and if so, why? "The meaning of the term has been hijacked by marketing," says Barnett. Beta has become synonymous with new, shiny software that people want to try. Being cut out of a beta test can seem frustrating, particularly with the internet and technologies such as BitTorrent making it so easy to get hold of those in-beta products that are being kept secret. (Apple sued three people who distributed betas of its 10.4 operating system via BitTorrent in December 2004.)Equally, if beta tests last longer and are open to everyone, companies such as Google can squeeze more marketing value out of them. But the reasons go deeper. A beta culture is emerging across consumer technology services, not just in online applications like MSN Live Local and Google's Gmail, but also in sites like the Wikipedia online encylopedia. Its creator, Jimmy Wales, has defended attacks on its accuracy by calling it a work in progress, and the trusted, frozen version, "Wikipedia 1.0", he was promising as far back as 2004 hasn't appeared yet.Even traditional publishers are getting in on the act. Technology publishing firm O'Reilly has launched Rough Cuts, a service that lets participants read online versions of books as they are written and suggest changes that can be incorporated into the final - printed - version. Is this a trend?Put the words "online" and "trend" together nowadays and you know the term "Web 2.0" will crop up somewhere. O'Reilly's chief, Tim O'Reilly, associates "perpetual betas" with the Web 2.0 concept, which he defines as a series of developments loosely tied together. One of these developments is more online participation; the more people contribute to something, the better it gets.Putting out books in beta is a way of harnessing readers' expertise, says Sara Winge, from O'Reilly. "When the focus shifted from packaged software to services, the service isn't completed, it's a process. There's an expectation that it's going to change."Tim O'Reilly argues that a defining characteristic of this woolly movement is the end of the software release cycle. Software becomes constantly upgraded, often on a daily or hourly basis, he says, and the users of the software become codevelopers.So, we're moving from a world where people could rely on post-beta 1.0 releases that wouldn't change without warning, to one in which software is constantly in flux, and this effect will become more acute. Programming concepts such as Asynchronous Javascript and XML (Ajax) are creating new types of web applications that users can do more with.Compare yesteryear's websites to services such as Google Maps. The former were click-and-wait HTML sites that were often painful to use. The latter feels more like traditional desktop software. People will begin doing more with these online applications, and storing more of their data there. Take Google's Gmail - another long-term beta product - as an example.If the features and the code underlying online services are always changing, what does that mean for software quality and for continuity of service? "We're telling users that this is a beta product and that you have to understand we are refining this product, so to that extent we can't provide guarantees," says Andy Ku, Google's UK marketing manager for consumer product.In fluxHe argues that the company first trials the product in an alpha phase with internal staff and an invitation-only group of external testers to weed out bugs. But Google has already had to fix security flaws in its Gmail beta that allowed attackers to steal passwords and read email. Clearly, "beta" still means "use at your own risk".Google protects itself by abdicating all responsibility in its Gmail terms and conditions, but so do providers of non-beta web applications, including Microsoft, with its rival Hotmail service. "I don't think we need to change the service level agreements if the product has already been very strong as a beta product," says Ku.So when an online service moves from beta to non-beta, nothing changes from the users' perspective. There are no additional guarantees, and the code underlying the service doesn't freeze; companies can change or add components whenever they feel like it. Unless the software developer removes the word "beta" from the site, who would even know?Ku says that services move out of beta when certain criteria are met, but won't reveal them. Keeping "codevelopers" in the dark doesn't sound much like Web 2.0 to us. And where is the feedback option -so important for any beta program - on the Gmail home page?The term "beta" will also collapse into irrelevance in downloadable software, predicts Chris Messina, who calls himself director of experience at Flock, a startup developing an open source browser. Users of Microsoft products know that when software products move out of beta, users are flooded with security and quality patches in short order, meaning that version 1.0 isn't so much a magic milestone as just another point in a continual cycle of development."I see gradients of validity where for my mom I might wait until Flock gets to 0.8 before I install it for her," Messina says. "For friends who I like I'll give them the development version that won't crash the system, and then for people I don't like they can have the nightly builds. So I think we'll have three tracks."That attitude contrasts with firms such as Microsoft and Apple which still - at least publicly - put a lot of stock in 1.0 releases of downloadable software. Will we see a gradual move towards a more fluid release cycle in downloadable software as we have done in web applications? If it happens, it will start with open source developers, many of whom are already developing in such a fluid way and releasing source code builds so quickly that the beta concept is rapidly losing meaning.But there's a trade-off. The benefit of this trend is that our software will more closely mirror our needs as they change because developers can respond more quickly to our feedback, unfettered by code and feature freezes. The danger is that it plunges users into uncertainty. We won't be able to point to a single version of a piece of software and call it good, but will have to make do with uncertainty over varying degrees of readiness in features that also change constantly.Still, in being vague and loosely defined, the Web 2.0 concept and the software underpinning it will at least have something in common.Ready, steady, beta: the alpha jargon busterAlphaAlpha software is in an unfinished state, and not ready for testing. At this stage, some of the features work most of the time, so it can be used for demonstrations to gullible journalists, and venture capitalists, and the developers will use it because the program manager makes them "eat their own dogfood". However, real users accept that an alpha could fall over at any time and do bad things to their hard drives, so it is never installed on production systems (computers that do real work). Well, you'd deny it anyway. Version denoted by 'a' (eg 0.1a).BetaBeta software has reached the stage where it can be used by outsiders. They benefit from early access to (free) software that they may be planning to buy, and they give something back by finding and reporting bugs. A program may go through many betas until it is "feature complete" and the developers stop adding new code. A deadline may require a "death march" to finish the work. Denoted by 'b' (0.8b).Release candidateWhen the beta testers can't find any more showstoppers (flaws so big that the company can't ship the software) or the developers can no longer face fixing them or the marketing team has booked loads of advertising, the developers create "release candidates". These versions should be good enough for "early adopters" to use, but they are still betas, so you can't charge for them. Some programs go through RC1, RC2, RC3... so: 1.0 RC3.RTM"Release to manufacturing" comes when the developers sign off the code and it is put on servers for public download, and/or despatched to the factory where "Golden Master" CDs or DVDs are replicated and stuffed in boxes with manuals and sent off to the distributor's warehouses and high-street shops. What was free may now cost &pound;49 to &pound;695 or more. Developers have parties, shower, get reintroduced to their children, etc. Denoted by '.0' (1.0)SlipstreamingNo program is ever really finished, but extra code and bug fixes can be "slipstreamed" into the code, installed via irregular downloads, and bundled into "service packs" (SP1, SP2..). Eventually, the code drifts to the point where the developers decide to do Version 2, so they go back to the beginning and start again. Are you ready for 2.0a?Jack Schofield&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The digital music revolution, we're told, is upon us: EMI is keen to find more ways to sell more songs in purely digital form, without touching record shops or CDs. All the other record labels have embraced online selling through sites such as Apple's iTunes Music Store with gusto - understandably, as that has sold nearly a billion songs since its launch in April 2003, while sales of physical CDs have slumped year by year.Yet this revolution has entailed a tradeoff between convenience and quality. If you bought the Arctic Monkeys' new album on CD (and an awful lot of people already have) then you knew what you were getting: a silver disc of virtually uncompressed audio and a paper cover featuring a lad smoking a fag.Buy it by download, though, and you're into a minefield, not only in terms of digital rights management (DRM) and player compatibility, but also sound quality.On the iTunes Music Store, Whatever People Say I Am, That's What I'm Not goes for &pound;7.99 and is encoded in AAC (Advanced Audio Codec) format encoded at 128kbps - that is, every second of music is represented by 128 kilobits of data. On the CD, every second takes up 175 kilobytes - 11 times more.Buy the album from Napster, for &pound;7.95, and you'll get WMA (Windows Media Audio) files encoded at 192kbps. Better sound quality than Apple's, for 4p less.Meanwhile, over atBleep.com, the download store run by Warp Records, you can download the UK's fastest selling debut album as DRM-free MP3s for &pound;6.99, and at the noticeably higher bitrate of 320kbps - still four times less than the CD.Why are the digital versions less sonically faithful? It's to enable files to be downloaded quickly and ensure that portable players can hold thousands of tracks. Otherwise it would take hours rather than minutes or seconds to download the files.Like MP3, AAC (Apple's preferred encoding format) and WMA (Microsoft's proprietary format, used by virtually all the other mainstream online retailers) are known as "lossy" formats. In layman's terms, they are compressed derivatives of the original."To use an analogy, it is a bit like JPeg images," says Gavin Starks, managing director of Consolidated Independent, the specialist data delivery service for much of the UK's independent music sector including Ministry Of Sound and Domino Records. "If you make a low-res JPeg image, then the resolution is quite 'blocky'. It's similar to that with music. As you reduce the bitrate you will hear more artefacts of the encoding process."Spot the differenceBut, format aside, can you discern the difference between songs encoded at 128, 192 or even 320kbps and the original sound recording?For Bleep's Tom Panton, the answer is yes - and no. "For something like Arctic Monkeys, where people are downloading it via iTunes at 128 and playing it on their iPod through tinny white headphones, then it's probably not going to make a huge amount of difference," he says. "But it will if they burn those files to CD and play them through their home system."Ronnie Traynor, chief operating officer at TuneTribe, another independent specialist whose files are delivered at a minimum of 192kbps, and up to 320kpbs, agrees. "If you download one of our tracks at 192kbps and play that, you can turn it up as high as you want," she says. "But if you're a DJ and you're playing in a club, then you'll need it to be 320. So it is an issue, but it depends on where you want to play your music."A number of specialist dance retailers, such as DJ Download and the US-based Beatport, have been selling high bitrate MP3s for some time at premium prices. On the former site, 192kbps files sell for almost twice the iTunes standard &pound;0.79, while budding DJs are prepared to fork out &pound;1.99 for 320kbps versions.But would customers of more generalist Top 40-driven stores be willing to pay such prices? The major record labels, keen to replace Apple's "one price fits all" model where everything sells for $0.99 (or &pound;0.79, or &euro;0.99) with a tiered pricing structure, certainly hope so. After all, those early adopters enthralled by the quick fix of portable music are probably the same sorts who construct ferocious 5.1 surround sound multiplexes in their front rooms.However, Rob Wells, new media director of Universal Music UK, thinks that aside from audiophile fans of jazz and classical, the digital market will remain driven by convenience. "In the short to medium term, I'd say that the majority of consumers aren't really that fussed," he says. "Quality is quite far down their list."My gut feeling is that consumers will not pay a higher price for a higher bitrate, but I do think there will be temporal pricing models - paying a premium to get a track early, or to get a video before it's been on TV."Wells probably has a point. Since quadraphonic albums, the technological graveyard has been littered with next-big-thing formats. The shifts from vinyl to CD and VHS to DVD were seismic enough to attract a mass of consumers, but innovations that tweak the status quo have traditionally found only niche support. Having said that, offer 10 seconds of Madonna's new single for &pound;3, call it a ringtone, and people will buy it in their droves.For the specialist end of the market, higher quality options are around the corner. Bleep is already selling FLAC files - essentially zipped-up lossless WAV files - for artists such as Autechre and Aphex Twin, which are indistinguishable from the CD originals. But only as good as the CD originals.And this is the ultimate irony of the digital revolution. Audiowise, we are only now reaching the point of what we already knew. While the entertainment industry has spent two decades reselling us higher fidelity versions of our music and movie collections, this is one evolution where, for the time being at least, less is definitely perceived to be more.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It used to be easy to choose a radio station: there were a few high-quality BBC channels and the odd pirate in the background. Now there are more than 10,000 and counting (with copyright lawyers doing most of that), thanks to the internet, which enables your computer to be a receiver or transmitter. Radio listening as a whole (analogue and digital) has been static for years but this conceals a big switch to digital. In the past year internet radio's share of listeners jumped from 1.1% to 1.8%, beaten only by the runaway success of digital audio broadcasting (DAB), which more than doubled its market share to 10.5%.Digital radio, and especially internet radio, is gradually becoming more of a database experience than a serial one. Instead of listening to one programme after another, you can call up ones you have missed from earlier in the week from a database or - and this is the most interesting change - choose them from a live database of the songs being played on internet radio around the world.To get an idea of what is going on type "Coldplay" or "Arctic Monkeys" into the search space on the left of the home page ofwww.shoutcast.com, one of the big websites pulling together broadcasters. It shows you the bitrate (eg 128bps), what format (eg MP3) and how many are listening out of the maximum possible.Shoutcast is only one of many aggregators. Radio-Locator, formerly the MIT directory of radio stations on the web, is also useful, as isLive365.com. They know what is being played because each record has a tag. RadioLover can split iTunes radio and MP3 radio into individual tracks and record them.Maybe the next step will be to use technology such as Shazam (used on mobiles to identify tunes and by the record industry for monitoring) to search music as it is being played. Who needs peer-to-peer sites if the odds are that what you want to hear is being played somewhere in the world.The legal side of this is a minefield. Many internet radio stations are pirates but others - such as Shoutcast, which is an AOL company - have strict rules that you can only download for your own personal listening and you have to agree not to store, transmit or publicly display them. How many listeners adhere to these rules can only be guessed at. Many stations have buttons to encourage you to buy.Goodness knows what Guglielmo Marconi would make of this. His invention made radio so synonymous with "wireless" that it became its name. Internet radio has changed all that since signals go from one computer along a conventional telephone line until they board the internet to travel across the world and then back to someone else's computer. But all this is changing because internet radio is now being linked to Wi-Fi so you don't need to switch your computer on to listen on the web. Wireless is back.I have been testing a Wi-Fi web radio made by Acoustic Energy of Cirencester, a top-end model costing &pound;199. This is expensive considering that web radio is free if you have broadband but it has a classy retro-looking design and delivers a high-quality sound that can't be received from normal web radio unless you invest in decent speakers.The radio plugs into a power socket (there is no battery option) and picks up a signal from your broadband wireless modem. It has preset buttons to save your channels and, like many web radios, can play tracks from a database of recent transmissions - such as from the BBC. It is several seconds slower than web radio partly because it is buffering to compensate for interruptions in transmission.I surfed from Shostakovich and Bloomberg to some of the hundreds of US bible channels and found the sound good even if connectivity was slow. The downside is that it is not free, does not do live searches nor give audience figures. For now it will attract enthusiasts but as prices come down the market will widen. Internet radio may one day become the norm.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Wireless broadbandI have moved into a flat in Canterbury, Kent, and there is no TV aerial or broadband and no cable links. There are major problems with having a satellite dish as I am surrounded by tall buildings and most of the town is an ancient heritage site.Tom KainJack Schofield replies:HomeChoice (www.homechoice.co.uk) delivers TV, phone and broadband down one line, but it's only available inside the M25. You can check for broadband availability by entering your phone number atwww.bt.com/broadband. Alternatively, Telabria did some WiMax wireless broadband trials last year with the University of Kent and this service may be available now or soon. You can check the availability of SoHome 1.5M and 3M wireless broadband atwww.sobroadband.com/coverage.php. Otherwise, talk to your neighbours: the solution might be a communal aerial or MATV (Master Antenna) system.Broadband on SkyI downloaded Sky's Broadband on Sky software, after which my usually fast PC went into snail-paced mode. I removed the software but the computer was still very, very slow. So I went to a restore point before the software download and now all is well. What's going on?Patrick S. BriggsJS:Sky by Broadband lets subscribers download Sky movies free. What may be less obvious is that you are not downloading them from Sky but mainly from other users. The Sky software installs a copy of Kontiki's peer-to-peer file-sharing software, and this runs whenever you start your PC, whether you use Sky's service or not. It is consuming your bandwidth, but you agreed to allow your PC be used to upload files to other users, and this is stated in the terms and conditions.The same Kontiki program is used by the BBC's iMP project (www.bbc.co.uk/imp/help) and the Open Media Network (www.omn.org/support.htm). You should be able to uninstall it using the Add/ Remove Programs applet, as claimed in Kontiki's help file (http://tinyurl.com/cyv6v). After that, run the KClean.exe program, which is available atwww.bbc.co.uk/imp/email/KClean.exe,Download.comand other sites.DVD for CDsDVD players can play CDs, but are they good enough to make it worth connecting the output to a hi-fi system?Alan KennedyJS:You have nothing to lose by connecting a DVD player, and should get much better sound with your movies, so it is worth doing. In my experience (with my Quad 77/Harbeth system), DVD players do not produce hi-fi quality results with CDs, but they are not sold at hi-fi prices. However, many DVD players can also play SACD (Super Audio CD) and DVD-Audio discs, and these can provide much better sound than CDs. The Denon DVD-1920 - &#163;220 from Superfi - plays DVD, DVD-A and SACD and won an award from What Hi-Fi.I've been redirectedI have set google.com as my home page in Internet Explorer but this switches to google.co.uk automatically. Is there a cookie on my PC or is it my ISP?Nicolas BlazaJS:Many global companies redirect you to a local site, because they want to display local ads, and use bandwidth efficiently. This geolocation is usually based on the IP address provided by your ISP. Google then stores the default in a cookie. In theory, if you click the "Go to Google.com" link it should be "sticky" but often isn't. You could try closing all browsers and deleting the Google cookie or setting www.google.com/intl/en/ as your browser home page.Video by mailMy daughter has been trying to send me a 30-second video of our new grandson but her email keeps getting rejected by NTL, my ISP, because the file is too big. I subscribe to their 2MB broadband service but they have not responded to my email asking if there is a way around this problem.Peter BowenJS:Email wasn't designed for sending video clips, but the alternatives require a little expertise. Your daughter could upload it to a free file hosting service such as Sendspace,RapidShare.de,Uploading.comor YouSendIt- there are 50 listed athttp://tinyurl.com/dnb24. She can then mail the file's download address and password to you and as many friends as she likes, and you can download it at your leisure. For privacy, it would be better to compress (eg zip) and password protect the video file before uploading it. Your daughter also needs to keep the link needed to delete the video, though most sites delete files automatically after a specified period.Backchat&middot; Last week, writing about mail blocking, I recommended registering your own domain name to get a portable email address. Nigel Anderson and others pointed out that your email could still be blocked because the host company will run lots of email accounts from the same server, and some of them may be spammers. This is true. The advantage is that you can log on and redirect your email from a blocked service to an unblocked one in seconds. People may forget to use your personal address, so it helps if you use a mail service that lets you set your Reply-to address. For example, in Google's Gmail (US), go to Settings and click Accounts.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Solution to energy crisis or land of make believe?Giles Turnbull (Could your lawn keep you warm? January 26) describes a system as "capable of achieving 400% efficiency" but the diagram claims it "can bring in four times more energy than is needed to run them", which would make it 500% efficient. But no matter the intended figure, it seems to be describing a perpetual motion machine. Once started, we could use a quarter (or a fifth) of the energy output as feedback to operate the pumps and all our energy problems would be solved.Gerard LancasterStockport&middot; Heat pumps are not so new, even in Britain. The Royal Festival Hall was heated and cooled at the expense of the Thames, using heat pumps, when it opened in 1951, although the system was later replaced with a conventional one.A friend in Berkhamstead in the late 1950s had the almost unheard-of luxury of central heating, courtesy of a heat pump, with a heat source/sink in the garden, and a walk-in cooled larder as a heat source. It seemed to work well, although he did say that milk froze if two people had baths in rapid succession.David A BenderUniversity College, London&middot; Reading your article on heat pumps made me feel I had been transported to a parallel universe where the laws of thermodynamics have been suspended.The heat in the ground is free, but the energy needed to recover it is high-quality energy, which costs far more than a cheap heat source. You pay 8.4p per Kwh for the electricity to run the heat pump against 1.9p per Kwh for town gas or 2.5p (average over the last year) for heating oil. Even allowing for a 4:1 return on the electricity (3:1 is more realistic) and 90% efficiency of a gas boiler (95% for a modern oil boiler) the margin of heat pump over traditional systems is slim to non-existent and does not begin to cover the loss of interest on the enormous capital outlay. If the sample family expects to replace a &pound;1,000 oil bill with a &pound;250 electricity bill they are in for a shock!Colin RourkeUniversity of WarwickBring back Mir&ge;The article on the International Space Station (A waste of space, January 26) takes me way back to when you would watch Newsround before Blue Peter while eating Postman Pat spaghetti shapes. It was called Space Station Freedom. My space-obsessed heart would swell with happiness at the smooth white curves of the computer generated graphics (then a novelty), with all the little bumps, solar panels and habitation nodules. It was pure sci-fi, a shining white village of scientific endeavour, serviced by a fleet of shuttles, and later, sleek one-stage spaceships. It made Mir look like the skanky green rustbucket it was.Fast-forward 14 years. Newsround lied to me. The ISS is a shambles, a complete waste. With the shuttle programme in disarray and Bush's new focus on returning to the moon, it'll probably never get finished. Let's face it: Mir rocked.http://nydas.livejournal.comPreying on the puntersSurely Kieren McCarthy's plea for help (Technobile, January 26) is rhetorical! It is received wisdom that stores such as PC World, Dixons and Comet are to be avoided for the very reasons covered. It's a mystery to me how they have survived. Guess it's a case of enough innocent consumers to keep them going.Rod Warrington, ChesterI know we Mac-heads sound like broken records, but to find competence in a computer store, visit an Apple Store.Jon ConnellBluntishamTrue cost of internet radio&ge;An Ask Jack question (January 26) reveals that if you listen to an online radio station at around 56kbps for four hours a day, you'd get through around 3GB a month. The biggest monthly usage plan I can see on Orange, for example, is &pound;52.88 a month (Mobile Office Max 05 for personal users). To listen to that amount of radio would be in excess of &pound;150 a month. And that's before other data usage like emails or phone calls.www.adambowie.com/weblog
Maybe. The classic example is Google, an intentional misspelling of "googol", the number represented by a 1 followed by 100 zeros. But companies such as Flickr have also shown that dropping the "e" from a word can make it catchy and part of the misspelling meme. There's also Digg, Reddit (geddit?), Flockr (an open-source news aggregator), Flagr (venue review sharing), Frappr (for geotracking groups of people), and Suprglu (which ties together results from sites like Flickr and Typepad)."Is this a new -thon (telethon, walkathon, singathon) of the online world?" wonders the author Glyn Moody, who thinks it's the Web 2.0 equivalent of putting "Net" in front of a company name - as used by Netscape et al.But misspelling isn't surefire. After all, Joshua Schachter's del.icio.us is a big hit, too - but is spelt correctly. We suspect that being good at what you do might have something to do with success too.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Because Aibo isn't a band or a film, and it can't play or record music or films. Essentially, Sir Howard Stringer, the new boss at the Japanese multinational, is trying to focus the company on areas that will generate cash and, more importantly, profits, and the robotics unit that created Aibo, launched in 1999, was put to sleep in the process.Also killed off as Sony announced shining results was Qrio, a humanoid robot that can walk on two legs but had never been sold commercially; and, separately, the cathode-ray tube and plasma TV operations, which aren't thriving either.Though the Aibo was very popular - 150,000 were sold - it never went on sale in the UK, and the robotics division only produced about $40m to $80m revenue.The cull, announced last week, shocked Aibo fans, who were drooling only last September over the third-generation version of the robot dog with a camera in its eye that could be used to recognise its owner and record images, while its personality could be reprogrammed from lovable to mischievous.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
BlackBerry ups the ante with more storageResearch In Motion has returned to safer ground with its latest email phone hybrid. The 8700g, available from T-Mobile from &pound;79.99, reappraises the standard PDA-style BlackBerry. The new device is much more attractive, and RIM has also improved the screen, integrated a faster processor and doubled the storage to 64MB. While it works superbly as a mobile email collector, it is no rival for such smartphones as the MDA III and Sony Ericsson's P990, which have more facilities and the BlackBerry push email system. The differences aren't just niceties like cameras and media players but business tools such as more storage and Wi-Fi. In compressing the device, RIM has also made the keys smaller and more fiddly. Nevertheless, there are probably enough enhancements to ensure that committed Blackberry users will want to upgrade.Ashley NorrisPowerful speakers help define the media playerThere seems to be an endless conveyor belt of personal media players, each with similar features. So PQI deserves credit for its MPack P600, which delivers genuine innovation. The key feature is a largeish clamshell design that makes it more akin to a mini DVD player. In spite of the extra bulk it works well, helped by a four-inch LCD screen that is at least as good as rivals. The P600 is also versatile, playing back the usual audio and video formats as well as VOB, which delivers high-quality video. The P600 has powerful speakers and an optional GPS unit is coming. The downside is price - a 20GB player retails for &pound;300. The battery life of four hours' playback could be better and the interface isn't especially slick. Yet the P600 is worth considering if you think the iPod video screen is too small.ANToolbar will keep your favourite sites in line"Button mania" will soon strike many of your favourite sites, following this week's launch of Google Toolbar 4 for Internet Explorer 6. Download the beta and you can give each site a button on the toolbar, much like "favicons" (the logos that appear on the bookmarks list). And since buttons are just lines of XML text plus a string of Base64 (for the image), they're easy to modify. A drop-down menu lets you "send" a page to Gmail, Blogger or SMS. In Gmail, it pastes the page into an email. It's slow, but seems to work well. Toolbar 4 also lets you keep bookmarks online. Add spellchecking and translation, the ability to link addresses to Google Maps, the highlighting of search terms, popup blocking and Toolbar 4 is well worth the 627K download. But it's not available for Firefox, or Macs.Jack Schofield&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Dan Catt grabbed his digital camera, went for a walk in the country near where he lives in Stoke on Trent, and ended up being hired by Yahoo. Well, quite a lot happened in between. Such as Catt launching a website calledGeobloggers.comto display his pictures, which also enabled other people to put Flickr photos on Google Maps."I put up 17 photos to start," says Catt, "and they were dotted around my local area. At the end of the first day there was about 150, and at the end of the first week, just under a thousand. I think there's over 100,000 geotagged photos now - probably a lot more! The idea spoke to people."Geobloggers.com, started last March, was Catt's first foray into what we now call mashups, which are reckoned to be the next big thing in the world of Web 2.0. The term originated in the music industry, where it means combining parts of two songs to make something new and, occasionally, better.For example, in the UK, Roy Kerr (The Freelance Hellraiser) created a mashup called A Stroke of Genius by combining Christina Aguilera's vocal from Genie in a Bottle with the backing from the Strokes' Hard to Explain. But the most famous example - one used by Lawrence Lessig, the lawyer who launched the Creative Commons - is DJ Danger Mouse's The Grey Album, which combines the vocals from Jay-Z's The Black Album with reprocessed tracks from the Beatles' White Album.On the web, mashups are usually created by taking data from two or more sources and combining them to make something interesting and new. ChicagoCrime (www.chicagocrime.org), for example, took police data for crime incidents and plotted them on street maps from Google Maps. Now, if you were visiting an area you didn't know, you could check in advance whether it was the sort of place you might get mugged, and when.In Catt's case, the mashup involved "geotagging" photos from Flickr by adding latitude and longitude data, and locating them on Google Maps - which was tricky at the time because, says Catt, Google had yet to release an applications programming interface, or API.Welcome responseAn API provides an interface and a set of rules that make it much easier to extract data from a website. It's a bit like a record company releasing the vocals, guitars and drums as separate tracks, so you would not have to use digital processing to extract the parts you wanted. But whereas record companies are generally hostile to having their stuff re-used, and respond with "cease and desist" orders, web-based companies seem to love it.Amazon, Google and Yahoo have led the way by launching APIs that let people take their data and reuse it. The Mashup Feed website (www.mashupfeed.com), which tracks mashups, lists 144 APIs used by 355 mashups. Google Maps, with 195 sites, is by far the most popular, but Amazon (35), Yahoo Maps (33), Flickr (30), Microsoft's VirtualEarth (30), Delicious (19), eBay (15) and MSN Messenger (11) are all gaining acceptance. Other useful data feeds include weather and traffic information, events and calendar listings, and electronic programme information (TV listing).The key thing is that the feeds are only combined on the user's PC. You don't need to create or pay for data, or pay for the web servers and associated communications bandwidth needed to run something like Google or Amazon.As people experiment to find out what they can do, Mashup Feed's list of sites is growing by an average of 2.6 a day. "That's kind of remarkable for something that's just in its embryonic stage," says David Berlind, a US-based journalist who is co-organising a Mashup Camp in Mountain View, California, later this month. He describes it as a free event intended to get the people who are creating mashups in the same room as the people creating APIs, so each can figure out what the other needs."It's like the early days of the PC industry," says Berlind, "and a lot of people are doing things in their spare time - they have jobs. They don't have the time or money to invest in high-level conferences."Berlind argues that mashups are being built on the same kind of three-layer structure as the personal computer industry. There you have the PC as the base platform, Windows or another operating system providing the APIs, and developers using the APIs to build applications on top. In this case, the internet is the platform, firms such as Google, Yahoo, Microsoft and Amazon are providing the APIs, and the mashups are the applications."What makes mashups really different is that you don't need to be a rocket scientist," says Berlind. Relatively few people had the programming skills needed to turn their ideas into PC applications, but with mashups, "the barrier for turning your creativity into an innovation is very much lower. Your grandmother could do it," says Berlind. Well, maybe not yet, he adds, but that's the way things are heading."The other great thing about this system is that you don't have to get anyone's permission to add an API to it, and then anybody can use it. Where there's one person or a group in control, that by itself can slow down innovation," says Berlind.And it's not geographically limited. A major part of today's hi-tech industry is based on the Pacific coast of North America, from Vancouver, Canada, through Seattle, Portland, San Francisco and Las Vegas down to San Diego, near the border with Mexico. That includes Intel and Microsoft, Sun and Oracle, Google and Yahoo, and the universities in Berkeley and Stanford. But mashups ignore borders, and can include both local and global feeds.Dom Ramsey is one of the people who has benefited. He is a British web designer who developed a successful photo-sharing/photo-blogging site atFotothing.com, then sold it. "I started doing mashups for fun, as a sort of hobby," he says. "It's a way of challenging yourself, and good mashups can become commercial."He'd long been interested in the idea of plotting local news stories, but there was not a suitable news feed, and the maps were a problem, too. Ordnance Survey has great digital maps but they are Crown Copyright. "It's a bit of a sore point in the geoprogramming community," says Ramsey, "and there's a project called Openstreetmap trying to create an alternative - but it doesn't have enough data."Ramsey's idea for a local news map suddenly became feasible when Google Maps provided UK coverage, and the BBC started producing RSS feeds. Indeed, when it launched its Backstage.bbc.co.uk project on July 23, the BBC started actively encouraging and supporting mashups. Ramsey produced Local Knowledge (www.dynamite.co.uk/local), which "displays BBC travel news, BBC London traffic cams, local weather, geotagged Flickr photos and UK Gatso speed cameras. "But I'll be adding more soon," he says. He is taking data from WeatherPixie, Pocket GPS World, Catt's Geobloggers, GeoURL, Yahoo News and Flickr and mapping it to Google Maps. Backstage publishes a list of similar projects.Do-goodersThe BBC's expanding Feed Factory andBackstage.bbc.co.ukprojects have boosted the UK mashups scene, and BBC spokesman James Hedges says this is another case like the Creative Archive, where "you pay for it, so we're giving it back to you. The BBC is a public service, so the conversation is not 'What's the business model?', it's 'Does this provide value for licence fee payers?' We can genuinely do good!""What's the business model for the commercial companies?" is another question. When users pick up data feeds, they are not going to the site and being exposed to ads, and so far, nobody is charging fees."That's evidence of how embryonic a state we're in right now," says Berlind: "we just don't have an answer to that question! It costs the API provider some amount of money every time a mashup accesses an API, but they're still trying to figure out what the business model is, and how to move forward."At the moment, there's a land grab under way. The major API suppliers want their APIs plugged into everybody's applications, so they are, in Berlind's words, "competing with one another for the hearts and minds of developers". And the costs are still small, so they can worry about making money from them later.It's also not so obvious how mashups progress when they go beyond relatively simple - but powerful - ideas such as plotting photos, crime incidents or dating adverts on Google or Yahoo or Microsoft maps, or mapping house price data against pollution data, or whatever. Combining, say, TV listings with your diary so your system knows to record programmes when you're out - one of Catt's many ideas - looks harder.Ben Metcalf, the project leader on Backstage.bbc.co.uk, reckons Google Maps has become popular because of the interface it brings with it. He thinks that rather than simply combining data feeds, the future of mashups is with people providing interfaces that enable you to display data in ways you wouldn't normally see it. What that might be, of course, is anybody's guess. There may be fortunes to be made.If not, as Berlind says, "it's great to be at this stage and watch this whole mashups thing blossoming in front of us". In other words, it's fun. And Catt? He started work at another of Yahoo's acquisitions, Flickr, last month. "I'm still going to be working on geobloggers and adding cool stuff," he blogged. "It'll become a bit of an experimental lab." Not so different from how it began less than a year ago, in fact.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Yes, because the risk of upsetting electronic medical equipment is much smaller than the benefit of being able to contact colleagues for urgent advice or help, according to a new study in the US.Professor Keith Ruskin studied 4,018 responses from doctors attending the American Society of Anaesthesiologists' annual meeting in 2003, and found that while 65% used pagers, and just 17% used mobile phones, significantly fewer of the phone users - 31% - reported delays in getting messages in hospital, compared to 40% of the pager users.Both patients and staff are usually banned from using mobiles in hospitals because of fears that their radio output, used to keep in touch with base stations, will interfere with sensitive medical equipment.And indeed some of those in Professor Ruskin's study reported just that: 2.4%, or 96, of the doctors said there had been some electronic interference with "life support devices such as ventilators, intravenous infusion pumps and monitoring equipment". But against that, says Professor Ruskin, should be weighed the benefits of mobiles: 14.9%, or nearly 600, of the doctors said there had been medical errors or injuries caused by delays in communication.The study is published in this month's Anesthesia &amp; Analgesia, and is thought to be the first that has looked at whether mobile phones could have a positive effect on patient safety.Professor Ruskin argued that mobiles now pose less risk to electronic health equipment: "The new digital cell phones use much higher power and operate at a different frequency," he said. "The small risks of electromagnetic interference between mobile telephones and medical devices should be weighed against the potential benefits of improved communication."But will it mean that British hospitals' ban on patients and visitors using mobiles will come to an end? It's unlikely. Those bans were introduced in the mid-1980s, with the older analogue phones, but hospitals prefer to err on the side of safety. And the Department of Health said this week that it does not issue blanket advice on the subject: "It's for each NHS Trust to set policy on use."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
What the hell are fax machines still doing here? It's 2006, not 1986; there are scanners at the same price, if not lower. Hasn't everyone heard of the scanner, with its wonderful precision? I don't enjoy having pictures faxed to me, with Crimewatch-like blur, or looking like they have been taken during a lunar eclipse or solar meltdown. Scanners are also USB-friendly, and require only internet access. There's none of this "What's the number for your fax machine again?" or "Naah, phone calls and faxes both come through this number" or "It's still not working."The fact is it's barely ever working. Fax machines are the Graeme le Saux of office appliances, barely managing to scrape nine months of good service, even if you feed it replacement toner and paper on demand. It is probably also best to schedule the coffee break when sending anything through it, as faxing technology trudges toward the speed of a 56k modem.This minimal technology is often encased in huge shrines to off-white, regardless of whether they were manufactured before or after 1992. Why am I still using one? Are some people convinced it's secure? Is my signature any more safe because it's on a fax machine?That's the poor object's usual excuse. We pray no hacker will be able to intercept this document as they might an email attachment, but not only are signatures just as easy to forge, but confidentiality is thrown out the window, because it is usually the lowest minions in the workplace who collect, check and distribute faxes.Now, aided by the rise of internet spam, I get fax spam for cars, medicines and new fax machines. Obviously, there must be a reason why faxes remain on that distant desk in the corner. In 2004, around 1.5m fax machines were sold in the US alone, while manufacturers have taken to bolting fax machines to your printer/scanner/copier/answerphone/blender, which propagates the problem, as no one wants to be left unable to fax those really important orders. Sneaky gits.Dare I even mention the paper wastage and the expensive sticky cartridges? That email of unscented, 100% recyclable electrons could easily have carried the message. Yet I still use the monster, even when fax-to-web services, and the reverse, are available on the internet.Sadly, the teeth-grinding bleat of the fax machine at work continues to set me on edge. If I'm near the beige beast, I listen to colleagues cheerfully tapping away at the dial keys, getting it wrong, once, twice, three times, before they turn to me: "I can't remember, do I have to dial three first?"&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Marissa Mayer's press offensive (and relationship with Larry Page), Kevin Rose in Digg: the movie, Larry Ellison's money and When will journalists decide Jobs isn't God? Last month, Gawker Media launchedValleywag, a blog to dish the dirt on the movers and shakers at Google and similar companies. Gawker is the company run by Nick Denton, the former FT joournalist who started Moreover; its other blogs include Gizmodo, Fleshbot, Wonkette, Kotaku and Screenhead.Valleywag's comments are open only to invited guests, though guests can also invite other people to comment, sort of like Gmail. ("Because the Valleywag editor wants to spend more time writing and less time moderating comment threads.") Be interesting to see how long that keeps the bozos at bay.....
"A flock of pigeons fitted with mobile phone backpacks is to be used to monitor air pollution, New Scientist magazine reported on Wednesday. The 20 pigeons will be released into the skies over San Jose, California, in August.," saysReuters.Each bird will carry a GPS satellite tracking receiver, air pollution sensors and a basic mobile phone.Text messages on air quality will be beamed back in real time to a special pigeon "blog," a journal accessible on the Internet. Miniature cameras slung around the pigeons' necks will also post aerial pictures.Comment: Time to dig out that old rfc,A Standard for the Transmission of IP Datagrams on Avian Carriers, and consider how far we've come in 15 years ;-)
The seventh Lara Croft game,Tomb Raider: Legendis coming out on the 7th April in Europe (11th in US). In gaming terms Lara is a veteran and, much like the latest Stones or Dylan comeback, there will always be those, normally the PR, claiming a return to form. This isn't a particularly arduous challenge considering that the last Tomb Raider game was the truly shocking Angel of Darkness (a game so bad that the code shown at the launch demo in Central London was riddled with bugs and "features" that would supposedly be fixed prior to the imminent release - obviously they never were). I saw Legend at last year's E3 and it looked solid enough without really shining, although the apparent back-to-basics theme that sees Lara actually raiding tombs is to be applauded. But the question remains - in gaming terms is Lara Croft/Tomb Raider still relevant in 2006?
European games designers are strangely oft ignored in games consumer's radar, instead overlooked in favour of their American or Japanese brethren. Well, so an article inGame Dailysuggests. In fact, European games developers are consistently breaking new gameplay ground, expanding genres and shaking up the games development world. Heard of GTA? Heard of Tomb Raider? GoldenEye? Project Gotham? All UK, as we've said on thisblogbefore. A pretty hefty chunk of the release games on the Xbox 360 were produced outside the US and Japan.While the GameDaily article takes account of some of the great companies who are pushing interactive boundaries, most of the innovations that they cite are specific to first person shooters or action games. There are many others in the EU and beyond who are worth their mettle for other reasons. While we won't replicate those already listed by GameDaily, here are a few more that get gamesblog's vote:Sony Europe(Team Soho) (UK)Sony Europe has done some remarkable things in the past few years. Breaking away of the controller-game interface with the SingStar and EyeToy families has opened up gaming beyond the traditional demographic. They also do some remarkable traditional titles, like The Getaway series, too.Rare(UK)Rare not only has produced some phenomenal games like GoldenEye 64, Banjo Kazooie and Donkey Kong Country in the past, but they were also responsible for two of the must-have titles on the recently-released Xbox 360: Kameo and Perfect Dark Zero. I do recall being overwhelmed at the cooperative mode in the first Perfect Dark. That was seriously revolutionary.IO Interactive(Denmark)The EIDOS-owned IO Interactive has produced the best-running stealth game of modern times, Hitman. The game has won countless awards, and is currently in pre-production for a Hollywood film. Just like its Japanese cousin, Metal Gear Solid.Relentless Software(UK)The studio that originally released music making interactive software rocked the UK this year with Buzz! The Music Quiz and its handy peripherals. Not only that, but they're a model company: according to the bosses, their employees never work weekends or past 6pm on week nights. That kind of work-life balance is almost unheard of in the games industry and should be applauded.Quantic Dream(France)While this French development outfit has only released a couple of games since it was founded in the late 1990s, both Fahrenheit and Omikron: The Nomad Soul push boundaries of interactivity.Pinkfloor Interactive(Denmark)Sure, it's a "pink" game, but PowerBabes has most of Scandinavia's 14 year old girls in its thrall, with its mix of multiplayer interactivity and socialising. The development team clinched the important girl-appealing elements of negotiation, manipulation and conflict resolution, and weaved these elements into an appealing title. Indeed, as their slogan proudly shouts on their over-pink webpage, "It's possible to have a push-up bra and a brain at the same time".Lionhead Studios(UK)While the games often don't quite live up to the hype, Peter Molyneux has some incredible visions about what interactivity can become. Cases in point: Populous, Black &amp; White, Dungeon Keeper, The Movies.Croteam(Croatia)You probably cannot have more guns-a-blazing, interactive fun than Serious Sam.Bohemia Interactive(Czech Republic)Possibly one of the most successful tactical shooter series in the market, Operation Flashpoint is the winner of countless international awards for its seamless, comprehensive and immersive gameplay.Sulake(Denmark) 40 million accounts for Habbo Hotel. That's unreal. This virtual world rivals MySpace for personal appearances, friendship and content creation. So simple - yet so effective. Very, dare I say it, European.Please - nominate your favourite Euro development team, and tell us why they're great.
Microsoft is busy adding a nation-based blocking system to its MSN Spaces site, which hosts about 35 million blogs, including 3 million in China. Accordiing to aBBC Newsreport:Brad Smith, Microsoft's senior lawyer, said it would now remove blog entries only if it gets a "legally binding notice" from the government of that nation. Entries will also be removed if they break the MSN Spaces terms of use.He added that only people in the nation where the entry breaks local laws will be blocked from seeing the controversial comments. In all other nations access to the entry will be unrestricted.While visiting Portugal, Microsoft chairman Bill Gates said "attempts by governments to censor Web site contents were doomed, because banned information can seep out despite official injunctions," according to anAP story. "Gates said his company must comply with legal requirements in the countries where it operates" but the information would still get out:"You may be able to take a very visible Web site and say that something shouldn't be there, but if there's a desire by the population to know something ... it's going to get out very broadly" via e-mail, Gates said.There's a press release:Microsoft Outlines Policy Framework for Dealing with Government Restrictions on Blog ContentComment: One of the interesting things about the change is that it reflects not just external criticism but pressure from Microsoft's own staff.Back on January 3, Microsoft geek bloggerRobert Scoble posted this:It's one thing to pull a list of words out of blogs using an algorithm. It's another thing to become an agent of a government and censor an entire blogger's work. Yes, I know the consequences. Yes, there are thousands of jobs at stake. Billions of dollars. But, the behavior of my company in this instance is not right.And yes, he still does have a job....
Identity fraudis costing the UK economy over 1.7bn a year, according to figures "calculated by the Home Office Identity Fraud Steering Committee (IFSC) in co-operation with both public and private sector organisations". Home Office minister Andy Burnham said:"Proving identity is an intrinsic part of life in modern societies. But our current reliance on documents such as birth certificates, utility bills, and bank statements to prove who we are leaves an open door to identity criminals. One way we can reduce the potential for identity fraud is to introduce a national identity card, backed by a National Identity Register, using biometric technology to crack down on multiple identities and secure personal data on behalf of the individual.Comment: See, it's for your own good.... However, these things don't always work as well as claimed. For example, security expert Bruce Schneier has just pointed out that the $15bn US-VISIT programme, which fingerprints and keeps tabs on foriegn visitors to the US, claims it has "apprehended nearly 1,000 people".Bruce adds: "One thousand bad guys, most of them not very bad, caught through US-VISIT. That's $15 million per bad guy caught. Surely there's a more cost-effective way to catch bad guys?"
I downloaded Sky's Broadband on Sky software, after which my usually fast PC went into snail-paced mode. I removed the software but the computer was still very, very slow. So I went to a restore point before the software download and now all is well. What's going on? Patrick S BriggsSky by Broadband lets subscribers download Sky movies free. What may be less obvious is that you are not downloading them from Sky but mainly from other users. The Sky software installs a copy of Kontiki's peer-to-peer file-sharing software, and this runs whenever you start your PC, whether you use Sky's service or not. It is consuming your bandwidth, but you agreed to allow your PC be used to upload files to other users, and this is stated in the terms and conditions.The same Kontiki program is used by theBBC's iMP projectand theOpen Media Network. You should be able to uninstall it using the Add/Remove Programs applet, as claimed inKontiki's help file. After that, run the KClean.exe program, which is available from theBBC, Download.com and other sites.Update:Several versions of KClean.exe have sudenly, and strangely, disappeared. The BBC site no longer works, a chunk of Open Media's page has simply vanished, and Kontiki's site no longer offers it.
I have moved into a flat in Canterbury, Kent, and there is no TV aerial or broadband and no cable links. There are major problems with having a satellite dish as I am surrounded by tall buildings and most of the town is an ancient heritage site. Tom KainHomeChoicewould solve your problem by delivering the "triple play" of TV, phone and broadband down one line, but it's only available inside the M25. You can check for broadband availability by entering your phone number athttp://www.bt.com/broadband/. Alternatively, Telabria did some WiMax wireless broadband trials last year with the University of Kent and this service may be available now or soon. You can check the availability of SoHome 1.5M and 3M wireless broadband athttp://www.sobroadband.com/coverage.php. Otherwise, talk to your neighbours: the TV problem might be solved via a communal aerial or MATV (Master Antenna) system.
DVD players can play CDs, but are they good enough to make it worth connecting the output to a reasonable quality hi-fi separates system? Alan KennedyYou have nothing to lose by connecting a DVD player, and should get much better sound with your movies, so it is worth doing. In my experience (with my Quad 77/Harbeth system), DVD players do not produce hi-fi quality results with CDs, but they are not sold at hi-fi prices. However, many "universal" DVD players can also play SACD (Super Audio CD) and DVD-Audio discs, and these can provide much better sound than CDs. The Denon DVD-1920 -- 220 from Superfi -- plays DVD, DVD-A and SACD discs. I have not heard it, but it won an award from What Hi-Fi.
I have set google.com as my home page in Internet Explorer but this switches to google.co.uk automatically. Is there a cookie on my PC or is it my ISP? Nicolas BlazaMany global companies redirect you to a local site, because they want to display local ads, and use bandwidth efficiently. This geolocation is usually based on the IP address provided by your ISP. Google then stores the default in a cookie. In theory, if you click the "Go to Google.com" link it should be "sticky" but often isn't. You could try closing all browsers and deleting the Google cookie or settinghttp://www.google.com/intl/en/as your browser home page.Backchat: How do they do that? In general, it's done by compiling a database of IP addresses, the companies that own those addresses, and then the locations where they are generally used (see theGeolocation FAQ). It's an inexact science. For examples, trywww.ip2location.comandwww.dnsstuff.com/tools/city.ch
My daughter has been trying to send me a 30-second video of our new grandson but her email keeps getting rejected by NTL, my ISP, because the file is too big. I subscribe to their 2MB broadband service but they have not responded to my email asking if there is a way around this problem. Peter BowenEmail wasn't designed for sending video clips, but the alternatives require a little expertise. Your daughter could upload it to a free file hosting service such as Sendspace, RapidShare.de, Uploading.com or YouSendIt -- there are 50 listed atA Big Collection of Free File Hosting. She can then mail the file's download address and password to you and as many friends as she likes, and you can download it at your leisure. For privacy, it would be better to compress (eg zip) and password protect the video file before uploading it. Your daughter also needs to keep the link needed to delete the video, though most sites delete files automatically after a specified period.
... people are gettingreallyexcited about leaked next-gen menu screens. Last week, Joystiq.compostedan image, supposedly taken from the Nintendo.co.jp website, which may or (the more likely option) may not reveal the Nintendo Revolution menu system. This week, it's PS3's turn, courtesy of Kotaku.com which has severalinterface screens. Apparently, not even the guy who Photoshopped them and sent them in anonymously is sure if they're authentic or not!If the imagesareto be believed, both manufacturers have decided to make their menu systems really blurry and unenticing. An interesting move there.
A whole wedge of games content in theTechnology sectiontoday, including anarticlebased on one of your comments. And you thought we didn't read them? Themain gaming articleis a look at why February is the month when the leftfield games come out to play. Psychonauts? Colossus? Katamari? Yup, he has a point. Elsewhere, Keith finally sees the light as hefinds outhow games will look in the near future.
I have always believed that nothing says 'I love you' like an expensive piece of videogame hardware. Now it appears someone else agrees with me. California-based companyDream Arcadeswhich manufactures authentic arcade cabinets for home use has produced limited edition pink and red-themed custom kits for Valentine's day. "What better gift for your sweetheart than the gift of game?!" asks the press release in all seriousness.And whatever else your 'sweetheart' thinks it won't be that you're cheap. As the release continues:"Arcade kits from Dream Arcades are compatible with PC, Xbox and PlayStation 2. A complete Pac-man themed kit with pre-configured PC and Monitor is $1049. Upgrade control panels that can be added to Dream Arcades kits and most other cocktail arcades cost $169."Okay, it's not as portable as a dozen roses - you won't, for example, be able to hide it behind your back when you turn up for that romantic meal with your partner ("would sir like an extra chair for sir's authentic coin-op machine?") - but can you play videogames on a bunch of flowers? No you cannot.So, if you're stuck for romantic ideas this year, give your partner a gift that they will never forget - mostly because it'll take up a lot of room in the lounge. Give arcade hardware. Because love means never having to say, "Insert coin to continue".Have any readers ever given videogame-related Valentine's gifts? What happened? Let us know, because it's Thursday, it's cold and we could all do with a good laugh...
There is one player that has been curiously absent from the climbdowns, shutdowns and other nefarious activities that the likes of Microsoft, Google and Yahoo have been engaging in in China. It is the US government.China protests loudly, and rightly so, when minor textile products are excluded from entry into the US. Yet when the fastest growing product of all - information - is excluded from China by its government there is hardly a squeak from the White House.China is now a member of the World Trade Organisation and should be brought to task for erecting non-tariff barriers to trade. The only noise coming from Washington is from members of the Congressional Human Rights caucus, which has criticised four US firms for putting profits before American principles of free speech. They are, in alphabetical order, Cisco, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo.The companies, surprise, surprise, did not even bother to attend the hearing. They justify their myopic actions by claiming that what they are doing enables far wider access to independent sources of information for hundreds of millions of people in China and elsewhere.Google has rightly taken most of the flak, even though its submission to the will of the Chinese government was more subtle than the others. This is because we all thought, or at least hoped, that Google would be a different kind of company, marrying the animal spirits of entrepreneurialism and the philosophy of Thomas Paine.In its short life it has become a mass of contradictions: a company 99% dependent on advertising that doesn't advertise itself, a company at the forefront of the communications revolution that doesn't communicate much itself, and an organisation that famously spurned some of the demands of Wall Street that now bends to the Chinese government in a move that can only be explained ultimately by the need to keep earnings per share up.It is not as if Google was doing badly in China. Though it is difficult to get reliable statistics (and Google says it has zero confidence in market share figures for China) its "clean" search engine appears to have 20% of the market and is highly rated by users of the indigenous Chinese search engines, even though it is slowed down by the Chinese authorities.Any other company would be delighted to have 20% of the biggest market in the world. What a base to build on as China eventually evolves into a democracy as it surely will. A country with 400m mobile phones won't be censored for long. And what kudos it would get if it was the only US company to have stood up for a principle.Google is still a wonderful company, selling - or rather not selling - an exploding range of indispensable products with an awesome business model. But unless it can sublimate its emerging arrogance it will soon become one of them rather than one of us. That would be a true corporate tragedy.Oh, and one final bit of advice - which won't be taken - for the Chinese government: Why don't you lift the lid a bit on censorship before it blows off. Instead, market the impressive filtering technology you have developed to the west where a vast market awaits for the benevolent censorship of the web to protect children from abuse and all of us from spam.
It's our biggest-ever section, physically - 10 pages to get stuck into. Let's dive in:It's all in the mixWhat do you get if you combine the output of one site with another? A software mashup, one of the hits of Web 2.0, writes Jack Schofield.A strange time of year for buyingEvery February, the games industry turns surreal, reports Kieron Gillen. Plus:Nine months lost in translation- a games developer explains how hard it is to 'translate' games from one country to another.At any rate, it's a bit of a rip-offThe boom in downloaded music has obscured one thing: the quality of the sound hasn't improved, and finding high-quality versions isn't easy. Adam Webb explainsAre you a dummy for beta software?With so many programs supposedly stuck in 'codevelopment' for anything from a few months to five years, has this phase lost its purpose? Danny Bradbury investigatesDreams of faster TV streams meet nightmares of realitySomething so brilliant as a wireless network that runs as fast as something with wires could be made pointless by bad software, writes Charles Arthur.The long and winding roadElectronic vehicle licensing is the latest e-government project - but do the benefits outweigh the costs? Mike Cross puts his head under the bonnet.Surfing the airwaves with the new wirelessDigital radio, and especially internet radio, is gradually becoming more of a database experience than a serial one, explains Vic Keegan.TechnobileWhy do fax machines still exist when the recyclable electrons of scanners do the job so much better, asks Mat Smith.The focus on light ushers in a bright new dayGamesblog:In the future, we're going to see videogame artists using light in the same way as great chiaroscuro painters and cinematographers, says Keith Stuart.Read this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and telephone number (for our reference), else we might not publish your letter.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Recently asked questionsIf I misspell my company name will it be an internet hit?The classic example is Google, an intentional misspelling of 'googol', the number represented by a 1 followed by 100 zeros.Why did Sony kill off its Aibo robot dog?Because Aibo isn't a band or a film, and it can't play or record music or films.Should I Photoshop my passport picture?Soon, all new British passports will be 'e-passports' with embedded biometric data, based on such things as the distances between the eyes, nose, mouth and ears.Should doctors use mobile phones in hospitals?Both patients and staff are usually banned from using mobiles in hospitals because of fears that their radio output will interfere with sensitive medical equipment.Short shriftBlackBerry ups the ante with more storage | Powerful speakers help define the media player | Google Toolbar 4 - will it keep your favourite sites in line?
Continuing our quest to create even morecitizen journalists/less work for ourselves we want yourAnimal Crossing DSquestions. Yes, I know it isn't out in Europe till 2023 (ish) but a lot of you will have already imported. I'm speaking to the creators of the cult game next week and want your questions. I've already got a few lined up, but if you've always wanted to know the inspiration behind theNookor how they feel about theRed Tulipincident, now is your chance. For those who don't know, Animal Crossing is, essentially, a game where cute animals teach you the value of money. It's enjoyable though - wage slavery has never been more fun although there is the very real concern that a generation of younger Nintendo gamers could grow up thinking that a mortgage can be repaid by sending the bank a job lot of fruit and bugs.
Tip of the hat toAmr Awadallah, who blogged thatGoogle will miss 2005-Q4 quarter revenue estimateson January 12 -- weeks before the hindsight merchants arrived with their Google doom stories.Best of all is that Amr give rational reasons for his predictions, based on things like RPS (Revenue Per Search). He seems to have a good view of Google's business, which is perhaps not such a shock when you find out he's a software engineer at Yahoo Research.ReadingSo what exactly is Google going to miss?suggests that Google screwed up -- but it wasn't by missing the numbers. The point is that if Yahoo staff know this stuff then Google staff should certainly know it too. And if they know it, why aren't they using it to manage the market's expectations so that when the real numbers appear, the company ends up looking good?Wall Street and its analysts are horribly insecure and don't cope well with surprises -- I'd be insecure too if tens of billions of dollars were at stake.The answer, of course, is that Google doesn't do that sort of thing. AReuters storythat just popped up quotes Google chief executive Eric Schmidt: "I'd like to remind everybody that our policy is to not to give any forward guidance and we are going to continue that policy for the indefinite future."So, Google's mission is to make all the world's information available ... except information about how its business is doing, oh, and not to mentionany personal information about chief executive Eric Schmidt.
Primary pupils are just as likely to use the internet to view unsuitable sites as secondary school students, according to research published this week.Breaches of "e-safety" were most likely to occur in Year 6 in primary schools and in Years 10 and 11 in secondaries, said a report published yesterday by academics at the University of Central Lancashire.The report, E-safety: the experience of English educational establishments, commissioned by an agency of the Department for Education and Skills, examined the risks associated with the use of new technologies in English schools and what teachers and local education authorities could do to address the problem.The researchers found that girls in Year 9 were more vulnerable to sexual grooming, although such cases were rare, whereas boys were more likely to use the internet to help them cheat on work. "Plagiarism peaks in Years 6, 10 and 11 - as pupils prepare for crucial tests or examinations - and is more common among boys," the report says.Teachers said they needed more support from local education authorities on how to stop, and deal with, pupils looking at material from sites with pornographic, violent, racist or terrorist content. They also said they were ill-equipped to deal with bullying via chat rooms, email or websites.Safety breaches were more likely to occur in schools where pupils were allowed to use their own equipment, such as laptops, and were allowed to bring in mobile phones, the researchers found. Schools that allowed pupils to use mobile phones reported higher instances, and an increased frequency, of bullying.The report, commissioned by the British Educational Communications and Technology agency, which advises schools on e-safety, recommends that schools have a designated "internet/e-safety coordinator" - about half of those surveyed said they did not.Schools should also establish a policy regarding the safe use of ICT, which would be subject to regular review to keep it up to date with child protection laws and government proposals on bullying. They should also have clear guidelines on the use of personal electronic equipment.Charlotte Barrow, from Lancashire's department of education and social science, who led the study, said: "The research ... provides those with a duty to protect children with an up-to-date picture of the challenges faced by schools as they seek to integrate ICT as a teaching and learning tool."The research was based on a survey of 444 schools, in-depth interviews with 61 teachers, a survey of 25 LEAs and five regional broadband consortia.
That's what it costs Larry Ellison -- boss of the Oracle software company, and buddies with Steve Jobs -- just to get by, according to a series of emails released by San Mateo County Superior Court Judge John Schwartz and picked up byThe San Francisco Chronicle."In the e-mails, which stem from a recent shareholder lawsuit against the technology titan, Ellison's accountant, Philip Simon, warns the billionaire about his habitual runaway spending," the story says. "Ellison habitually pushes his credit limit of more than a billion dollars to its maximum to finance his yachts and homes." It even has Simon's rough list:1) Life Style -- annual $20m 2) Interest Accrual -- annual $75m 3) Villa in Japan -- $25m 4) New Yacht -- $194m -- over 3 yrs 5) America's Cup -- $80m -- over 3 yrs 6) UAD -- $12m over 3 yrs."It's not clear what UAD refers to. Since this rough budget, Ellison has reportedly spent $200 million building a Japanese-style estate in Woodside, which includes a reproduction of a 17th-century Kyoto teahouse. He has also bought multiple properties in Malibu -- $180 million worth, by one report.Comment: Come on, guys, UAD is only $4 million a year. Don't sweat the small stuff.....See the original version at theSFGate.comsite
ModelVW Jetta 2.0 Sport TDIPrice&pound;18,015Top speed129mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.7secsConsumption48.7mpg (combined)Emissions157g/km (tax band D)At the wheelAlan GreenOn the stereoTravisEn route forOld TraffordThey'd rather walkPeter AllissSome ways to take the top off a bottle using a car ... Number one: open trunk. Place neck of bottle along bottom edge of trunk. Slam trunk. Advantages: reasonably high success rate. Disadvantages: broken glass, possibility of unlooked-for frothing.Number two: place corrugated rim of bottle top under rear wheel arch. Yank sharply upwards. Advantages: relatively simple physical motion, can be accomplished from within the vehicle and while travelling, by anyone prepared to hang far enough out of the window. Disadvantages: on cheaper cars, will remove most of the body panels down one side.Number three: one of you lies on the ground and, with an outstretched arm, applies the bottle top rim to a purchase point on the car's alloy wheel insert. Someone inside the car then floors the accelerator. Advantages: nearly 100% certain to open the bottle. Disadvantages: requires two people, could lead to loss of limb.Number four: buy a new VW Jetta saloon. Locate specially provided bottle-opener between cup-holders to rear of handbrake (according to specification). Apply opener to bottle. Advantages: recognisable, nigh-on foolproof household mechanism. Disadvantages: &pound;18,000 is quite a lot of money to spend on a bottle-opener.Congratulations to VW for spotting this particular domestic crisis coming, and cunningly heading it off. Personally, I can't remember the last occasion that I needed to whack the top off a beer bottle while driving and struggled in vain to find a suitable surface. Also, likelihood would broadly indicate that I was in the sixth form at the time and therefore not much given to going about in brand-new saloon cars. Still, whatever the target market here, there is nothing like being prepared for every eventuality and maybe the only shame is that VW haven't yet gone for the full, on-board Swiss army implement, including knife, scissors and device for removing boy scouts from horses' hooves.I should probably add at this point that the bottle-opener does come with a decent car clipped on to the back of it. It is sober, measured, frugal, firm to the touch and as Germanic as a car built in Mexico can be. It is also packed with high-end electronics and safety devices, which have trickled down from far higher up the range, and anyone in the light-to-medium haulage business will thank the nice designers at VW for the merciful arrangement whereby you can collapse the back seats without having to wrestle off the headrests first.But then VW ought to be getting good at producing Jettas, because it's been at it since 1979. That said, a baffling decision was made in 1992 to rebrand the car for the European market as a Vento. VW couldn't have quelled the car's sales figures more efficiently if it had put a sniper in every dealership. This was followed in 1999 by an even more baffling decision to rebrand the car again as a VW Bora. Sales recovered, but any name containing even a hint of the word "bore" has got to be a must-avoid, and since the US military attempted to dust-bust Bin Laden and his chums in the caves of Tora Bora, the associations have grown even less helpful. Hence, presumably, a return for 2006 to the friendly, spritzy, pretty much non-specific Jetta.In America, the car has remained a Jetta throughout this overseas identity crisis, becoming not just the bestselling VW in the US, but the bestselling European car in the US overall. Given that Americans tend to regard European cars with much the same esteem that they regard European portions, this might not be saying much. Nevertheless, it would at the very least imply that the Jetta has carved out some hard-won respect for itself in America as a nifty "compact" - a handy, conscience-assuaging compromise between driving around in something the size of Yeovil and completely sacrificing all status-driven dignity.What is more likely to occupy the European customer is making a significant distinction between the Jetta and its sister saloon, the supposedly grander VW Passat. To the question of what separates them, the technical answer is about 20cm in length. The Passat is also 10cm wider than the Jetta and a tiny bit taller and, accordingly - given that you get what you pay for - that bit more expensive. Yet, just when you are placing the Jetta as a slightly shrunk-in-the-wash Passat, you figure out that the Jetta has the greater luggage capacity (527 litres versus 485). It's a compliment, perhaps, to the Jetta's upwardly mobile nature, but, altogether, the common ground between the two models in terms of looks, fittings and engines complicates distinguishing their purposes and appeal. Which may explain the bottle-opener. In these circumstances, something like the provision of a simple kitchen-drawer utility could swing it.
Can't say I can see any reason to rush, but web developers who need to tryInternet Explorer 7 beta 2, released yesterday, can find a helpful FAQ on the team'sIE blog, with more info to come. At this stage, it's not recommended for ordinary users.eWeek has a reviewthat says: "The beta shows a lot of good progress, but, as we've said with almost every new IE release we've reviewed, it's still playing catch-up."Update 1: Joe Wilcox of Jupiter Research has somecommentsand notes that you can have multiple home pages by assigning them to different tabs -- a useful feature he'd requested.Update 2: Another good reason not to download it:Microsoft flooded with IE7 bug reports
To make up for the long wait, Sony has announced some exclusive new features for the PAL release of Shadow of Colossus, due this month. The eagerly awaited spiritual successor to Ico, arriving here four months after hitting the shelves in Japan and the US, will get, "special cardboard packaging containing four unique postcards depicting magical moments from the game".Obviously, that's not all! The press release (which makes admirable use of the phrase 'Colossal Package' in its header) also goes on to mention some extra behind-the-scenes content:"Filmed in Japan, the PAL release comes with exclusive to camera interviews with artistic partners and creative directors Ueda and Kaido-san. Three and a half years in production, the interviews offer fans the chance to understand the heritage of Shadow of the Colossus and to see how this massive production was brought together. In addition the disc comes packed with a full image gallery including unseen concept sketches, in game stills and the original game trailer to cult-classic ICO."There's also a new websiteherebut I couldn't look at it because I don't have Flash 8 on this Mac.Do you tend to look at these bonus elements? They're becoming more common - and not just with publishers who feel guilty about their tardiness. There's aCollector's Edition of Elder Scrolls Oblivionthat comes with a 'making of' feature as well as renders and sketches. The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-earth II Collector's Edition also has a disc stuffed with music and documentary goodies. I know from my movie DVDs that I rarely watch this stuff, but I like to know it's there...Of course, one element videogame extras will probably never be able to offer is a director's commentary* - although it would be fascinating to have a game's producer shouting at you as you play. "This is the dockside scene, based around historical photographs of Liverpool, and... Wait, you've missed a health pick-up! No over there by the crates... Watch out there's an enemy guard! Use your M16! Strafe! STRAFE!"*UPDATESome readers have kindly pointed out that a few gamesdofeature limited commentaries, including Half-Life 2 and Rogue Squadron. Well, I told you I hardly ever look at special features...
We'vereportedin the past that a hospital was using Gameboys in lieu of anaesthetic for superficial surgery. The concentration a player had on the game meant that he or she effectively ignored the pain levelled by the surgeon's knife. While this seems remarkable in itself, another research team at Wheeling Jesuit University in West Virginia have extended these findings, releasing a report suggesting that sports and beat-em-ups are the best games for reducing real-life pain.FromGamasutra(via/.):The Wheeling study compared several different genres of games in their effects on pain. Six types of games were used: action, puzzle, arcade, fighting, sports, and boxing, all varieties that encourage high attention and stimulus. (Games such as RPGs and graphical adventures were likely left out of the survey for their low-impact nature.) The game types most effective in distracting from pain, meted out by cold pressor tests after 10 minutes of each subject playing a particular game type, were the sports and fighting games.That should confuse the critics.
You might be forgiven for thinking that smuts went out with steam engines, but they're still with us. You need only cycle through traffic for a few minutes to find the evidence right under your nose. Or rather, right on it.Ride to work, take a tissue and wipe your face with it - you should find tiny streaks of soot. Small, but perceptible. And that's just the stuff we can see. The urban atmosphere has a lot of undesirable additives - sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide and ozone for starters. All more or less irritant or toxic, and virtually all produced by motor vehicles. (For tips on combating this, see the Bike Doctor below.)The phasing-out of leaded petrol has taken one substance out of circulation only to replace it with another: benzene, a known carcinogen. But vehicle exhausts produce many other organic compounds, known as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Aromatic, perhaps, but hardly fragrant: many PAHs, too, have been linked with cancer.We encounter PAHs in smoke of all sorts, and smoke is made up of masses of microscopic particles - in the academic jargon, PM10s (particles measuring less than 10 microns in diameter, a micron being a millionth of a metre). These minuscule specks of soot are so small they can penetrate deep into our lungs. And, whereas our pulmonary system is pretty good at expelling unwanted but inert matter like dust via mucus, the PM10s produced by diesel combustion are sticky. These tarry little lumps laced with PAHs adhere deep inside our lungs for an indefinite stay.There was little sentimentality among cyclists, therefore, over the killing-off of the old Routemaster buses. With their antiquated, smoke-spewing engines, they've been killing us off for years. Good riddance! Past research has suggested that the air breathed by motorists is worse than that breathed by cyclists, but the latest information from Imperial College London contradicts this. According to a recent paper, cyclists are exposed to double the level of particulate matter (80,000 particles per cubic centimetre) that motorists are (40,000pt/cm3), and more than pedestrians (50,000). Worse off still are bus passengers, with people travelling by taxi breathing the dirtiest air of all (both around 100,000). None of this is good news, but even a cloud of smoke has a silver lining. The local pollution caused by a passing smoker was off the scale: even standing behind a bus is better than passive smoking.At least smoking in public is on the way out - unlike the diesel engine. The Clean Air Act, which abolished the dreaded peasoupers caused by coal fires, is 50 years old this year. Given what we know about modern forms of pollution, a new round of tougher emissions standards really would be a breath of fresh air.Bike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear Matt,Just how much pollution is a (city) cyclist breathing in? Is it a good idea to buy a cycle mask?Alex Black, via emailI hope the above answers your first question. That there are significant levels of pollution is beyond doubt - which would suggest that a mask is advisable. But there are pros and cons.Cost is an issue. A good mask costs about &pound;20, and replacement filters will be an ongoing expense of approximately &pound;5 a month. Anything cheaper, such as the sort you get from DIY shops, is useless. The mesh is too coarse to stop particulates and will have no effect on solubles such as sulphur dioxide. An activated charcoal filter is crucial to strip out gaseous pollution and is more likely to stop at least a good proportion of ultrafine particles.Against this is the convenience factor. Masks are hot and uncomfortable - and yet another bit of kit to tote around. Bear in mind also that a mask is only effective if close-fitting. If you're sucking in air around the sides, it's pointless.Do I wear one? No. I just hold my breath behind cabs and buses.
Greg blogged about Nintendo'seventat the Science Museum last week. Turns out, they've started some kind of trend. Just a few days later, Sony involved itself in what can only be described as a 'video art experience' at the V&amp;A of all places. The charmingly namedPixelsumo.comhas some details and imageshere. The site explains:"Jason Bruges Studio created a chandelier with 50 small TFT screens hanging from it. They created video content for a PSP, which was then broken up via a grid on to each of the small screens. The PSP video was then fed into a computer, where Isadora software was used to split the signal into components, through multiple outputs and up to the chandelier."Riiiight. It must be great fun working in SCEE's marketing department - "shall we buy an ad in FHM or commission a piece of installation art for a small event at an upmarket London tourist attraction?"Okay Microsoft, it's your turn for some high-brow promotional fun. Natural History museum here we come.
David Edery, Associate Director for Special Projects in theMIT CMS Programjust emailed Gamesblog to let us know about hisinterviewwith Mark Kern, former team leader on World of Warcraft who recently left Blizzard to set up his own MMO developer,Red5 Studios. Kern doesn't let ontoomuch about his current project, but reading between the lines it won't be a fantasy RPG - which he sees, quite rightly, as a saturated genre. From the interview:"Two areas that particularly interest me are action-oriented gaming and casual gaming. Both areas have huge fanbases that have yet to come over fully to MMO persistent-style play. You can see action games with online components starting to venture into persistence with item unlocks and stat tracking. I see this as only the beginning."The other area is definitely more casual, socially-oriented experiences. I think The Sims Online really missed the mark on what could otherwise have been a tremendous opportunity. I think if you look at web and flash based persistent online games such as Neopets and Habbo Hotel with their huge numbers of registered users, you start to get a glimpse of what these games could really be like."How about a combination of the two? An action game where you get to shoot the sort of people who hang around in Habbo Hotel? I'm joking, of course.Kern goes on to cover a couple more MMO talking points...He's interested in the idea of user-generated content ("I think static worlds are going to go away. As bandwidth and server hardware improves, we're going to see a lot more experimentation with dynamic worlds where players can change their environment and affect the things around them.") He also wants to see better narratives - the challenge being to create effective story-telling devices in a universe where cut-scenes can be intrusive and unnatural.Finally, there's a hint about Red5's design ambitions:"we are playing a lot with the concept of time in MMOs and how player actions can affect a dynamic world around them. This is another form of player-driven content that has yet to be fully explored. Most MMOs feature a world frozen in time: a story captured at a certain point that doesn't really progress. In MMOs today we have character progression, but we don't have story or world progression."I'm not sure how this element would manifest itself - something as simple as a real-time clock? Or destructable environments? Or seasons? Or, for a bit of contemporary relevance, climate change?
An article inThe Registersays: "Google is preparing its own distribution of Linux for the desktop, in a possible bid to take on Microsoft in its core business - desktop software. A version of the increasingly popular Ubuntu desktop Linux distribution, based on Debian and the Gnome desktop, it is known internally as 'Goobuntu'."While you might be tempted to take that with a hundredweight of salt, the piece has been written byBen King, a freelance who also contributes to the FT and the Guardian. Indeed, on February 19-20, the FT published his interview with multimillionaire South African space touristMark Shuttleworth, who not coincidentally is the moneybags bankrolling the Ubuntu distribution of GNU/Linux.The FT's search engine produces no hits for Goobuntu, and the story, Entrepreneur who wants to give it all away, is locked behind the FT's paywall. However, El Universal online, a Mexican paper, seems to have the same story. In itsGoogle-translated form, it is amusingly credited to "Horseradish tree King" and the Financial Times. Thisdoesmention Goobuntu:Between the companies which they are changing is Google, which has developed its own version of Ubuntu, Goobuntu call. Shuttleworth said that also it is in talks with the government of the city of Munich to create a version of Ubuntu for them.So was it in the FT or not, and didn't anyone notice? It would seem curious to leave such a big scoop out of the FT piece -- whether Google confirmed it or not -- then drop it into El Reg a dozen days later....Update:Google has denied the story, andArs Technicareports technology spokeswoman Sonya Boralv saying that "[w]e use Ubuntu internally but have no plans to distribute it outside of the company."Also, Chris Dibona has posted to theSlashdotdiscussion, saying:Developing a Linux Desktop would distract us.(Score:5, Informative) by chrisd (1457) * on Tuesday January 31, @01:56PM (#14609148) (http://www.dibona.com/)Goobuntu is our internal desktop distribution. It's awesome, but we're not going to be releasing it. Unless you work here it wouldn't work anyway. If you haven't tried ubuntu, you should, I have the regular one running on my laptop and it really is fantastic. I'd say it was debian done right if I wanted to start a debian flame war. Also, know that Google getting into the Red Hat business would be kind of dumb, and it would distract from our moon teleporter and cold fusion [google.com] projects
"After an astonishing reign at the top of the sales chart, EA's Need for Speed: Most Wanted has been pushed into second place by Microsoft's latest Xbox 360 exclusive, Dead or Alive 4," reportsGamesIndustry.biz."The latest instalment in Tecmo's beat-em-up franchise has stormed straight into first place in the all-formats chart, pushing the next five games down one place. It's definitely a positive sign for Microsoft after the much publicised hardware shortages for the new console made a significant impact on software sales."Comment: The top three games are available on the new console, and there are now four Xbox 360 exclusives in the top 20. This will encourage the developers, though 360 software sales must be concentrated by the shortage of alternatives.
Thanks to our friends over at internet monitoring firmHitwisecomes a riveting story: band born on internet still popular on internet!Yes, it seems the Arctic Monkeys - currently riding high with the fastest selling debut album of all time - haven't lost their hi-tech fanbase. After famously using the web to build up their popularity before they even had a record deal, they are now courting mainstream successandstill remain Big On The Net. Obviously that's no great surprise, considering how closely the music download chart mirrors the physical one. But there was something about the story that made my eyebrows pop a Roger Moore - this table:I must admit to being a little partial to the spotty Sheffield strains of these teenage tearaways, and I can understand that Preston from the Ordinary Boys was recently in Celebrity Big Brother. But look at No3:STATUS QUO.What's wrong with the world, people?
