If you are not the parent of a 10-year old, you might not realise what a big deal Skylanders is. The game series, which comes with a range of figures that interact with the onscreen action, has been a huge success since its introduction in 2011. Activision has just announced US sales worth over $500m, riding the crest of a new consumer entertainment wave that seeks to marry traditional toys with digital platforms such as consoles and tablets. And now a third title is on the way.Like its predecessors, Skylanders Swap Force is a child-friendly adventure game set in a colourful fantasy world named Skylands. Once again, players will be able to buy a range of action figures that can be placed on the game's plastic peripheral – the Portal of Power – to unlock their digital representations in the game world. This time, however, the story revolves around a special group of Skylanders from the mysterious Cloud Break Islands who have been ejected into the human world by a powerful volcanic eruption. Thanks to the volcano's magical properties, these warriors have been given a special ability – they can can swap top and bottom halves between each other, allowing them to combine different powers.Naturally, the game is accompanied by 16 brand new Skylanders figures which can all be pulled in half and swapped around, allowing players to create their own combinations, with 256 possibilities. The game release will also be accompanied by 16 refreshed versions of classic Skylanders figures and 16 new figures, bringing the total up to 100. Parents may not be so enamoured with the idea, but this is an astonishing new business channel for Activision in an era where traditional retail game sales are falling."I do remember, a very short time ago, encountering a lot of people scratching their heads when we announced we were getting into the toys market," says Eric Hirshberg, the charismatic CEO of Activision Publishing, who joined the company after a long career in advertising. "People perceived that market to be strained; other publishers were getting out of kids' games. But we knew we had a magical idea on our hands as soon as we saw children reacting to the product."The idea started out with California-based developer Toys For Bob, which had worked on licensed children's video games for a number of years. Activision asked the studio to create a game based around its Spyro character – a cute dragon that had appeared in several PlayStation titles. Toys For Bob got the idea of combining action figures and games, and a electronics hobbyist on their staff started messing about with RFID technology, a wireless system of transferring data over short distances. The Skylanders figures are all fitted with a chip, so when placed on the Portal, they transfer their stats and abilities into the game world – any progress or customisations can then be saved back into the figure.It's the sort of ingenious idea that seems obviousafterits arrival. The games cash in on the key obsessions of modern kids: video games and collectible action figures. Skylanders toys sell for between £5 and £15 each – and that's on top of the £45 for the starter pack, which contains the game and the portal. It's one of those lovely 360-degree businesses that entertainment companies pine for.Not that the concept is everything – Hirschberg says that much of the success of the product has come out of extensive play-testing, and getting the things into the hands of consumers rather than relying on advertising. "Kids are a huge part of our development process," he says. "We do constant playtesting, and we definitely make sure that it's kid-approved before it goes out. But the way that we've marketed the game is different, too; with this one in particular we're investing a lot in demonstration – we have 100,000 sq ft of retail space and over 20,000 interactive kiosks."Packaging is also key. While other toy manufacturers are loading their action figure boxes with QR codes and augmented reality features, Activision has designed its boxes with the figures close to the bottom – this means children can place them on a demo Portal in the shop and see the figures spring into life on the TV display. For Hirschberg, this is the vital element: "We just thought the more we could get people to interact with it and play with it, the better. Once kids experience the magic moment of their toy coming to life inside the game, they're really captivated."Skylanders Swap ForceThe new Swap Force characters have progressed through a similarly intensive period of focus testing and refinement. "It's funny; this idea started with the idea thatallparts of a character would be interchangeable – limbs, heads, and so on," says Hirschberg. "But we found that it actually slowed down the play pattern too much; when we tested that out with kids, there is a sort of visceral immediacy in slamming the toy down on the portal and seeing it appear in the game, and where the puzzle that you have to build in the real world gets too complex and too time-consuming that blows the flow of the game."We tried it with five pieces, four pieces, three pieces – all differentcombinations when we were first toying with this idea and we found that the simple top-half/bottom-half gave the best experience. We also felt that there was a natural intuitive role for each piece: the way you attack is the top half, and the way you move through the world is the bottom. When you start to say things like 'Oh, I wanna change the face out' it really becomes more of a cosmetic change. It doesn't have as much of an intuitive impact on the character's capabilities."The new swappable characters, then, come with a range of fresh abilities including flying, climbing, digging, bouncing and teleporting between stages. Certain areas of the game will be inaccessible to players until they have Swap Force characters that boast the relevant powers.Skylanders Swap ForceIt doesn't take a genius to work out the commercial appeal – kids pester their parents for new action figures so they can complete their game. Indeed, there have been complaints about the way in which the games direct players to purchase new figures, a form of product placement that may be alien to many consumers. Early last year, Radio 4's consumer programme You &amp; Yoursran a featureon the game series, advising parents on how to avoid over-spending on the figures.Hirschberg says he appreciates the concerns, but emphasises a point made in the Radio 4 programme: collection isn't mandatory. "You can finish the game and defeat the villain with the toys in the starter pack," he says. "We didn't want the completion of the game to require people to buy more toys. But ... we wanted to reward people who did build their collection with more places to explore and more experiences inside the digital world."In many ways this is an extension of the "freemium" and "in-app purchase" business models that have become prevalent in smartphone and tablet games. Here, popular titles are often free or priced below £1, but players are able to pay extra in order to progress more quickly or access extra content. It's a concept that is expected to figure much more heavily in the next era of console games. Skylanders is effectively the Trojan horse of a new era in which buying a video game in a shop is only the beginning of the purchasing "journey". It is one publishers are going to have to navigate carefully to avoid alienating customers."I think we've struck the right balance," says Hirschberg. "If you just go home with the starter pack you have tons and tons of fun stuff to explore and hours of gameplay; but if you build your collection, every time you do, you get to discover more areas."This time, however, there is a more contentious addition: Skylanders Swap Force will require the purchase of a new portal – the swappable characters won't work on any of the hardware previously released for the original Skylanders or its sequel, Skylanders Giants. Hirschberg sees the potential problem, but claims Activision had no choice: "The simple fact is, the technology that allows us to read the multiple combinations on the toys necessitated some new technology on the portal that we hadn't baked into the first one because we didn't have that need. In order to realise the vision of this game we needed to include a new portal. As long as we're providing value and a positive experience, I think the people will accept it."As for the future, we ask Hirschberg what plans Activision has to expand this whole concept. His response is two-fold. Regarding Skylanders he says, "we've created a real world here; these characters have personality, and it's more than just a video game." It's highly likely the publisher is lining up a TV series or movie to accompany the game.And technology behind the series: well, with $500m in sales and an audience now switched on to toy/game hybrids, expansion is inevitable."Toys aren't going anywhere," says Hirschberg. "Kids have been playing with toys since ... well, since before toys existed. It's human nature. We all play with toys. And I think that video games and the digital world are the pop-cultural fascination of this generation, the way that television or radio has been in generations past. This is definitely the entertainment medium of choice for the current generation. But bringing that together with the physical world ... that is a magical combination."It's a combination that hasn't gone unnoticed. In January, Disney announced Infinity, a new video game universe, which allows children to buy a range of action figures from classic movies such as Toy Story and Cars, then put these toys onto a special base, uploading them into the game. What does Hirschberg think of this, let's say, very familiar concept? "Imitation is the highest form of flattery," is his grimaced response.• Skylanders: Swap Force is out on PS3, Xbox 360, Wii and Wii U in the autumn
After a backlash from users, Instagramclarifiedits terms of service to ensure they would have absolute ownership of their own images. But photographers on the site are finding that terms of service andcommunity guidelinesdon't stop businesses, publishers and other users from helping themselves.Swedish photographer Tuana Aziz was surprised to find a photohe'd posted to Instagram in 2011screen-printed to a T-shirt and sold in a Mango clothing store. He later checked the retailer's website and found that it was available for £8.99. The company has apparentlyremovedthe shirt after Aziz complained, but he captured andshared a screengrabwith his Instagram followers.@mangoPlease contact me. You use one of my images without my permission. REF. 73208426 - FIELD. Orginal image:tuana.se/portfolio/the-…&mdash; Tuana Art (@tuana)February 4, 2013If an Instagram user's account is public, re-purposing an Instagram photo is as easy as taking a screengrab. Last April, New York-based Spanish street photographer Sion Fullana was shocked to find two of his images re-purposed on Spanish Vogue's official Instagram account without credit:Shameless conduct by @voguespainon#Instagramstealing my photos (1): Is this what a magazine of such name should do?twitter.com/SionFullana/st…&mdash; Sion Fullana (@SionFullana)April 21, 2012Shameless conduct by @voguespainon#Instagram, stealing photos (2): Not only steal, but lie that a NY photo is Paristwitter.com/SionFullana/st…&mdash; Sion Fullana (@SionFullana)April 21, 2012Voguelater apologizedand paid Fullana for the image usage and copyright infringement. More importantly, said Fullana, Vogue explained what they had done and encouraged people against taking photos."If they want professional material, let's start demanding being treated as a professional too," Fullana said Tuesday.But it's not just professional photographers who find their work stolen for commercial gain – to their confusion, amateurs find that even the most mundane of photos re-purposed on other users' feeds.Someone actually just stole my photo on Instagram#whatthetwitter.com/xBlakeBryanx/s…&mdash; Blake Bryan (@xBlakeBryanx)February 4, 2013Others, like Minnesota-based baker Amanda Rettke, deal with other users republishing her confections on Instagram, Pinterest and other social networks."I work hard on taking pictures and publishing things on my blog," shewrote in a blog posttitled 'The Dark Side of Instagram'. "Taking pictures does not come easy to me, and it's often a labor of love.  I have invested time and money into every post published."Rettke estimates that she catches users stealing her photos about 8 to 10 times a month, and says Instagram is aware of the problem but doesn't do enough to protect user property."I have reported it when it when [users] steal my images, and Instagram will eventually remove but no further action is taken," Rettke said Tuesday. "It's hard to track down every single one. Some even put their trademark over others' images."Rettke continues to keep her Instagram account public for social media purposes, but has now added her own hidden copyright mark to her images."I'm trying not to let the bad apples ruin everything about my experiences."
Personal computer maker Dell is selling itself for $24.4bn (£15.5bn) to its founder Michael Dell and a group of investors that includes Microsoft.The deal is the largest of its kind since the 2007 credit crunch, which saw the end of easy access to funds for financing private equity-style buyout deals.The complex agreement will end Dell's near 25-year history as a publicly listed company. Shareholders are receiving $13.65 a share for their stock.The deal reflects Dell's desire to engineer a turnaround attempt away from the glare and financial pressures of Wall Street. The company has been battered by declining demand for PCs as tablets have soared in popularity.Last year the number of PCs Dell shipped to retailers shrank by 12%, and its stock market value slipped by a third. The problem is industry-wide: shipments from all manufacturers fell by nearly 13m in 2012 – the first drop since the end of the dotcom crash in 2001.Dell, which generates 70% of its sales and more than half its profits from PCs, plans to transform itself from a PC-maker to an IBM-style information technology business.Dell has been on a buying spree for the last three years, expanding the company's offerings in most technology market segments. It has bought security, storage, software, cloud and data centre-related companies, spending close to $12bn in total.Michael Dell, who started the business in 1984, will remain the company's chief executive and largest shareholder. He already owned a nearly 16% stake in the company, which is based in Round Rock, Texas.Microsoft is taking part in the deal with a $2bn loan.
Here be Tuesday.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMobile attacks! &gt;&gt; SecurelistUsers of inexpensive Android smartphones typically look for ways to accelerate their devices, for example, by freeing up memory. Demand for software that makes smartphones work a little faster creates supply, some of which happens to be malicious. In addition to legitimate applications, apps that only pretend to clean up the system have appeared on Google Play.This is a very stealthy infection, which in effect uses the phone as a USB key to infect your (Windows) PC.Before you get excited about that "free super Wi-Fi" story... &gt;&gt; SplatFDan Frommer:"Imagine a free WiFi network spanning the country. The feds want it to happen, wireless cos don't." That's NYT media reporterBrian Stelter's tweetthis morning, linking to aWashington Post article by Cecilia Kang.Sounds amazing! Probablytooamazing.Jailbreak your iPhone 5 (and other iOS 6 devices) - finally! &gt;&gt; ReadWriteNearly five months after Apple shipped iOS 6, an untethered jailbreak for the operating system isnow available. Unlike its predecessor, the Evasi0n iOS 6 jailbreak tool works on Mac OS X, Windows and Linux at launch.The release of Evasi0n has been highly anticipated for owners of the iPhone 5 and fourth generation iPad, both of which shipped running iOS 6 by default. For others, the release means they can finally upgrade their devices to iOS 6 without losing the ability to download unauthorized apps and customize the look and feel of their iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch.Deal done to deliver quick internet connections &gt;&gt; Cambridge NewsSuperfast broadband will be rolled out across Cambridgeshire by 2015 after a multi-million pound contract was awarded.British Telecom was today confirmed as the winning bidder for the project to deliver internet speeds of at least 24 megabits per second to 90% of homes and businesses in the next two years.Thus reinforcing its monopoly that bit more solidly. The other 10%? 2Mbps or so. Dismal.Cupple's acquisition shows how UK startups can succeed outside London &gt;&gt; The Next WebMartin Bryant:The argument that startups can thrive all over the UK, not just London, has been given a boost with the news over the weekend that Path-like private sharing app aimed at couples, Cupple has been acquired by similar Silicon Valley-based firm Pair (which is rebranding itself as Couple).Given the noise that the UK government makes about the Tech City initiative in east London, you could be forgiven for thinking that there's no point basing a startup anywhere else. In actual fact, communities of startups have been quietly getting on with success stories all over the country. One of the most notable cities to host a startup cluster is Newcastle in the north of England, where Cupple was born in 2011 within the walls of creative agency Darling Dash.Negative: sold out to US rival. Positive: founders have experience of successfully managing a company to an exit, and should have money to do it even better next time.Google Chrome's Netseer malware warning blocks websites, company says no virus distributed &gt;&gt; San Jose Mercury NewsFor any Chrome users who had a warning while visiting here on Monday:Malware warnings halted Internet users from visiting popular sites across the Internet on Monday morning, including the Mercury News, after Silicon Valley advertising company Netseer's website was hacked. The company said that its ads were not infected with any virus, and Google cleared the company and halted the malware warnings.According to Twitter users, sites such as The New York Times, The Huffington Post, Los Angeles Times, Washington Post and many others were being blocked by Google's Chrome browser with warnings about possible malware - malicious software that could infect a user's computer -- emanating from Netseer.However..."This morning at approximately 5:30 a.m. Pacific time, our third-party hosted corporate website(netseer.com) was hacked and infected with malware. Consequently, Google added our domain to the list of malware-affected websites. Our operations team went into all-hands-on-deck mode and we have successfully cleaned the site of the malware issue," spokeswoman Kathleen Formidoni said.Because the company's corporate site and ad-serving infrastructure share the same domain, the block Google served to keep malware placed on Netseer's website from spreading also affected ads Netseer placed on other sites. However, "the malware was never served into ad serving stream," Formidoni wrote in an email.HP's first Chromebook arrives, offers a large screen and a small battery for $329.99 &gt;&gt; The VergeIt's called the HP Pavilion 14 Chromebook, and its distinguishing characteristic is right there in the name: unlike the first wave of Chromebooks with 11.6-inch and 12-inch screens, the Pavilion 14 has a 14-inch 1366 x 768 panel, and a correspondingly large laptop frame. HP hopes the larger keyboard and more spacious experience will contribute to improved ease of use. There's also a correspondingly larger array of ports, including three USB 2.0 sockets and an SD card slot so you can expand the included (tiny) 16GB of solid state storage should you so choose.1.1GHz Celeron processor, 2GB RAM, integrated graphics. Battery life: about 4hr 30 - compared to six hours for a Samsung Chromebook in The Verge's test. Probably the bigger screen, but hardly an advance.BlackBerry Z10 off to a strong start in UK &gt;&gt; AllThingsDAccording to channel checks conducted by Jefferies &amp; Co., preorders in the United Arab Emirates and Canada have so far been "solid." More encouraging, though, are early reports from the UK, where Z10 sales are evidently off to a good start. Jefferies analyst Peter Misek reports lines outside a number of UK retailers selling the device, and says that sell-outs of the white Z10 have been widespread. The black Z10 is easier to come by, but Misek says that with that device, too, stocks are limited."We believe Carphone Warehouse is seeing widespread sell-outs, while O2, Vodafone, Orange and EE are seeing robust demand," Misek explained. "We estimate sell-in to be at least several hundred thousand units."Translation: "sell-in" = units shipped to retailers.The custom pulp magazine cover generator &gt;&gt; PULP-O-MIZERThere's no other word for this butfantastic.Game over: Twitter mentioned In 50% of Super Bowl commercials, Facebook only 8%, Google+ shut out &gt;&gt; Marketing LandMatt McGee analyses the ads on the US's most-watched scheduled event of the year:According to my count, Twitter was mentioned in 26 of 52 national TV commercials -- that's 50% of the spots that aired during CBS' game coverage. Facebook was mentioned in only four of those commercials -- about 8%. Google+, which is reportedly the No. 2 social network in the world, wasn't mentioned at all...When it comes to second-screen advertising, it's Twitter's world now and there's no close second place.Last year, brands split their focus on Twitter and Facebook with eight mentions each. This year, brands recognize that Twitter is where they need to try to attract the online conversation around one of the world's biggest events.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Children who view clips of Sesame Street and Peppa Pig on YouTube are on average just three clicks away from explicit adult material on the site, including nudity and violence, according to research.A study released to mark Safer Internet Day on Tuesday found that graphic footage was available to children who had viewed clips of popular kids' TV programmes.In one example, YouTube users were two clicks away from footage of a woman giving birth after viewing a Sesame Street video, said the security company Kaspersky, which carried out the research. The list of recommended videos, displayed on the right-hand side of the page after a video has shown, provided a path to the explicit material, the researchers found.A separate study of 24,000 young people found that 27% of seven- to 11-year-olds and nearly half of 11- to 19-year-olds had come across something they thought was "hurtful or unpleasant" online in the past 12 months.The research will underline growing concerns about the lack of robust protection for children in cyberspace.The children's minister, Edward Timpson, said: "We know how important it is that young people are safe and supported while using the internet, and that parents are confident their children are protected from accessing harmful content."We have already taken great strides to make internet access more family friendly and we will continue to work with the industry, parents and young people to build an even safer internet in the future."The Kaspersky study on YouTube gave various examples of where children could be between two and four clicks away from objectionable material on the world's most popular video site. In one example, a music video featuring swearing and guns was two clicks away from a Rastamouse clip thanks to YouTube's "suggested videos" feature."It's worrying to see just how simple it is for children to access videos of an adult nature on YouTube," said David Emm, a senior security researcher at Kaspersky Lab.YouTube hasa safety modethat can block inappropriate material, such as pornographic material and objectional comments. Google admits that the safety feature cannot be "100% accurate" because it relies in part on users to flag inappropriate videos for the safety mode to work.Like Facebook, YouTube recommends that it is only used by viewers aged 13 and over. However, both companies concede that this cannot be fully policed.The survey of 24,000 young people, conducted by the UK Safer Internet Centre, found that more than a third of seven-year-olds and 45% of 16- to 19-year-olds said they had not been taught about staying safe online.Kaspersky's Emm said the research on YouTube highlights the potential danger of leaving children unattended when using the internet. "The ease of access to inappropriate content online is part of the wider debate about whether the internet should be controlled or censored," he said.A spokeswoman for YouTube said: "We take safety on the platform very seriously and work closely with organisations such as charities, others in our industry and government bodies dedicated to protecting young people."YouTube has a variety of parent and educator resources on the site such as the online curriculum, as well as tools such as safety mode which parents can turn on to filter out potentially objectionable content and comments."Some internet providers offer parents the ability to filter out inappropriate material, such as pornographic or violent videos, as default. BT, the largest internet provider in the UK, hasfamily protection controlsthat can filter YouTube content and block unsuitable websites. TalkTalk's HomeSafe package has been activated by 460,000 of its 5 million customers.
The agony of walking with dripping hands from a sink to a hand dryer or towel dispenser might seem like the ultimate first world problem – but the British inventor Sir James Dyson thinks it needs fixing.Luckily, he has the solution: the Airblade Tap, a tap system with inbuilt air dryers which blow cold air at 450 miles per hour over the hands to "scrape" them dry, which he says will make huge cost and environmental savings compared with warm air dryers and paper towels."The old way of doing it with an air blower or paper towel is ungreen and expensive," Dyson said. "It heats up the air and chaps your hands, which is incredibly energy intensive, or you create loads of litter, and recycling it uses lots of energy too. Our method is more like a windscreen wiper, except that the hand is a much more complex shape than a windscreen."The company has also redesigned its Airblade hand dryers, and introduced a new smaller wall-mounted dryer as it targets the huge corporate business for washrooms in offices, restaurants and hotels. Though Dyson himself admitted to the Guardian that he doesn't know how valuable the market may be.Demand for the drying systems, unveiled in New York on Monday and on sale from Tuesday 5 February, could be sizable. When Dyson first showed off its Airblade system in 2007,USA Today cited statisticsshowing that the paper towel industry in the US was worth $2bn  (£1.2bn) annually, and that there were 19.5m public washrooms.Adding in the millions of basins and warm air dryers in hotels and restaurants that could potentially be replaced suggests the British company best known for its cyclone vacuum cleaners could sell huge numbers if it can persuade businesses of the cost benefits.Dyson says that the £999 upfront cost of the Airblade Tap will quickly be recouped in other savings, claiming it can dry 15 pairs of hands for the price of a single paper towel.A standard air blower which heats the air costs about £157 in electricity annually, compared to £48 for the AirBlade Tap. "There's also hygiene," Dyson said. "I don't think people who use paper towels always clean between their fingers.Those who had been hoping that Dyson would revolutionise the home once more, as he did with his bagless cyclone vacuum cleaner, may be disappointed for now.Dyson sounded a little affronted: "We have a digital electronic motor in this which spins at 100,000rpm, three times faster than any rival's. What kind of revolution do you want?"He acknowledged though that the motor could be used for many other applications, including some in the home. "But I won't tell you what," he said when asked by the Guardian.But he did admit that Dyson is still working on a robot vacuum cleaner, a project underway for almost a decade without producing a model for sale.
Mobile carrier Three has thrown down the gauntlet on 4G pricing to its bigger UK rivals, announcing it will offer the superfast mobile connections at the same price as its existing 3G service when it gets them in autumn.The announcement, made as the four main carriers move into their third week of bidding for 4G spectrum from communications regulator Ofcom, is in stark contrast to pricing by rival carrier Everything Everywhere. It launched 4G services in October but at premium prices compared to its existing 3G services. Its 4G contracts cost from £21 per month for a12-month Sim-only planwith 500MB of data, where the customer provides the phone, compared to £8 for the same contract on 3G. Prices for its Sim-only 12-month 4G service range up to £61 per month.By contrast,Three offers a 12-month Sim-only 3G planwith 500MB data starting at £6.90 per month, with unlimited data on offer for £25 per month.The move by Three sets a floor on 4G pricing, but stymied the other two carriers, O2 and Vodafone – even as the four companies are battling each other to win spectrum in the 4G auction now being run by communications regulator Ofcom.O2 said: "It's too early to talk about our pricing [for 4G] but the plan is to ensure that as many people as possible can enjoy 4G and that the pricing isn't prohibitive."Vodafone said it had not decided on pricing yet.Three trumpeted its advantage as the smallest, and newest entrant. "Our customers choose Three because they love the internet and know they can get great speeds and great value on our award-winning network," said Three UK chief executive Dave Dyson."As we add the next wave of technology to our ultrafast network, we've listened to our customers and thought long and hard about the right way to do it. We don't want to limit ultrafast services to a select few based on a premium price and we've decided our customers will get this service as standard."The four carriers are all bidding for 4G spectrum, although Everything Everywhere is already using its own allocated 3G spectrum for 4G services – and will have to give some of that to Three in the autumn under a deal cut by Ofcom.The ongoing auction, in which 28 different parcels of spectrum are being auctioned in a complex process where participants can bid on roughly 3,000 different variations of spectrum allocation, could end this month.Ofcom is not providing detail about the progress of the bids to avoid any risk of collusion between the bidders. The auction is expected togenerate at least £1.3bn, and perhaps £3.5bn or more, for the public purse. The winners will be able to start offering services from late spring.
The island is revealed as though through opening eyes, a misty shape in the distance. You wade forward and reach the shoreline, the sound of waves and the buzz of insects growing stronger. From the blocky visuals, from the lack of any formal introduction or cinematic story sequence, you understand that this is going to work differently. And already you're asking, what kind of game is this? What am I here for? Hours later, you will not have answered the questions.Developed by Ed Key and musician David Kanaga, Proteus is a game about exploration and sensory experience. You're on an island, rich with life. There are hills, woodlands, beaches, as well as signs of human inhabitations – standing stones, a small wooden hut. The visuals are impressionistic, seemingly rendered via 70s computer technology.But the biosphere is incredibly detailed: weird creatures prowl the undergrowth, plants rise, breezes rustle through the branches. There is a day/night cycle and by performing a certain ritual, players are able to bring about seasonal changes. Overhead, clouds crawl by, sometimes bringing rain, sometimes a heavy mist that obscures everything but the lowlands. The point? The aim? Just wait a minute, patience is part of this.Vitally, everywhere you go there is music; an emergent soundscape that reacts to your location. Amid the trees in the height of spring, you hear the hum of bees and hens clucking and pecking; at night, there are the hoots of owls and eerie rustlings. All of these add new effects to the aural environment, and all fade as you move on. The result is like listening to your own mix of Adventures Beyond the Ultraworld or a Brian Eno ambient album (actually there's a bass sound that harks directly back to Eno's Apollo: Atmospheres and Soundtracks – a similar attempt to map both a place and a mood through music). It is beautiful and affecting, especially through a good pair of headphones, which will accentuate the spacial elements of the score.And partly Proteus is about its location. Throughout the history of literature the island has been used as a liminal zone between reality and the imagination; a place of mystery and isolation, where the rules of society no longer apply, and where stranded travellers can truly discover themselves. Proteus toys with these familiar elements.  As in The Tempest it is a supernatural space, "of noises, sounds, and sweet airs that give delight and hurt not". As in Lost, it is somewhere beyond time with its own physical laws – and as in Lost, you arrive washed ashore as a stranger.The point? Ostensibly, the point is discovery. Every time you play the game, a new island is generated around a set of mandatory scenic features. Your role is to experience it. Sometimes, at dusk, you can stand mid-way up the island's tallest mountain and watch as the sunlight turns to a deep violet, and the detail of the woodland below obliterates into chunky pixels of colour. In autumn, the sky seems to close in above you, and all you can make out in the distance are the tops of the hills; there, you may well see a circle of weird folkloric statues silhouetted against the nothingness. The moments you have will be your own.To explain too much more would be to lessen the experience for you as a player. But Proteus is beautiful, a beautiful thing. And it makes me happy – happy because it is so intrinsically interesting and emotional; happy because we live in an age in which things like this can be made and distributed to everyone with a computer. Maybe that's the point. Somehow, liking or disliking Proteus has become something of a political decision in the gaming community. The arguments over whether or not it is a game are doomed to fall short of anything conclusive. All games are discreet systems of pleasure – defining beyond that is folly.If it must be catgorised, Proteus perhaps is best filed alongside last year's similarly oblique but fascinating experimental games – Dear Esther and Journey. These titles will enrage some, and all have given rise to arguments about value and interaction. But they are all things worth experiencing – you will certainly take more from them than from most of the movies you absent-mindedly order from LoveFilm; even if what you take is confusion and annoyance, even if you can't make up your mind what they are or what you believe them to be.That's the point, right there. We're entering a new age of emergent, subjective gaming where what we get out is what we put in; where design is a collaborative process of interpretation and imagination. Proteus, Dear Esther and Journey all hint at that future, a Venn diagram of experience, narration and exploration – and at the centre is you.
Twitter plans to introduce a "two-factor authentication" option that would make it impossible for hackers or vandals to break into accounts – even if they acquired the passwords.The "2FA" system, which is also offered as an option by Google for its Gmail email system, blocks access from new devices or internet addresses, even when using the correct password, unless accompanied by a short numerical code that is sent separately to the account owner's mobile phone.The news comes just days after the companyreset the passwords on at least 250,000 accounts, after hackers broke into its systems and were suspected of accessing users' data, including email addresses and encrypted passwords. Twitter said it reset the passwords as a safety measure, and that it was not certain whether the hackers had accessed them.Two-factor authentication adds an extra layer of safety to any service, as well as effectively alerting the true owner when attempts are made to hijack the account. It could also have avertedHMV's embarrassmentlast week when an intern began tweeting about mass firings at the company, leading to a brief struggle for control of the account with her boss.When an attempt is made to log in to the account from a new device, app or unfamiliar location (as indicated by the IP address), a two-factor authentication system will prevent the login being authorised. A code will be sent to the registered user's mobile phone, and only when that has been entered in the same login page is access given to the account.Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at the security company Sophos, said: "This is a splendid idea – I'm looking forward to it. It's something that we've wanted for some time. We've often said we would be prepared to pay for it – Twitter could monetise it by offering it to corporations and branded accounts. It would be pretty attractive."There's no indication that Twitter would charge for two-factor authentication, but its increasing desire to attract major brands, both as users and advertisers on the service, has led to it emphasising safety. Google offers the service for free with any Gmail account.The intention is revealed in ajob posting by Twitter for a "software engineer – product security", among whose tasks would be to "design and develop user-facing security features, such as multifactor authentication and fraudulent login detection".A number of high-profile Twitter accounts have been hacked over the years, usually after owners are tricked into giving their credential to sites posing as Twitter. Among those that have been affected arePayPal UK and Fox News politics, as well as theactor Ashton Kutcher– at one time the celebrity with the biggest Twitter following.Twitter added SSL – the Secure Sockets Layer – connectivity to its website and third-party apps in August 2011, ensuring that users' credentials could not be captured via open Wi-Fi networks, for example. But that does not protect against people who unwittingly give their passwords to malicious hackers.• See also:How to stop your Google or Facebook account being hacked while you're abroad
Nokia is finally bringing its "revolutionary" 41-megapixel Pureview sensor to its Lumia range of Windows Phone handsets, according to sources close to the Finnish handset maker.The new model will be known as EOS, and will launch in the summer in the US.Observers queried the lack of the 41MP sensor - boasting five times the resolution of most top-end phone cameras - when Nokia launched its flagship Lumia 920 Windows Phone handset at the end of 2012 - although the phone does confusingly boast a camera technology also known as Pureview.The 41MP sensor debuted at the Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona in February 2012 on Nokia's final Symbian phone, the 808. The resulting images drew rave reviews at the time, though in fact the aim of the sensor is not to produce huge images, but good images in low light.Low-light images taken at high ISO ratings (where small amounts of light are registered) typically have a lot of "noise" on them – random speckles of visible colour - caused by increasing sensitivity of the CCD sensors in the digital camera.The aim of the 41MP sensor is to oversample the image; the actual size of pictures taken on the 808 is about 5MP, but each pixel can be determined from the information provided by the redundant pixels, thus eliminating much of the flawed data.The 808 also uses a bigger sensor, which means bigger pixels. Nokiaexplains in a white paper(PDF) that pixel size has "shrunk just over the past six years from 2.2 microns, to 1.75 microns, to 1.4 microns … The smaller the pixel, the less [sic] photons each pixel is able to collect. Less [sic] photons, less image quality. There's also more visual noise in images." (One micron is a millionth of a metre.)The Lumia 920 doesn't have the 41MP sensor, but does have what Nokia calls "floating lens technology": a gyroscope detects shaking such as uneven hand motion and the whole camera mechanism moves to compensate, so the shutter can be open for longer in low light. Results from the Lumia 920's 8.7MP pixel in low light are certainly pretty good – in most low-light situations you don't need the rather harsh xenon flash.In an increasingly crowded smartphone market where new handsets often seem to be incremental changes, it's difficult for a brand to differentiate its offerings from its rivals. That's even more the case with Windows Phone handsets, as Microsoft defines the hardware specification and button layout very tightly, and doesn't allow OEMs or operators to add custom user interfaces or "skins" to the phones, unlike Android phones, where both can determine the final user experience.Adding the 41MP Pureview sensor to the Lumia range would certainly put some distance between Nokia and its Windows Phone rivals HTC and Samsung.Nokia declined to confirm the EOS news officially. A spokesman said: "While we are delighted with the attention the Nokia Lumia range continues to gather, it has been our long-held policy not to comment on market rumours or speculation."
The Taiwanese mobile handset maker, HTC, showed the extent of the squeeze it is suffering from South Korean rival Samsung as it warned first-quarter revenues could fall 17% compared to the last three months of 2012, and operating profit margins could drop almost to zero.Profits for the fourth quarter had crashed by 90% year on year to just NT$600m (£12m) on revenues of NT$60bn, down 40%, the company said as it unveiled its annual results.The projected drop in first-quarter revenues would leave HTC smaller than at any time since the first quarter of 2010, when its burst of growth began. The company said on Monday it expects revenues of between NT$50bn and NT$60bn, compared to NT$65.8bn in the first quarter of 2012.The company also steered towards lower operating margins, of between 0.5% and 1.0%; in the fourth quarter, operating margins were pushed down to just 1%, ekeing out a profit of just NT$600m on revenues down 40% year on year to NT$80bn.The company, which is preparing to launch a new 5in smartphone codenamed M7 later this month to compete with Samsung's Galaxy Note "phablet", is being heavily outspent by rivals Apple and Samsung, which together dominate the US smartphone market. Samsung spent roughly $14bn (£8.9bn) on marketing in 2012, while Apple spent about $1bn; HTC's marketing spend is substantially smaller.HTC tried in 2011 to give its brand a stronger identity by buying 50.1% of Beats Electronics, the high-end headphones company founded by rapper Dr Dre, for $300m. But the strategy was unsuccessful and it sold back a 25% holding in July 2012 for $150m.Despite the rapid growth in the smartphone market, and Android's dominant position in it – especially in China – the profits in the business are being captured almost exclusively by Apple and Samsung.Of the remaining handset companies, only HTC and Nokia managed to make an operating profit in the fourth quarter, but barely comparable with either of the other two companies'.The company also reveals in itsfull-year accountsthat the patents it owns have fallen in value from NT$11.15bn at the end of December 2011 to NT$9.18bn at the end of 2012. That may relate to a "loan-back" arrangement under which Google gave HTC a number of patents to help defend itself against a number of lawsuits from Apple.HTC and Apple settled their disputein November 2012, signing a worldwide licensing agreement, which could mean HTC has returned the title to the patents to Google. Alternatively it could point to previous valuations on patents essential to the 4G standard being devalued after the US Federal Trade Commission and European commission both indicated that using such "standards-essential patents" to seek sales bans against rivals would be frowned on, and could attract fines.The accounts also point to a business under increasing stress, as Samsung increases its marketing spend and offers phones across the entire range of the market, squeezing HTC – once the biggest-selling Android brand in the US – into the position of also-ran.Inventory turnover days – the length of time it takes the company to rotate raw materials into finished goods – extended from 43 days a year ago to 54, while the number of "payable days" of debts grew, despite the fall in revenue, from 105 days to 138.
When do publishers decide that sequels can no longer support suffixes? Is there a formula somewhere that can identify when a number is too high to whack on the end of a title, where it suggests doddering venerability rather than cutting-edge innovation? Does it decide when to scrape all the numbers and subheads off the end of an IP and start over with the original name? Does it have a flowchart section that works out when profit from nostalgia will overcome numerical confusion, and ends in a big red box with "REBOOT" written in the middle?Anyway, the people behind SimCity have made that decision. This isn't SimCity 6 or SimCity: Infographics Edition, it's just SimCity. But it's the new one, obviously.EcosystemThe exciting thing about SimCity – if you're not into data representation, which is beautiful in this game as it happens – is the scope of the multiplayer. Plugged into EA's Origin network, the game supports asynchronous play from up to 16 mayors in a region at any one time, and they're encouraged to work alongside each other to construct Great Works – things such as arcologies or international airports.Each potential city has strengths and weaknesses focused around their natural resources; so while an oil-rich city might rake in money and resources hand over fist, environmental difficulties might not make it a very nice place to live and shop.Tourist towns can provide excellent services to visiting Sims, but a lack of material goods means that they can find themselves unable to stand on their own. In region-based play, even in single-player, each city can cover the weaknesses of others and gain aid where it needs it most.But players are encouraged, not required, to work together. As each region forms a layered ecosystem, bad choices on the part of one player can hamper their neighbours. In one multiplayer session at EA's Guildford HQ, the criminals from my scummy Gambletown would frequent daytrips to the neighbouring Lovely City to the North, where they would rob shops and shoot people in the face until arrested.Not a cycling cityTrollingLovely City, by the way, was a glittering metropolis built around great concentric circles, with happy citizens and bulging coffers. Their downtown buildings were so tall that they could be seen from the docks at Gambletown, if you cleared a hole through the smog and could draw line of sight past the neon billboards advertising our scuzzy gambling halls. Occasionally Lovely City would send one of their many ambulances to heal injured Gambletownians, which presumably they were charging me for.Gambletown's main export being crime was accidental, although my decision to go light on the police force and heavy on the casino-based fun was a conscious one. When you start actively working against other players, the fun really gets going.You can compete to see who can flood each other's cities fastest with airborne pollution from industrial areas. You can intentionally not build police stations and put the seediest parts of your city on main roads so your criminals are encouraged to rob high-value buildings in neighbouring cities. You can build fancy boutiques and steal shopping revenue from their citizens. You can, if you'd like, order far too many service vehicles and send them all to other cities to "help" them out, severely clogging up their traffic flow.Effectively, you can carry out a DDoS attack with binmen. What's not to like about that?OriginThe online element extends into every facet of the game, most notably – and contentiously – an always-on DRM required even in single-player mode. As the Beta test went live this week many users reported long wait times and difficulties logging onto the much-maligned Origin service. One over-zealous mod banned a user for a letter of complaint against the DRM written six months ago. Players will need to stay connected at all times, and while occasional drops in connection are allowed, anything longer than three minutes could result in a loss of data.It's not all bad, though. EA is doing some fairly clever things with the system, and having the entirety of your community online and feeding data can produce some interesting results. Global prices for resources such as coal and oil are generated and updated from the push and pull of supply and demand. Leaderboards show off which players are the "best" at SimCity.Frequent events give players challenges to complete and submit to EA in exchange for limited-edition achievement badges linked to their profiles – we took part in the Soak the Rich challenge, we were tasked with extracting as much money as possible from high-value Sims in taxes. Even though it's a small addition, a game as complex and multilayered as SimCity can benefit from arbitrary restrictions and goals when it comes to encouraging long-term play.For all that, though, and all my talk of trolling each other or working together to build an airport, communication in-game lacks something. Even while sitting next to the mayor of Lovely City and jealously staring at his palatial residences, I couldn't think of a way for us to work together towards a goal. Perhaps effective communication is a development that will come with time and mastery of the game; but at present it feels like there's little framework for discussion.Build your own Milton KeynesLayersMuch like previous SimCity games, there's no way to "win", the same way there's no way to "win" an ant colony or a gro-bag sprouting tomato plants, and instead there's a wide variety of ways to lose. A city balances on a knife-edge and can fall into filth, corruption, crime, fire and homelessness at the hands of a negligent mayor.SimCity is still a game of not losing, then, rather than a game of winning. The difficulty curve starts off shallow – zone some houses, zone some places for the people in the houses to work, zone some places for the people to spend money earned while working, try not to let things catch on fire too much – but increases as layers of complexity are added to the simulation. More so than ever, and especially considering the multiple cities available in each region, it's the dizzying interplay of stuff that makes for a satisfying experience.CharmAt one point during the development of Gambletown, there was a problem with poo. Too much of it, backing up in people's houses, and making them a) ill and b) covered in poo. As town mayor, I was expected to solve the problem. The current infrastructure of Gambletown was ill-suited to deal with the poo demands from the residential district, so I built a sewage outlet on the edge of town and connected it to a special road for poo.I turned up the speed of the game to make sure everything was working correctly and the poo began to sort itself out, to flow out of the city in ordered streams, represented in the sewage map by brownish circles shifting under the roads of my city in the sewers. Everything was right again, and the grim heartbeat of my city calmed me. Everything was in order. Everything was clean and tidy again, for a while.I was happy, absurdly happy, to watch poo shuffle out of a city down a special road that I built. If a game can do that, it deserves some kind of praise.
It's early days for 2013, but one of the most impressive book-apps of the year might just beAnne Frank, a newdigital version of the famous diary.Released for iPad and Nook tablets in January, the app was a collaboration between publisher Penguin's Viking division, book-apps companyBeyond The Storyand theAnne Frank Fonds(Foundation).It includes the full text of Anne's diary, as well as documentary video clips; audio interviews and readings; notes, document scans and maps; facsimile pages from the original diary; and timelines of Anne's life and the wartime events that defined it."When we finished, I told the team there's probably never been a more important piece of work that we as a company will ever produce," says Jen Porter, Beyond The Story's chief executive."We had to honour Anne's past and curate this in a way that speaks to her memory – all about who she was and what she tried to achieve – rather than make something gimmicky. It was about creating a better learning experience: educating and informing and immersing readers in the story, not detracting from it."It's a delicate topic, because a lot of people will argue that Anne Frank's diary doesn't need multimedia and interactive extras to convey its emotional punch and lessons for new generations of readers.The flipside of that argument, though, is that if 2013's tablet technology helps bring Anne's 1940s diary to teenagers who might not otherwise have read it, that's a good thing. The audience for the tablet app is exactly those students, as well as their teachers.Beyond The Story's chief technology officer Kirk Bowe explains the motivation further. "We're really talking about early teens, which is the first time people become engaged with the story at school level," he says."They've grown up so disassociated from the horrors of World War II, it can be a struggle to get them engaged with something like Anne Frank just through the written word – especially when they're using gadgets and iPads all the time. So we're trying to challenge them and engage them on that battleground, but we're absolutely not dumbing it down."The app was built using Beyond the Story's in-house publishing platform – an earlier version of which was used to build theKings and Queens iPad appfor historian David Starkey in 2011.Bowe talks about the process of making Anne Frank as more akin to a film or game, in terms of the involvement of teams of creatives on tasks including its graphic design, 3D modelling and artwork, as well as sending a team to Basel to shoot footage of the original diary."If publishing is going to evolve, it's going to have to embrace this kind of convergence," he says. "People are spending all their time on a single device, and if they're reading on it, they'll demand more from reading. In fact, they'll demand more from everything they're doing on the device."Bowe is keen to stress, though, that the full text of the diary remains at the centre of the app, and core to all the extra content and interactivity. "No marketing gimmicks," as he puts it.How are publishers responding to the call for evolution from startups like Beyond The Story? Apps likeThe Waste Land,A Clockwork Orange,Dan Snow's Battle Castles,The Sonnets by William Shakespeare,War Horse Interactive Edition,Timeline World War 2,The Magic of Reality,Brian Cox's Wonders of the Universe, the twoExplore Shakespeare appsand others have shown an appetite for innovation within publishers as well as from their development partners."When I got here from New Zealand in 2010, I struggled to get an appointment with publishers," says Porter. "But like the music industry, their whole world has turned upside down. I now walk into publishers and say 'how can we help you make money in digital?'. Penguin absolutely embraced that."Porter says Beyond The Story is ambitious for its platform, hoping to build 30-40 new book-apps a year rather than one or two. "All the future projects we have coming up are in fantasy fiction," she says."That's a really creative market to get into, and there are fantasy and science-fiction fans across the globe. Some of the books we're scoping at the moment involve multiple universes in multiple timezones."Bowe adds that fantasy as a genre is particularly suitable for the app treatment because there's often a huge amount of author-generated content available on the worlds they create – he cites Tolkien's many writings about Arda and Middle-earth as a prime example."That's the direction our platform is heading in," he says. "How do you present all this as a cohesive, coherent experience for the reader without sending them off to separate books or Wikipedia, and breaking the spell?"Ultimately, though, Beyond The Story wants to license its platform to publishers so that authors can use it when writing their books – rather than just as something used to create apps for existing books, or after manuscripts are edited."This will have the ability for authors to write and store all of their research, character art etc. This is the stuff they have to do already in the writing process, but our platform will capture all that information in its raw format," he says."The time-to-release of the digital editions will be far quicker than if we had been engaged after the manuscript was delivered. They're no longer writing the text: they know they're writing this 3D thing."
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 2 February 2013PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (–)Ni No Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch(12+)PS3 (100)12 (2)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (37)Wii (3)193 (1)Call of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (38)PC (2)Wii U (1)124 (3)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (38)PC (5)105 (–)Hitman: HD Trilogy (18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)16 (5)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (44)Wii U (6)147 (6)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)PS3 (43)Xbox 360 (41)VITA (15)PC (1)148 (7)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (82)Xbox 360 (14)Wii U (2)PS3 (2)189 (10)Hitman Absolution(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)PC (1)1110 (9)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (80)PS3 (12)PC (8)5911 (4)DmC(16+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (41)PC (14)312 (8)Football Manager 2013(3+)PC (95)PSP (5)1413 (13)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)1214 (19)Forza Horizon(12+)Xbox 360 (100)1015 (15)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (43)Xbox 360 (27)PS3 (13)1616 (11)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (32)DS (19)Wii (19)PS3 (12)3017 (12)Lego The Lord of the Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (35)PS3 (22)Wii (16)DS (12)1118 (14)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (39)PS3 (26)Wii U (22)VITA (13)919 (16)WWE '13(16+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (44)Wii (4)1420 (–)Sleeping Dogs(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (47)PC (2)11UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
It's the Monday after the Chatterbox awards. Give us all the gossip!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow hardware hacking (almost) made me a fraudster &gt;&gt; BBC NewsMark Ward found his debit card declined - and got a "suspected fraud" call from his bank:A clue came from the first transaction flagged as potentially fraudulent. What had I done on that day? . Really? Could that be it? On that day my son Callum and I engaged in some father-son bonding by swapping the faulty motherboard on the family PC - the motherboard is the bit into which you plug all the other parts of a PC - processor, graphics card, memory et cetera. Cal and I high-fived when it booted the first time we turned on the power. A good day.Was that it? Had a bout of harmless home hardware hackery led to me being flagged as a fraudster?Airbnb could be banned in Amsterdam: Local authorities are now hunting for illegal hotels &gt;&gt; The Next WebFollowinglegal issuesacross the US, Airbnb is facing serious conflicts with the local government in Amsterdam, The Netherlands.Airbnb's issues in Amsterdam have been ongoing; in fact, an investigation into the service was ordered by authoritiesback in November, led by Alderman Freek Ossel. So far, 200 "suspicious" homes have already been researched, and Dutch newspaper Parool reports that "if something was wrong while tourists were staying in the homes, [authorities] closed the houses and tourists were stranded on the streets of Amsterdam". [translation:TNW].Apple executives meet with Turkish president to discuss $4.5bn iPad education initiative &gt;&gt; Mac RumorsApple executives including vice president for education John Couch met with Turkish president Abdullah Gül today to discuss several issues. The office of the Turkish president has also posted a photo and a brief video from the meeting.Among the primary topics addressed during the meeting was Turkey's tablet initiative, a $4.5bn program to provide as many as 15 million tablets to Turkish schoolchildren. Apple has reportedly been pushing for the contract, but negotiations are said to still be underway.Also discussed was the layout of the older Turkish "F-keyboard" on iOS devices, which has several keys located in the wrong positions.Expect Samsung to have been next in the room.PressureNet app feeds scientists atmospheric data from thousands of smartphones &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewAn Android app that measures atmospheric pressure is now feeding that distributed data to scientists working on better ways to predict the weather.The app, called PressureNet, highlights the potential of distributed sensing using mobile devices and shows how the sophisticated sensors found in modern smartphones could be harnessed for research. It was launched in late 2011 By Jacob Sheehy, a software developer for Flighthub.com, and Phil Jones, an independent Web designer, who became friends while studying at Concordia University in Montreal.Atmospheric pressure sensors are unique to Android, though not all Android phones have them. Google added the ability to measure pressure to its operating system because the data can help improve location finding. While PressureNet isn't the only Android app that displays pressure information for users, its creators think it's the only one that collects the data and shares it.Brilliant, brilliant idea.Blackberry: the charge of the Light Brigade &gt;&gt; TechPinionsJohn Kirk rounds off a very fine piece on BB10:I have tremendous respect for what they've done. The original Blackberry phones were category busters and a wonder to behold. But the truth is, it does not matter if the Blackberry 10 hardware and software are narrowly better than the iPhone or Android phones. They have to be so superior that customers will be willing to switch. Because remaining the number four, or even the number three, smartphone OS is not going to cut it with developers. And people don't switch platforms unless the alternative is not just superior but FAR superior to their current platform. Just ask the Mac, the Zune, and Windows Phone 7.Device prices, self-selection and a Catch 22 &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansThe challenge with all of these tablets, though, lies in the choice presented to consumers. In effect, they are asked: "would you rather buy this Apple tablet with lots of apps, or save $100 or so and get this black plastic thing with far fewer apps?"That's a perfectly legitimate question to ask (and Christmas was one big A-B test as to what tablets people actually want). However, what does it tell you if someone says 'I want to save $100 and get the cheap-looking one with no apps'? Are they a good target for any publisher or developer? This is at the root of the staggeringly low engagement  on Android tablets that all publisher report - under 5% of what they see on the iPad.In other words, you can sell to a high-end user and hope that they'll forgive the lack of apps. That's hard, and you won't sell many. Or, you can make a cheap device (setting aside the technical challenges BlackBerry and Nokia faced in actually doing that), which is rather easier to sell with no apps - but then the user base you do get is even less likely to buy apps. Catch 22.Online Music Notation Software &gt;&gt; NoteflightNoteflight® is an online music writing application that lets you create, view, print and hear music notation with professional quality, right in your web browser. Write music on your computer, tablet or smartphone, share with other users, or embed in your own pages.Inevitable, certainly. Necessary?Google+ has been out for a year and a half, let's check In on the Explore/What's Hot List &gt;&gt; David ChartierChartier with teh funny. Though looking at G+'s real Explore list, not too far off. (Android phones? Expensive cars? CyanogenMod stats? All there when we looked.)Google to cooperate with Asustek for second-generation Nexus 7 &gt;&gt; DigitimesGoogle is set to announce its second-generation Nexus 7 tablet in May with the cooperation of Asustek Computer. The combined shipments of the company's first- and second-generation Nexus 7s are expected to reach 10m units in 2013, according to sources from the upstream supply chain.Total Google Nexus 7 shipments will surpass six million units by the end of January with the US$249 model being the best selling model, the sources noted.Should Google buy Asus next?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Price from £61,065MPG 29.5Top speed 155mphThe M4 is my road home. I've been driving from junction 1 to 18 and back for at least 30 years, and I know every twist and straight along its sweeping length. I've driven it in all weather conditions, racing home for Christmases and birthdays, summer breaks and heart breaks. I've been booked for speeding (more than once), seen a motorbike catch fire in front of me and once saw a herd of cows standing in the fast lane.But my proudest achievement came years ago when I managed to drive my old Renault 5 all the way with just one gear change. I started off in second and then sat in fourth – that was top gear back then. The things we used to do for entertainment. But last week I&nbsp;outdid myself: I travelled the length of the motorway without once touching the gears, the brake or even the throttle. How? I let my wife drive. No, just kidding, I was at the wheel. I managed the feat thanks to this bigAudi's ACC (Adaptive Cruise Control) – a gadget that will soon be as indispensable as seatbelts and which will have as big  an impact on road safety.So what is it? Basically it's intelligent speed control. Accelerate to your cruising speed – let's say 70mph – which you can do with the throttle or the steering-wheel control, press the "set" button and then sit back and let the car do the rest. Using a radar sensor it will automatically maintain a constant distance from the vehicle ahead. If the guy in front slows or brakes hard, you do, too. If he pulls over, you will accelerate up to your selected cruising speed. It works in all traffic situations and all weather conditions, light or dark, and at any speed. Essentially it removes the fear of crashing into the car in front, so you can sit back and relax, safe in the knowledge that you are, well, safe. Your car – which will never drift off or start fiddling with the radio – is on look-out duty.The system is available across the Audi range but, in the S7, it is just more icing on an already heavily glazed cake. The S7 is the flagship version of the company's five-door executive coupé, the A7 Sportback, and with its twin-turbo 420hp 4-litre V8 engine, it has the performance to embarrass its similarly priced peers from the likes of Mercedes, BMW and Jaguar. The S7 is essentially a very posh hatchback. The boot space is colossal and the rear seating area luxurious. Owing to its scale and poise, the car is an already striking presence on the road, but to my eye the downward curve of the hatchback gives it the elegant lines  of a grand tourer and I'd say makes it  a shoo-in as the most handsome car in Audi's not unattractive line-up.Above all, though, the S7 is the embodiment of an obsession with detail. You sense from the moment you wrap your knuckles around the steering wheel to the feeling of super-damped oil-on-water ride-of-the-air suspension that the designers have brought a zero-tolerance approach to inconvenience and irritation. For instance, the already quiet cabin has  a system to detect all unwanted external noise. It broadcasts noise-cancelling soundwaves through the stereo speakers to give you a sense of utter calm. Didn't seem to work on moaning teens in the back though.But, crikey, you don't half pay through the nose for all this. You could save £17,500 and buy the A7 with its frugal 3-litre diesel. On the other hand, in the S7, you'll be so relaxed you won't worry about all the money you don't have that you've just spent.Time to go on a dietNew research from the Energy Saving Trust has revealed that UK businesses could save a small fortune by reducing unnecessary weight in the back of vans. Businesses that operate fleets of light-goods vehicles (LGVs) of up to 3.5 tonnes – which range from car-derived vans to Lutons – may be missing a simple trick which can increase their fuel efficiency. It is estimated that if half the LGV drivers in the UK lightened their loads by 75kg – equivalent to three bags of cement or an empty industrial gas cylinder – this would result in 100,000 fewer tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions. Under urban driving conditions the research found that a typical car-derived van, such as a Volkswagen Caddy, will use around 26% less fuel when empty compared to when fully loaded. And for panel vans such as the Peugeot Boxer, the difference in fuel consumption was up to 33%. So, what are you waiting for? Clear out what you don't need and start saving some money. To learn more about improving the fuel efficiency of your organisation's fleet, try contacting the Energy Saving Trust on 0845 602 1425, or emailtransportadvice@est.org.ukThink bicycle!Back to life: presenter Fuzz Townshend shows nominee Jeremy Fielding around his new Fiat. Photograph: NGCAt this time of year, cyclists find themselves dealing not only with other road users and poor weather, but they're also doing it in the dark.Evanscycles has come up with a range of products to help keep you safe and a handy checklist:• Don't listen to music or use a mobile phone• Fit a bell to your bike• Ride positively, decisively and respectfully, don't be intimidated by motorists behind you and ensure you ride in a way which takes into account other road users• Look before moving off, slowing or stopping, and make sure to also indicate when turning• Hold your position on the road and ride at least 30cm clear of the kerb• Follow the highway code and respect the rights of pedestrians• Be vigilant, anticipate every eventuality - car doors opening, pedestrians stepping out, emergency vehicles and busesDream car fantasyHow many of us have looked longingly at an old wreck and wished someone would bring it back from the dead for us? Now a new TV series called Car SOS on the National Geographic Channel is planning to do just that. Tim Shaw (Fifth Gear) and the mechanic/musician Fuzz Townshend (The Wonder Stuff, The Beat and Pop Will Eat Itself) are on a mission to retrieve, renovate and re-unite charismatic cars with their owners. The recipe goes like this: take one cherished car that has seen better days, add an owner in need a of a helping hand, secretly whisk the wheels away to a well-equipped workshop, simmer for three weeks in grease, graft and mechanical knowhow, then serve to an unsuspecting owner with a sprinkling of surprise. The first episode, The Fiat Fiasco, is on 7 February at 8pm. It'll bring a tear to your eye.
The magic ofScribblenautsremains as it always has been – the ability to conjure objects to solve whimsical puzzles and problems by simply writing down the answer. Tap "kitten" into your notepad and a bundle of fur will appear, solving your lack of a romantic present for a date. Spell out "water hose" and a length of emergency piping will leap into existence to put that finishing touch to the fire engine you're building. This being the fourthScribblenautsto appear on 3DS and the first on Wii U, the game's magical writing pad here now incorporates both adjectives ("a cute kitten") and a more sophisticated vocabulary than ever before, giving significant depth to its magician's-hat mechanics.What's new this time, however, is an interest in backstory and themed, explorable levels, which together give shape to the otherwise unguided process of second-guessing. But this remains window dressing to the game's creative possibilities. It's never better than when a far-fetched lateral thought results in an unconventional victory, which happens inUnlimitedmore than ever. Conversely, finding yourself repeatedly out of synch with the game's sense of logic can destroy the illusion of  blank-canvas invention. The result:Scribblenauts Unlimitedis often brilliant, frequently ingenious, and just occasionally, a chore.
Visual novels are a uniquely Japanese phenomenon, barely games at all by western standards. Instead of directly guiding characters through environments, you read through a lengthy narrative with only occasional interaction. However, as the recentVirtue's Last Rewardproved to profound effect, there is scope for great stories to be told in this form.Corpse Party, using anime visuals and full Japanese voice acting to craft blood-curdling horror, is further proof of this.The game follows several characters through interwoven chapters, all centred around the cursed Heavenly Host elementary school. Missing students, deaths, psychic trauma and a twisted application of deja vu all factor into the terror that follows. Decisions at key moments coupled with a small degree of exploration and puzzle-solving can change the direction of the story, leading to some genuinely unpleasant fates. While undeniably influenced by films such asRingorJu-on, the heightened vulnerability of its youthful cast makes the macabre goings-on seem especially unsettling.How much you'll enjoyCorpse Partydepends largely on your patience. Battle through the text onslaught though and the engaging story and atmospheric music (with some excellent directionality through headphones, adding some pant-wettingly creepy moments) provide a sterling example of Japanese horror.
Windows Mobile can't yet offer the same diversity of titles as the iPhone or Android, but with phones such as the Nokia Lumia getting a big push and needing more apps to consolidate their place in the market, more games will soon be arriving.Crimson Dragon: Side Storyis one. Billed as the spiritual successor to the classicPanzer Dragoonfranchise, the game (Windows Phone 8, Microsoft, 79p) has an impressive pedigree behind it with many of the original series' developers on board.It's a side-scrolling shoot-em-up with added dragons. The player's fire-breather moves forward independently, as you fly up and down to avoid obstacles while targeting enemies. The dragon is upgradeable as the game goes on, with new secondary and special attacks unlockable to help progress through the Story and Mission modes, but it's the visuals that really impress. The gorgeous 3D backgrounds are beautiful, and make it a pleasure to look at. The occasionally awkward controls could do with tweaking, but it's a solid effort from developers with an exciting background.Gunslugs(iOS, OrangePixel, £1.49) also wears its influences on its sleeves, with the eponymous invertebrate a clue to the style of gameplay on offer. It's a run-and-gun shooter, as epitomised by the mightyMetal Slugseries, with the controls stripped back to work on a touch screen and many movements automated. It's hard, as fans of the genre would expect, but not frustratingly so, and the authentic 8-bit graphics add to the nostalgic feel. However, it's the randomly generated nature of the levels that really gives this game replayability, with landscapes changing and new weapons altering the experience every time it's booted up.
Michael Gove is possibly the most unpopular minister in the government, but on Wednesday he made a courageous and enlightened decision. On that day, the Department for Education announced thatcomputer science will be included in the science options for the Ebacc(English baccalaureate), which is one of Mr Gove's keystone reforms of the school curriculum. Given the amount ofhostility there is to these reforms, this development attracted little attention, but in the long run it could turn out to be a really big deal.Why? Because it signals a determination to undo an educational disaster that's been running for decades in British schools – the ICT (information and communications technology) curriculum. This was based on the idea that most of what the young needed to be taught about computing was how to use software. In practice, this turned out to be learning how to use Microsoft Office. For both the schoolchildren who had to endure this, and the teachers who had to instruct them, this was a demoralising and dysfunctional experience. Kids would come home from school complaining (as my children did): "Dad, you'll never guess what we had to do today –PowerPoint!" The result was that ICT became the educational world's equivalent of a toxic brand.The reasons why ICT went sour in UK schools are many and complex. They include the chasm between CP Snow's "two cultures" that still bedevils Britain, technophobia among teachers, parents and governors, plus sheer ignorance and abject fear of the internet. But the most important factor was the misconception that computing was essentially aboutproducts– hardware and software – that were fiendishly expensive and required endless updating, maintenance and policing. Given all this, it's not surprising that ICT came to be regarded by schools as an onerous obligation and by children as a tiresome penance inflicted on them by adults who seemed to have no idea about the online world.The misapprehension that understanding ICT simply required children to learnhow to useappliances was based on the idea that computers are essentially the same as cars. The argument was that just as you don't have to know anything about the internal combustion engine in order to become a competent driver, so you didn't have to understand how a computer worked in order to be a competent "driver" of the device.This might have been a defensible philosophy in the age of the corporate mainframe, but it was rendered absurd by the advent of the personal computer and its accompanying plague of viruses, worms and trojans, and it became absolutely risible in the age of ubiquitous networked connectivity, cloud computing and social networking. But the most pernicious fallacy of the computer-as-automobile analogy is that cars don't mediate – and log – most of our communications, organise our commercial life, intrude on our privacy, consult postcodes to decide our insurance premiums, advise banks on whether to give us mortgages or even (as in some countries) count our votes in elections.So in training our children to use tech nology without enabling them to understand it, we were short-changing them in a profound way. For they are going to inherit a world that is governed and controlled by computers and the software that they run. The implicit promise of the old ICT curriculum was that we would turn out generations of competent but ignorant users of black boxes created by programming elites – mostly in other countries. The choice that faces our kids is thus the one memorably expressed by Douglas Rushkoff in his book:Program or Be Programmed. And we were offering them only the latter option.But perhaps the biggest problem with the "ICT equals devices" misapprehension is that it provided a managerial rationale for the old curriculum. After all (so the argument ran), computers and software change all the time and we can't change the national curriculum every time Microsoft (or Apple or Google) updates its operating system. What that mindset signally failed to grasp is that there is something called computerscience–a discipline with fundamental concepts and principles, just like other sciences.This will be news, I guess, to most headteachers and governors, but it's true. Michael Gove's decision signals that he at least gets it, even if the rest of the government and most of our media don't. The networked world that's coming will be full of opportunities, but also fraught with dangers. We owe it to our children to make sure that they, at least, will not go clueless into that future, that they will have some understanding of how the technology works and will be correspondingly less vulnerable to manipulation by corporations and governments that know ignorance is bliss – for them.
Children are as upset by violent videos on YouTube that feature animal cruelty or beheadings and by insensitive Facebook messages from divorced parents as they are by online bullying and pornography, according to the biggest survey of young British people and their internet use.The research will be unveiled by the UK Council for Child Internet Safety (UKCCIS) on Tuesday – the 10th annual Safer Internet Day – when a charter of rights and responsibilities for children online will also be launched. The findings suggest that government policy, spearheaded by David Cameron, to block sexual content and pornography through parental controls and filters via internet service providers only goes part of the way to securing the online safety of children.The survey, conducted for the council by academics, asked 24,000 children 25 questions about internet use, including "have you ever seen anything online that has upset you?" Hundreds of schools around Britain were enlisted to help canvass the children, who were aged up to 16.Andy Phippen, professor of social responsibility at Plymouth University, who helped to devise the report, said: "Upset is caused by a broad range of issues, very varied, and not all sexual content." One memorable answer from a primary school child who was asked what most upset him was "when my Dad told me on Facebook he didn't want to see me any more".The report,Have Your Say, is consistent with research Phippen was already carrying out. The examples he heard included: a video of a zebra being killed, "someone swearing at me", "a picture of my baby brother, who I don't live with any more", and a picture of a cat that "looked like my pet that had to be put down".Phippen said: "There is no silver bullet to crack child safety online. Government's obsession with filtering is OK, but too narrow."Sonia Livingstone, professor of social psychology at the London School of Economics, told the Oxford Media Convention last month that LSE research, which asked 8,000 children aged nine to 16 about the disturbing things they had seen on the internet, supported this picture. She added: "There is a lot of attention given to pornography and bullying on social media, but they also mentioned beheadings, flaying, cruelty to animals."Professor Phippen agreed: "Any channel used for communication is potentially a channel for upsetting content, but certainly YouTube is the most prevalent as far as video content is concerned."Livingstone said that the issue of online bullying was not covered by efforts to filter out inappropriate content. "Filtering is only about content on established websites", while filtering and blocking controls could be very clunky to use and problematic.However,Have Your Sayalso finds many positive aspects to the internet. The survey shows that what under-11s do most is play games on sites such as Moshi Monsters, followed by schoolwork and keeping in touch with friends. For older children, social networking takes over from playing games."I think, in this age group, violent images and upset from abusive nasty comments from their peers are the concerns. It is spoken about as so and so is so mean to me. Cyber bullying – they don't use that term," said Phippen. Evidence from the children of being groomed or facing predatory behaviour online is also scanty.Accessing pornography online, the main concern of parents responding to a government consultation last autumn, did not feature highly in the teenagers' responses. But there is a growing problem of "sexting" messages in school, when pupils share personal sexual content via smartphones and tablets. Phippen said one answer was better education. "You come back to media literacy. About understanding how to conduct yourself online and what the impact can be of behaviour, when you don't see the impact of your behaviour, on the victim in front of you."
Robyn Exton was slouched over an east London bar, doing her best to console her newly heartbroken friend. "Have you tried a dating site?" she suggested.Yet when they began to look for a site that would help women date other women they were faced with a slew of sites offering a poor experience or seemingly set up for the titillation of straight men. Exton knew immediately there would be demand for a dating app for lesbians and began planningDattchwhile working on a dating account at a brand agency. UnlikeGrindr, the app for gay men, Dattch would be less about hooking up for sex and more about meeting strangers for dating or just for friendship. Exton soon found, however, that there was only so far she could take her idea without the skill to build the app itself, which is when she noticed a new company calledDecodedopening up near her London home.She joined a one-day introduction to a coding course in August and in September began a 10-week HTML5 course atGeneral Assembly, another learning-by-doing tech training company. In October, she left her job to run Dattch full time and is now talking to potential investors."I knew the words Javascript and HTML and understand the overall principle, but didn't know how to read it, what it looked like or how to talk about it confidently," she says. Dattch has notched up 1,000 downloads since it launched as an invitation-only service late last November. Exton expects to launch in the US and Australia this year and wants to reach 1 million users in two years."Now I can build websites and I feel confident doing basic web stuff. And while I contract out programming for the [more specialist] mobile site I can understand the logic flow when I'm talking about it. The course lifted barriers for me."Decoded's founder, Alasdair Blackwell, explains that its course doesn't prepare people to step straight into a developer role, but is more about giving people the understanding and confidence to have better conversations with developers, and to work better as a team, rather than feeling one question away from disaster if they are suddenly asked something about the API (application programming interface)."You don't need to be a developer, but if you want to work in the tech industry you need to understand it," he says. That applies to anyone looking to apply for startup jobs as diverse as HR, PR, marketing, sales and even executive level.Decoded'sCode in a Daycovers the three basic principles of programming for interaction design, information design through HTML and visual design using CSS, and trainees leave with a basic geolocation smartphone web app they build during the day. The course also explains computational thinking as a way of solving problems."Developers are often thought of as the people who just build stuff after the creative part has been done, but that's a very unhealthy way of working," says Blackwell, who describes "tech creep" – the approach and practices of the tech industry such as agile, iterative development and the open sourcing of ideas – becoming more mainstream."Most people tend to think very broadly, but computational thinking is about the nitty gritty, about breaking things down into constituent parts and revealing questions and opportunities that weren't there before – and you can do it without writing the code yourself. It's a very logical, rational way of thinking and when married with a creative way of thinking incredibly cool things can happen. It's something you could list as a skill on your CV."He admits that developers were initially pretty hostile to the idea that amateurs could become developers in a day – "It takes 10,000 hours to learn a craft, pah!" – but many also acknowledged that they were largely self-taught and would have valued this kind of introduction. "It's born out of years of scrapping about on Google teaching ourselves; we want to save others from that path, and devs appreciate and respect this," says Blackwell.Now is a very good time for developers in the United Kingdom. According to research byAdzuna, there are 2,935 tech vacancies in startups this month alone, 782 of those in east London, from designers and analysts to business development and marketers. London's startup scene is flourishing in its traditionally strong industries of music and fashion, but also now in financial services and big data.The Silicon Milkroundabout recruiting fair in London. Photograph: Tracy HowlThere are other, more specialist skills in high demand in the tech sector. Dr Martin Goodson, in his role as a researcher at Oxford University, developed a Java-based system to help assemble the genome of the pufferfish. His expertise in computational processing methods, including a Bayesian formula for classification of the ultrasonic sounds of mammals, would eventually be a powerful analytical tool forQuBit, one of London's flourishing big-data startups.Goodson could only go by a hunch that his skills as a statistical geneticist would be transferable to the startup space and wasn't sure who to approach. A friend suggestedSilicon Milkroundabout, a free-to-attend, increasingly popular recruitment event for startups. Hosted in a suitably quirky exhibition space (fairy lights, cutout trees and a rainbow-inspired bar) at the Truman brewery in London's East End, Silicon Milkroundabout gives startups a platform to pitch their company to potential staff, while potential employees can approach firms that pique their interest.At Silicon Milkroundabout last November, Goodson discovered QuBit, which analyses site data to highlight consumer behaviour and trends. Founded by four ex-Googlers, the startup has doubled in staff since Goodson joined and plans to double again by this time next year."I didn't want to go down a well-trodden track," said Goodson. "I wanted to carry on with a research approach that was about innovation, about new approaches with large data sets that would pose lots of hard problems. I work with great people – very motivated people – and get lots of responsibility."Silicon Milkroundabout founder Pete Smith, who also co-founded the live music organisation toolSongkick,says the event opens the startup space to graduates, giving an umbrella benefit to small companies that can recruit together at one shared event. "At Songkick, we struggled to hire great developers, because the ones working at places like Google aren't looking for other jobs. We wanted to get in front of the best people, including passive job seekers and people who might jump ship from banks," he said. "It's not about saying we're a better place to work, but about creating a category of jobs that didn't really exist before."Since it launched in a London pub in May 2011, Silicon Milkroundabout has grown to host 2,000 attendees investigating 800 jobs at 130 startups. Preparing for the next event on 11 and 12 May, Smith has recruited a full-time team to run it and taken on more space at the Truman brewery. Part of the jobs fair's mission, Smith explains, has been to attract developers away from lucrative positions in the banking sector.Silicon Milkroundabout's approach has not been subtle; one bullish poster for the event pasted monochrome suits with skulls for heads over the slogan Don't Work for the Suits, more reminiscent of Occupy London than a jobs fair. There is a subtle animosity between the startup scene and tech in the finance sector, not least because startups struggle to compete with  the salaries; the current average is £33,927 at a startup, while banking  IT roles pay £51,589.Songkick's chief technical officer, Dan Crow, says hiring is the most obvious point of contention between the City and the startups. "The City's institutions still hoover up a lot of talented graduates in the university milkrounds and we often find ourselves in competition with them for great students." But the rising profile of Silicon Roundabout and the startup space, as well as slower hiring in the City, has begun to work in startups' favour, though the pressure to compete with finance-sector salaries is a big challenge for startups that want to hire real talent.But for experienced developers, choosing to transfer to the startup world seems more down to a need for autonomy and experimentation. "At a bank, you're one of hundreds of programmers, working to optimise some tiny corner of a large system to eke out a few extra 10ths of a percent of profit," explains Crow."At a startup, you get to see how the entire business operates and be part of the decision-making process, so your role is much broader and more impactful. You're part of a small, focused team working to change the world."
If you're suffering information overload from email, news feeds, social media and other electronic chatter, you could turn it all off, hide under the duvet and yearn for return to a simpler, quieter time. Technology geeks, however, are advocating a different solution: embrace software as an ally, not an enemy, and use it to filter out the noise.The Macworld/iWorld show in San Franciscothis week displayed services and products for smartphones, tablets and laptops to tame the overload they create, a case of supply creating its own, burgeoning demand."Everyone is clamouring for your attention, and the flow of data is just huge," said Chuck Joiner, a producer and host with the theMacVoices Group, a community of Apple experts and enthusiasts.In a workshop on how not to drown in data, Joiner said the key was to distinguish between what you wanted and needed, and prioritise the latter. Then you could use technology to impose order on chaos.For email, he recommended junking addresses with dated domains such aol or timewarner and buying ones with your own domain from companies such hover.com, which sells addresses like you@yourname.com you@yourname.net or you@yourname.me.Such addresses could remain yours for life, obviating disruptive changes, said Joiner. For particular events – such as a conference, or a part of your business or life that could be compartmentalised – he recommended setting up additional email addresses, with variants of firstname@yourname.com or firstandlastname@yourname.com or middlename@yourname.com.This way you could funnel email to dedicated addresses and avoid sharing your principal address with people of fleeting or marginal importance. If such an address became redundant, for instance after a conference, you could delete it. You could further categorise email with addresses such as junk@yourname.com, marketing@yourname.com, bills@yourname.com. "It works really well. I created an email just for this show."Joiner praised Gmail as an excellent way to aggregate all your addresses so that, if necessary, you could view all messages in one place. "It's unified, everything in one inbox."Gmail let you organise email into different categories and had an "amazingly" good search function and spam filter which made it easy to track and archive data.The key to social media was clarifying objectives. "It can suck you in, it's a little frightening. You need to think about what you want to get out of it. Do you want to keep in touch with high school friends, or people important to you now."Whatever was extraneous needed to be "cut mercilessly". Facebook protocol was tricky. "If I friend you, you have to friend me even if I'm a complete idiot and have nothing useful to say."Twitter, in contrast, was nimbler and more controllable. Joiner suggested capping the number of people you follow at 400 and using the Tweetbot app – there is a different one for macs and ipads – to organise it.Trimming the glut of newspapers, blogs, podcasts and other news formats meant differentiating want from need, and using two "weapons".The first, RSS, let you subscribe and filter. "Not enough people use it because it's still a little bit geeky, but it's wonderful." The other wasGoogle Reader, which included apps such as NetNewsWire and Mr Reeder. They compiled news that was most important to you in easy to read menus.Joiner said a third weapon,FlipBoard, let you organise social media and news feeds on an ipad in an attractive magazine-type format. "It's the only way I'll do anything on Facebook."He also recommendedInstapaper,  a tool which saves web pages for reading later and strips adverts and clutter. "So you're looking at clean information."Joiner said many people underused voice command apps such as Siri, Google Search and Dragon Dictation. "You'd be amazed by how much you could get done just with talking. But you have to practice."Exhibition booths at the four-day conference, which ends on Saturday, peddled a range of other apps and services such as Dropbox, BusyCal, Evernote and ScanSnap, all promising to simplify and manage information.The catch was that each plied you with extra information demanding time and concentration, especially for non-geeks. "Technology-oriented people are at a distinct advantage," said Joiner.
The Washington Post has become the latest US news outlet to claim it was the victim of Chinese hackers, saying it was targeted by a "sophisticated cyber-attack" in 2011.In a front-page article Saturday, the Post confirmed it brought in a security firm to "promptly" deal with the breach, suspected to be the work of Beijing.It comes after similar attacks were reported by several news organisations over the past few days, including the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal. According to reports, Beijing hackers breached computers to spy on journalists who cover China, in an apparent effort to uncover sources and information.In a statement included in its own report, Washington Post spokeswoman Kris Coratti said: "Like other companies in the news recently, we face cybersecurity threats. In this case, we worked with [security company] Mandiant to detect, investigate and remediate the situation promptly at the end of 2011."The same security firm was used by the New York Times to secure its systems after apparent hacks from China.Neither the Chinese embassy in Washington nor officials in Beijing responded to calls from the newspaper for comment, the Post reported.The newspaper did not reveal details of the hack, but people familiar with the situation said it had affected the main server and other computers. Passwords were compromised during the attack, allowing those who were responsible access to the Post's systems.A report to clients by Mandiant towards the end of last year claimed that it had uncovered evidence that hackers from China had targeted more than 30 journalists at western news outlets, stealing emails, contacts and files in the process.Those earmarked for attention included reporters who specialise in Chinese political and legal affairs.Newspapers are not the only target of seemingly professional hackers. On Friday, Twitter said it had been hit by a security breach in which around 250,000 accounts were at risk. Bob Lord, Twitter's director of information security, said the attack was "not the work of amateurs".Meanwhile, Eric Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google, has blamed China outright for being behind a series of security breaches, describing China in a new book as the world's "most sophisticated and prolific hacker".
Q: how can I find out if I have been affected?Go to a web browser, go totwitter.com,log out (if you're logged in)and try to log in with your usual password. If you can't log in - it will say there's a problem with your username or password - then you've been affected.(Deletion because Paul Lomaxpoints outthat web access will have been revoked if you were affected. See below.)Q: I can't check that just now. Am I likely to have been affected?Only if you joined Twitter roughly in the first half of 2007. At that time it had a few million users. People (including myself) who joined in May 2007 have been affected. If you can't remember when you joined Twitter, you can find out your "Twitter birthday" for yourself or any other user (it's not private data).Most people joined well after mid-2007, so on that basis you're unlikely to have been affected.Q: I can't see an email from Twitter, and I can still post from Tweetdeck and other third-party clients - I haven't tried the website. This means I'm OK, doesn't it?Not necessarily. The email from Twitter may have been filtered into your spam folder (users of Google's Gmail should specifically look in their Spam folder; a search in the Gmail function won't look at spam messages - and Twitter's reset message to a Gmail account I use was filtered as spam.The reason why third-party clients will still let you tweet is that Twitter doesn't let them use your password. Instead, it uses "tokens" which are issued to the third-party programs, and authorise them to send tweets to Twitter's database for redistribution to followers. The tokens weren't revoked as part of the password reset; doing that would have meant that you'd have had to re-authorise all your apps, and for some apps Twitter has only made a limited number of tokens available. So that would have hurt both users and app developers.Q: What did the hackers get?Twitter says "our investigation has thus far indicated that the attackers may have had access to "limited user information – usernames, email addresses,session tokensandencrypted/saltedversions of passwords." Session IDs are used for web visits, rather than third-party applications.Update:Twitter has asked us to point out the emphasis on the point that hackers "may" have had that access: "it's not 100% certain that they did. We reset passwords as a precautionary measure," a spokesperson told the Guardian.Q: What has Twitter done about it?It has revoked the session tokens - so web-based services for those accounts (such as the Twitter.com website - see Paul Lomax comment) won't work - and reset the passwords, so even if the hackers can crack the encryption, the passwords won't work.Q: Why did they go after the early adopters of Twitter?Probably they didn't, directly. Chris Applegatespeculatesthat the method by which the hack was done gave the attackers access to its database, and forced it to list the user details - but they were by default provided in ascending order - that is, from user No.1 upwards. That means that Twitter's founders such as Biz Stone, Jack Dorsey and Evan Williams have almost certainly been affected.Q: What were they after?What most hackers are after - access to accounts. There's no indication yet of what group or individual might have been behind it, but getting secret access to accounts is always useful to hackers: it lets them watch people, or masquerade as others and send poisoned links via direct message to get control of more accounts.Plus, some people use the same password for their Twitter account as their email account, and other accounts (averybad move) which could mean, if the hackers are able to crack the encryption around the passwords, that they would be able to get access to huge numbers of email accounts, which would mean escalating problems for those people.Always,always, use different passwords for important accounts; and don't chain together your email accounts (so that a password reset in one is sent to another more vulnerable one).Twitter's advice on passwords: "Make sure you use a strong password – at least 10 (but more is better) characters and a mixture of upper- and lowercase letters, numbers, and symbols – that you are not using for any other accounts or sites. Using the same password for multiple online accounts significantly increases your odds of being compromised. If you are not using good password hygiene, take a moment now to change your Twitter passwords."Q: How was it done?Twitter isn't saying; itsblogpost about the attacksays only that it saw "unusual access". That means that the hackers were probing its database via the Twitter access method, and found a way to crack its usual safeguards.It may be connected to the outage that Twitter suffered on Thursday, though the company hasn't said.Twitter is saying that "This attack was not the work of amateurs, and we do not believe it was an isolated incident. The attackers were extremely sophisticated, and we believe other companies and organizations have also been recently similarly attacked."That implies that this could be part of a pattern in which a number of media organisations - including the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, and - according to some reports - the Washington Post have beenattacked by Chinese hackers. With people such as the Dalai Lama on Twitter, it's possible that this was an attempt to find out what important messages were being passed between such members.
Oooh, hello! I put on the seatbelt and it gives me a little squeeze, before relaxing. It's&nbsp;adjusting itself to me, getting the tension just right. But it's also rather nice, friendly even, as well as being reassuring. Danke schön, Herr Benz. Sometimes, it's the little things that count. Nice&nbsp;touch.There are other nice, touchy things inside. It's not super-plush, like an eff-off super-fantastic, top‑of-the-range, autobahn-busting Mercedes limo. This is cosy, though, with nice materials, surfaces you want to stroke. Plus it's got an iPad-type thing sticking out of the dashboard. Very de rigueur, as they say in Stuttgart.As are the interesting creases and scoops on the outside. The new baby Merc is a very different beast from the previous two generations of A-Class. They were tall cars, like mini people carriers. Tall and ungainly. The first one famously failed anelk test, remember? One of my Swedish so-called rivals toppled one on to its side while swerving to avoid an imaginary moose on the loose during a test. This new one is lower, sleeker, more handsome, more of a rival to an Audi A3 or a&nbsp;BMW 1 series.It's not as practical as the last ones. There's less room inside. In the back it's a bit too cosy – I&nbsp;wouldn't want to spend very long&nbsp;there. But it's a more desirable car, and might appeal to a younger driver (though they'd obviously have to be doing fairly well for&nbsp;themselves).To drive? Yeah, also nice. Very quiet for a small car, but that's not to say you feel totally detached from the road or the experience of driving. The ride is firm – a bit too firm over London's bumps, perhaps. And I'd rather have a manual than this slightly clunky seven-speed, dual-clutch, semi-automatic gearbox, but that's not available on the model I've got…Bloody hell, I'm beginning to sound like I know what I'm talking about. Look, I like it, mainly because it's quite pretty and it gave me a&nbsp;little squeeze from behind, OK? Same as I'd like anything or anyone that/who was pretty and did that.It's good to drive, I feel secure in it. And I think the moose are safe, too. Actually, we don't have many elks in my area, so I swerved to avoid imaginary cats, dogs, feral children, urban foxes, etc. The steering is precise and assured, body roll is low. I don't believe anyone could put one of these on its side, not even a famous Scandinavian motoring journalist. Pah!Mercedes A 220 CDI Blue Efficiency AMG SportPriceFrom £27,170Top speed137mphAcceleration0-60mph in 8.2&nbsp;secondsCombined fuel consumption64mpgCO2emissions115g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating7/10
Releases this week includeWreck-It-Ralph(Wii, DS, 3DS), an appropriately retro if largely uninspired 2D platform game to complement Pixar's delightful plundering of video game history;Heavy Fire: Shattered Spear(Xbox 360, PS3, PC), which wants you to fire various calibres of weapon at absolutely everything that moves;Hitman HD Trilogy(Xbox 360, PS3) lets console owners finally find out what life was like before Hitman: Absolution while discovering what the fuss was about;Omerta: City Of Gangsters(Xbox 360, PC) makes managing a gangland empire about as entertaining as switching gas suppliers; whileWizardry Online(PC) sees the arrival of the powerfully hardcore Japanese massively multiplayer online game on our shores, with brutally hard difficulty level and permadeath intact. Fans of Dark Souls will be flaying themselves with birch twigs in anticipation.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewWhen the skeletal remains of General Akamoto make it to the afterlife, he's enraged to discover that there's a queue to get in. Even in death, the noble general does what he must: recruits a platoon of cadaverous samurai and starts slicing his way to instant justice via a series of turn-based encounters in which you use scenery to bolster your defences, chow down on the skulls of fallen enemies to inherit a little of their power, and haunt rice paddies and shrines to recruit new undead allies. Each level forms a discrete challenge, with strictly finite availability of reinforcements and an interesting terrain feature or special set of foes to distract you, which along with its ever-cheery humour manages to keep things fresh. It's not perfect, a particular faux pas being the inability to distinguish between troops, but it's genuinely interesting, challenging tactical jollity.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewKnown for his early work at LucasArts, especially The Secret Of Monkey Island and its sequel, Ron Gilbert is a man who clearly loves puzzles, especially when they can be solved using a chimp. So we have The Cave. Choosing a team of three from a motley lineup of seven potential spelunkers, including a time traveller, hillbilly, scientist, monk and spooky twins, you take to the subterranean void accompanied by an amusingly apropos and self-referential commentary from the cave itself. Puzzles are frequently of the lever-pulling variety, but are at their finest when encountering each adventurer's personal underground goal. Some tasks have a ring of wearying familiarity about them, but most are novel and the underlying dark humour is a delight throughout, gently urging you towards your goal and an inevitable second play through to check out what gimmicks you missed.
A quarter of a million Twitter users have had their accounts hacked in the latest in a string of high-profile security breaches at internet firms.Anonymous hackers may have been able to gain access to around 250,000 accounts on the social networking site, including usernames, email addresses and passwords.Twitter announced on Fridayit had detected unusual access patterns across the network and had identified unauthorised attempts to access user data that had led to accounts being compromised.The site discovered one live attack that it was able to shut down several minutes later but not before the hackers had gained access to thousands of accounts.Bob Lord, Twitter's director of information security, said the attack was "not the work of amateurs" and the company did not believe it was an isolated incident."Our investigation has thus far indicated that the attackers may have had access to limited user information – usernames, email addresses, session tokens and encrypted/salted versions of passwords – for approximately 250,000 users," Lord said. "As a precautionary security measure, we have reset passwords and revoked session tokens for these accounts."This attack was not the work of amateurs, and we do not believe it was an isolated incident. The attackers were extremely sophisticated, and we believe other companies and organizations have also been recently similarly attacked."The attack on Twitter is the latest in a string of high-profile security breaches on US technology and media companies. Both the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times have had their sites hacked in the last two weeks and Apple and Mozilla have turned off Java by default in their browsers to minimise the risk.Twitter users who have had their accounts breached will have to reset their passwords before they will have access to the site.• This article was amended on 4 February 2013. The original said that hackers were able to gain access to personal details rather than may have been able to do so. This has been corrected.
Eric Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google, has criticised China in his new book, describing the country as the world's "most sophisticated and prolific hacker".According to extractsquoted by the Wall Street Journal,Schmidt's new book, The New Digital Age, paints a picture of a dangerous superpower using "illicit competition" to see off rivals."The disparity between American and Chinese firms and their tactics will put both the government and the companies of the United States at a distinct disadvantage," Schmidt writes, because "the United States will not take the same path of digital corporate espionage, as its laws are much stricter (and better enforced) and because illicit competition violates the American sense of fair play. This is a difference in values as much as a legal one."Google has clashed repeatedly with the Chinese authorities. Beijing reacted furiously to the company's claims that Chinese authorities were hacking Gmail accounts; last year Google's service was blocked as the Communist Party appointed its first new leader in a decade.Smith and co-author Jared Cohen call China "the world's most active and enthusiastic filterer of information" as well as "the most sophisticated and prolific" hacker of foreign companies.But the technology China uses so effectively may well come back to haunt it, the authors believe. "This mix of active citizens armed with technological devices and tight government control is exceptionally volatile," they write, suggesting that that such a situation could lead to "widespread instability". China, they predict, will see "some kind of revolution in the coming decades."Schmidt's comments come a day after the New York Times and Wall Street Journal revealed they had been the victim of Chinese hackers.The book is likely to inflame the already tense relationship between Google and China. Last year,in an interview with the Guardian, co-founder Sergey Brin warned against China's attempts to censor the internet.Last month Schmidttold an audience at Cambridge Universitythat the internet would win out in the end. "There's no country where the situation has worsened with the arrival of the internet," he said. "Citizens can use their mobile phones to raise the cost of corruption. And even in China, the regime can be shamed – when there was a train crash recently the government tried to hush it up, but people began posting pictures on [the Twitter-like chat service] Weibo, and the story got out."The strike by journalists atSouthern Weeklyover censorship – the fact that they could do that and then go back without trouble shows that the government, even that autocracy, is sensitive to the fact that it can be shamed online."
It has been called garish, ugly and doomed but the musician Will.i.am thinks fashionistas will persuade Americans to love his $475 iPhone camera accessory.The Black Eyed Peas star is preparing to launch his i.am+ foto.sosho iPhone cases, which are worn around the neck, in the US despite scornful response since they debuted in Britain.The 37-year-old rapper, who doubles up as a technology entrepreneur, said he had anticipated a major new trend – the marriage of technology and fashion – and that critics were out of touch."The people who are saying that are the ones who don't influence culture. The influencers say different," he told the Guardian, speaking on the sidelines of theMacworld/iWorldshow in San Francisco this week."You can't worry about all tastes. You have to worry about the right tastes. And those right tastes influence those who are next in line to be influenced, creating a movement, an aesthetic, around wearable technology."Will.i.am'si.am+ companylaunched the foto.sosho, its first iPhone accessory, in the UK last December, retailing exclusively at Selfridges in London. The device clips around the iPhone 4 and turns it into a high-powered camera. It has a keyboard, interchangeable lenses, a built-in flash, photo editing, filters and makes it easier to share and tag photos.The C.4 model, which sells for £199 ($320), is black and relatively discreet. The white V.4 model, which sells for £299 ($475), has gold trim, a "vintage look" and vocal detractors."Looks like it was scraped off the bottom of Liberace's shoe,"said CNET."Will.i.am showed up at Macworld today, and yep, he was wearing his stupidly expensive iPhone camera case that you will never want to own," said the otherwise Apple-friendly blogcultofmac.com.The rapper, who is passionate about technology's power to transform lives, said the first batch of 2,000 cases which went on sale at Selfridges just before Christmas did "fairly well" but did not offer figures. "We weren't looking for a home run. The home run was getting it into stores. And so by that, we did fantastic."His company is working on versions for the iPhone 5 which will go on sale in the US by summer. "I'm really looking forward to the 5. And then our iPad mini one will be out Christmas this year."He said critics of the device – he sported the bling version during the interview – were too square to appreciate it. "Now you go to fashion week, and fashion week folk are, wow, I want that. Can you make that in alligator skin?"The plan was to "seed it to the right cultural influencers" in the same way the makers of Beats headphones confounded sceptics. "People said those won't catch on, they're too big. Boy were they wrong."
The Silicon Valley company Path has beenfined $800,000, the largest amount ever against an app builder, by the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC). It has also been bound over on privacy for 20 years after it grabbed customers' address book data and uploaded them to its own servers without permission, and let children under 13 join its service.The FTC, in charge of consumer protection, said that Path's actions had been misleading and offered users "no meaningful choice" about the collection of their personal data: even if they didn't select options to find friends on its social network, their data – including first and last names, phone numbers, email addresses and Facebook and Twitter usernames – would be taken from users' iPhones and iPads and uploaded to Path's servers.It is illegal under US law to allow children under 13 to sign up to a service without a parent's permission. The FTC said that roughly 3,000 children did sign up to Path. The service presently has about 6 million users.Jon Leibowitz, in his last day in charge of the FTC, said: "This settlement with Path shows that no matter what new technologies emerge, the agency will continue to safeguard the privacy of Americans."The FTC has previouslyfined app builders, including W3C Innovations, aka Broken Thumbs Apps, for letting underage children sign up.In a statement, Path's founder and chief executive Dave Morin said that it had identified and blocked underage signups before the FTC, and shut down accounts from those disallowed from joining: "there was a period of time where our system was not automatically rejecting people who indicated that they were under 13," Morinexplainedin a blogpost.The FTC alsowarned app developers and handset companiesthat  they needed to improve data security on apps and mobile operating systems, and that "a rush to release may results in dangerous security oversights".The news that Path was grabbing users' address book contents materialised almost exactly a year ago, when Arun Thampi, another app developer,blogged about his discoverythat an early version of the app had uploaded his entire address book. "I feel quite violated that my address book is being held remotely on a third-party service," Thampi wrote.That quicklyled to a public apologyfrom Morin, who had launched Path in November 2010, and had suggested that privacy would be a central feature – in which you would "share life with the ones you love", but not the whole web.But the revelation about Path led to the discovery that a number of apps were silently uploading users' address book contents to their own servers: the writer Dustin Curtisreportedat the time that "there's a quiet understanding among many iOS [iPhone and iPad] app developers that it is acceptable to send a user's entire address book, without their permission, to remote servers and then store it for future reference. It's common practice, and many companies likely have your address book stored in their database."That, in turn, led to questions for Apple chief executive Tim Cook about privacy, to which the companyrepliedthat accessing address books without permission was a breach of guidelines, and would be stopped by subsequent updates.Apple altered the permission system in iOS 6, the latest version of iOS, released in September, so that any app that tries to access the address book must get explicit permission from the user. But there is still no detail on whether that data is copied and uploaded to the company's servers, or simply accessed once for information.
It's time for our weekly roundup of the newest and most notable iPhone and iPad apps, from racing thrills and games where you definitely shouldn't be afraid of no ghosts, through to Moomins, cartoon cats and Teen Vogue interns.It follows the earlier publication of this week's 30 best Android apps roundup. As ever, prices in brackets relate to the initial download, so in-app purchases may be included – especially for games.Read on for this week's selection. Oh, but also note that Future's innovativeFootball Weekmagazine-app is also due out today, but hadn't gone live at the time this app was published: it'll be in next week's roundup, butread more about it in this interview.Table Top Racing (£1.99)Developer Playrise Edge is new to iOS but not new to racing games – they co-created Wipeout with Sony back in the day. Now they're targeting touchscreens with this excellent shooty-racing game, with up to four players at once racing one another around table-top courses.iPhone / iPadAdobe VideoBite (Free)One has to wonder if Adobe's developers were cursing when the release of their impressive-looking new video-sharing app came alongside Twitter's higher-profile Vine. VideoBite is different though: it gets you to play your video clips and "favourite" the best bits, which it then combines into clips to share.iPhoneStar Trek App (Free)Bad news for British Star Trek fans: this app is US-only for now. It's the work of Paramount Digital Entertainment as a promotion for the upcoming Star Trek Into Darkness film, sending fans out hunting for billboards and posters in the real world to snap, earn points and unlock videos and other content. Trailers and videos can also be sound-scanned for the same purposes.iPhonePixel People (Free)Chillingo's Pixel People has the makings of a craze, with its on-trend pixelly graphics and gameplay that combines city-building with person-matching: you combine two people's genes to unlock new professions, which can then be put to work in your thriving metropolis.iPhone / iPadGhostbusters (Free)Who you gonna call? Possibly your bank manager with an explanation of why you've cleaned your account out buying virtual powercores in this freemium game. Yes, it's based on the classic Ghostbusters film, as you go spook-hunting in New York, upgrading your kit and hiring new staff as you go. Very addictive.iPhone / iPadHello! for iPhone (Free)Celebrity magazine Hello! already has a digital edition for iOS, but this is different: an iPhone news app offering stories and photos from the Hello! website. Expect quick fixes of news in categories including Celebrity, Royalty, Fashion and Goodness Me What Colour is Donatella Versace Now? Well, three of the four.iPhoneMoomin and the Lost Belongings (£1.49)Long live the Moomins! Spinfy has the official licence to make Moomin apps, and this is a storybook for kids (and nostalgic adults, obviously) with an adventure starring Moomin, Snufkin, Little My and Snork Maiden as they hunt for some lost belongings.iPhone / iPadNFL Matchups (Free)Japanese social games giant DeNA wants to get more Western gamers hooked on card-battling games. Swapping out monsters and wizards for NFL (American) footballers is one strategy. This is an official NFL game that sees you collecting digital cards to play against others over the network.iPhoneBT Cloud (Free)British ISP BT has quietly launched its own cloud storage service, just for its residential broadband customers. They can upload their photos, videos and other files to a central server, then access them from various devices – including, through this app, iOS devices. It also backs up content from the device to the cloud.iPhone / iPadHarman Kardon Play (Free)Audio brand Harman Kardon has released this new music player app for iOS, which offers an "album flow" interface to swipe through your collection – a bit like Apple's own Cover Flow – while also offering remote-control features for Harman Kardon products. AirPlay and Bluetooth are both supported for wireless streaming.iPhone / iPadJam.it (£2.99)This is a very intriguing music-making app from SK Planet, which wants to get people collaborating over the network mixing beats, loops and samples together, then sharing the results through Facebook, Twitter, SoundCloud and/or Dropbox.iPhoneWombi Treasures (£1.49)Swedish children's apps publisher Wombi is on a bit of a roll at the moment, with Wombi Treasures its latest engaging app for kids. It gets children exploring the world for buried treasure, learning to read maps as they go. Playful and very fun.iPhone / iPadAngela's Valentine (Free)Millions of people are still going bonkers for the Talking Friends apps, and the Android version of this Valentine's spin-off has already topped 500k downloads in its first week. On Android and iOS alike, the app is a mixture of postcard templates to send to loved ones, music videos starring feline characters Angela and Talking Tom Cat, and suitably romantic animations.iPhone / iPadThe Nutcracker - by Timbuktu (£0.69)This children's app looks lovely: a combination of digital storytelling and extracts from Tchaikovsky's The Nutcracker ballet score. Kids will be striking eight o'clock by tapping an owl, battling an army of mice, jumping on a nutshell and more in this interactive adventure.iPhone / iPadMini-U: Zoo Alphabet (£1.49)There are lots of children's apps mixing alphabet-education and animals. This is one of the latest, and the cutest. It offers animated flash-cards for every letter, each with an animal. Expect giraffes and zebras, but also Komodo dragons, jellyfishes and newts for a dash of originality. Mini-games and a quiz help kids learn their letters, with the promise of more animals to come.iPadBaseball Superstars 2013 (Free)Gamevil's Baseball Superstars games have been popular around the world (well, probably more so in the countries that play baseball). Having switched to a freemium model, the game sees you batting and pitching your way to glory, training up your player, taking on others over the network, and completing daily RPG-style quests as you go.iPhone / iPadTHX Tune-up (Free)This is a really practical app from home-cinema brand THX to help you set up your TV, speakers and projector in a room, positioning and connecting all the different devices just so, while tuning their settings. It also plays THX trailers and surround-sound audio demos, and has a novelty "moo can" feature. As you do.iPhone / iPadFighting Fantasy: House of Hell (£3.99)This app from Tin Man Games is the latest in its interactive remakes of the Fighting Fantasy gamebooks from the 1980s. It puts you in the position of a hero battling through monsters and traps through dice-rolling skills alone.iPhone / iPadFoursquare for Business (Free)This is Foursquare's equivalent of Facebook's Pages Manager app: a tool for business use rather than consumers. In this case, it's for venues who want a mobile way to monitor their Foursquare visitors, while also posting their own updates and special deals to the social location service.iPhoneThe Nudge List (Free)This is very nice: a stylish iPad app drawing its content from the Nudgemenow website, offering the "ten best, most important and most interesting stories from the week in books and film". The design is kept simple for a curated guide to what's hot in British culture.iPadHalf-Inch Heist (Free)More pixellated gaming goodness on iOS with this title from developer Mutant Labs. It sees you trying to rob a priceless diamond back from nefarious villain "Dr Puss", exploring retro levels and fending off a range of characterful foes.iPhoneTeen Vogue Me Girl (Free)I can be an intern at Teen Vogue? Isn't being a 35 year-old man a hindrance? Oh. This is very much a virtual internship opportunity at the teen-fashion mag, targeted at its young readers. It's a "3D fashion game" where they take part in various magazine assignments, while customising their 3D avatar.iPhone / iPadAnycabs (Free)Anycabs is one of a clutch of minicab price-comparison and booking apps in the UK, working in London, Manchester and Birmingham at the time of writing. It promises more than 10k licensed minicabs in its database, to provide a range of quotes for journeys.iPhoneJabra Sound (£2.99)This is an app from headset brand Jabra, although it works with other corded and wireless headsets too. The idea: a music player using Dolby Digital Plus technology that lets you tweak your settings to suit your current genre and/or playlist.iPhone / iPadGro Book (£1.99)This is a children's storybook-app with a heroine called Sophie the Sweater. No, she doesn't have a medical problem: she's an actual jumper, abandoned in a clothing store until she gets taken on an adventure – including being recycled into various items of clothing and objects. As you may have guessed, there's an ecological message here: "consumption and reuse", but with colourful visuals and an appealing story to ensure it's not dry.iPhone / iPadSki Jumping Pro (£0.69)Real Boxing gave sports fans a thrill on iOS in 2012, but its follow-up is an altogether more wintery affair. Ski Jumping Pro sees you leaping off ramps through several tournaments and a fulfilling career mode, upgrading items as you progress. As with Real Boxing, the graphics are very impressive.iPhone / iPadKairo (£2.99)Kairo started life on desktop computers, but has now made the leap to smartphones and tablets. It's a combination of exploration and puzzle-solving in an eerie 3D world.iPhone / iPadMeet the Insects: Village Edition (£2.49)Children love bugs and they love tablets, so what could be more suitable than an iPad app all about bugs? That's what NCSoft has produced with Meet the Insects, which offers a mixture of photos, videos and audio narration about insects big and small. Well, mostly small, obviously...iPadGangster Granny 2: Madness (£0.69)Grannies love guns and they love 3D shooters, so what could be more... Oh, wait. No, this is a sequel to Black Bullet Games' previous first-pensioner-shooter game on iOS, with three modes, lots of weapon upgrades and not a zimmer-frame in sight.iPhonePuzzle by Chocolapps (£1.49)One final children's app to round off the week, from developer Chocolapps. This offers virtual jigsaw puzzles, with four modes to suit different ages and the option to use your own photos for new puzzles when you've worked through the preloaded ones.iPhone / iPadThat's our pick of the week, but what have you been enjoying on iOS? Make your recommendations or say what you think of the apps above in the comments section.
Here's a graph to worry Microsoft - and hearten Apple and Google. It shows smartphone, PC and tablet shipments, going back to the fourth quarter of 2009 - when Windows 7 launched. At that time, smartphones were only really used in the bigger developed countries; shipments (which aren't the same as end-user sales during a specific time period, but generally work out that way over a few quarters) were just about 55m, while PC shipments were riding high, at 90m.Smartphone, PC and tablet shipments by quarter from 4Q 2009. Source: IDCTablets, of course, hadn't been (re)invented. There were a few, in specialist areas, running Windows; but generally the figures were tiny, and subsumed into PC shipments, at around 1m per year.Then in January 2010, Apple came along and upset things. The iPad went on sale in the second quarter of 2010 and sold 3.27m - eclipsing the tablet market that Microsoft thought it had created all those years ago. Other companies quickly caught on to the possibilities (particularly Samsung, which had the manufacturing capability for large touch screens - because it was making them for Apple), especially when they realised that they could use the free Android OS (rather than the pricey Windows OS) to power them.Smartphones, meanwhile, passed PC shipments in the fourth (Christmas) quarter of 2010, and haven't looked back; now quarterly figures are more than double those of PCs, and there's no sign that trend will let up. The smartphone is the ubiquitous computing device for this part of the 21st century.The story for PCs since then hasn't been stellar, though it hasn't been disastrous either; they have plugged along, though the sales in the fourth quarter of 2011 - 95.5m - seem to have been the high water mark. The release of Windows 8 in October 2012 didn't goose sales as expected; instead they dipped in the quarter, and as the first quarter of a calendar year doesn't see much growth (and certainly not sequential growth), they're likely to sit somewhere below the 90m level in this quarter.Tablet takeoffTablets, though - those have taken off. IDC's figures released on Thursday showa tablet market that is in overdrive. And the most worrying thing for Microsoft is that the part of the market which seems to be growing fastest is the one where it has no presence: in 7in devices.The data also says that Apple's share of shipments has fallen below 50% - and given that it's at 43.6%, and with shipments of Microsoft's Surface RT tablet estimated at "just shy" of 900,000, or 1.7% of the total market, that means that Android tablets now make up the majority of shipments (even if IDC doesn't specify that).Even there, though, there's some finessing to be done: Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble, respectively offering the Kindle Fire and Nook, together shifted an estimated 7m units, or 13.4%. They are "forked" versions of Android, from which Google doesn't get any direct benefit (apart from the general one of people being online - which is always a benefit for Google).A notable presence there is Samsung, which grew its tablet shipments nearly fourfold to 7.9m. The South Korean company has been aggressively pushing its tablets, with promotions in a number of UK stores, for example, where signing up for a contract with a Samsung Galaxy S3 gets you a free tablet too. If you needed any proof that it's going aggressively after market share, with a view to equalling - and surpassing - Apple in tablet shipments, look no further.But what story does this data tell more generally? Tom Mainelli, IDC's research director for tablets, says with the results that "The record-breaking quarter [for tablets] stands in stark contrast to the PC market, which saw shipments decline during the quarter for the first time in more than five years."Small is bigIt certainly does. And the rise of the 7in tablet - in the form of the Kindle Fire, Nook, Nexus 7, Samsung Galaxy Tab 7, and iPad mini - points to an evolution of the market too, towards smaller, lighter devices that you can carry and use anywhere. It's a general principle in the technology field that small and light (even if slightly less functional) beats bigger and heavier, even if more functional. That's part of why we use smartphones on the go rather than 3G-connected PCs.Looking at the IDC statistics, the total of Amazon, Barnes &amp; Noble and Asus's shipments make 10.1m units - and it's a fairly safe bet that almost all of those are 7in devices. Nobody knows how many iPad minis Apple sold, but if only a third of the 22.9m figure were, then 7in tablets made up at least 17m units of the 52.5m, or nearly a third.This creates two problems for Microsoft. First, it hasn't yet got any traction in the tablet market: the Surface RT has made no splash at all with buyers. Many OEM PC companies have indicated that they'll either hold off on producing RT devices, or said that they won't start selling them in the US until later this year.The second problem is that Microsoft has absolutely nothing to offer the market in the 7in space. Windows 8 is optimised for screens with a minimum size of 11in diagonally; the touch targets don't downscale effectively to a 7in screen. Furthermore, at that level any Windows device would be competing with phone OSs - iOS and Android.But Microsoft's business model is to charge the biggest licence fee it can manage in a market. It wouldn't let OEMs build 10in tablets running Windows Phone, because it wanted the larger licence revenue from Windows (or Windows RT).Too big to think small?When it comes to 7in tablets, Microsoft might want to call it a "tablet" - and hence deserving of a Windows licence. But OEMs would want to put Windows Phone on it, because the licence is cheaper, even if it might not be the ideal OS. (Windows 8's Metro interface would certainly make more sense on a 7in tablet, but the economics would be murderous for OEMs up against Android at the low end and Apple at the high end: there would be no profit margin.)And that's before we start wondering when, precisely, tablets might start outselling PCs. Don't laugh - there was a time when to suggest that about smartphones would have been ludicrous too. It's telling that IDC has been issuing regular forecasts for tablet shipments and PC shipments since mid-2011, and the tablet numbers keep going up with each successive forecast (the adjacent blocks in the graphic) while the total PC numbers forecast keep going down.GRAPHICHow IDC's forecasts for PC and tablet shipments have evolved over time: towards more tablets, fewer PCs. Source: IDC.So that crossing point for tablets might come sooner than you think. NPD DisplaySearchforecasts that they will overtake notebook shipments this year. And with desktop sales shrinking, that wouldn't leave a large gap to overhaul the whole PC space.IDC's advice? Ryan Reith, its program manager, Mobile Device Trackers, says with the press release: "We believe that Microsoft and its partners need to quickly adjust to the market realities of smaller screens and lower prices. In the long run, consumers may grow to believe that high-end computing tablets with desktop operating systems are worth a higher premium than other tablets, but until then ASPs [average selling prices] on Windows 8 and Windows RT devices need to come down to drive higher volumes."Sensible words. But is Microsoft listening, and more than that, can it move quickly enough to embrace that change?
Last autumn, four London-based friends, who prefer to remain anonymous, got to talking about reappropriating the acronym EDL from the English Defence League and "putting it to better use".It started as a joke but they soon realised that it could becomea more ambitious campaign.So they formed the English Disco Loversand wrote a manifesto expressing their aim to oust the existing EDL from the top of Google's search results and outdo them onFacebook. They even have a logo, a shield-shaped mirrorball, and a Latin motto:Unus Mundus, Una Gens, Una Disco(One World, One Race, One Disco)."I don't think any of us could say we were disco fans before," they explain via email, "but as we've heard more and grown to understand the message, we've found ourselves identifying with it. Disco has always been a scapegoat for racism and homophobia. English Disco Lovers is turning the tables in favour of equality and respect."An English Disco Lovers poster. Photograph: English Disco LoversThe disco EDL's methods echo satiricalGoogle bombing campaignssuch as writer Dan Savage's successful 2003 effort to make"santorum"a lurid sexual euphemism in response to Senator Rick Santorum's homophobic comments. But by enlivening a serious point with playful humour, they are also true to disco's hidden politics.Thelate 70s disco boomcoincided with the surging popularity of the National Front and the musical counter-attack ofRock Against Racism, but there was little overlap. RAR called for "Crisis music. Now music. Music that knows who the real enemy is," which meant punk and reggae, not the seemingly cheerful hedonism of disco.However, disco grew out of marginalised subcultures – black, Latino and gay – with an inherent message of unity and self-expression. Some records made this explicit. Thelyrics to the O'Jays' Love Train, the proto-disco anthem quoted in the EDL's manifesto, were written by politically committed Philadelphia soul kingpin Kenny Gamble. Chic's Nile Rodgers prided himself on sneaking veiled political messages into the band's colossal hits.Reading this on mobile?Click here to view the videoToday the disco EDL stepped up their campaign by launching a website. They've had some hate mail from the other EDL, of course, but the scale of the positive response, includingover 10,000 Facebook likesand offers of practical support from musicians and promoters, has surprised them. Even if it began as a joke, the English Disco Lovers' deployment of wit and fun as weapons against belligerent xenophobia is a fine tribute to disco's subversive utopian vision.
The Elders Scrolls Online (TESO) splits players into three factions, and the rivalry between them is what its Player v Player (PvP) system is built on. This is also an area where game director Matt Firor's previous work has particular relevance; the standout title on a long CV being Mythic's Dark Age of Camelot.Released in 2001 and still running, Camelot had an asymmetric take on PvP termed 'Realm Vs Realm' constructed around three very different factions, and is still considered one of (if not the)benchmarks for MMOG PvP design."Yes we have a PvP progression system that we haven't really talked about yet," says Firor. "And in beta we'll go further into this, but you get Alliance Points the more you PvP, you get more abilities, and in that sense it's similar to Camelot where we had Realm Points.In Camelot, though, we had like 47 classes that were all different, and after a while it was much more difficult to balance than it should have been – so if we've learned anything in the 11 years since, it's let the players create the characters they want, and balance from there."To this end, TESO lets any player, regardless of class or race, use any piece of equipment. "So it's symmetrical in the sense that everyone has the same options, but of course not everyone's going to choose the same ones." That raises the prospect of homogenisation; players rapidly deciding which weapons are optimised, and then hundreds of them running around waving the same sword."As game designers you have to solve those problems no matter what class or character system you have," laughs Firor. "In a true class-based system, you run the risk everyone rolls the same class, but in a more open one, the players will very much from the beginning try to find the most powerful build, and it's our job to ensure that there are many viable builds."I'm left wondering whether there will be any hard differences between the classes. Races in the Elder Scrolls traditionally have inherent buffs, and according to Firor these remain "a point of differentiation." But perhaps my thinking is too informed by the MMOG conventions TESO is trying to move clear of. "We're really trying to de-emphasise quote-unquote 'classes'," says Firor."And [we want to] make the player's development more about their choices. So for example, we want to give everyone access to something like having pets – if they want to. Right now a perk lets you be a pet person, so if you want that ability, you can go and get it." A brief digression about crafting; Firor says Skyrim players should expect a familiar system, and also mentions the ability to enchant weapons.PvP takes place in the huge central zone of Cyrodil, and the obvious question is how many players can get involved. "We're planning on having 2,000 people at once in Cyrodil," says Firor."In a particular fight, our client is optimised to have 200 players on-screen at one time, which means you'll have very large battles within an even larger battlefield."Such numbers means plenty of different player levels participating, an issue TESO solves by automatically increasing everyone's stats."Everyone gets boosted up to the max level," explains Firor. "But you don't get abilities you haven't earned yet – just the hit points and stuff." A typical PvP battle might be a large-scale city assault, with one team defending, while the other is battering gates, firing trebuchets, and trying to sneak in through poorly-defended side-routes."We've designed the system to let players do all of those things, and it's up to them to figure out which tactics work better – but generally, if your entire army is in front of the gate and just beating the walls, you're gonna lose. Carrying the day needs teamwork."A larger concern is how the melee combat of Skyrim and Oblivion, which is functional but somewhat unrefined, can be re-engineered for competitive play. "It does work the same way mechanically in PvP as it does in PvE," says Firor. "So you swing with the left mouse and block with the right mouse, but there are a couple of new moves, like a really fast left click then right click will stun someone, plus things like doubletapping a key to roll away."We're playing around with all of this now, but obviously with PvP we have to keep on testing and refining – and this will really be helped with the large number of testers we'll get in beta – that'll let us hone the system on a large scale.""Very soon" is the most precise date Firor offers for the beta. "One of the joys of making games like this is that they're on such a massive scale, you need to get a whole lot of players into them to kind of see where you are."How big is the beta and how long will it run? "For as long as it takes for us to prove we're ready to launch, and we'll have as many people in as we can, especially because with a PvP system which supports thousands of players we really need multiple thousands to test that effectively."TESO inspires strong reactions among Elder Scrolls fans, and questions that will only be answered with the beta and many hours spent in its world. It's too easy to think about TESO as merely some sort of composite work, a series of singleplayer epics re-jigged into one massively multiplayer world. Too easy and so wrong-headed.I close by asking Matt Firor how TESO will silence the naysayers and pull players in – as well as keeping them there. "So the answer to that is pretty simple; if you have a good game, people will play it. It's got to be long-term compelling, it has to be fun, and if you do that, all the other questions answer themselves." Like most people involved in creating remarkable things, he makes it sound so easy.
It's time for our weekly roundup of the newest and most notable Android apps, with another crop of 30 apps for you this week.The roundup includes apps and games, with the prices in brackets referring to the initial download – so there may be in-app purchases involved when you see (Free), particularly for games.The weekly iOS roundup will follow later in the day. For now, let's start with...Epic Citadel (Free)No, Infinity Blade still isn't available on Android, despite plenty of requests. But Epic Games has released Epic Citadel, an Unreal Engine 3-powered chance to explore the Infinity Blade games' fantasy town. It's a technical showcase rather than a game, but you'd hope it's a positive sign for the full IF experience coming to Android sooner rather than later.BT Cloud (Free)British ISP BT has quietly launched its own cloud storage service, just for its residential broadband customers. They can upload their photos, videos and other files to a central server, then access them from various devices – including, through this app, Android devices. It also backs up content from the device to the cloud.NFL Quarterback 13 (£1.39)Just in time for the Super Bowl, Full Fat's excellent NFL Quarterback game gets a 2013 version. As last year, your job is to fling passes to your wide receivers while avoiding getting sacked or intercepted – with fluid touchscreen gestures controlling the action.Wombi Treasures (£2.29)Swedish children's apps publisher Wombi is on a bit of a roll at the moment, with Wombi Treasures its latest engaging Android app for kids. It gets children exploring the world for buried treasure, learning to read maps as they go. Playful and very fun.Gigs and Tours (Free)For too long, many ticketing services have been frankly rubbish when accessed through a phone. That's changing: here's the official Android app from British tickets site Gigsandtours, for finding gigs and buying tickets, as well as some fun features to use while there. Virtual klaxon anyone? Oh.RBS 6 Nations Championship App (Free)Rugby's 6 Nations tournament is about to kick off, and yes, there's an official app for that – on Android as well as iOS this year. Expect news, team lineups and match previews before games, plus live commentary during them and ideo highlights and analysis afterwards.Carbon - App Sync and Backup (Free)This looks a useful tool for Android owners: a way to backup apps and data to the SD card or to cloud services including Dropbox, Box and Google Drive, without needing to root the device first. Full features require a £3.17 upgrade to the premium version, though.Foursquare for Business (Free)This is Foursquare's equivalent of Facebook's Pages Manager app: a tool for business use rather than consumers. In this case, it's for venues who want a mobile way to monitor their Foursquare visitors, while also posting their own updates and special deals to the social location service.Madagascar: My ABCs (£1.85)Another children's app here, starring some familiar characters from the Madagascar films. It focuses on the alphabet and letter sounds, including getting kids to practise writing upper and lower-case letters.Wowmum Maps UK (Free)And now something for parents – dads as well as mums, despite the name. It's an app to find "child-friendly places" around the UK, based on your current location. Divided into Eat, Play and Pamper categories, it covers more than 10,000 places from pram-friendly restaurants to soft-play centres.Dream House Days (Free)I am one of a growing number of mobile gamers who repeatedly run their batteries into the ground playing any new game from Japanese developer Kairosoft. This latest is a freemium title where you play "both architect and landlord", building your own real estate then attracting tenants.Sketch O Paint (Free)This looks good fun: a drawing app for Android smartphones and tablets with an emphasis on ink'n'line art, with digital brushes and nibs, and the ability to save and share the sketches you create to your device's gallery.EverClip Pro: Web Clipper (£1.99)Evernote has its own very-popular Android app, but this is a third-party app designed to help you "clip" images, text and websites to your Evernote account through simple touchscreen controls. It's the paid version of an existing free app.Scoopt (Free)Scoopt is the latest attempt to nail the social-location-recommendations app genre, promising to help you "find the right place fast, at home or abroad". Shopping, restaurants and bars are all included, with integration of Instagram for visual flair, and Facebook for sharing your discoveries.Angela's Valentine (Free)Millions of people are still going bonkers for the Talking Friends apps, and this Valentine's spin-off has already topped 500k Android downloads in its first week. The app is a mixture of postcard templates to send to loved ones, music videos starring feline characters Angela and Talking Tom Cat, and suitably romantic animations.FeedMe (Free)More restaurant-hunting appage here, but this time focused on the US. This app uses data from Factual.com, which pulls in restaurant details from 40 sources including Yelp, Foursquare and Zagat. The idea: quick recommendations for places to eat, with aggregated reviews.Dungeon Quest (Free)You can't beat a good dungeon-based action-RPG, which is exactly what Dungeon Quest looks like. Available in beta, it sees you playing a wizard and exploring 100 dungeon levels battling monsters, collecting treasure and then upgrading it. The full version of the game is due in the next couple of months.Cracking Sands (£3.11)Another game here: "an action-packed racer featuring a band of merry lunatics driving small vehicles fitted with big guns". Which just about summarises it. The joy isn't just in the racing, but in the customisation as you tweak your kart and its weapons for maximum speed and destruction.AppLock Pro (£1.27)The free version of AppLock has been really popular on Android, passing 5m downloads with its ability to lock individual apps on your device using passwords or patterns. This is the paid version, promising extra features and customisation.Cubes vs. Spheres (£0.61)This shape-based physics-action game is a port from iOS, and sees you flicking spheres at waves of onrushing cubes, blowing them up, freezing them and generally playing havoc. Spiffing 3D visuals teamed with intuitive touchscreen gestures make this perfect for mobile play.Wheresmytime (Free)"Have you ever asked yourself: where did I spend my time last month?" asks the Google Play listing for this app. In my case, the answer is invariably "digging through listings on Google Play and the App Store". Enough flippancy though: this is a "time-tracking app" that runs in the background recording how much time you spend in specific locations, then displays it on a map.Kal Virtual Trainer (£0.63)The great big muscly arm on this app's icon leaves you in no doubt about its fitness focus: it's a workout app with 200 resistance, cardio and flexibility exercises, offering step-by-step text instructions and video demos. A separate feature generates workout plans for you based on your goal, level of fitness, available equipment and available time, stringing exercises together accordingly.Do Not Disturb (£1.57)Meet the "21st century answering machine" for Android, which intercepts incoming calls and texts when directed to send a text response explaining why you're not picking up / replying. More than 150 reasons are grouped into categories to ensure people know exactly what you're up to.The Kissing Hand (Free)This is the latest storybook-app for children from Oceanhouse Media, but unlike most others, it's free – as part of a campaign for the print version in aid of kids in Newtown, the US town where 20 children and six teachers were killed by a gunman in December 2012. The story is about a young raccoon called Chester, and his mother's love for him. Voice narration and word-highlighting helps young readers get to grips with the story.Questionary Free (Free)Everyone wants to be the next Draw Something or SongPop in the mobile social gaming world at the moment. Questionary is one of the games looking for a big audience – in this case with questions about films, sports, music, TV and media with which you can challenge Facebook friends and strangers alike.RetroArch Android (Free)Game emulation? It's a controversial subject with plenty of legal nuances, so take this as information rather than recommendation. RetroArch is a well-regarded emulator for vintage consoles and handhelds, including Sony's first PlayStation and Nintendo's NES. It's now made its Android debut.Guess The Movie (Free)Guess The Movie is off to a very strong start with more than 50k Android installs so far. It gets you guessing films from "simplified posters" of them, with hundreds to guess from, and Hangman-style hints if you're struggling.InstaWeatherHD (£0.63)I'm still a bit hazy on why you'd want to "weather stamp" the photos you take on your smartphone, but if the idea appeals, InstaWeather HD at least looks like a slick way to do it. The app shares photos in high-resolution to Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and other services.Tiny Phone People (£0.99)Or, as one of its developers puts it: "Just like Little Computer People from the olden days". Which is a comparison to conjure with, if you remember that game from the mid-to-late 1980s. Tiny Phone People is less a game and more an interactive Live Wallpaper for Android, with a male or female character wandering around the virtual house eating, sleeping and performing other activities.Valentine's day: 14 Free Apps (Free)Another Valentine-themed app, but no cats this time. Instead, this is an app recommending 14 other Android apps, all free, "to get you ready for the romantic mood". It's survey-based model is a potentially-interesting take on app discovery, although its appeal will obviously depend on the quality of the apps recommended.That's this week's 30 best Android apps roundup, but what have you been using on your device? Make your recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Start spreading the news ... Sony is hitting New York on 20 February and invites are going out to the global technology press. We're thinking this isn't to reveal a new video-on-demand partner, or an update to the PlayStation Network service. No, this is it. This is PlayStation 4.Are you excited? Is the industry? These are the big questions right now. The mainstream console business has cut itself adrift from the traditional five-year generational cycle and, since the last one, the world has changed immeasurably. Smartphones, tablets, phablets, smart TVs, android boxes, Steam Boxes – none of that was around when PlayStation 3 juddered expensively into existence seven years ago. So what will Sony's answer be to the post-console world?There have been lots of leaks, lots of rumours. Last April, werethe reportsthat the new machine would be called Orbis, and that it would be build around an AMD CPU array with a Radeon graphics processor. Fans were dismayed by gossip that the machine might somehow block the use of pre-owned games – we'll see if there can really be any truth in that. Then in November wereadthat PS4 dev kits were going out to studios, complete with AMD A10 chipsets, which combine the CPU and GPU into one thrifty unit.The specs, right now:"We believe thespecs revealed by Digital Foundryon Eurogamer last month are accurate," says Tom Bramwell, Eurogamer's editor. "Eight-core AMD processor at 1.6GHz, Radeon HD hardware with 18 Compute cores, a custom GPU-esque Compute module for handling things like physics, and 4GB DDR5, with 512MB reserved for the OS. Beyond that I'm not sure, but I believe DualShock will return ..."I've heard interesting things about the joypad. Sony was definitely working on a prototype extension of its iconic controller, possibly featuring either a touchpad between the two analogue sticks, or its own screen – like the Wii U's GamePad. It could be though, that gamers will get the choice to use the Vita as a controller, doing away with the need to manufacture another game pad with a display. Whatever, it will almost certainly have all the extra stuff – rumble (left off the original PS3 controllers), motion sensors, etc.The screen output:Well, there have beenmutteringsof support for the incoming ultra high definition 4K sets. Indeed, Sony showed off 4K televisions and camcorders at the CES event in January, and would surely want PS4 to act as an early cheerleader for the tech, just as PS3 did with Blu-ray.The games:This is another crucial factor, of course. Sony still commands a decent roster of exclusives and many will be expecting at least one of Gran Turismo 6, Uncharted 4 or Killzone 4 (even though, when PS3 arrived, it only really had Ridge Racer 7 and Resistance: Fall of Man as tent pole titles). The next step would be to work on some timed exclusives – perhaps the next Assassin's Creed, maybe GTA V? Possibly Star Wars 1313 or enhanced versions of Ubisoft's much-heralded Watchdogs or Metal Gear Solid: Ground Zeroes. Microsoft and Sonymustbe fighting for this stuff.One thing's for sure. Developers will now feel they have cart blanche to start talking about their PS4 plans. "The overriding feeling this morning is relief," says Neil Long, online editor ofEdge Magazine. "GDC 2013 would have been terribly awkward if developers weren't able to speak freely – we know plenty of studios under extremely strict NDAs who are desperate to talk about what they're working on".The online services:Sony will need to offer a much more robust iteration of PlayStation Network if it is to tempt casual users and gamers alike. Last year the company bought cloud gaming service Gaikai for $380m, so we can expect some kind of streaming service for games and video content. This may well tie in with an updated version of the subscription-based PlayStation Plus initiative, giving users access to as many games, movies and music videos as they like for a set monthly feel. Whatever the case the console will need to be packed with video-on-demand partnerships: it's not just about games anymore – we all know that.There will also need to be a seamless social networking system, and brilliant integration with other screens, be they smartphones or tablets. Wii U is doing this, Microsoft is doing it with SmartGlass. It's all about the pervasive offering these days."The future will be about connectivity," said one development source, who wishes to remain anonymous. "How fast can you download and play? Are patch downloads a pain? Does match-making get you to your friends really easily? Are all the games slick enough when it comes to online functionality? Will standard services like voice chat and/or video be easily available via the bios and within all games, not just on a per game basis? It will come down to services and software."The timing:So Sony has blinked first. Is that a good thing? "Yes," says Bramwell. "If the new Xbox is slightly weaker, as rumoured, then that's even more impetus to get PS4 out there into the hands of media, gamers and developers, as it will help press any technical advantage and Microsoft will have to operate in the context of whatever Sony announces."With that said, Sony will want to avoid the same blunders that marked the lead up to PS3 – flip-flopping on rumble, the target render controversy and things of that nature – because Microsoft is good at chasing down wounded competitors."Michael French at industry news sourceMCVagrees: "We've known for ages that Xbox is gearing up – and even has its own E3 countdown – so to pull the rug out is a cunning move that could least will grab huge PR and awareness. Sony also cannot allow theappearanceof being behind – something that blighted PS3 even once that stopped being true. Announcing early will also help prime those crucial developer relations too, of course."The upstart rivals:OK, so Sony is clearly competing against Microsoft, but they're not the only players in this game anymore. Android consoles like the Ouya and Gamestick, Nvidia's Project Shield and some form of Valve Steam Box are all due this year and have generated a lot of interest. How much does Sony have to worry about them? "The big challenge posed by the upstart consoles is their speed to market and big addressable audience," says French. "Key details – such as backward compatibility, release date, price – could help Sony maintain or gain an edge. I don't think it would move too far towards the open platform, but it would do well to learn lessons from how developers of all sizes have been able to deploy games swiftly and relatively cheaply on platforms like Steam."So New York it is then. "If I can make it there, I'll make it anywhere," sang Frank Sinatra. Sony will be hoping the same.
Thehack of the New York Times, almost certainly by Chinese hackers working for the military and/or Chinese government, provides a number of important lessons about the modern world of hacking.They are: antivirus won't help if you are being targeted by top-level hackers: the New York Times was using Symantec's offering; but out of 45 pieces of custom malware, Symantec's software identified just one.And: universities and other academic locations are prime stepping stones for hackers looking to get into bigger, better protected systems: the Chinese hackers used systems at the universities of North Carolina, Arizona, Wisconsin and Nex Mexico, as well as a number of smaller companies.(By the way, "hackers" here is used as "people who break into systems without the owners' permission". The older use, of "someone who plays around with what computers can do", has long since been subsumed into the newer one.)The full story of the attack -in its four-month full detail- is hair-raising reading.But the reality is that while everyone might have heard of Anonymous, the hackers you really need to worry about are the ones you haven't heard of.In fact it's very easy to understand the world of hacking. It splits into three layers, each almost hermetically sealed off from the other, and each almost indifferent to the other.The three levels, in increasing order of ability and decreasing order of visibility, is:•the amateurs. The prime example of these is Anonymous, the loose collective of hackers who are roughly organised around a few ideas - that anyone can be a member, that anyone can speak for them, and that if enough of you (even if not most or all) can agree on a target, then they'll go after it. Some of themaren't particularly great hackers; to quote Judge Peter Testar, who was in charge of the trial of three British members of Anonymous recently, "The defendants were actually rather arrogant," Testar said. "They thought they were far too clever to be caught and used various methods to try to cloak and preserve their anonymity. It seems to me that the police were a little bit more clever than the conspirators."Sometimes it's hard to know whether the claims are correct: in September 2012 some Anonymous membersclaimed to have hacked an FBI agent's laptopand stolen a million user details stored on it. Instead, they'd beentaken from a web publisher,BlueToad.Some Anonymous members are, however, pretty accomplished; "Sabu" - real name Hector Monsegur - certainly showed aptitude, and led the LulzSec crew during what we might call the Summer of Lulz in 2011. They were able to cover their tracks and carry out various incursions against small and large sites, and it may have only been Monsegur's complicity (he had been caught by the FBI, and was in effect a double agent) that led to their early arrest.But the point about Anonymous, and pretty much any amateur, is that they're doing it to get noticed, for whatever reason. Even though Gary McKinnon wasn't trying to deface sites, he was looking for "hidden" evidence about UFOs - and you can be sure that if he'd found it, he would have made it public.Next up are•the commercial hackers. These are the people who steal and trade credit card details, write (or tweak) the software that infects machines to create spambots, do browser hijacks, and so on. They're very much focussed on the commercial side; making money is the name of the game. To them, Anonymous are those annoying kids who go around bringing too much attention to the weaknesses of computers. There's a definite tension between the commercial hackers and Anonymous; although they're both aware of each other, Anonymous can't take down the commercial hackers - it's risky to take on people who might resort to real violence.Commercial hacking is a gigantic business; the estimates vary, but in terms of the cost to companies, they're always in the billions. The trading of stolen data is common on hidden web forums; you have to know someone to get to them.But the commercial hackers aren't necessarily the most capable. That prize goes to the next group, who are barely ever glimpsed - except at times like this:•government and military hackers. These are the people working for the National Security Agency (NSA) or MI6 or Israel's Mossad or whichever country's secret service you'd like to focus on. These are the people who write software such asStuxnet, which is so stealthy that it was deployed in 2008 but wasn't detected until 2010, having wreaked havoc on Iran's uranium processing systems. As a strategy, you have to say it was brilliant: a bomb attack on the facility would have caused a gigantic political row, and might not have succeeded (because the facility is deep underground). But as long as its computers are connected, the right piece of malware can get in.These are the people behind attacks like that on the New York Times, for while there might be some angry keyboard warriors in China about the fact that the NYT sometimes isn't totally supportive of the Party line, the fact that the attacks began ahead of the publication of the first story, and continued for four months using zero-day hacks (which is why Symantec's AV couldn't detect them) tells you that these were not angry amateurs. Instead they were professional - to the extent, the investigators at Mandiant said, that they would start at 8am Beijing time, and work normal hours, with the occasional burst going through to midnight in Beijing - equivalent to 11am in New York. In effect, the Chinese hackers were starting at 7pm New York time, and rooting through the systems as fewer and fewer people were in the office. For a hacker, that's ideal.Government hackers also have access to those sorts of zero-day exploits - and the best reason to deploy them: they're trying to attack well-defended cyber-targets. There's actually athriving market in zero-day exploits, with a number of companies selling them to the highest bidder.In factCharlie Miller- an ex-NSA staffer who has demonstrated remarkable and previously-unseen hacks at a number of conferences - says that he once sold a zero-day exploit to the US government. As he put it to the Washington Times: "Do I do the thing that's good for the most people and not going to get me money at all, or do I sell it to the U.S. government and make $50,000?"For the government hackers, anonymity - the real sort, rather than the mask-wearing, visible Anonymous sort - is an essential currency. They have to remain invisible both in their daily life, and their online life. Miller was pretty much unknown before he emerged from the NSA; in a revealing interview a couple of years ago, heexplainedthat "I've liked tinkering around with computers since I was a kid, but got a degree in Mathematics. After that, it was five years of on-the-job training at the NSA."His training and work is being repeated around the world by hundreds - perhaps thousands - of full-time professional hackers. Yet we don't know their names; they don't have an organisation, don't parade, don't seek any attention at all. Though the people in the other two layers know that these elite hackers must exist, they'll hardly ever come across a trace of them. Quite what state-sponsored hackers think of the amateurs or the commercial hackers isn't clear; not enough of them have ever been interviewed to make that clear. But the difference between them and the amateurs is like that between any professional and an amateur; the gap is vast.The doesn't ease the challenge for the New York Times (nor, indeed, the Wall Street Journal, whichsays that it too was attackedto find out about its China coverage). Knowing that you might be the target of top-level hackers is only helpful if you know what to watch for. The New York Times was able to ask AT&amp;T to monitor its networks for "suspicious behaviour", but that's not available to everyone - and some networks might not show it up.Is there an answer? Unfortunately, no. All you can say is that the more visible the hacker, the less - generally - you have to worry about. Being hacked by Anonymous and having company data (usually usernames and hashed passwords) sprayed around the web is uncomfortable, but it won't usually destroy your business. The risk from state hackers is far greater - because they can effectively be standing over your shoulder (or under your keyboard), watching everything without you having the least idea it's happening.• This article was amended on 7 February 2013 to insert the missing word "sure" into the phrase "you can be sure that if he'd found it", to insert the missing word "hackers" into the phrase "Government hackers also have access", and to correct two other minor spelling errors.
A "profoundly isolated" teenage hacker has avoided jail for his role in planning cyber attacks with the hacking group Anonymous.Jake Birchall, 18, had admitted conspiring to impair the operation of computers between 1 August 2010 and 22 January 2011.Birchall, from Chester, remained impassive on Friday morning as he was given an 18-month youth rehabilitation order and a 60-hour unpaid work requirement by the judge Peter Testar, at Southwark crown court in London.Testar said Birchall should receive a "substantial" custodial sentence for his role in plotting the cyber attacks, but that he was forced to issue a non-custodial sentence because Birchall was 16 when he was arrested.The judge said he also took into account psychiatric and pre-sentencing reports, which described Birchall as "profoundly isolated".He added: "The fact of the matter is although he had and has a disadvantage in life he did actually play an important role [in the conspiracy]."He did play a prominent and important part in this and I think he has got to learn to get out of bed in a morning and do unpaid work."The judge declined to go into detail about the pre-sentencing or psychiatric reports, but said there was a "statement of special needs" and that Birchall had met the diagnosed criteria for "certain conditions"."All of which adds up to an explanation of why you, in a darkened teenager's bedroom, should have found yourself carrying out these offences," he added.Two of Birchall's co-accused were jailed last weekand one was handed a six-month suspended sentence.Joel Smith, prosecuting, said at the sentencing last week that Birchall had boasted in internet chatrooms that he had a senior role in Anonymous operations, writing that he was the "No 2 most Anon".Smith said Birchall, who used the online nickname "Fennic", wrote in one internet chat as police came through his front door "Fuck the cops … I'm closing everything."Birchall told detectives during a police interview that he was an advanced user of the internet and had used it for nine years – since he was eight years old.He was the youngest of four self-styled "hacktivists" arrested following Anonymous attacks on the websites of Paypal, Visa, Mastercard and a number of anti-piracy groups.Christopher Weatherhead, 22, was last week given an 18-month sentence for his leading role in plotting the attacks. Ashley Rhodes, 28, was handed a seven-month jail term, and Peter Gibson, 24, was given a six-month suspended sentence. Gibson, a church volunteer from Hartlepool, was deemed to have played a lesser role in the conspiracy.Birchall was said to have had a "great deal of organisational control" over a subset of Anonymous, known as "AnonOps", and owned two servers used by the group.He described himself as a "network operator", according to prosecutors, but would also discuss targets of distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks. In one conversation on an internet relay chat (IRC), Birchall dismissed an idea to attack a US government site on the grounds that it might be considered terrorism.Sentencing on Friday, the judge said Birchall had been described by experts as displaying a "very noticeable lack of non-verbal skills", but added that his role in Anonymous had made him "one of the cyber-lads"."Many would say because you played a prominent role in this, which caused damaged and which could have caused a lot more damage, you ought to be serving a custodial sentence, and a very significant one at that," he said."But I have to sentence you as a young person ... I think you should do some unpaid work, particularly as a recognition of the fact you have committed offences which have caused damaged and you must pay some of the damage back."
This week Charles Arthur meets BlackBerry's director of communications Oliver Pilgerstorfer to discuss its launch of the BlackBerry 10 operating system and Z10 and Q10 handsets – and how it plans to win back market share from Apple and Samsung.Charles also meets tech pioneer Keith Teare who was behind the first internet cafe in the UK, Cyberia, and who founded the UK's first ISP Easynet before decamping to the US where he co-founded the TechCrunch blog. Keith discusses his career to date and his latest venture, the just.me app.We have a tech news round-up and the music featured in this edition is by Brian Routh AKA Harry Kipper.Click here to hear the track in full.
Sony dangled the possibility of the imminent announcement of its next-generation PlayStation 4 console on Friday, sending out invitations to journalists for a 20 February press conference on "the future of PlayStation".The tantalising prospect ignited discussion on games blogs and sites around the web, with gamers keen to see an update to the ageing console.Michael Pachter, an analyst with Wedbuch Securities, said in atweetthat "Sony is inviting investors and media to the Feb 20 event; that means console announcement. I'm genuinely excited".The company declined to say whether it will actually release a new product at the event in New York. "We will be talking about the PlayStation business," a spokesman told the Reuters news agency.Sony executives have said that the PS3 is now a profitable business after some years of losses – typical for a games console.Expectation that Sony will unveil the specifications, if not the shape, of a PS4 console have been growing since it emerged that the company has stopped making its iconic PlayStation 2 console, and with the release by Nintendo of its new Wii U console before Christmas and the anticipated launch this year by Microsoft of a next-generation Xbox.Sony has previously used meetings such as the New York one to show off prototypes or detail specifications: in January 2011 it displayed a version of its handheld PS Vita console, and early in 2005 revealed a concept version of the PlayStation 3. Similarly, the PS2's first public showing came at a 1999 meeting.But the Vita is seen as being in trouble, with sales slowing down and being outstripped by those of Nintendo's handheld devices, and by other handheld devices such as Apple's iPod Touch.The PS3 was launched in Japan in November 2006, but not in European markets until 2007 – meaning it missed the important Christmas sales. That gave Nintendo a key opening, leaving the Wii profitable and far ahead in sales. The PS3, which has sold about 70m consoles worldwide, has been seen as a disappointment compared to the wildly popular PS2.But the shape of the games console market has also changed dramatically since the PS3 was launched, with the rise of smartphones and tablets meaning people can now play games more cheaply and on the move. Nintendo said on Wednesday it wascutting forecasts for sales of the Wii U
Friday! Watcha doing?!
