Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Griffin Technology was one of the first companies to make accessories for Apple products, starting with Paul Griffin doing display adapters for Macs in 1992. Since then it has ridden the wave of growth in iMac add-ons, then the iPod and more recently the iPhone and iPad.The challenge though is to try to figure out what Apple is going to do next - especially because they don't get any special inkling from Apple about what's going to happen next despite their longstanding support.Jackie Ballinger of Griffin told us about the challenge now that there are hundreds of companies pumping out me-too accessories - plus how the company (which still gets a majority of its revenue from Apple products) is seeing growing demand for Android and RIM add-ons. And she reveals which of the Android tablets has been doing best, and which of the phones.
How does a celebrity declare their affiliations to certain brands in fewer than 140 characters? Many may have to learn, after a clampdown by the government's consumer watchdog on non-declared endorsements in blogs and on social networking sites such as Twitter.The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) has begun a crackdown on Twitter users and bloggers using their online presence to endorse products and companies without clearly stating their relationship with the brand.In the first of its kind, the OFT has brought a case against a PR firm that was discovered to be paying bloggers to write effusively about its clients. The watchdog has launched an investigation into Handpicked Media, which operates a commercial blogging network – insisting that it must clearly state when promotional comments have been paid for.In a statement, the OFT said online advertising and marketing that did not disclose paid-for promotions were "deceptive" under fair trading rules. "This includes comments about services and products on blogs and microblogs such as Twitter," it said.Celebrity twitter endorsements are already big business in the US, where artists such as Snoop Dogg can earn a reported $3,000 (£1,900) for sending a tweet endorsing a product. But the US Federal Trade Commission insists that such endorsements must contain the words "ad" or "spon" to show the reference has been paid for. Such a requirement does not currently exist in the UK."Celebrities can be great influencers, whether they're on TV or tweeting," Arnie Gullov-Singh, chief executive officer of Ad.ly, which pairs celebrities and companies,told Business Weekin a recent interview.Reality TV star Kim Kardashian, who has more than 5.6 million followers, can collect up to $10,000 for tweeting, Gullov-Singh added. "Her price keeps going up. The most effective ones can get six figures a year, and in some cases six figures a quarter."Launched in 2009, Ad.ly uses more than 5,000 celebrities and experts to promote products such as Coke, Toyota and Microsoft in the US. It now plans to launch the service in Britain."A year ago, celebrities were wary about their reputation, about selling out, but when they saw how easy it was to earn up to $5,000 a tweet, they flocked on board," said Gullov-Singh.It is a business that could boom in the UK, after Range Rover became one of the first companies to dip its toe in the water. It recently signed up 40 stars – including ex-GMTV host Ben Shephard and model Daisy Lowe – to drive its new Evoque 4x4 and tell their followers about the experience,according to Marketing Week.Complimentary tweets about the cars have appeared on Twitter. In November, fashion designer Henry Holland, who has more than 133,000 followers, tweeted: "CAN'T WAIT FOR MY NEW RANGE ROVER..!!!"A Range Rover spokesman appeared to confirm to the Mail on Sunday today  that the company had an arrangement with certain celebrities. He said: "We enlisted the help of a number of people with high profiles on Twitter. They get the loan of a vehicle which they can use, drive around and take pictures of."Under the terms of the deal they tweet. That's the idea. They tweet about the car."A different Range Rover spokesman later denied that the company gave incentives to celebrities to tweet about its cars.Actor Liz Hurley has also written in glowing terms about certain products, with her Twitter page including more than 10 references to cosmetic company Estée Lauder's product range. She. The self-described "mum, model, actress, bikini designer and organic Farmer"  has been the face of the company for 17 years, but her Twitter page has no mention of her affiliation.Media commentator Mark Borkowski said there was little doubt that celebrity endorsements would become increasingly common in the UK. He believes the industry could follow the example of the US where the number of followers a celebrity has determines how much their "advertising space" is worth."Celebrity endorsements go back to cigarette advertising in the 1900s. All we are seeing here is a change in the medium. "Twitter is a very powerful medium," he said.But celebrities endorsing products had to be honest and open, he added. "If people are open and there is a conversation about it, then fine. The problems come when people endorse covertly, that puts the whole thing into jeopardy."In that case the OFT would have to intervene, although twitter users themselves might be better arbiters. "People can see through these things, and having the twitter cloud against you is a powerful thing."
Dear reader. No, that doesn't seem right. Hi reader? Maybe not. Will "Hello" do? Sod it. I haven't a clue.According to the Wall Street Journal, starting your correspondence with an old-fashioned "Dear" has become a complete no-no – it's now perceived to be overly familiar. A spokeswoman for a member of Congress, who tries to keep her communications with the press at "the utmost and highest level of professionalism" admitsshe no longer uses "Dear"because it's too intimate.Really? I've had hundreds of letters that start "Dear Mr Crace" from the bank, the HM Revenue &amp; Customs and other institutions over the years and never once imagined any of them were hoping for an inappropriate liaison. Maybe I should sue them all retrospectively for sexual harassment.More likely, I'd reckon, is that "Dear" is on the way out because it is too formal for email and texting. So what should you say? Hi – or Hey, if you're an American – will do if you even vaguely know the recipient. Hello or Good morning sounds as if you've been training to read the news on hospital radio. Yo? Ideal as a presidential form of address to a British prime minister you've come to take for granted but not for much else. Perhaps it's best to just dive straight in. Or maybe it really doesn't matter that much. It's not as if anyone is going to read your email anyway.
If you've got a long memory for Guardian Technology content you'll recall "the worker you have to plug in" from September 2007 - about Ivan Bowman of iAnywhere, who was then living in Nova Scotia, while his co-workers were in Waterloo, Ontario, 840 miles away. His solution, developed by one of the team? A self-propelled avatar robot he could control, so he could wander the remote office and join in conversations.NowVgois taking that idea on, with its own self-propelled robot which costs about $5,000 - but as CEO Brad Kayton explains, "telepresence robotics" is already being used by some executives who don't want the hassle of travelling between distant offices."You're literally transporting yourself between locations," Kayton says, though he admits "it doesn't replace being there".Among the users are Palomar Health and Orbitz - so clearly there's uptake there. Ivan Bowman may just have been the beginning.In the video above, you can watch Brad Kayton explain it, and see the device in action.•This article was amended on 21 January 2011. Brad Kayton is the CEO not, as we described him, the inventor and founder of Vgo.
Electric cars have been a recurrent theme at CES down the years. Ford has been showing off its new all-electric models - which replace for example the fuel gauge with an electric power gauge.The new "My Ford Touch" features mean the car has a touch screen and - one of the surprising things that nobody tells you about electric cars - the ability to warm the car up before you get into it. That's because an electric car doesn't have an engine that gets hot - so you can't get the air conditioning to warm it up as you go along. Something to think about for those cold mornings.Ford also has about "My Ford Mobile", an app (available on Android) which lets you find out whether you'll be able to reach a particular destination given how charged up your car is: the company has partnered with Microsoft to create "Value Charging" - which in the US lets people charge up their cars when electricity is cheapest.Amy Garvey and Ed Pleadey of Ford show off some of the features of the cars and the apps that go with them:Orwatch it on YouTube.
Wireless charging is one of those ideas that sounds like it's always a few years away, but which also impresses people when you can demonstrate it. Celpad is one of a number of companies at this year's CES showing off its induction-based system which will wirelessly charge up your gadgets.The idea is straightforward: you plug in the charging pad, connect a case with a plug fitting your gadget's power socket around the gadget, put it on the pad and of you go. The advantage over just using a plug and a lead: you can charge multiple items from one plug.Inevitably it's got them for the iPhone, plus an extension gizmo so that you can charge an iPad without having to take up all the space on the pad. Nick Torres explains how it works.
Augmented reality has been one of the big talking points of the past year - but people are looking around and asking: what can it really be used for?Dan Eisenhower from Recon Instruments reckons he knows: skiing. He's showing off goggles which include real-time integrated GPS and which will show you your speed, the time and the temperature - "it's better than guessing how fast you're going," he says.And you can plug them into your computer and see Google Maps overlays which will allow you to see where you've been.Is it dangerous? No, insists Eisenhower - "it's completely safe": the augmented image is "positioned" five feet away but below the eyeline of your right eye, so it's just like driving a car where you occasionally look down for information, he says.What about a camera? "That would make it too bulky," says Eisenhower - though some might think they're pretty big already, and some of the cameras on show at CES are no bigger than your thumb. But there is a camera you can mount on a friend's head to check your progress.You can buy it in the UK - &euro;399 or &euro;499, depending on the lens you use - polarised (cheaper) or polarised and chromatic, which adjusts to the sun's intensity and is more expensive.See Jered Abrams interviewing Eisenhower at CES:Orwatch it on YouTube.
A fully digital guitar? One which doesn't have strings? Isn't that like Guitar Hero? No, it isn't - it's Kitara, aguitar-cum-synthesizer from Misa DigitalAfter all, there have been digital drums and keyboards for ages - but somehow the guitarists got left behind (unless you look at Robert Fripp and Adrian Belew of King Crimson, but theirwork on guitar synthesizershasn't been widely adopted).The Kitara is a digital guitar - no strings attached - with a 24-fret neck on which each fret has six buttons, multi-touch screen and built-in polyphonic synthesizer. And it can connect to MIDI devices too.But how hard is it to play? It does take about 20 minutes to get used to - but once you do, there's a huge variety of things you can do with it.It will be coming to the UK, and the price will by &euro;849.Watch Jered Abrams interview Michael Zarimis, the designer of the Kitara, and guitarist "Jeff" in the video above.
There's a joke that we tell in my family to irritate my physician father.A doctor dies and goes to heaven. When he arrives at the Pearly Gates in his scrubs, he strides up to the front of the queue and demands to be let in because he, a doctor, clearly deserves special treatment. After all, he's been through medical school. He can save lives. He is, in short, awesome. St Peter tells him no and sends him to the back of the queue.Moments later, another dead guy, also wearing surgical scrubs, walks to the front and the gates swing open for him. The first doctor asks why he let the other one in and not him. St Peter responds: "Oh, that's God. He thinks he's a doctor."It is a terrible generalisation, but MDs have historically tended to think that they have all the answers. And when it comes to matters of the heart, lungs, liver, pancreas and other cuts of the human corpus, they certainly know more than the average Joe or Jane.However, a public increasingly informed about medical options and personal wellbeing is beginning to question the medicine man's authority, thanks to the trove of health-related content online. Anything you want to know about any symptom is not only available in triplicate (often with conflicting advice), but that information is often accompanied by prognoses, treatments and social support networks. You can now effectively bypass the doctor's surgery completely by self-diagnosing and self-medicating. The web is having a profound effect on how we understand and how we do health.Last week, Bupa and the London School of Economics released the results of an international healthcare survey. More than 12,000 people across 12 different countries were asked about their attitudes towards ageing, chronic diseases and health and wellbeing. The report,Health Pulse 2010,made headlines around the world, not just because it coincided with people kickstarting the new year by logging on to fitness websites or checking their flu symptoms, but also because it fed our concerns about the web: it condemned online health information and us for believing in it.To summarise their findings: more of us than ever are using the web to find out more about an ailment before or instead of visiting the doctor. More health-related websites, tools and social networks are available to support this demand. And, most alarmingly, only a quarter of the people surveyed checked the reliability of health information they found online by looking at the credibility of the source. In other words, a typical medical consultation follows this trajectory: 1) you discover a growth, 2) do a Google search, 3) believe the first result that confirms your expectations.One specific mistake that people now make when searching online also strikes medical students around their second year, when they're starting to get into the nitty-gritty of pathologies. I suffered a version of this so-called Medical Student Syndrome when I was taking my psychopathology courses: looking at all the symptoms of all the mental disorders listed in the American Psychiatric Association's diagnostic bible, the DSM-IV, it was clear that not only was I paranoid schizophrenic, but&nbsp;all of my close friends and family most certainly had PTSD, OCD, borderline personality disorder or Munchausen's syndrome.Anyone with an interest in their health 20 years ago could have gone to a library and diagnosed their illness incorrectly with the help of research journals, but nowadays a search engine will deliver exactly what's wrong in a nice printable format. Social networks and forums will add more confirmation and offer support, as well as offer examples of new tics and symptoms that you may not have realised were part of your problem. Armed with false certainty and more than a spoonful of paranoia, you march to your medical practitioner and demand treatment.As this new medical infomatics trend began bubbling in the early days of the web, sociologists and medical professionals predicted that a new relationship between patient and practitioner would develop. The paternalistic approach taken by doctors – you have X ailment and you can only fix it if you follow my advice – would evolve into a partnership in which they would facilitate a patient's recovery rather than proscribe it. This puts docs in a funny new situation: they must now incorporate persuasive techniques to convince patients that they offer the best counsel. In the past, we'd have simply swallowed any pill, however bitter.The health and wellbeing industry has evolved to address this relationship. NHS Direct's telephone and online services have dramatically reduced the burden on GPs for common ailments – 60% of the more than 350,000 web inquiries every month are completed within the service and don't require any further attention – and it retains the central role of the expert practitioner. And for patients and their families who want more information on treatments they've been prescribed, information from credible sources provides peace of mind as an illness progresses. Evidence from almost a decade of research in journals such as theBMJ,Health Education Researchand theSociology of Health &amp; Illnessargues that having a very specific query results in the most valuable online health information.However, we can pay a serious price for our newfound medical insight: websites will help identify what's wrong and give you a treatment schedule if you submit details about your age, gender, blood pressure, exercise regime, family history and dietary habits. How should we maintain our autonomy over the often very sensitive information that we put into diagnostic sites? It's stored somewhere and used somehow, and we have no idea what will happen to that information in the future.There is no doubt that the wealth of health information online has contributed to a more informed public, but this is an area in which I believe the expertise of the professional should not be undermined by the levelling power of the web. As Dad says, a doctor who treats themself is a fool. But even if that doctor isn't infallible, they have a hell of a lot more experience in saving lives than you or I.
A few months ago, I went to an intriguing talk given byLorcan Dempsey, who is a leading authority on the role of libraries in the digital world. One of the slides in his presentation really made me sit up. The context was an account of how different academic libraries are going about the archiving of digital material. The slide in question focused onEmory University, a wealthy, private research university in Atlanta, Georgia. Like many such institutions, it has been buying up the papers of well-known writers and already has a fine collection of Irish scribblers in its archives. But it also has the papers of Salman Rushdie and this was the subject of the slide that startled me.Why? Because it showed thatEmory's Rushdie archiveincluded not only the writer's papers, but also his old computers and hard drives. And there, on the slide, was the symbol for an old Apple Macintosh computer and in its directory listing was a folder entitled, simply, "My Money". And at that moment, if you will forgive the pun, the penny dropped.I've always associated creative writers with paper, which is ridiculous given that virtually all of them have been using word-processors for decades. I'm accustomed to newsreel footage of police squads descending on the homes of suspected criminals and leaving with every electronic device on the premises. But the idea of university archivists turning up at Rushdie's apartment and taking away every computer, hard drive, CD-Rom disk and USB stick in his possession had never crossed my mind. And yet that's what involved if you buy somebody's "papers" these days.Why Rushdie? Well, says Erika Farr, Emory's director of born-digital initiatives: "Rushdie's archive is pretty remarkable and high profile. It's a perfect one to start with. Much of his archival material after the 1980s, including daily calendars, virtual sticky notes, email correspondence and first drafts of novels, never existed on paper. We have close to his entire digital life up to 2006."Emory has been around since 1836 and has an endowment of $4.7bn, so we can assume that Rushdie's digital legacy will be preserved. But what about the rest of us? Until a few years ago, we were like Rushdie, keeping our digital assets on the fragile hard drives of our PCs and laptops and almost never backing them up. Then came "cloud computing", with its promise of ubiquitous availability and secure back-up, and the flight from the PC began. As we cheerfully embarked on communicating our thoughts via evanescent media such as SMS and Twitter, storing our photographs on Flickr and Facebook, keeping our email messages on Gmail and Hotmail, did we ever give a thought to how much of this will endure beyond our lifetimes?Probably not. What that means is that we are – carelessly or unwittingly – consigning the records of our lives to the digital shredder. The inescapable fact of life is that we die. Yea, even Facebookers:one estimateputs the number of US Facebook users who die annually at around 375,000. What happens to all those photographs and wall-posts and status updates? Will their authors have given their password to someone close to them? Or taken out an account withEntrustet, which will enable them to specify which of their digital assets will be preserved and which destroyed?Again, the answer is: probably not. Some people may not be all that bothered by the thought that no personal records of them will endure.But many of us would regard it as intolerable. Think of the pleasure we get from old family photographs or the delight that comes from clearing out an attic and finding boxes of love letters, school reports, our first exercise books and old appointment diaries. The contemporary versions of these personal documents are mostly stored either on obsolescent PC hard drives or on the servers of internet companies, protected by a password.So the chances are that when historians come to write the history of our times, they will find a yawning gap in the record. The doings of the great and powerful, of the likes of Rushdie and of institutions that endure beyond the lifespan of commercial companies, will be available and readable. But the documents that tell how the rest of us lived, learned and loved will have effectively vapourised.And the moral? If you keep your documents online, print them off. On archival-grade paper if possible. And store them in the attic.
Another title trampled in the festive melee,The Sly Trilogyputs together three platform titles from the PlayStation 2 era and gives them an HD makeover, throwing in a few token minigames to make use of Sony's Move motion controller and 3D support for those with compatible TVs.Few will make use of the latter features, but the stylised cartoon graphics benefit from the sharper edges and the games themselves have aged surprisingly gracefully. You play as the eponymous raccoon, Sly Cooper, a charming rogue of a thief whose gymnastic abilities and sneaking skills make him almost as delightful to control as Mario. He's joined by Bentley the turtle and Murray the hippo, both of whom have unique abilities to get past the tricks and traps.The first game has a few rough edges and some unforgiving moments, but sequelBand of Thievesis a terrific globetrotting adventure, while trilogy-closerHonour Among Thievesrefines the formula further and is the pick of the bunch. It's heartening to see that Sony hasn't forgotten about Sly Cooper and this superb-value compendium gives a new generation of gamers the chance to discover his thrilling escapades.
Papa Sangreis, at heart, a horror game but one that is both unsettling and effective by focusing its creative currency on the player's imagination. The gamer is the builder of the nightmares within and the titular Papa Sangre a factor of the world created in your mind's eye, because, essentially, this is a game with almost no visuals or graphics.Best played through headphones and with your eyes closed, it builds detailed 3D worlds from sound and lets you explore them by tiptoeing around, using your fingers like tiny feet on the screen. While typical console games offer obvious parallels with cinema,Papa Sangreis more comparable to becoming engrossed by an immersive novel. Loosely themed around the Mexican Day of the Dead,Papa Sangreis playful, mischievous and retains an intensity of interaction, despite the lack of obvious visual stimuli. The main task is hunting down collectibles, using audio reference points such as the noise from the textures below your feet or the sound of a swinging sign in the distance to navigate. But most fun comes from evading and outwitting audio-sensitive monsters, who will stalk you to terrifying effect.A feat of the imagination in gameplay and its very creation, this is an unusual but essential addition to the genre. Don't miss it.
Many of the planned game launches for late 2010 were sensibly postponed until early this year to avoid competing against the likes ofCall of Duty: Black Ops. Yet, bizarrely, Nintendo decided to quietly release this superb handheld role-playing game in late December – only to see it go ignored in the rush for the big Christmas titles. A pity, as it makes for an intriguing companion piece to the Jedward-advertisedDragon Quest IX, as another example of how the Japanese tradition of turn-based combat can still feel relevant in the face of more action-oriented offerings from western developers.The story follows a group of youngsters who set off on a quest to obtain a feather from a legendary bird, in a world ruled by the magical force of Alchemy. Each character possesses a certain type of elemental magic, and these powers are used against monsters that stand in your way, and in dungeons whose inventive – if rarely unduly taxing – riddles owe no small debt to theLegend of Zeldaseries.Along the way, your party will encounter Djinn, small sprites who can summon powerful spirits into battle, though they can also be allocated to characters to boost individual abilities. Encounters become a tactical balancing act – do you launch flurries of smaller attacks, or risk waiting for the spectacular effects of a special Summon move? There are over 70 Djinn to collect, and each affords the player further potential strategies.Though the DS hardware is beginning to creak a little (its 3D successor is due in March),Dark Dawnis one of the most attractive games on the console, with some cute and expressive characters, evocative locations and impressive monsters which easily fill the handheld's small screen. There is a rousing soundtrack, too, and the main quest is lengthy enough to fill plenty of train journeys. Those waiting to upgrade to the 3DS could do a lot worse than pick this up to give their old portable a fitting send-off – after a mighty innings in two dimensions.
Next week, I'm on the celebrity trail, tracking down the personalities who have made it big online. Has the web changed our views on fame? Now that anyone can have an audience, is notoriety devalued, or a right of passage?Topics to be tackled include: everyone can be a paparazzo, ceWEBrities, getting it wrong on a global scale, Knowing Your AudienceWho should I track down? What else should I include? Let me know on Twitter (@alekskor by tagging your ideas with#uttwand#celebrity), in the comments below or onaleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.uk
The US's biggest mobile network, Verizon, is expected to announce next week that it will begin selling Apple's iPhone.The move, which requires different chips in the phone from those used in the version already sold through AT&amp;T, America's second-biggest network, could potentially double iPhone sales in the US.Leaked figures last month suggested that while Verizon grew its smartphone sales from 2.7m to 3.3m in the third quarter of 2010, AT&amp;T's iPhone sales alone grew from 2.7m to 5.7m following the introduction of the iPhone 4 in the summer. That means that both Verizon and Apple stand to benefit handsomely from the move, which would end the exclusive agreement that AT&amp;T has had since the iPhone's introduction in 2007.Apple already has a 27% share of the US smartphone market, level with BlackBerry maker RIM and just ahead of Google's Android mobile operating system,according to the market research company Nielsen.Verizon's forthcoming announcement, trailed to journalists yesterday with the cryptic message "Join us as we share the latest news", could slow the growth of Android phone sales – though the clearest loser would be RIM, which was eclipsed in the US by Apple in the third quarter.AT&amp;T could lose customers who defect from its network when buying their first smartphone – as 70% of US buyers have yet to do – or shift their iPhone contract.However existing iPhone owners will not simply be able to switch networks. The iPhone for Verizon uses a different mobile communication standard, called CDMA, than that for AT&amp;T, which uses the GSM standard used in Europe and by a number of Asian operators. The time required to design different chips, plus the legal implications of the exclusivity agreement with AT&amp;T – which was thought to be for five years, not four – are believed to have held up the Verizon design.This week at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Verizon's chief executive said the company plans to have 10 new devices – including four smartphones and new tablets – in stores by mid-year for its high speed wireless data service, known as LTE or 4G. However observers do not expect the Verizon iPhone to run either system.An AT&amp;T spokesperson told the Wall Street Journal: "There has been lots of incorrect speculation on CDMA iPhones for a long time. We haven't seen one yet and only Apple knows when that might occur."
This analysisoriginally appeared on Tim Anderson's ITWriting blog. See the end of the post for related pieces on his blog. Tim is a journalist and programmer with extensive experience of Windows, Linux and Mac environments.Apple launched theMac App Storeon Thursday, and I had a look on Friday morning. It is only available to users of Mac OS X Snow Leopard, where it comes with the latest system update.(Apple announced overnight that it hadalready had 1m downloads in the first day,and that there are "over 1,000" apps there.)Apple's Mac App Store, as seen on a Mac desktop with version 10.6.6 of its softwareIt is interesting that Apple has not used iTunes for the App Store, but has developed new client software. Maybe it is coming round to opinion that iTunes has become bloated; it is only for historic reasons that a music player has become an all-purpose app installer.The store itself worked well for me. I picked a free app, TextWrangler, and signed in with my Apple ID. The UI showed Installing, then Installed, and I was done.Textwrangler, a free app, on the Mac App Store.The TextWrangler icon appeared in the Dock so I could start the app easily.What counts is what I didnothave to do – reboot, select from setup options, or deal with perplexing error messages.Users will also like the common-sense licensing, which lets you download and install a purchased app on any Mac you use, controlled by your App Store log-in. I am not sure what happens if you install your app on your friend's Mac, then sign out of the App Store. There is some link between the app and your Apple ID, because if you copy the application to another Mac it will ask for your sign-in details when you first run it, but I am not clear whether this is checked on every run to deter piracy.Most important, there is an attractive range of apps at good prices. In the UK, Angry Birds is £2.99, Pinball HD £1.79, and Apple Pages or Keynote £11.99 each. That is less than typical Apple Store shrink-wrap prices. The prices for Pages and Keynote makes the price Microsoft charges for Office look impossibly expensive. Good for customers; but worrying for independent software vendors who want to make a living.Developers pay $99.00 per year to join the Mac Developer Program and then 30% commission to Apple on every sale. Of course, like the iPhone App Store, apps are subject to Apple's approval.Lest you think it is clever of Apple to invent an app store for the desktop, it is worth noting that the concept is an old one. Linux has delivered free software like this for years, and some distributions have also featured paid app installers integrated into the OS.So has Microsoft, which has run various varieties of Windows Marketplace over the years, for mobile and desktop applications. Windows Vista shipped with an app store for both Microsoft and third-party apps built-in. It was on the Start menu:Windows Marketplace on Vistaas well as in Control Panel:The Windows Marketplace on Vista in the Control PanelOn November 1st 2008 Microsoftshut down Windows Marketplaceand "transitioned" it to a referral site. There was some angst at the time about the closing of the digital locker, which proved insecure against the threat of corporate mind-changing. It still runs the online Microsoft Store, but this is for Microsoft-only products. For example, you can download Microsoft Songsmith for £25.00:Microsoft Songsmith, yours for £25 in the online 'Microsoft Store'Why did Windows Marketplace fail? Well, the user experience was poor, it was insufficiently prominent in the Vista user interface, setup could be troublesome. Major Windows app vendors figured out that they would be better off drawing potential customers to their own web sites, where they have full control. As is often the case, Microsoft was conflicted over whether it wanted to drive customers to the online store, or to partner retailers, or to app vendor sites; and the OEMs would have their say as well, when customising Windows for their own PCs.Another factor is that Windows apps are often not well isolated. Silverlight actually solves this problem – out-of-browser apps are well isolated and secure – but Microsoft does not even ship Silverlight by default with Windows.The indications are that Microsoft will have another go in Windows 8. Documents leaked last year show an app store. From mypost at the time:There's a pattern here. Microsoft gets bright idea – Tablet, Windows Marketplace, Passport. Does half-baked implementation which flops. Apple or Google works out how to do it right. Microsoft copies them.Related posts:•Windows 8: detailed plans leaked, show Microsoft cycle of invent, fail, copy•No Java or Adobe AIR apps in Apple's Mac App Store•Apple's lock-in works. Can anyone improve on App Store?
Map Of MetalVisitors here arrive at a world map fashioned from leather, denim and chains, where countries are replaced by heavy metal sub-genres and accompanied by a streaming playlist. The headbanger's voyage of discovery begins with a soundtrack of Black Sabbath, Judas Priest, and other icons of standard heavy metal. Click around and you'll journey to other kingdoms – from the southern continents of gothic rock to the northern territories of garage rock, where the metal began with bands such as MC5 and the Sonics. Discover great music and a few new genres too ("funeral doom" anyone?).Split SiderFootprints: The Movie.If you're of the opinion that the best sitcoms on TV (Modern Family, 30 Rock) come from across the Atlantic and that Zach Galifianakis is the world's greatest bearded being, then you'll feel at home on this American comedy site. Not that it's totally insular – they also celebrate the very British Look Around You and hail a clip of Ronnie Corbett from his The One Ronnie Christmas show as pun-filled genius. Regular nuggets include comedians' tweets, viral videos (look for Footprints: The Movie) and nostalgic articles such as "How Roseanne helped make it OK to be gay on American TV". There's also a look back on 2010's unintentional gifts to comedy, from Mel Gibson's rant to the Restore Steven Baldwin movement.Blog roll: MoviesPhotoshop In Movie Posters.Photoshop In Movie PostersFrench site with a keen eye for spotting the use of Photoshop in film ads.Movie Stills CollectionsStunning collection of film title stills, with added "The End" screen grabs.The Incredible SuitPreparing for the horror of The Smurfs movie and other troubling matters.Silent EraSilent movies resource with reviews, biographies and archived articles from near-century-old issues of Photoplay Magazine.Checking On My SausagesPosts include the thorny question "do films need music" and less thought-provoking "Deer in film".Trailer CutsMovie trailer mash-ups including the unbeatable classic Scary Mary Poppins.What we learned on the web this weekBroken umbrella.Nothing sumsup frustration like a binned brollyNot evenRoger Moore can dodge a laserThe bestviral videos of last yearHow tomake Big Bird even more disturbingThe huggingequivalent of the air kiss has finally been revealedMy othersledge is a PorscheA quickway to spoil nearly every Disney movieThe locationof the Bermuda triangle of productivity96% ofall Twitter users have fewer than 500 followersThe bestbloody boxing faces in movie history
Epic Mickey, Nintendo WiiThere have been Mickey Mouse games before, but none has approached Disney's founding mascot with such sinister intent. Opening with Mickey's attempted vivisection by a giant robotic Swiss Army knife, Epic Mickey's vision is one littered with the broken carcasses of long-retired intellectual property, a subterranean scrapyard of ancient memorabilia. The game itself is a bit more straightforward, spicing up 2D and 3D platform levels with the ability to draw and erase objects using ink or thinner. While tightly prescriptive in their use and never taxing, the puzzles this creates make for neat diversions in a game whose edgy charm and Danny Elfman-style music are reminiscent of the classic Banjo-Kazooie. Offbeat, engaging and with no references to Disney's modern canon, Epic Mickey's ease of use and generous hints will appeal to children, while its more considered art style won't put off any grown-ups.Disney Interactive, £39.99Drawn: The Painted Tower HD, iPadDrawn: The Painted Tower.With its ethereal artwork and ambient music, Drawn: The Painted Tower HD is a game that never threatens to test your dexterity. Instead, its narrative of a young girl with a talent for transporting herself into paintings is told through a series of puzzles and gentle interactions that unfold over the floors of a mystical tower. Like Myst before it, many puzzles are non-sequiturs, unrelated to the plot or characters, but this is much easier fare, rarely proving tricky and offering the opportunity to skip puzzles, or to use a hint system whose input ranges from a gentle nudge in the right direction through to full solutions. As an extension of the venerable point-and-click adventure genre that was first explored on PCs more than two decades ago, this is subject to the format's distinct set of foibles, including all the un-fun of trial-and-error gameplay and precious minutes spent attempting to prod every pixel to discover what you've missed. But, at least time wasting has probably never been as stress-free.Big Fish Games, £1.79Dungeon Defenders: First Wave, iPhone &amp; AndroidDungeon Defenders: First Wave.Bringing together hack and slash, in which your champion stamps around dicing opponents, and tower defence, where pre-built structures ward off enemies on your behalf, Dungeon Defenders: First Wave provides freshly hybridised action in increasingly broad 3D arenas. There's a lot to tinker with, from the equipment and abilities of your knight, archer, mage or warrior monk, to the placement and angle of defensive structures in levels that can be deviously complex. All that would be excellent if the controls didn't obscure a large portion of the screen and interacting with the game wasn't so relentlessly painful. Onscreen joysticks and buttons rarely work well and here they supply a hellish world of suicidal thumb slips. Combined with its inherent complexity and uneven difficulty level this would be bad enough, but it also suffers from camera problems, with your viewpoint flicking about, infrequently settling anywhere useful. Inventive but horribly compromised gaming.Trendy Entertainment, £2.99
Courts are very suspicious ofbicycles. Whenever journalistic duties take me to the high court in London, I&nbsp;inevitably end up arguing with security over whether my helmet constitutes a weapon-in-waiting. Confiscation always ensues: apparently I might throw it at the judge. It's worse at the Old Bailey, which deems the humble, placid bicycle such a terrorism risk that it refuses to install bike racks anywhere near the building.So I wasn't particularly optimistic the day I rocked up on the nine-speed Kansi and attempted to get it past the Bailey's twitchy guards. I&nbsp;had folded it into a neat package, but the bouncers of justice were having none of it. There followed a&nbsp;bad-tempered tussle to shackle the bike to a lamp-post, and a&nbsp;whole day being distracted from the case by the thought of someone pinching&nbsp;my borrowed steed: folding bikes depreciate far slower than conventional models, so are particularly attractive to thieves.For me, then, the ultimate folding bike must fold into such a dinky parcel it can be smuggled anywhere, be it into the Central Criminal Court or as hand luggage on Ryanair. The problem with the Kansi is that while it does fold up very easily in less than 30 seconds – using clever hinges on the frame and handlebar stem, plus quick-release on the saddle – the resulting bundle is still that little bit too cumbersome to cart far.It came into its own the night I&nbsp;drank too much and bundled it in&nbsp;the back of a cab for the journey home. It's really a car-boot bike rather than a tube bike, though the 20in wheels are just about small enough for it to be allowed on a train as general luggage.The big question for any folding aficionado, however, is: is it as good as aBrompton, that being the benchmark against which all folding bikes must be tested. The answer is: yes. And no. No, because it doesn't fold as neatly. Yes, because it a) looks a lot less spoddy, and b) is far nicer to ride. Whereas many folding bikes feel rickety and fragile, and lack the oomph to cope with serious riding, the Kansi has the gear range to power up hills as well as bomb along the flat.OK, so it still doesn't give you that I Can't Believe It's Not A Real&nbsp;Bike feeling – the steering is a&nbsp;little too sensitive – but it took me miles and&nbsp;miles, at considerable speed. The easily adjustable saddle meant a&nbsp;6ft-plus friend could do the same. Our only real gripe was the lack of a&nbsp;pannier rack and mudguards, though Kansi are allegedly working on both. Tell that to the&nbsp;judge.Kansi 9twentyFrameAluminiumWheels20inGearsSRAM X5 nine-speedApproximate size when foldedH:&nbsp;60cm, L: 76cm, W: 30cmWeight11.3kgAdded extrasCarrying bag, £39.99In a wordCar boot-ylicious• Bicycle: The Complete Guide To Everyday Cycling, by Helen Pidd, is published by Penguinat £14.99. Buy it from theGuardian Book Shopfor £10.99.
RIM's early announcement of its PlayBook has fascinated people because it isn't going with Windows or Android - it has struck out on its own with QNX, an operating system that it has bought in. There has been a lot of speculation about quite how developed it was, even as RIM wasclaiming to analyststhat companies were so excited by its product that they were delaying iPad deployment and purchases.Well, it has huge adverts here at CES, and so we headed over to the stand to get some time trying it. It's a nice-looking 7-inch tablet though we couldn't get John Wong to give us any sort of clear detail about what sort of chips will be running inside it. PC Magazinereckonsthat its 4G connectivity and responsiveness makes it "the best bet to contend with Apple's iPad in 2011" - but Gizmodofound that"the core email and calendar apps are completely tethered to a BlackBerry. Without your BlackBerry, there is no native mail or calendar app".The other thing that keeps coming up: what's the battery life? In our conversation here with John Wong, where he emphasised that the unit he was showing is not a production model but a prototype, and that the software isn't finished, the battery meter showed that at 78% full it had 2hr 55 min left - which (we'll save you the maths) means a full charge would be 227 minutes, or 3hr 47.Take that as the baseline from which the PlayBook will improve its battery performance, which will have to be done in software (since we're guessing that the hardware specs and the battery size are now cast in stone). How much better can the battery life get?We also asked about release dates and pricing. Here you go..
"Unthinkable," said Horace Dediu, a former manager at Nokia. "These actions confirm the end of the PC era." Steve Ballmer, the head of Microsoft, had just told the giant Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas that the next version of its Windows operating system, used on about 90% of the world's PCs, would run on chips made by the British company Arm.Great news then for the British company, whose shares spiked, and Ballmer also presented it as good for Microsoft, whose products are used by a billion people around the world.But as Dediu sees it, Microsoft has been herded into the move to Arm by huge changes in the computing market that will see power shift from the makers of PCs to the manufacturers of tablet computers.Companies such as Samsung, which used to focus their hardware efforts on  Windows PCs and phones, have started instead making smartphones and tablets running Google's Android.Samsung says it has sold 1.5m of its Galaxy Tab tablets since mid-October, and it has become the world's fourth-largest handset maker (after Nokia, Apple and BlackBerry creator Research In Motion). Microsoft isn't seeing a cent from that success. Nor is Intel, which has grown fat on making chips for PCs: Arm chips power all of those phones and tablets.The change is made even keener by the fact that it was Bill Gates, the Microsoft co-founder, who announced the tablet revolution in November 2001, bravely asserting that it would be the most popular form of PC within five years. He was wrong. Microsoft failed to develop a tablet and by 2009 only 1m of the devices were being sold per year. But in 2010, that increased dramatically to an estimated 16m, driven by the launch of the Apple iPad, which accounted for about 14.5m of those sales.Dediu says: "Many of Microsoft's customers chose to use an operating system product from Microsoft's arch-enemy [Google]. Microsoft, in turn, chose to port its operating system to an architecture from Intel's arch-enemy [Arm]." And that, he thinks, marks the end of two long monopolies enjoyed by Microsoft and Intel.Others agree. "The PC is not going to be the 95%-dominant solution five years from now," said IDC analyst Al Hilwa. "The trajectory of the iPad and all these Android devices is to take on multiple form factors."Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities, says: "We've already seen that the personal computer has lost dominance as a computing platform. Microsoft has to deal with the fact that Apple is making these really compelling devices."Walking the floors of the giant CES exhibition – so big that it spreads over three enormous halls and overflows into three hotels around the city – bears that out. Everywhere at CES, it is Apple and Google that are pushing the rest of the business along. Though Apple is not exhibiting at the show, which continues until Sunday, the influence of its iPhone and iPad are everywhere: scores of companies offer add-ons such as cases, "docks" to play music with the iPhone, or even mini-cases that turn the iPad into aretro games console.It's visible too in the scores of tablets trying to ride the iPad's coat-tails; what's particularly noticeable is that barely any of them runs Microsoft's Windows, and those that do are significantly more expensive than the  iPad or devices running Google's Android.Google's influence extends far beyond its comparatively modest booth to the enormous stands from companies such as Samsung, LG and Logitech, which are touting Smart TV – the new branding for TV sets with internet connections powered by Google software.A decade ago the assumption would have been that by now, Microsoft would hold sway over CES: that its Windows Mobile smartphone software would power everything, and that its WebTV platform would be connecting TV sets to the net.But Windows Mobile was unceremoniously dumped last year as it was overtaken by the iPhone and Android; Ballmer has staked Microsoft's smartphone future on Windows Phone 7, a new touchscreen interface that has won some plaudits from reviewers, but failed so far to excite buyers or mobile carriers.since its release in early November; 1.5m have been sent to retailers and networks, but Ballmer notably did not announce how many are in peoples' hands.And tablets? A logical move for Microsoft would have been to copy Apple by tweaking Windows Phone 7 into a tablet. ; Windows Phone 7 could do the same on a tablet, because it already runs on ARM chips. But an internal struggle has seen Microsoft's Windows division, which generates more than half the company's profits, triumph: Windows Phone 7 licences generate a few dollars per device, where Windows produces about $40. So only Windows will be allowed on to tablets.But to do that, it must be rewritten to run on Arm chips, which use a different language to Intel chips. It will be a couple of years before Microsoft can compete properly in the sector and That may mean substantially less money in the short and long term. Sarah Friar, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, said this week that "we still believe that the success of the iPad demonstrates that a full OS is not required for the major usage cases of a tablet." She thinks Microsoft's reliance on its old monopoly product will hurt it in the long term.that may mean substantially less money in the short and long term. Worse, Ballmer's speech offered no vision of where the consumer electronics market is going and how it is going to cope with the loss of its dissolving monopolies.• This article was amended on 15 February 2011. The original referred to Horace Dedlu throughout. This has been corrected.
In December, a group of coders operating under the nameFail0verflowstood up at the Chaos Communications hackers conference in Berlin and proclaimed that the Sony PS3 security system was an epic fail. Through the use of what they termed "simple algebra" they had managed to exploit a weakness in the PlayStation 3's encryption system, thereby gaining the public key required to run any software on the machine.Legitimate games and movies will only play on the console because the discs provide a password or signature to the encryption system, which recognises them as authorised products. But with the key – essentially a long sequence of numbers – Fail0verflow coders would be able to compile their own custom firmware and then build applications that could run on any system. (You can view their presentationhere)Like many members of the hacker community, Fail0verflow is resolutely anti-piracy – its members bypass console security systems merely as an intellectual challenge, or to run their own operating systems and applications. Consequently, the group didn't itself reveal the key. However, days later hacker, George Hotz (also known as Geohot), previously responsible for opening the iPhone system to so-called "jailbreak" hacks,didreleased the required firmware package decrypter on his website. Although the current hack requires users to modify their PS3 to run homebrew apps (or use a PS3 'Jailbreak' dongle, which bypasses the security system on machines with older versions of the firmware), further developments may ensure that anyone with the relevant software tools and technical knowledge could produce applications that will run on any PS3. It would then effectively be an open system. And naturally, the floodgates that have prevented widescale piracy on the console for the last few years could be smashed to pieces.Console hacking of this sort has been a part of the games industry for over a decade. Sega's Dreamcast console, launched in 1999, was one of the first major targets, favoured by homebrew coders for its powerful hardware, online functionality, and ease of access. The original Xbox also proved to be an easy machine to hack, thanks in part to a leaked SDK, which gave coders low-level access to the hardware.Both the Nintendo DS and PSP have been comprehensively hacked, too, opening the doors not only to homebrew apps but to rampant piracy. There are products available for Nintendo's handheld that allow gamers to download pirated titles from the web and store dozens on a single cartridge. According to a report published by Japan's Computer Entertainment Supplier's Association last year, piracy on the Nintendo DS and Sony PSP has cost the industry $41bn (£26.5bn) since June 2004. It has also seen dozens of third-party developers and publishers abandoning the platforms. In 2009, Peter Dille of Sony Computer Entertainment Amerricatold Gamasutra, "We can look at data from BitTorrent sites from the day Resistance: Retribution goes on sale and see how many copies are being downloaded illegally, and it's frankly sickening. We are spending a lot of time talking about how we can deal with that problem."Usually, what happens in these situations is an arms race with the hacker community. An exploit will be devised and distributed and the console manufacturer will release a firmware update that plugs the gap. This repeats, and with popular systems like the PSP, the hackers just keep coming back. As Dark Saviour of the UK-based homebrew news site,DC EMU, explains, "Sony released new firmware to close exploits on the PSP, but you would only need the new firmware for newer games, being on a older firmware did not taint the PSP experience, because it's mosly an offline console. Also with such a great homebrew scene, coders kept finding ways to get round the firmware fixes, and even released firmware downgraders so you could use the new firmware to play the new games and then downgrade your firmware to play your homebrew apps (and unfortunately warez games). It's quite a powerful system, has a huge homebrew library, and getting homebrew running is not that hard. There are many that argue that the PSP would never have sold as well as is has without the great homebrew scene."Predictably, the manufacturers don't see it that way. Last year, Microsoft took the extra step of banning gamers from Xbox Live if they were found to be running pirated or back-up copies of games on their systems. That may be a possibility for Sony, but updating the firmware is no longer an option: the PS3 hack affects the core of the whole encryption system; the only way to close the door is to launch new hardware with an entirely fresh security setup.Was this hack always an inevitability? Perhaps not. Fail0verflow claims it only started to work on the PS3 system when Sony made the decision to disable the machine's Other OS functionality. This feature allowed owners to install their own Linux OS onto the console, giving them the ability to create and run their own applications, and to load apps developed by other users. It was an interesting invitation to the programming community, harking back to the 1997 launch of theNet Yaroze, a special programmable version of the original PlayStation console, which was widely used by home coders and by universities setting up games develoment courses at the time.However, at the end of 2009, George Hotz announced via his blog that he was attempting to hack the PS3. His way in was through Other OS. The PS3's security "Hypervisor" allowed homemade Linux to run, but in a supervised mode with no access to lower level system functionality. Geohot bypassed the hypervisor, andpublished elements of the exploit onlineleaving the rest of the work to other hackers.Sony's response was to issue Firmware update v3.21, which disabled Other OS, removing the Linux fuctionality and closing the system to home coders. The move was a red rag to the homebrew community. "[PS3] became a valid target," pytey, a member of Fail0verflowtold BBC News. "That was the motivation for us to hack it."But did Sony really have much of a choice? When Other OS was effectively removed, Patrick Seybold, SCEA's director of communications and social media statedin a blog postthat "disabling the Other OS feature will help ensure that PS3 owners will continue to have access to the broad range of gaming and entertainment content from SCE and its content partners on a more secure system". And that's the heart of it – the manufacturer's "entertainment partners" rely on the company to ensure their products aren't vulnerable to piracy. As Gamesindustry.biz points outin an editorial today:The hackers who follow in Fail0verflow's footsteps and create custom firmware to run pirated games, emulators and so on will be targeting Sony's hardware, but it's third-party publishers and developers who have the most right to be outraged. The license fee they pay to Sony for every piece of software they sell is, in many respects, a fee for security – the price of selling software on a platform where piracy is difficult or damn-near impossible. Now that has been taken away from them, with the PS3 looking set to become the easiest platform to pirate software for – easier even than the Wii, DS or PSP, all notorious piracy targets but all of which require some degree of technical knowledge to get pirated software working.In other words, Sony owes it to the games publishers and movie studios who create products for its machine to maintain a safe, secure platform. As soon as Geohot revealed that exploits were possible via OtherOS, the whole concept was compromised. Sony has already seen game publishers evacuating the PSP platform, it may have felt that there was little choice here.In the future, is there a way that hobbyist coders could be appeased by console manufacturers? Generally, it's the anti-piracy programmers who have the ability to create hacks and exploits of closed systems – the producers of "jailbreak" cartridges and pirated warez tend to come along afterwards, taking advantage of coders who maintain, perhaps rather idealistically, that they're just interested in the hardware as a development platform.With this in mind, Space Rogue of theHacker News Networkreckons it's time for console producers to stop viewing homebrew coders as the enemy. "Basically manufacturers really need to start taking advantage of the possibility that their hardware will be modified," he argues. "Doing so should be seen as a profit centre and not loss of sales. Take a look at the Linksys WRT series of routers. A large number of those have been sold specifically because people could mod them and run their own software."Sony and other companies are still trying lock down the hardware in an effort to protect their content. The solution here is to open up the hardware, welcome tinkerers and create loyalty to your brand. Another example is the Microsoft Kinect: Micosoft originally tried to lock it down but after people opened it up anyway, MS realised they couldn't keep it closed and opened up the platform resulting in more sales. Unfortunately, based on past moves by Sony I doubt they will take the same approach and the cat and mouse game will continue."The central problem remains however: once the platform is open to hobbyists, it's open to pirates. Plus, many members of the coding community are unlikely to be appeased by a walled garden approach to hardware access, such as Microsoft'sXNA architecturewhich allow home coders to create Xbox 360 games for distrubution via the Xbox Live Indie Community. As Dark Saviour suggests, "I think they have some interest, but because they are normally limited in some way, either by licenses or how much of the consoles 'power', they can use, they don't have the same appeal as homebrew. At one stage someone was portinga Mega Drive emu to the Xbox 360via XNA but they stopped because they released that MS would never let them release it, and XNA will not let you load a DVD – for example, a disc with your Mega Drive roms on it. I would say that Apple has done the best with engaging homebrew coders with the App Store which is far easier to get things released on it – even though Apple still blocks a lot of releases."Interestingly though, Apple itself is in a similar situation to Sony. The new Mac App storehas been hackedwithin 24 hours of its launch, allowing pirated software to be placed on the platform. Once again, the method has involved replacing signature files on illegitimate apps so that the security system sees them as official releases.This is a war of attrition between manufacturers and hackers, but it is one in which the resources are utterly asynchronous. Console companies have the money to fund ever more intricate security systems, but they have to ship hardware at some point, and customers will only put up with so many firmware updates and featureset changes. Home coders, meanwhile, lack financial might, but have the time, perseverance and guile to keep chipping away for years on end. Sony has yet to comment on the PS3 hack, but is surely looking into its legal options, which are likely to be complex and limited. In 2007, the AACS encyprition key protecting the HD DVD format was cracked and distributed online; the Motion Picture Association of America sent out cease and desist letters to websites publishing the numbers, but bloggers responded by replicating the code on hundreds of thousands of sites. No cases were brought to court – indeed the American Bar Association issued a report which questioned the illegality of distributing encyrption keys.For PS3, the future is uncertain. It's possible that hacks will become available, allowing console owners to download game ROMs onto hard drives, USB sticks or Blu-ray discs – these may run without modifications to the console hardware. It puts Sony Computer Entertainment in the same camp as the music and movie industries. Perhaps all that the company can now do is learn a very expensive lesson about the creation of encryption systems, a lesson that must then apply to the production of either the next iteration of PS3, or to any future consoles. For now, it has an open platform on its hands and, very probably, some extremely pressing questions from game publishers.UPDATE:Sony hasclaimed to Edge magazine, that it WILL be able to fix the security breach: "We are aware of this, and are currently looking into it," Sony said in a short statement. "We will fix the issues through network updates, but because this is a security issue, we are not able to provide you with any more details."
Motorola drew some wows on Wednesday when it unveiled the Atrix, a smartphone with so much computing power its specifications would have looked sensible in a desktop a few years ago. Andrew Wells of Motorola shows it off to Jered Abrams.
Motorola made a splash this week by leapfrogging everyone with the first Android tablet with a10-inch7-inchscreen that is also going to ship with Android 3.0 "Honeycomb", the interface designed for larger screens. It contains a 1GHz dual-core ARM Snapdragon processor - though Google has said (contrary to rumours swirling before the show) that that sort of power is not a requirement for running Honeycomb, and that in fact there isn't any such requirement.Here's Arthur Baudo of Motorola explaining to Jered Abrams what the Xoom will be capable of. No word yet on who, if anyone, will sell it in the UK.Orwatch it on YouTube
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Panasonic 3D video wall. Photo byRobotSkirtson Flickr.Some rights reservedLive from Samsung's CES 2011 KeynoteIt's extremely weird, but we can confidently say that there's nearly 10 minutes of announcements (smart TVs, deals with Hulu and Dreamworks, tieups with Adobe) packed into an hour and a half of dancers, videos, pandas, 3D glasses, half-empty slogans and a character called Zoll. Makes the Asus announcements were straitlaced.Lady Gaga Unveils Polaroid Sunglasses Camera, PrinterWe couldn't decide what sort of meat to wear, so we didn't go.Iomega TV builds in Boxee &gt;&gt; PC ProIomega has become the latest company to integrate the Boxee software into a set-top streaming device. The Boxee software has long been a free alternative to Windows Media Center for PCs, but has recently started appearing in media streaming devices.The Iomega TV with Boxee will go head-to-head with the D-Link Boxee Box - which was first unveiled at last year's CES and recently released in the UK.Show's over: how Hollywood strong-ARMed Intel and the CE bizArs Technica points out the oddity of Intel's obesiance to content companies such as Time Warner, which have said that now its includes chip-level DRM that it can be "trusted" with 1080p content: "Back in 2006, we half-jokingly suggested that for the price of a single 65nm fab, Intel could buy "25 King Kongs, or over 350 Brokeback Mountains, or 1,000 $5 million episodes of a big-budget HBO series like Rome or The Sopranos." Maybe it was folly to suggest that Intel buy a few studios and give away content as a loss leader to sell hardware, but the point still stands: Intel's market cap is over three times that of Tsujihara's parent company, Time Warner. But Intel and the rest of the CE giants have been jumping through hoops to please these relatively tiny companies since day one, when their marketing budgets (Intel's alone is typically over $1 billion) could have easily paid for enough premium content to sell hardware."CES: Vader invades Vegas to pump Blu-ray set"He came, he pointed, he mock-choked people. Darth Vader descended on CES with a pack of Imperial Stormtroopers, as Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment announced the availability of preorder sales of the complete "Star Wars" saga on Blu-ray, with shipping in September."Yeah, sorry, we must have been doing something important when this was on, like not touting a film company's wares.Glasses-Free 3D Fails To Wow At CES 2011"If glasses-free 3D is truly the future of TV, you wouldn't know by the handful of companies that are showing off the technology at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas."LG put their glasses-free TV right out on the demo floor. Unfortunately, the company also had to put a white line in the carpet to show onlookers where to stand. And even then you must stand dead-center to get a semi-decent 3D effect. Standing off to the side even by just a few inches reveals the limitations of glasses-free tech."CES chief warns against 3D TV hype &gt;&gt;PC Pro"The president and CEO of the Consumer Electronics Association - the organisers of the CES show in Las Vegas - has warned against the hype surrounding 3D TV.""Speaking to a select group of journalists on the first official day of CES, Gary Shapiro said there was still much consumer confusion surrounding 3D TV, which is once again prevalent on the show floor."'3D is a wonderful experience and is clearly going to be a part of most, if not all, high-end TV sets soon,' he said.""However, he warned that buyers were still bewildered by the technology. "Most consumers don't understand that a 3D set is also a wonderful 2D set," Shapiro said."
Induction is a long-understood principle, but incorporating it into worktops so that you'd have a kitchen where pan contents could be heated up without effort hasn't been so simple. Jeff Hornett of Fulton Innovations shows off the company's latest offering to Jared Abrams.(Orwatch it on YouTube.)
"Smart TV" is the phrase all over CES: it's the subtle rebranding of Google's TV effort, and it's on view on Samsung's stand and also Logitech's. We spoke to Kevin Brangan about what it is that it offers and whether it really fulfils a need that people have.
Gamers rejoice: now those 3D games you've been buying can be rendered on your computer. (Haven't bought any? You can start soon.) Even better, the Sony Vaio 3D will be able to 'upscale' 2D films from Blu-ray to 3D.You do need "active shutter" glasses, but you get a free pair with every purchase.Orwatch it on YoutTube..
Don't tell us that you haven't heard of Asteroids! And now (well, soon) you can have your own private console with all the plastic buttons that you remember from your earlier years (if you're an older reader) or that time they brought round the old games things while the new ones were bust (younger readers).Ion - you know, they do those USB-turn-your-vinyl-to-MP3 turntables - has got something to thrill retro gamers who've also got an iPad: a dock that turns the tablet into a bona fide arcade screen. Brighten your day (or evening) by clicking play and watching Adam Cohen demonstrate it.See? We did tell you.Orwatch it on YouTube..
