A new Google doodle marks the birthday of the noted British ornithologist William John Swainson, a fellow of the Royal Society who was known for the quality of his illustrations.While he did not always see eye-to-eye with his contemporaries, records kept by the society show that he was described as being a "gentleman very zealous in … various scientific pursuits, particularly in natural history, having travelled in South America for the purpose of investigating the productions of that continent".Swainson, born 224 years ago on 8 October, was also described as a "very talented artist, [who] became the first person in Britain to publish works of natural history (on birds and shells) illustrated by lithographs," in a 2001 article by David Knight entitled High Church Science: William Swainson and William Kirby, and published in the journal Paradigm.He later travelled in New Zealand and Australia. During his time in the latter, he was hit by some of the most strident criticism aimed at him by contemporaries.The Australian National Botanic Gardens (ANBG) noted that much of his work as a botanist - not his usual discipline - was never published by the Royal Society of Tasmania.Another botanist William Hooker wrote of Swainson's attempts to define species there: "In my life I think I never read such a series of trash and nonsense.  There is a man who left this country with the character of a first rate naturalist (though with many eccentricities) and of a very first-rate Natural History artist and he goes to Australia and takes up the subject of Botany, of which he is as ignorant as a goose."The ANBG noted that another Joseph Maiden described Swainson's efforts as "an exhibition of reckless species-making that, as far as I know stands unparalleled in the annals of botanical literature".
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy care about 30,000 notes? &gt;&gt; inessential.comBrent Simmons:I've learned that I'm unlikely to over-estimate the amount of data people like to keep.Years ago (2005) I added a tabbed browser to NetNewsWire for Macintosh. I guessed that my most extreme user might have as many as 100 tabs, and I needed to make sure it scaled to that.I released the feature and people liked it. After a while I started getting complaints about performance from people who had thousands of tabs. Some users had tens of thousands of tabs. I was way off in my estimate of what the most extreme user might do — and I've remembered that ever since. (The app remembered your tabs between runs, which was a fairly rare thing in 2005.)So now I don't try to guess what a reasonable extreme might be — I guess what an extreme extreme might be, knowing that there's a good chance I'm still under-estimating.Ad Vulna: a 'vulnaggressive' (vulnerable &amp; aggressive) adware threatening millions &gt;&gt; FireEye BlogRecently FireEye discovered a new mobile threat from a popular ad library that no other antivirus or security vendor has reported publicly before. Mobile ad libraries are third-party software included by host apps in order to display ads. Because this library's functionality and vulnerabilities can be used to conduct large-scale attacks on millions of users, we refer to it anonymously by the code name "Vulna" rather than revealing its identity in this blog.We have analyzed all Android apps with over one million downloads on Google Play, and we found that over 1.8% of these apps used Vulna. These affected apps have been downloaded more than 200 million times in total.Multiple vulnerabilities, but also aggressive capture of personal data. Google has been told. Will the apps have to be pulled, or killed, or what?Shepard Smith tours the revolutionary Fox News deck &gt;&gt; Fox NationPlease don't watch this video while trying to drink any liquid. Please also don't ask "how did they shrink all the people to make those.... are they iPads?... look so big?" They aren't iPads.Testing BBC iPlayer release for Android downloads &gt;&gt; BBC Internet BlogOur Android products are installable on over 3000 different devices from the Google Play store. Obviously we can't possibly test on all these devices otherwise we'd never get round to releasing anything - so we prioritise testing based on stats from audience use, which gives us our most popular devices.In addition the Product team chose to focus support for the downloads feature to a finite list of 13 prioritised devices which would be whitelisted at launch. This further narrowed down our focus for device coverage with the aim of delivering the release within an acceptable time period.Even then, two had to be dropped at the last minute when a showstopper bug was found in a real-world case.Xiaomi threatens high-end smartphone OEMs in China &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh, pointing out that Xiaomi has already passed HTC as the fifth most-used smartphone brand in China:At first glance, the [survey] results [of intention to buy] seem to indicate that Samsung, Lenovo and ZTE are most likely to be threatened by Xiaomi's rise. However, there is wide variation in the ASP of smartphones sold by the vendors highlighted above.The fact that nearly 50% of Chinese iPhone owners are interested in the "Red Rice" smartphone should cause concern to all high-end smartphone vendors, especially given Xiaomi's international ambitions. Also, it is important to note that the survey only refers to Xiaomi's "Red Rice" model and not the MI3 flagship. Therefore, the actual desirability of Xiaomi's smartphones may be higher.Samsung Galaxy Gear: a long time coming &gt;&gt; YouTubeApple Inc interactive risk-reward model &gt;&gt; Morgan-StanleyRequires Flash: you get to see if you can model how Apple's future share price (and earnings per share, and installed base, and revenue) change if you tweak various elements in its product mix - eg iPhone gross margins, sales share in different countries, product lifespan, etc.A couple of obvious flaws are that it assumes nothing particular happening through to 2015 (no extra phones? Nothing in iPads? No new products?) nor does it explain the underlying model. Fun, but also fascinating. If anyone knows of other examples of these for different companies, please link in the comments. (Thanks #rquick for the link.)When will the US reach smartphone saturation? &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu segments the US smartphone market, and has a pretty clear date for the final point. Here's how he segments it:The Innovators (first 2.5% of the market) were recruited by February 2007, one month after the iPhone was announced. They were almost all BlackBerry usersThe Early Adopters (the 13.5% which followed the innovators) were all using smartphones by the beginning of 2010. They were served mainly by iPhone 3GS and BlackBerriesThe Early Majority were on board by October 2012, just in time for iPhone 4, Droid, Galaxy.We are now in the Late majority which will run out by November 2015. The iPhone 5S came out about one third of the way through this period.The next few years are shown in the following extrapolation.It's scary - but also encouraging - how well the installed base data (from ComScore) fits the logistic equation for 3.5 years of a 15-year graph. The US is a distorted market for how it prefers certain phone pricing, but undistorted in getting phones into peoples' hands.30% of student tablets broken: Govt auditor's report &gt;&gt; Bangkok PostAbout 30% of 860,000 tablet computers distributed to Prathom 1 students last year are reported to have broken, a source on the tablet committee said.He said the information was discovered by the Office of the Auditor-General (OAG), which monitored the government's One Tablet PC Per Child policy in its first year of implementation last year.The OAG also discovered problems in maintaining the Chinese-made tablets for students.The supplier, China's Shenzhen Scope Scientific Development, had signed an agreement with a local firm, Advice Distribution, to maintain and repair the tablets for two years.The OAG report revealed that restoration of damaged tablets took a long time and some branches of Advice Distribution were shut down afterwards.Another Chinese supplier, Shenzhen Yotoa Intelligent Control, has asked for an extra month to deliver another 800,000-odd tablets, saying its factory had been damaged by fire. The Thai government refused the request. Perhaps a Thailand-based correspondent could weigh in..You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Samsung and its US lawyers could face sanctions after a secret patent licence between Apple and Nokia was distributed to scores of Samsung staff, breaking a court order.Judge Paul Grewal hasorderedone of Samsung's patent licensing team, as well as five other Samsung staff who have been identified by Apple in a court filing, to appear in front of him by 16 October. A further hearing is scheduled for 22 October.More than 90 Samsung staff could have seen the document, marked "Highly Confidential Attorney Eyes Only", in breach of a court confidentiality order.Grewal's order follows complaints by Apple and Nokia that staff from the South Korean manufacturer learnt details of theirsecret June 2011 patent licensing dealfrom a document that was meant to be restricted solely to an expert witness, David Teece, who was writing an opinion on Samsung's behalf for last year's patent court battle with Apple.Samsung, or its lawyers, may beliable for a fine under California's lawsfor breaking the court's order on the protection of the confidential information - though it's unclear whether that is the only option open to Grewal if he should find against Samsung or its law company, Quinn Emanuel.Samsung's lawyeradmitted in a court hearingbefore the order that a junior member of the law firm had failed to redact terms of the licence deal correctly, leaving them visible to Samsung executives who should not have been able to see them. But she argued that this was not a violation of the court order which is meant to keep such details secret, because it was not intentional.It is not the first time that Samsung staff have been accused of making use of confidential information about Apple's business plans. In September 2011, Suk-Joo Hwang, a former manager at the company,testifiedthat in December 2009 he had passed confidential shipping data about components for the Apple iPad - then not even announced - to members of a US hedge fund. Hwang received immunity from prosecution in return for his testimony.Obstruction over disclosureIn the current case, Apple complained that Samsung had obstructed its attempts to find out how many people had seen the licences without permission, and failed to say whether it was using the wrongly-acquired material in other court proceedings - including one ongoing in the US.Samsung had failed to give Apple any information about who had seen the licensing terms in the three months since Nokia had raised the topic, Apple's counsel said. And Samsung's lawyers had actually been aware of the breach of the court order since December 2012, Apple's lawyer claimed.According to a declaration from Nokia's chief intellectual property officer Paul Melin of a meeting with Samsung licensing executives on 4 June, Seungho Ahn told Nokia that he already knew the details of the licence - and stated that Apple had produced the licence as part of its litigation with Samsung, and that Samsung's lawyers had provided him with a copy. "All information leaks," Ahn was quoted as saying, in Melin's declaration.The Apple-Nokia deal is highly secret, and was struck by the two companies to cover a number of essential and non-essential patents in June 2011, after years of litigation following the launch of the original iPhone in 2007.Apple made a one-off payment and agreed to make a number of ongoing royalty payments, and licensed some of its own patents to Nokia. The terms of the licence were never released - and like all patent licence deals, were treated as highly secret.If the details of the deal were made public, or revealed to a competitor, it would mean that they would know how the two sides valued their patents - and so weaken them in future negotiations because it removes their ability to negotiate on price or value against someone whose prices and values are unknown.'Fox investigating the henhouse'Grewal's order contains harsh, if veiled, criticism of Samsung. "It is possible that Dr Ahn's encounter with Mr Melin occurred very differently. Unfortunately, the court cannot say, because Samsung has elected not to provide the court with any sworn testimony from Dr Ahn or anyone else at the meeting," the judge notes in his order. "Samsung also has failed to supply the court with any evidence at all regarding other uses of the Apple-Nokia licence, or those of the other confidential licencees [Ericsson, Sharp and Philips, which were also mentioned in the document]."In fact, despite acknowledging that many dozens of individuals at Samsung and its other council have knowledge of confidential licence terms that they had no right to access, at yesterday's hearing, Samsung's counsel repeatedly denied even one violation of the protective order, asserting that such a violation can only occur wilfully." He called Samsung's offers in the matter "insufficient".He called the hiring by Samsung's lawyer of an outside company to examine Samsung's systems "the fox [being] permitted to investigate… the disappearance of chickens at the henhouse."Apple made a copy of the licence available to Samsung's lawyers in March 2012 only for the purpose of Teece's analysis, in which he was writing an expert opinion for the Apple-Samsung case in Northern California. There, Apple was suing Samsung over a number of design and technical patents, while Samsung was claiming that Apple had infringed a number of Samsung's standards-essential patents. The jury decided in Apple's favour and against Samsung.Samsung's lawyer was at pains during the court hearing ahead of Grewal's order to avoid suggestions that the South Korean company - which has battled in a number of countries with Apple over patent matters - had derived the information from the leaked document, despite being unable to say who inside the company had seen it.'Nothing wrong has happened here'Asked by Grewal whether the information that had leaked had been used in any negotiations, Samsung's lawyer said: "I'm denying that confidential information governed by the protective order learned that Samsung, that Samsung learned about from inadvertent disclosures, was used in a negotiation."Susan Estrich, for Quinn Emanuel, insisted to Grewal that "Nothing wrong has happened here" but admitted that "Yes, there was a disclosure." She added: "Was it wilful - in this case, no." She said that courts have not previously sanctioned those where the disclosure is not wilful, and where those involved take measures to remedy the situation.But Judge Grewal admonished Estrich and Samsung for their lack of action: "You've just told me you can't even tell me whether you've taken any steps in any of these other tribunals [where Samsung and Apple are fighting patent battles] to retract reliance upon this information."Estrich said that the error occurred when "an associate redacted [the Apple-Nokia licence for Teece] - it wasn't as if we sent [out] a report with no redactions. He made a mistake. He left in a footnote that should have been redacted. There were two additional paragraphs."The insufficiently redacted document was then placed on an FTP site controlled by Quinn Emanuel, where Samsung staff and Teece could access documents needed for the court case in summer 2012. But the law firm said it has no record of who accessed the site - and had now employed a third party company called Stroz to make enquiries inside Samsung about who had downloaded the file and who had emailed it.Samsung's staff offered to delete all the emails involving the file when Nokia raised objections at the meeting in June - which Melin, for Nokia, immediately insisted it could not do. If a violation of court privacy is suspected, the law says that the extent of the violation must be determined; deleting emails or other information would constitute destruction of evidence.Apple's lawyer complained that Samsung has used the information from the disclosure "to craft arguments at the ITC [International Trade Commission, which can impose import bans to the US for patent violation]. "The ITC issued an opinion on the licensing negotiations that specifically accepted Samsung's argument in which this confidential information was used."Samsung declined to comment or to confirm any of the details of the meeting with Nokia.A Nokia spokesperson said: "There is nothing we can add to the court documents at this stage."Apple declined to comment.Text of Grewal's orderTranscript of the hearing (76 pages)
World Wide Web creator Tim Berners-Lee is leading a cross-industry coalition to bring cheaper internet to the developing world.Announced in Abuja, Nigeria, on Monday, theAlliance for Affordable Internet(A4AI) aims to drive down global internet prices and campaign against anti-competitive pricing.The coalition spans both public and private organisations, including Google, Facebook, Intel, Microsoft, Cisco, and the UK Department for International Development.“The majority of the world’s people are still not online, usually because they can’t afford to be,&quot; saidSir Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the web and founder of the World Wide Web Foundation. &quot;In Mozambique, for example, a recent study showed that using just 1GB of data can cost well over two months’ wages for the average citizen.&quot;Everyday life seems unimaginable without internetA4AI is an advocate for open, competitive and innovative broadband markets, aiming to help internet access prices fall to below the UN Broadband Commission&apos;s target of 5% of monthly income worldwide.“Over the last twenty years the web has changed our own society so much that everyday life seems unimaginable without it,&quot; said UK secretary of state for International Development Justine Greening. &quot;Internet access has been a driver of economic growth. It puts power in the hands of people and opens up societies.&quot;Widening the digital divide&quot;The result of high prices is a widening digital divide that slows progress in vital areas such as health, education and science,&quot; said Berners-Lee. &quot;With the advent of affordable smartphones, new undersea cables and innovations in wireless spectrum usage, there is simply no good reason for the digital divide to continue.&quot;In the developing world, just 31% of the population has internet access, compared to the developed world&apos;s 77% internet connected population. For instance, in Africa, 16% of people have access to the internet, which is half the penetration rate of Asia and the Pacific.A noble idea that could stagnateThe road to ubiquitous, affordable broadband access across the globe won&apos;t be easy, however.&quot;Looking at a region like Africa, the Alliance is on the right track in terms of tackling the cost of service, but the success of this will hinge on how much buy in they get from the service providers,&quot; said Spiwe Chireka, program manager, telecoms and networking, Africa for research firm IDC.&quot;Furthermore, we do not believe that managing the cost of internet services, independent of the lack of relevant content, access to devices and without addressing the priority of voice over data, will increase internet penetration as the Alliance seems to imply,&quot; continued Chireka.&quot;I believe it needs a more holistic approach to increasing penetration, as opposed to just the cost of broadband. It&apos;s a noble idea but could stagnate in the future if the other three factors of content, devices and voice priority are not addressed concurrently.&quot;• In June, Google launched aballoon-powered internet access solutionfor developing nations called &quot;Project Loon&quot;.
Researchers at Bristol University have developed a new system that simulates the feel of objects in mid-air using nothing but sound.The “UltraHaptic” system uses an array of ultrasonic transducers – a grid of small piezoelectric speakers that produce waves of ultrasound, the same as those used to scan babies in the womb – which align to produce an invisible layer of ultrasonic vibrations in the air above a display. This creates a small tactile sensation on the surface of human skin.Haptic feedback, as techniques like this are known, is the process of creating a tactile sensation for virtual objects. For instance, some smartphones vibrate on virtual button presses, while others emit audible keypad tones while dialling numbers.“By creating multiple simultaneous feedback points, and giving them individual tactile properties, users can receive localised feedback associated to their actions,” said Tom Carter, a PhD student in the Department of Computer Science&apos;s Bristol’s Interaction and Graphics group.Virtually interact with objects in mid-airThe array is placed behind an acoustically transparent display that monitors the motions of a user’s fingers above the screen, providing a tactile feedback layer as they virtually interact with objects like knobs and switches in mid-air.UltraHaptics allows a user to experience a tactile interaction with virtual objects in mid-air.The ultrasonic layer can also be used for mid-air gestures, as well as allowing the user to identify different tactile properties without actually touching anything.“Current systems with integrated interactive surfaces allow users to walk-up and use them with bare hands. Our goal was to integrate haptic feedback into these systems without sacrificing their simplicity and accessibility,” explained Carter.Several systems, includingMicrosoft’s Kinect sensorand theLeapMotion, have pushed technology which monitors a user’s hand and body motions to allow them to interact with a computer interface, but have lacked any sort of feedback, bar audio and visual alerts from a display screen.The research paper is to be presented at the ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology 2013 in St Andrews on Friday by Carter.• Senseg, among others, are working onbringing haptic feedback to touchscreensby giving them &apos;texture&apos; through the use of electrostatic forces.
The Australian technology firm Fastmail is claiming to be beyond the reach of US law, including the National Security Letters used by the NSA. It states that it &quot;does not co-operate with blanket surveillance&quot; and does not give information on its users to anyone outside Australia.Responding to growing public debate over online surveillance by theUS National Security Agency, a blogpost from Fastmail to its usersemphasised the fact that it is incorporated in Melbourne, and so only has to respond to demands made under Australian law, though it conceded that some of Fastmail&apos;s servers are in the US.Robert Norris, Fastmail technical lead, said: “Australia does not have any equivalent to the US National Security Letter, so we cannot be forced to do something without being allowed to disclose it.“We are required to disclose information about specific individual accounts to properly authorised Australian law enforcement with the appropriate supporting documentation, which means a warrant signed by an Australian judge,” Norris says.“We do not co-operate with any kind of blanket surveillance, monitoring or ‘fishing expeditions’, and we do not give out user information to anyone outside Australia. We do not have a legal presence in the US, no company incorporated in the US, no staff in the US, and no one in the US with login access to any servers located in the US.&quot;Fastmail became an independent companyin September following a staff buyout from browser developer Opera. Two secure email services,Silent CircleandLavabit, have been forced to close recently after pressure from security agencies, while others, including a new service in Germany, are making a selling point ofprotecting user data from the NSA.Norris specifically addressed the issue of Fastmail&apos;s server location, and said even if its servers were seized, consumer data is protected by encryption.“Even if a US court were to serve us with a court order, subpoena or other instruction to hand over user data, Australian communications and privacy law explicitly forbids us from doing so. We can make it extremely difficult for these things to occur by using strong encryption and careful systems monitoring,&quot;Last week, the creator of PGP encryption Phil Zimmermann pointed out thatno security model can overcome the intrinsic flaws of email. PGP, short for “pretty good privacy”, can protect the contents of messages, but message headers (which reveal the sender, recipient and time of the email) can never be hidden.Mike Janke, with Zimmermann the co-founder of Silent Circle, a secure communications company,described email as “fundamentally broken”.•Why does a major security firm think email is fundamentally broken?• This article was amended on 9 October 2013 to clarify that Fastmail did not claim to be &quot;NSA proof&quot;.
From the rooftop you can see the whole of Shanghai burning. All around, for many miles, buildings belch out vast black oceans of smoke. But there are more pressing matters at hand – like, for example, who is about to emerge from the lift that just arrived on the top floor of this vast skyscraper. Because this rooftop is an objective point in the Battlefield 4 map, Siege of Shanghai – and the elevator is the only way up, for both allies and enemies.Here we are then enjoying a glimpse into the future of the Battlefield series – one of 10 new multiplayer maps rolling out with the forthcoming instalment. In the Conquest mode, there are three points to secure and hold against the opposing team: one is in an underground carpark beneath a vast open square, the second is on that skyscraper rooftop, and the third is in a shopping arcade built around a large glass atrium. The three points are separated by a large river, with the skyscraper positioned on a thumb of land in the middle – so, for ground troops, access between the points is via two highly exposed bridges, or a quick swim across the water.It's a tactically rich set-up, expertly realised by the team at EA Dice. For the carpark point, there's a glass roof allowing players to lob down grenades, while the clear space makes the square a happy hunting ground for snipers hidden out behind nearby buildings. The shopping centre has two large exits at either end, allowing vehicles to be driven in, but balcony areas along the sides allow the flag to be defended by troops with RPGs. It's that old FPS magic of give and take – every entrance is also a risk.The highlight though, is the point at the top of the skyscraper – here, the holding team must guard the two groups of elevator entrances, while watching out for enemy chopper attacks. There are also glass areas of the floor that start to crack under gun fire, before exploding away, taking anyone standing on them along for the drop. For the brave or foolhardy, base jumping from the rooftop also affords handy aerial access to the other two flag points, and dropping down from above, firing at unwary enemies is as thrilling as it always has been in the Battlefield series.Both Battlefield and Call of Duty want to draw us to the dynamic elements of their latest map designs, and Siege of Shanghai has the most spectacular. It's possible to take out the columns supporting the skyscraper with grenades, prompting the whole thing to collapse into swirling dust and jagged claws of masonry. Suddenly, the little triangle of land in the centre of the map becomes just about the hardest flag point to hold, as helicopters use the clear airspace to rain down fire and snipers wait on the other sides of the river to take out unwary foes.It is a map, then, of contrasts – of neat little skirmishes and then great battles between helicopters and tanks. I like how the play flow can be subtly redirected, perhaps by bringing up the barriers on a bridge, or closing the shutters on a shop – clever players are able to subtly manipulate their enemies. I also likes the renewed sense of verticality, symbolised by that vast tower in the centre. Everything has an overwatch point, everything is vulnerable from above, and you're constantly attempting to pincer the enemy, not just from the sides but also from above and below.There have been some interesting little updates to the interface too. The lobby, which shows the pre-spawn field map, now lets you spawn directly into vehicles – a simple but effective shortcut. When you pass the cursor over the different flag points, you get a little bit of CCTV footage showing you what's going on, which brings a little bit of life to the screen.Elsewhere, vehicle handling has been changed. Tanks and APCs are controlled using a single analogue stick for direction and acceleration; there's no accelerator/brake set-up. It resembles the vehicle controls in the Lego games and takes a while to get used to, but it may work better in the long run. I haven't yet tried to fly a chopper.Only two modes are available in the beta – Conquest and Domination, the latter a more condensed, infantry-based affair, that I still don't like in a Battlefield title. There are five more modes to come.So yes, this is positive stuff from Battlefield. Graphically, the current gen consoles are showing their age and struggling with some of the depth of aesthetic ambition – perhaps it's Shanghai's endless banks of concrete and steel, but texture detail looks stark in some places. But this map shows that Dice still knows how to create maps that combine stealth and strategy with choke points of sheer ferocity and noise. With Call of Duty: Ghosts also doing some intriguing things with its multiplayer modes and map designs, there is still fun to be teased from these FPS old-timers.• Let us know about your experiences with the Battlefield 4 open beta in the comments section.
[Editor's note: some of the pictures in this article are large - around 2MB each - and may take some time to load, depending on the speed of your connection.]My first cameraphone was aSony Ericsson T68i, which added the camera in the form of a bolt-on attachment to the handset itself . I used that almost exactly 11 years ago, taking it on a birthday-present-to-myself trip to India. I still have the handset somewhere; sadly, none of the photos has survived.At the time the camera element seemed both miraculous and pointless. I couldn't see why anyone would want to take pictures with a phone, given how poor they were, but I remember applauding the sheer demented genius of joining two apparently very different bits of hardware to create a Frankenstein's monster of consumer technology.Fast forward 11 years, to what is now the state-of-the art cameraphone – the Nokia Lumia 1020. In the age of instant, always-on social media, adding a camera to a phone now makes perfect sense: people take and share photographs every minute of every day thanks to the vast improvement in the camera technology and much better mobile connectivity.Nokia first unveiled the technology that now graces the 1020 in its 808 Pureview in July last year. At the time it was hailed as spectacular, but a dead end, as it was part of the Finnish company's final Symbian phone.The good news is that it's still spectacular, even more so now as it's on the latest handset in the Windows Phone Lumia range. It's not perfect, but it's a cameraphone that, while it doesn't make my trusty Nikon D80 redundant, does make me think twice about lugging it along to events.Apps and allThe subject of apps, or lack thereof, comes up every time the Windows Phone platform is reviewed, and some big names are indeed still missing: there's no Instagram (although there area number of good third-party alternativesandHipstamatic's Oggl Prorecently launched). Urban taxi-users will missHailoandKabbee. However, Dropbox is now on the platform, while Vine, Flipboard and Path are "coming soon".I add a small handful of apps - Google Search, Adobe Reader, Kindle, PrimeTube and Addison Lee - to a Windows Phone handset, but then I'm not a big user of apps, not least because so much functionality is baked in to the OS. WP comes with Office, plus 7GB of Skydrive space; and the People hub integrates Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn: all three also provide official apps, but there's little need to fire them up. The most problematic absences are Google's apps: theongoing spat between Google and Microsoft over YouTubecontinues to rumble, while Gmail users will shortly have to use three protocols (IMAP, CalDAV and CardDAV) to connect a WP device to their stuff as Google is withdrawing access via Exchange Active Sync. If you're a big Google user, while you can connect, it's trickier than on other platforms – and some might well find that a reason to choose another platform.Camera: the technology bitFirst, here's the technology bit (and here's aPDF from Nokia to explain it). The heart of the camera is a 41-megapixel (MP) sensor which uses 1.1-micron back-side-illuminated pixels. What that means is a bigger area to capture light: it's the same idea as a medium-format camera, which seeks to improve the quality of images by having a bigger light-collecting device than its smaller counterpart, the SLR (single lens reflex) camera.The comparison ends there, though. More and bigger pixels do usually equate to coarser grain and "noisier" (less precise) images, the processing software means that thiscamera oversamples– in other words, it takes information from all the pixels to produce one 5MP image that is really good.That 5MP image is the one that's available for sharing, and you can post it from the app direct to Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn or SkyDrive, or add it to an email or picture message. You can also send your picture to OneNote, which is part of the Office suite all Windows Phones bundle.However, the benefit of those bigger pixels and bigger sensor really become clear when you look at the 38MP image captured at the same time as the smaller image. Blow it up, and the detail captured even at full magnification is really impressive. I was half a mile away from Tower Bridge (according to Google Maps), when this shot was taken.Detail at close range on a 38MP image is almost uncomfortably good: blown right up, you can see my reflection in Rory Cellan-Jones's eye as I take the picture.While the sensor and the software are very important, nothing is more important when it comes to good pictures than the lens. Nokia has done its very best here, using a six-part assembly by Carl Zeiss, which has been a byword for high-quality lenses since the 19th century. Inevitably, this is an area where the image quality suffers: it's very difficult to get the best optics out of such a small assembly. Looked at in detail, imagescan suffer from purple fringingand I think the edges are rather soft.That could reasonably be described as nitpicking: while these images wouldn't bear too much comparison with an image taken with a full-frame DSLR, or even a dedicated, good-quality point and shoot, for a cameraphone, they're stunning.Gyro heavenThe camera is, like its predecessors in the Lumia range, housed in a gyroscope, which means that the shutter can be open for longer – so you can take good images in low light. I prefer not to use a flash if possible, and most of the time you won't need one. Images such as thisshot in auto mode, indoors with tungsten light, are good. The camera struggles a bit with white balance on auto mode in low light with mixed light sources, as you might expectBut it does well at duskand in party lighting.The 1020 has won praise elsewhere for its Xenon flash; I am less convinced by it – any flash can swamp and flatten a scene, and this is no exception. (Examplewithoutandwith flash.)Camera in useSo much for what the images are like; what's the camera like to use? The 1020 comes with the latest iteration of Nokia's camera software, Nokia Camera Pro – and that's also now available for other Lumias including the 920 and 925. It's the default software, and launches when you press the camera button on the phone.You can shoot in auto mode, or you can adjust the white balance, ISO, focus, shutter speed and exposure value, as well as turn the flash on and off, and kill the focus light – which I always do, as a focus light firing will make your subjects think the flash has gone off and the photo is taken, so they move and the shot is ruined.In auto mode the display tells you that all the settings are in auto. In the top left corner is the edit icon – tap that when the image is saved and it will be opened in editing mode.Next to that, a tiny circular thumbnail of the image is seen: tap that, and you'll be taken to a screen where you can crop the 38MP image – you can also change the aspect ratio of your shot here. The framing grid is off by default; I've turned it on.In the bottom right corner are two arrows in a circle: tap that, and you'll be offered a choice of other "lenses", or imaging software, with which to take your shot. The phone ships with Bing Vision (which scans barcodes and QR codes); Nokia Cinemagraph (with which you can create animated gifs); Panorama (self-explanatory); Camera (the point-and-shoot predecessor to the Pro Cam app) or Nokia Smart Cam.That gives you another series of options: Motion Focus, which adds blur to suggest motion; Action Shot, which adds a strobe effect; Remove Moving Objects, which allows you to get rid of unwanted objects (your ex, perhaps); and Change Faces, where you can do what it says on the tin. There are other lenses apps in the Windows Phone store; doubtless more will follow (though no Instagram yet, filter fans).If you want to play with the camera settings in Pro Cam, sweep the camera icon right and the settings screen appears.Sweep one of the settings up and the preview will show you what the effect will be (likethis, orthis, orthis, for example).It's worth experimenting with these settings as you can get some nice effects, such as motion blur by choosing a slower shutter speed.Once you're happy with how the shot looks, you can either tap the screen or press the camera button (which is under your right index finger when holding the phone in landscape orientation) to fire the shutter. As the camera focuses, you'll feel the mechanism moving inside the phone, which is a little disconcerting at first.One irritation with this device is that the shutter is slow to fire (and indeed, the camera app is slow to start up). Although setting a fast shutter speed can freeze action, it won't capture your scene any faster, which means that if you like to grab moments with quick, spontaneous shots, this probably isn't the device for you. It's also rather slow to process the image and show you the result and then take you to the Pro Cam app for editing.Moving picturesVideo is good, offering a choice of resolutions and frame rates, from 720p/24fps right up to 1080p/30fps, though of course the higher the quality, the more disk space you'll eat on the device – and as with previous Lumias, there's no SD slot. The phone comes in 32GB and 64GB flavours, but for now at least the 64GB model is an O2 special in the UK. However, it does come with 7GB of space on SkyDrive, Microsoft's equivalent to Dropbox, which integrates tightly with all Windows Phone handsets.Video settings are, as with stills, accessed via the video app rather than the primary Settings app, and, as with the stills camera, you can adjust settings manually, though with video you only have access to the focus and white balance - playing with that particularly can produce some quite startling effects.Here's one:and another:Video editingOne piece of good news for Lumia users frustrated by the inability to edit video on the device itself is that Nokia has now released an app –Nokia Video Trimmer- which is straightforward to use, though limited in function: all you can do is trim the beginning and the end. Sharing to Facebook or Skydrive is done via the video app, but if you want topost your masterpiece to YouTube, you'll need theNokia Video Upload app. (Both of these apps are available for earlier Lumias that have had theAmber OS update.)It's a phone tooHowever, as well as being a very good pocket camera, the Lumia 1020 is also a phone. It is in many ways the same as the Lumia 920, which wereviewed in depth just under a year ago. The software updates haveadded some functionality, including FM radio and the Glance function for when the phone is asleep.The hardware isn't much different, either: the heart of the 1020 is the same Qualcomm Snapdragon 1.5GHz processor, though the 1020 gets a boost to 2GB of RAM.Thespecifications for the 1020show that it is slightly lighter than the 920 (158g against the 920's 185g). Its 1020 camera stands proud of the back, so it can't lie flat, but it still feels less of a slab than its predecessor (although the 925 is a much slimmer and lighter phone, weighing in at 139g. For comparison, the iPhone 5S weighs 112g; HTC One, 130g; Samsung Galaxy S4 130g; BlackBerry Z10, 137.5g.).The 1020 is made of a matte polycarbonate, which is a little more subtle than the glossy polycarbonate of the 920 – though the best looker of the Lumia handsets remains the brushed aluminium of the 925. Colourwise, you get a choice of radioactive custard-yellow, or a more sober black or white.For those planning to use the camera more than casually, consider getting the camera grip, which makes it feel, well, more like a camera. It adds weight and bulk, but crucially it also adds an extra battery: snapping away will drain the battery surprisingly quickly.If you want to see what the camera is capable of in the hands of professionals, it's worth looking at the imagesshot by the legendary photographers David Bailey and Bruce Weber, who both took a 1020 on to the streets of Harlem, New York, earlier in the summer; their high-res images can be downloaded and blown up and are far more impressive than any of my shots.Pros:stunning high-res images, build quality, additional camera gripCons:apps slow to boot, shutter slow to fire, rather long processing time.More reading: "the question of whether ordinary people will really pay top whack for a fantastic camera is already answered by the compact camera market"
Trust no one. That's the first rule of life in Los Santos. As soon as you hit a server and the city opens up before you, there are going to be up to 15 other people on the streets – and sometimes they're crazy as hell. On Saturday night, I found myself being stalked by one maniac named BlockyWizard who – armed with an assault rifle compared with my puny micro-SMG – relentlessly pursued me through the game, riddling me and my car with bullets at every opportunity. We fought, we drove fast, we fought again. It was like some unholy combination of Top Gear and Fatal Attraction.At least you're lowered into the snake pit gently. When you first arrive in GTA Online, after Franklin's potty-mouthed pal Lamar picks you up from the airport, you're channeled into a sort of tutorial race followed by some other educative messing about. Then it's onto the streets for real. The character you just spent half-an-hour creating is pretty much a defenceless fawn at this stage; just a handgun and some cheap clothes for company. But then you get a car and the jobs start rolling in: Gerald wants you to pick up some drugs, Simeon has a vehicle he wants you to repo. All this comes to you via your trusty in-game mobile phone – you just dial and hit "accept" and you're transferred into a mission. It takes a few seconds, but the transition is relatively smooth, and there's a lobby screen where you get to chose your starting weapon and some armour, as well as tweak who you want playing with you – friends or similarly skilled strangers.You can also attempt plenty of missions alone, although it's always better to have a wingman. Blundering into a drug deal or attempting to repossess a moving car will usually be easier with a little extra muscle. Actually, the best missions so far have been massed mobile battles across the bloody highways of the city. Yesterday I played one in which two teams had to track down a dodgy cop on a bike holding secret police files; once the documents were grabbed they had to be taken to a pick-up point. Cue, dozens of vehicles smashing into each other, pursued by cops, winding in and out of civilian traffic, bullets flying, tyres squealing. It's an exhilarating combination of car chase and shoot-out and physics and destruction – like Hollywood regurgitating its next ten action blockbusters onto your screen.There are also mission jump off points littered around the map, giving easy drive-in access to deathmatches and races. The variety of options is impressive, from shootouts around a country estate to bike races across the airport runway. Success earns you cash and reputation points, the latter unlocking ever more juicy weapons and vehicle upgrades. And you want better weapons pretty fast. At first, you're limited to short-range blasters: handguns, a sawn-off shotgun, that micro-SMG... and Los Santos is no place for people who only pack a Mac-10 and a lousy attitude.This is me in GTA Online, posing on Del Perro pier. And yes, that's my car carefully parked in the background.That's because those 15 other people know where you are at all times, and you know where they are – you all show up on the in-game map. If you meet, there's usually a shoot-out and the victor gets the loser's cash – as well as their car (although you can have the latter insured for quick recall). Whatever you earn from missions or robberies should be banked quickly via any ATM machine you pass – that way other players can't grab your life savings (UPDATE:you can also bank your cash wherever you are, by going on to the internet and accessing the banking site). But here's something I learned the hard way: keep $500 in your pocket at all times. If there's some crazy murderer on your case, $100 gets you into Passive Mode, where you can't be killed – but that cash needs to beonyou. If you don't have it, your psychopathic arch nemesis can just keep chasing you down and taking you out.At first, this wasn't just inconvenient, it was expensive. Hospital bills ran into thousands, so a few run-ins could soon really deplete that fund you were building up to buy an apartment or garage. According to Rockstar, you're still charged if you get killed in free mode, but the bills are being tweaked and it seems it's cheaper now than it was two days ago. The moral of the story is, never travel empty handed – even if it's just a couple of dollars to buy a soda when your health is low.But so far, being inside the multiplayer Los Santos has been a weird, thrilling, hilarious and also frustrating experience. On Saturday, I was hoping to meet fellow games writers Keza MacDonald and Matthew Reynolds for some co-op shenanigans, but I found that, although I was able to access jobs and missions, I couldn't get into the Friends menu and join up with pals. I was alone.Meanwhile, Keza was having a night in Los Santos that swayed from the sublime to the ridiculously upsetting. "On the one hand I spent six or seven hours having an inordinate amount of fun with a great group of people," she says. "We were hopping between racing and shooting and base jumps and discovering a helicopter deathmatch that has since become my favourite mission. On the other hand I logged in on Sunday to discover that the character I'd spend 20-something hours with over the last week had disappeared, apparently beyond return. She's still not back. It's a perfect illustration of the GTA quandary at this point: it's amazing when it works, but it still barely works, and playing at all involves an eye-watering element of risk."GTA Online: features a helicopter deathmatchAnd this is the problem right now. Los Santos is a city of risk and reward, but some of the main risks are outside of the fiction – losing a character you've leveled up and cared about is just about the worst thing that can happen in a multiplayer game. This has to be something Rockstar is working on.What the game definitely realises though, is the chaotic thrill of life in an urban sprawl entirely populated by gun-toting ne'er-do-wells. You can be cruising the streets looking for a convenience store to turn over (sorry mum) when in a flash, two other players in roaring muscle cars scorch past pursued by half the LSPD. At other times, there are weird moments of unspoken brutish camaraderie – like Journey re-imagined by a 14-year-old Tony Scott with attention deficit issues.On Sunday night my female character was waiting at an ATM to cash in about seven grand's worth of stolen car funds. When I turned round there was a male player avatar waiting for me beside a motorcycle – he sounded the bike's horn and waited some more. So I got on. We spent the next half-hour riding around the city at ridiculous speed like Tom Cruise and Kelly McGillis in Top Gun, zipping in and out of the traffic as the giant sun sunk behind the skyscrapers. Then some other player took a shot at us as we passed. We followed him to a tattoo parlour, where he got out of his car and walked in for an inking session. My new friend calmly stopped, got off his bike, pulled out a can of gasoline and poured it all over the car. He then poured a line all the way up to the door of the tattoo parlour. When the guy came out, my pal ignited the line and rode off; I looked back to see our victim attempting to get into his vehicle as it exploded. We just kept riding.Aoife Wilson from Official Xbox Magazine was also in the game on Saturday night. Her highlights? "When everything comes together and you're able to jump from a deathmatch into a race and then into freeplay mode with a group of friends over chat," she says. "There's always a 'did you see that?!' moment to discuss, or a good-natured game of fisticuffs breaking out." Earlier that afternoon, I'd attempted a mission with Wilson's editor Jon Hicks. Somehow, it ended with us lying upside down in his wrecked car as it floated along Los Santos river. "Worst date ever," I texted over the Xbox messaging system.GTA 5: there's always the sense that something can go wrongMassively multiplayer games are all about player stories; the narratives are seamless and emergent, and this is the beauty of them. But you need all the other systems working perfectly to coax these plotlines out. Rockstar seems to have the basics up and running now – there is plenty of anarchic fun to be had out there in the streets, hills and desert expanses of Los Santos and its environs, but you've always got the jitters than something will go wrong – not with your gun or your vehicle, but with the infrastructure holding it all together.There are a few questions too about the economy. The cash you earn from missions starts at around $1000. This means that it'll be a good few days before you're looking at, say, buying a home (grotty apartments start at around $100,000) or even a garage (a two-car lock-up is around $25,000). Compare this with the $1,250,000 you can earn from simply handing over £13 to the microtransaction system, and some players are wondering whether the balance isn't too far in favour of the monetised shortcut.However, as you rank up, more lucrative missions become available, and you can also choose to set the difficulty higher to increase the Reputation Points pay-out. There's also a particular mission to look out for from Gerald which will earn each victor $9000 – and it can be immediately replayed for bumper earnings.When GTA Online is working – really,reallyworking – then fans are going to want to spend time in here, experiencing the world, ranking up, experimenting. A weekend in Los Santos is dangerous, frenetic, and violent – and after my TopGun experience I almost wish there were more interactions available to strangers on these dark and lonely streets than merely shoot, gesture or share a vehicle (you can invite people back to your apartment but I'm not sure whatthatmeans – it's only happened to me once and the player sold the house as soon as I arrived, which I thought was pretty rude). But really, this is an experience to be shared over many weeks with people you know. That way, before you realise it, you'll have that modernist mansion in the Vinewood Hills you always dreamed of.And even without friends, without ambitions ... well, coasting the streets looking for trouble is totally fine. You never have to look far or wait too long. Believe me, if no one else is available, you can absolutely definitely rely on trouble.
It's a quirk of fate thatSpotifyandThom Yorkeshare a birthday: Spotify is five years old today, and the Radiohead and Atoms for Peace frontman is 45. I suspect birthday cards won't be exchanged between the two, given Yorke's latest criticism of Spotify as"the last desperate fart of a dying corpse".The attack comes at a sensitive time for Spotify, even though the streaming music service has plenty of good news to report. It's now available in 32 countries, with more than 24 million active users, 6m paying subscribers, and 1bn playlists created by those people.Spotify is far from the only streaming music service, of course. Direct rivals globally includeDeezer,RdioandRhapsody/Napster, plus local companies likeSimfyin Germany, WiMP in Scandinavia, andSaavn,DhinganaandGaanain India.Streaming is also a key part of larger digital music services likeGoogle Play,Xbox Music,Sony Music UnlimitedandSamsung's Music Hub, and then there are personal radio services likePandora,Apple's iTunes Radio,Nokia Music,iHeartRadio, Slacker andSongza.There are innovative mobile apps likeBloom.fmandEarbits;SoundCloudfor streams of songs uploaded directly by artists and DJs;Grooveshark(which is being sued by labels for its lack of licensing deals);Vevofor streaming music videos, and the largest streaming music service of the lot:YouTube.Spotify is the focus for the hype - and the criticismStreaming music is a crowded space, then, but it's Spotify that generates a lot of the hype, but also fields a lot of the criticism. It's become a lightning rod for streaming music, and the disruption for artists, songwriters and the music industry that it brings. And while it's grown fast, its next five years will bring plenty of challenges.Arguments about Spotify are usually binary: it's good or evil. But if you want to really understand its chances of turning 10, you need to look at three separate (albeit related) questions.1. Are streaming music services harming piracy more than they're harming sales?2. Are streaming music revenues being distributed fairly to artists and songwriters?3. Can the streaming music services survive with their current business models.So let's take them in turn.Is streaming a piracy beater?Much of the evidence so far suggests that yes, streaming services can help the recorded music industry turn around a decade or more of declining sales by converting pirates into legal music listeners.Start by looking at Sweden, where sales of musicjumped 13.8% in 2012, and then12% in the first half of 2013. Or Norway, where salesrose 7% in 2012and then17% in the first half of 2013. That's total sales: revenues including sales of CDs, vinyl, downloads and income from streaming.In the first half of this year, streaming music accounted for 66% of those total revenues in Norway, and 70.5% in Sweden. In these countries, streaming – with Spotify to the fore – has become truly mainstream, and the music industry is benefiting greatly.What about the UK and US, though? There's occasionally finger-pointing at Spotify for slower-than-expected growth (or even shrinkage) of digital track and album sales, yet the real proof will only come early in 2014, when figures are released to show how much money was made from sales plus streams.Piracy fell during 2012 as streaming grewThere's some evidence in the UK of streaming eating into piracy, though. Telecoms regulator Ofcom has publishedfour quarterly copyright infringement reportsover the last year, and found that the number of tracks pirated per quarter fell from 301m to 297m to 280m to 199m over those four quarters. That last big fall co-incided with a spike in Spotify usage.It's early days, but the evidence is suggesting that streaming can cannibalise piracy, and that when it does start to eat into download sales too, the overall rise in revenues makes up for that.But it's also important to understand that we're talking about revenues for the music industry: record labels and music publishers. What about artists and songwriters? Which brings us onto the second question.Are streaming payouts being distributed fairly?In countries like Sweden, Spotify and its rivals are helping labels and publishers make more money. But is that beingdistributed fairly to artists? Here's where the arguments begin, on multiple levels.One strand concerns the way the major music labels own stakes in Spotify, from which they'll make lots of money if and when the company is acquired or goes public. They also get paid large advances by streaming companies when negotiating their licensing deals, on top of the per-stream payouts that they're paid for plays of songs.Are these advances being shared fairly with musicians and songwriters, and will the same be true of any sale/IPO windfall? Welcome to the music industry, with its somewhat less-than-transparent traditions in regard to rewarding creators.•Thom Yorke: Spotify is the last desperate fart of a dying corpse'•Dave Stewart: Songwriters should worship Spotify•What Radiohead's Nigel Godrich really thinks of SpotifySome artists are being screwed by their labels for streaming royalties, and others are being treated fairly: indie label group Beggars Group, for example, has a policy of sharing streaming income 50/50 with all its artists. Spotify pays the labels rather than the artists, but it's not in an ideal position to call out any contractual shenanigans from its licensing partners.But the debate over fair payouts for musicians and songwriters isn't just about getting screwed. It's about whether the model is benefitting the big guns more than emerging artists who are just getting started with their careers. "New artists get paid fuck all with this model. It's an equation that just doesn't work," tweeted Yorke's bandmate Nigel Godrich at the height of Atoms For Peace-gate earlier in the year.Streaming - better for big artists?The argument: if you're a Jay-Z, a Pink Floyd, a Daft Punk or a One Direction, you'll be getting millions of streams on Spotify and its rivals (e.g. Daft Punk's Get Lucky single alone has more than 125m Spotify streams, and another 132m on YouTube). At that scale, even tiny per-stream payments add up to a decent sum, and you're mainstream enough to be still selling lots of downloads and CDs on top.But, so the argument goes, if you're a new artist, you'll be streamed less, and will feel any reduction in sales a lot more. Although the counter-argument is that streaming provides exposure for these newer artists, helping them find an audience of fans to start along that road to fame and (hopefully) fortune, as well as making money from other things, be it gigs, DJ sets, merchandise orKickstartercampaigns to fund a new album.The portrayal of Spotify as only being good for big artists is inaccurate: indie trade body Merlin said earlier this year that a third of its members had seen their streaming revenues double in the last year, and added that indies tend to over-index for market share on streaming services: in other words, people are seeking out the independent stuff, not just playing the big names.But it's also true that Spotify needs to do more to explain how it can work well for smaller bands as well as the biggest stars – and its rivals also deserve more scrutiny, since they tend to leave it to face all the flak on this front. The coming months will be an important time for these companies to make their case and answer the criticisms of Yorke, Godrich and other artists.One thing's clear: they can't afford to hike up their per-stream payments much, since they're already paying out 70% of their revenues to rightsholders. If they're going to pay more, it'll come through scale: 100m, 500m, 1bn users. And that can be a tricky "jam tomorrow" argument to make.Can the streaming companies survive?The final question around Spotify and its rivals is whether they can survive long enough to reach that scale. Spotify has lost money consistently so far in its history:its revenues rose 128% to €434.7m (around £377.9m) in 2012, but its net losses increased from €45.4m in 2011 to €58.7m in 2012.In the US, Pandora reported net losses of $14m in 2008, $28.2m in 2009, $16.8m in 2010, $1.8m in 2011 and $16.1m in 2012. As these companies get more users, they'll pay out more money, and so have to make even more money from advertising and subscriptions.One of Spotify's arguments when criticised about its payouts is to point out that it paid $500m to rightsholders until the end of 2012, and is on course to pay out another $500m in 2013. And while that sounds positive, it shows how the company's costs will keep on rising as more people use it to play more music.Some companies aren't only trying to make money from streaming music, of course. Apple, Samsung, Microsoft and Sony sell devices. Beats – soon to launch a Spotify rival called Beats Music – sells headphones. Google sells advertising (or, if you're feeling cynical, it sells people).Spotify's rivals have very deep pocketsSometimes the streaming music space feels like a high-stakes poker game where a clutch of billionaires have just entered the room. Spotify may be able to raise more funding or go public to up its stack of chips, but the threat posed by those deep-pocketed rivals shouldn't be underestimated.Here's something Thom Yorke and Spotify agree on. In Yorke's words from his most recent interview: "It's all about how we change the way we listen to music, it's all about what happens next in terms of technology, in terms of how people talk to each other about music."Finding positive answers to the three questions above is the key to that future for music, and it's something that musicians and songwriters, labels and publishers, and technology companies need to work together on.If I could make one birthday wish on behalf of Yorke and Spotify, it would be for the musician to sit down with CEO Daniel Ek and thrash out some of these questions together. Party hats (and desperate farts) optional.•How much do musicians really get paid from streaming music services?
Google took down a record-breaking 5.3 million allegedly infringing links from its search engine in the last week of September, equivalent to just under nine links every second.The data, released as part ofGoogle&apos;s transparency report, shows a significant rise in the number of takedown notices filed by copyright holders to Google over the last year.Google was forced to remove 5.3m pirate links in the last week of September.Between July and October 2012 copyright holders sent Google about 1.8m link takedown notices a week, increasing to 2.8m a week in November 2012 and 3.8m in mid-December 2012.In February 2013, takedown notices hit 3.8m a week, increasing to 4.47m at the end of March, and finally peaking in the final week of September hitting 5.3m spanning 37,413 domains from 5,407 copyright owners, which marked a 4008% increase over the first notice listings by Google in July 2011.Examples of the links Google received takedown requests against.Evidence does not support the claimsIn contrast to the increasing action of copyright holders,a report published (PDF)by the London School of Economics (LSE) has found that &quot;evidence does not support claims about overall revenue reduction due to individual online copyright infringement&quot;.&quot;The marketing benefits and sales boosts arising from the sharing of films online are starting to be seen as compensating for losses in revenue due to infringing sharing, and the digital world is thriving on ubiquitous digital content sharing.&quot;In fact, according to the report, UK revenues from online music were higher than revenues for both CDs and vinyl combined for the first time in 2013, showing growth in the sector. Worldwide sales of recorded music also increased in 2012 for the first time since 1999.The movie industry is seeing growth too, despite the Motion Picture Association of America’s (MPAA) claims that piracy is devastating its bottom line. Global box office revenues hit $35bn in 2012, marking a 6% increase on 2011, according to the report.&quot;File-sharers in the UK were found to spend more on content than those who only consumed legal content, demonstrating the potential boost to legal digital content sales as a result of content sampling.&quot;The report concludes that those industries that have embraced digital distribution are seeing increases in revenues, that online sharing has benefits for media creation and that &quot;evidence-based legislation on copyright enforcement is needed that independently assesses the claims of the dominant creative industry firms and the impacts on users in the light of today’s digital culture.&quot;• In September, the movie industry&apos;s trade bodylambasted Google and other search engine providersfor doing too little to prevent people finding pirated content online.
The FBI has been deluged by more than 200 messages of protest from pro-drugs advocates after a raid on Silk Road, an online marketplace for illicit goods.The agency is attempting to access 600,000 Bitcoins, worth around $80m (£49.7m), accumulated by Ross Ulbricht, the alleged creator of Silk Road, but has already seized 26,000 ($3.2m) that the site had held in escrow for its customers.The FBI then transferred the Bitcoins to a new address onblockchain.info., which allows users to manage their Bitcoin accounts.Unfortunately for the FBI, hundreds of Silk Road users identified the FBI&apos;s wallet details and used blockchain to post publicly viewable messages along with miniscule transactions.Most were no larger than 0.00000001 BTC (0.0001p), but allowed users to vent their anger at the seizure of their virtual cash.“Take the drugs, take the domain, but don&apos;t take the people&apos;s Bitcoins. This seizure was only legal because Bitcoin is not recognized as a currency,” says one.Quoting Thomas Jefferson, one of the founding fathers of the US, one called for the end of the Federal Reserve: &quot;The issuing power should be taken from the banks and restored to the people, to whom it properly belongs&quot;.&quot;The musicians that made all that great music that&apos;s enhanced your lives throughout the years were rrreal fucking high on drugs,&quot; posted another, who use six separate payments to reference comicBill Hicks.&quot;The Beatles were so fucking high they let Ringo sing a few tunes.”As well as a large number of pro-drug messages, some were arguing that the money was incorrectly seized.“Many items sold through Silk Road were perfectly legal,” says one such note. “There is no way to know whether these funds were to be used for illicit purchases. Users should be allowed to withdraw their funds.”Others used the opportunity to post adverts for Bitcoin-related services, and some comments were less critical.One posted a linkto an image of Ulbricht’s facesuperimposed with the words “sets up a multimillion-dollar drugs business. Uses real email address,” a reference toone of the many slip-upswhich apparently led to the his arrest.• Silk Road founder Ross Ulbricht allegedly ran the multimillion dollar drugs empire – so whyboast about its success on his LinkedIn profile?
Asylums don't exist any more. The Victorian notion of locking our mentally ill away so we don't have to look at them died in the 1940s, to be replaced by the friendlier, more treatment-focused concept of the psychiatric hospital. But you wouldn't know it to look out our media. Video games are stuck in a view of mental health that went out of fashion before they were even invented.Asylum Jam was born of this frustration. Inspired by an Ian Mahar editorial on Kotaku, it challenges developers to create horror games that do not include "asylums, psychiatric institutes, medical professionals or violent/antipathic/'insane' patients as settings or triggers". Other than that, you're free to do whatever you want. "The only rule," explains Jam creator Lucy Morris, "is that you can't use inaccurate stereotypes."Mahar's editorial was spurred by the game Outlast, but it could just have easily been The Evil Within, or any one of a dozen games that use mental illness as a lazy shorthand. You know the script: You're set loose in an old asylum, it's creepy and gothic, the people there are scary and violent and the doctors probably experiment on the patients.Is it any wonder we are reluctant to talk about mental health? Stories are how we shape our minds, and our stories tell us that those with mental disorders are best thrown away in a deep dark hole and forgotten about. Don't ever dare admit you might suffer yourself, or you'll end up on the waiting list for a lobotomy.It's an often cited statistic that one in four people suffer from mental-health issues, but that is a rough estimate at best, it might even be as high as 50%. What we do know is that if you don't suffer yourself, you probably know someone who does. Lucy's grandfather suffered from Alzheimer's in his later life, as did mine. His memory came and went, and he sometimes suffered from bouts of paranoia. I was a teenager at the time, and I didn't know how to handle it. He scared and confused me and I kept making excuses not to see him. He died when I was 18. I still wish I'd spent more time with him.Lucy and I have something else in common too: her brother is a carer on a mental health ward and for six months in 2008 I worked as a clerk in a secure mental health unit. I can assure you it was neither gothic nor spooky. It felt more like a cross between a hospital ward and a youth hostel, only with very sturdy doors.The inmates defied expectations also. Some had anger management issues and could work themselves up into childish tempers if things didn't go their way. Others were sullen and withdrawn, or inappropriately friendly. They were neither terrifying nor funny, and they weren't romantic rebels either. They were real people with serious medical problems, just trying to keep going regardless.What I remember most is how much everyone cared. Nurses would work 13-hour shifts, watching the patients at all hours of the day. They sat with them, talked and watched television. They brought them takeaway once a week, and sometimes they escorted them out into the town. They did everything they could to make the patients feel more normal. That's why it saddens me to see popular culture portray these staff as sinister manipulators. Especially when that is the exact justification many patients use to go off their medication.Inpatients like this are only a tiny fraction of mental health sufferers. Most simply see a doctor once a week and go back to watching the same films and playing the same games as the rest of us. The ones that tell them they're dangerous freaks.Game Jams lend themselves well to addressing common or problematic tropes. Only last month, Boobjam challenged us to make games about breasts without making them sex objects. "When I think about tackling social issues in the media, I prefer to do something positive," explains Lucy. "If you're doing something productive&nbsp;and creative, then you're giving a positive response to an issue." I suspect the games Asylum Jam produces will do more for this issue than any number of articles I write.I'm excited to see what kind of games Asylum Jam will produce, because I have no idea what direction participants will go in. While some will doubtless simply deploy less problematic horror stables like ghosts and monsters, others will be inspired by the question to ask themselves what truly makes a horror game. Lucy tells me one of her favourite pitches, a game in which you're trapped in a diving bell with a limited oxygen supply. Is fear of drowning enough to make a game "horror"? What about fear of heights?But the games that fascinate me most are those that are still about mental illness, but avoid the cliches. "I've already had an email from someone who suffers from serious schizophrenia," explains Lucy. "He wanted to make a game about the way in which schizophrenics suffer from hallucinations. I told him to go right ahead." As she explains this, I wonder if I might be able to make a game that shows how my grandfather would have seen the world, surrounded by strangers who claimed to know him intimately.Those are the games that I want to see. Things like the excellent Depression Quest. The best horror comes from vulnerability, and what could be more vulnerable than being unable to trust your own mind? Too often the mentally ill have been depicted as enemies in horror games, powerful others that threaten the player, but they work much better as protagonists. The true horror of mental illness isn't that you might encounter its victims, but that you might be one yourself.• Asylum Jam runs from the 11 to 13 October. There will be physical locations in Italy and the US midwest. You can find more information atAsylumJam.com.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 5 October 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Fifa 14 (3+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (41)Wii (1)22 (2)Grand Theft Auto V (18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)33 (–)F1 2013 (3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (46)14 (–)The Legend Of Zelda: The Wind Waker (7+)Wii U (100)75 (3)Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition (7+)Xbox 360 (100)156 (6)Disney Infinity (7+)Xbox 360 (44)Wii (29)PS3 (19)Wii U (5)77 (–)NBA 2K14 (3+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (45)PC (0)18 (7)Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Blacklist (18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (37)Wii U (2)PC (1)79 (–)Just Dance 2014 (3+)Wii (80)Xbox 360 (10)Wii U (7)PS3 (3)110 (4)Pro Evolution Soccer 2014 (3+)PS3 (66)Xbox 360 (29)PC (5)311 (8)Saints Row IV (18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (33)712 (5)The Last of Us (18+)PS3 (100)1613 (13)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes (7+)Xbox 360 (37)PS3 (21)Wii (14)3DS (13)6514 (15)Max Payne 3 (18+)PS3 (52)Xbox 360 (48)PC (0)2815 (9)Diablo III (16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (39)PC (4)916 (11)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II (18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (39)PC (5)Wii U (2)4617 (10)Rayman Legends (7+)Xbox 360 (42)PS3 (29)Wii U (21)VITA (7)618 (20)Animal Crossing: New Leaf (3+)3DS (101)1519 (19)Tomb Raider (18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (44)PC (2)2920 (–)Medal Of Honor: Warfighter (16+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (40)PC (2)14UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
The FBI has found that seizing an anonymous decentralised peer-to-peer currency was trickier than it seemed, followingthe Bureau’s bust of the international drugs marketplace, Silk Road.When Ross Ulbricht, known as Dread Pirate Roberts to users of the site, was arrested last week, the FBI seized 26,000 Bitcoins belonging to Silk Road customers. But it also attempted, unsuccessfully, to claim the nearly 600,000 - thought to be worth around $80m - which Ulbricht himself is thought to be holding.Bitcoin is a digital currency based on a methods of cryptography similar to those used to protect confidential emails. Due to its decentralised nature – the currency does not rely on any centralised agency to process payments, instead relying on work done by users’ computers – it is popular for a number of fringe-legal and illegal uses. One of those uses was Silk Road, where Bitcoin was required for all transactions.In order to transfer Bitcoins out of a “wallet”, the name for the digital file which contains the encrypted information necessary to spend the currency, users need to know that wallet’s password or “private key”.According to Forbes’ Kashmir Hill,that hurdle is causing the FBI difficulty.“The FBI has not been able to get toUlbricht’s personal Bitcoin yet,” wrote Hill. An FBI spokesperson said to Hill that the “$80m worth” that Ulbricht had “was held separately and is encrypted”. At current exchange rates, that represents slightly more than 5% of all bitcoins in circulation.Even if the FBI is not able to transfer the money, now that Ulbricht is in captivity and most of his possessions have been seized, the funds are likely to stay where they are. A few high-security ways of storing bitcoins, such as a &quot;brainwallet&quot;, a way of converting a bitcoin address into an easy-to-remember phrase, could still bypass their authority, but there is no indication at present that Ulbricht has used them.• This article has been amended to clarify why Ulbricht&apos;s funds have apparently remained untouched.•Bitcoin sounds confusing, but the revolutionary digital currency is easy to understand.
Adverts have started appearing in some regions within Google&apos;s Gmail app for Android that cannot be turned off.According toDutch Android blog Android World, the adverts initially appear in-line with emails inside the &quot;Promotions&quot; inbox of the Gmail app.The &quot;Promotions&quot; inbox,part of Google&apos;s algorithm-powered inbox filteringsystem that was released in July, can be turned off within Gmail&apos;s inbox settings on both the desktop and the Gmail app for Android.Implementation is crucialIt&apos;s unknown whether the adverts will be restricted to the &quot;Promotions&quot; inbox, or whether they will appear in other inboxes within the Gmail Android app.&quot;The implementation of the adverts within the mobile Gmail apps will be crucial, due to the impact they could have on the limited real estate available on mobile devices, &quot; said Ian Maude of research firm Enders Analysistalking to the Guardian.It would have to be fairly bad to make people switchHowever, Maude explained that, &quot;it would have to be fairly bad to make people switch email providers as there&apos;s quite a lot of inertia – including the hassle of notifying all your contacts of a new [email] address – preventing easy switching.&quot;Code suggesting that Googlewas set to bring advertsto its Gmail app for Android was found in the most recent version of the app last week, with options to save, share or dismiss them as messages.• In September, Google introduced Hummingbird, itsbiggest search algorithm changein three years, to make its core search engine better at answering your longer, more complex and spoken queries.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Steam Machine prototype details, specs posted by Valve | VG247Valve has released some tech specs for its proposed Steam Machine living room PC:GPU: some units with NVidia Titan, some GTX780, some GTX760, and some GTX660CPU: some boxes with Intel : i7-4770, some i5-4570, and some i3RAM: 16GB DDR3-1600 (CPU), 3GB DDR5 (GPU)Storage: 1TB/8GB Hybrid SSHDPower Supply: Internal 450w 80Plus GoldDimensions: approx. 12 x 12.4 x 2.9 in high"As a hardware platform, the Steam ecosystem will change over time, so any upgrades will be at each user's discretion," wrote the firm's Greg Cooomer. "In the future we'll talk about how Steam will help customers understand the differences between machines, hardware strengths and weaknesses, and upgrade decisions. "You can find out more viaGreg's post on the Steam forum.The state of SimCity | SimCityYes, EA and Maxis are still dealing with the fallout from the disastrous SimCity launch – and may be ready to provide what many fans of the series have been waiting for:Maxis Emeryville studio MD Patrick Buechner confirmed in a blog post that the developer is actively exploring the possibility, which has been called for by fans ever since the game made its troubled arrival earlier this year."Right now we have a team specifically focused on exploring the possibility of an offline mode," Buechner stated. "I can't make any promises on when we will have more information, but we know this is something that many of our players have been asking for."While the server connectivity issues are behind us, we would like to give our players the ability to play even if they choose not to connect. An offline mode would have the additional benefit of providing room to the modding community to experiment without interfering or breaking the multiplayer experience."Here isPatrick's blog post in full.Gaming risks a repeat of 1983 crash - Report | GamesIndustry InternationalIn 1983, an over-abundance of competitive hardware and too many awful third-party software titles led to the great video game crash., when the industry really looked as though it call fall apart – at least in the States where they didn't have the wonder of the ZX Spectrum and BBC Micro computers. Now one analyst thinks we're heading for another dip:The marketing push for next month's Xbox One and PlayStation 4 launches is beginning to ramp up, but not everyone is sold on the new consoles just yet. In a new report prepared by Superdata and released by Digital River, the research firm warned that the market for consoles is already crowded, with 79 percent of gamers already owning a console, and that group having an average of 2.6 consoles each. The report was based in part on a March survey of 1,105 respondents."Industry veterans will remember the crash of 1983, when the games market was saturated with hardware devices," the report states. "Today, the industry runs a similar risk, as [with] a higher-than-ever console installed base, consumers may be resistant to adding more hardware to their living rooms."Apparently, consumers will gravitate to multipurpose hardware, perhaps like Valve's Steam Machine. Although, of course, both Sony and Microsoft are keen to stress the multipurpose capabilities of their platforms. I don't think any of us have to panic just yet (will that be my Michael Fish moment?)50 insane details you probably missed in GTA V | CVG UKCVG has been digging around behind the Grand Theft Auto V sofa cushions to find little facts and sights you may not have noticed. Some of them are pretty sillY:If you attack Michael's house with an RPG, he'll text you and tell you to stop firing rockets at it.Some are nice little extra features:You can share music tracks you hear on the radio with friends on Rockstar Social Club.Definitely worth a flick through if you're stuck at work and can't play for a few hours...State of Decay sells one million copies | Eurogamer.netGood news for indie developer Undead Labs; it's open world zombie adventure has sold one million copies:This is taking into account both XBLA sales as well as those who've purchased the incomplete Steam version on Early Access. By triple A accounts, one million may not sound like much, but for a smallish Seattle startup, that's a very healthy number.The developer noted that its first DLC, Breakdown, will be available shortly, though no date was given. It then said it will give away five copies of it to random users who share a fond State of Decay related memory on the bottom of this blog post. The Breakdown add-on will contain a story-less Sandbox mode, new weapons, and new "Hero" NPCs that can carry items and do a better job of protecting players.In The Click Of It: the last generation | Features | Edge OnlineVeteran game designer Clint Hocking explains why he's not excited by the next-gen consoles – they're not sufficiently different from the old ones:Sure, I can have better graphics, but the graphics on current-generation consoles are amazing enough. Sure, I can potentially buy games more easily through more robust online stores, but I'm not really constrained by an inability to buy a game at a store, so what does an online store offer me? And while I am looking forward to crossplatform compatibility and being able to engage with certain games on the couch or on the bus, this is all possible on current-gen hardware. Why do I need a new console?When I lie back and stare at the ceiling and try to imagine the experience that I think will typify the next generation of gaming, I see something completely different to what the next-generation consoles are offering.I imagine that some time before the upcoming console generation ends, I will walk into my house and pick up a controller. The controller will detect that it has been moved and it will connect to my television and to the phone in my pocket. I will browse through the games that are on my phone (which is now my console) and I will select one and play it using my controller. Full HD and 7.1 audio will stream from my pocket to my television. And I won't be playing Angry Birds for the iPhone 3G either, I'll be playing GTAV.Interesting thoughts from the co-creator of ambitious titles like Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory and Far Cry 2.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Spotify celebrates its fifth birthday today, but the streaming music service probably shouldn't expect a present or card from Thom Yorke.The Radiohead and Atoms for Peace musician has renewed his attack on Spotify in aninterview with Mexican website Sopitas, describing the company as "the last desperate fart of a dying corpse", and attacking its relationship with major labels."I feel like as musicians we need to fight the Spotify thing. I feel that in some ways what's happening in the mainstream is the last gasp of the old industry. Once that does finally die, which it will, something else will happen," Yorke told Sopitas."But it's all about how we change the way we listen to music, it's all about what happens next in terms of technology, in terms of how people talk to each other about music, and a lot of it could be really fucking bad."The interview follows Atoms for Peace's decision earlier this year to pull its albums from Spotify and other streaming services, withYorke and bandmate Nigel Godrich sparking a heated debatewith their tweeted views on Spotify being bad for emerging artists.The new interview is Yorke's longest yet explaining his views, as he compares Spotify to what Radiohead did with theirIn Rainbows album in 2007, self-releasing it online and allowing fans to set their own price for the download."When we did the In Rainbows thing what was most exciting was the idea you could have a direct connection between you as a musician and your audience. You cut all of it out, it's just that and that. And then all these fuckers get in a way, like Spotify suddenly trying to become the gatekeepers to the whole process," said Yorke."We don't need you to do it. No artists needs you to do it. We can build the shit ourselves, so fuck off. But because they're using old music, because they're using the majors… the majors are all over it because they see a way of re-selling all their old stuff for free, make a fortune, and not die."Spotify has become a lightning rod for criticism of streaming music by artists in recent months, partly because it's the biggest service of its kind, with more than 24m active users and 6m paying subscribers.The company has defended itself by pointing to the money it has paid out to music rightsholders – $500m by the end of 2012, with another $500m expected this year. And while that doesn't answer Yorke's specific criticism about major labels, Spotify has been praised by companies in the independent music world too.In January, Beggars Group chairman Martin Mills said that22% of his label group's digital revenues had come from streamingin 2012. Meanwhile, independent labels' trade body Merlin – which like the major labels has a stake in Spotify – said in May thata third of its members had seen streaming revenues more than doublein the last year.Spotify has also been hailed as a key factor in the music industry's comeback in countries likeSwedenandNorway, where recorded music revenues rose 12% and 17% respectively in the first half of 2013, following more growth in 2012 after a decade of declining music sales.Thom Yorke remains unconvinced that streaming is the answer to artists' problems, though. "To me this isn't the mainstream, this is is like the last fart, the last desperate fart of a dying corpse. What happens next is the important part," he told Sopitas, before suggesting that the music industry should rethink its backing for certain new business models."It's like this mind trick going on, people are like 'with technology, it's all going to become one in the cloud and all creativity is going to become one thing and no one is going to get paid and it's this big super intelligent thing'. Bullshit," said Yorke.•Spotify turns five: three questions defining the streaming site's future
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPrivacy opinions &gt;&gt; xkcdThe six ways in which people react to stories about the NSA. Seems to cover the bases. Check the alt text, as always with XKCD: this one's is "I'm the Philosopher until someone hands me a burrito."Dear audio industry, fix mastering before bothering with high resolution &gt;&gt; Gadget WritingTim Anderson:TheMeyer-Moran test, in which a high-res original was converted to CD quality and then compared with the original under blind conditions (nobody could reliably tell the difference), has never been debunked, nor has anyone conducted a similar experiment with different results as far as I am aware.You can also conduct your own experiments, as I have. Download some samples fromSoundKeeper RecordingsorLinn. Take the highest resolution version, and convert it to CD format. Then upsample the CD quality version back to the high-resolution format. You now have two high-res files, but one is no better than CD quality. Can you hear the difference? I've yet to find someone who can.Anderson has written abouthow bad CD mastering is affecting CD playback. Worth revisiting.Sony SmartWatch 2 review &gt;&gt; Kate's CommentKate Craig-Wood:The most surprisingly useful feature however is that the SmartWatch can vibrate. I thought this a bit pointless to begin with, but then I installedWristn.Being a busy person I have always been terrible at noticing notifications and reminders, including about important things like upcoming appointments; often I might not be looking at my laptop or my phone might be on silent. Perhaps more to the point, even if I do hear my phone bleep I'm often too distracted to bother to look and see what it was.With Watchn I am alerted to every single notification with a little vibrate, and it takes only moment to glance at the SmartWatch's face to find out what it was. Very useful indeed, especially since so many other apps can be configured to generate Android notifications.It's £100+VAT; works with any Android phone; she likes it.In praise of island-style keyboards &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:Island/Chiclet-style keys typically have a shorter throw than traditional keyboard keys and the result is, I think, a better driving experience. Er, typing experience. And in adapting to the keys on the Sculpt Ergonomic Keyboard, I've noticed that my transition to the flat keyboard on my Samsung is easier than it was in the past, when I was coming off the Natural Ergonomic Keyboard 4000. They're just more similar. But the short throw on each is, I think, an advantage."Island" keyboards are the ones where the keys are separately spaced - so each rises vertically out of the key area, rather than all touching at the base.Here's what's next for Google Glass &gt;&gt; Yahoo FinanceMonty Munford:then there are the uber-mavens, the 8,000 special ones that Google personally invited to be a Glass Explorer. One such selected searcher is Robert Schukai, Global Head of Mobile Technology, Thomson Reuters in New York."You can't ask for a better experiment than to have 8,000 of us Glass Explorers trying this out in a living lab. In addition to all the things we're learning about how to use the product from a feature standpoint, we're also learning how to create the new social norms and behaviours that Glass creates."Glass is not without its shortfalls as a first prototype, notably battery life, but on the whole, it is a terrific glimpse into what is the start of the age of contextual computing. Glass creates a new user paradigm where the limited canvas of screen size means that you have to be very thoughtful about what you provide to the user," he says.New shape-shifting metals discovered &gt;&gt; BBC NewsA new shape-changing metal crystal isreported in the journal Nature, by scientists at University of Minnesota.It is the prototype of a new family of smart materials that could be used in applications ranging from space vehicles to electronics to jet engines.Called a "martensite", the crystal has two different arrangements of atoms, switching seamlessly between them.It can change shape tens of thousands of times when heated and cooled without degrading, unlike existing technology.Currently, martensite metals are made of an alloyed mixture of nickel and titanium.They have the remarkable ability to "remember" their shape and even after being bent will return to their original form. For this, they are called "shape memory" metals.Also used in spectacle frames and brassiere wires (no hybrid forms for that yet). But might create designs which automatically flip shape when heated.February 2009: @ MWC: we learned just how great a partner HTC is to Microsoft &gt;&gt; paidContentFebruary 2009:First, Andy Lees, SVP of Microsoft's Mobile Communications Business, said the company has sold more than 50 million Windows Mobile devices over its lifetime. Then, HTC's CEO Peter Chou came on stage and reminisced that his company has sold more than 40 million HTC Windows Mobile devices around the world. Chou: "12 years ago when we started our company, we met with Microsoft early on. It was clear that we shared the same vision of smart connectivity. I'm an old veteran of Windows Mobile. We try really hard to make all the visions happen, and we have sold more than 40 million HTC Windows mobile phones around the world."The next conclusion to make is that the other 49 OEM partners, including Palm, Motorola and Samsung, have sold 10 million phones all combined.The next year, HTC rode the Android wave and in 2011 had its biggest-ever revenues. Now it's slipping. Is Windows (Phone this time) going to be the solution?And then Steve said, 'let there be an iPhone' &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comUtterly terrific piece of investigation and storytelling by Fred Vogelstein of how the iPhone came to be - and how the demonstration by Jobs was a white-knuckle ride for the inventors. An extract:"I understood how it could be done," [Tony] Fadell says. "But it's one thing to think that, and another to take a room full of special, one-off gear and make a million phone-size versions of that in a cost-effective, reliable manner." The to-do list was exhausting just to think about. "You had to go to LCD vendors who knew how to embed technology like this in glass; you had to find time on their line; and then you had to come up with compensation and calibrating algorithms to keep the pixel electronics from generating all kinds of noise in the touch-screen" — which sat on top of the LCD. "It was a whole project just to make the touch-screen device. We tried two or three ways of actually making the touch-screen until we could make one in enough volume that would work."Shrinking OS X and building a multitouch screen, while innovative and difficult, were at least within the skills Apple had already mastered as a corporation. No one was better equipped to rethink OS X's design. Apple knew LCD manufacturers because it put an LCD in every laptop and iPod. Mobile-phone physics was an entirely new field, however, and it took those working on the iPhone into 2006 to realize how little they knew.Save some time and read it all.Korean mobile phone market to post negative growth &gt;&gt; ET NewsWhat is notable is that unlike the global trend, only Korea will suffer drastic decline in sales. Unlike Korea, not only leading economies such as the United States, Europe, and Japan but also emerging markets including China, India, Southeast Asian countries, and the like are expected to see mobile phone sales grow.This year's mobile phone sales in Korea are expected to reach 27.3m units, 16.3% down from 32.6m of last year. The Korean mobile phone market has steadily grown since 2010. Prior to 2010, mobile phone sales continued to grow in overall, with a slight letup in some years. Therefore, the abrupt drop in mobile phone sales this year is deemed to be unprecedented.Reasons are reckoned to be widespread penetration of smartphones, and availability of LTE - but also to the reduction of subsidies. How is that going to affect LG and Samusung if their home market shrinks?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday! Did you play the Battlefield 4 beta this weekend? Or GTA Online? Tell us about it!
Online retailer Amazon may be facing strike action in Germany in the run-up to Christmas. The secretary of the German services union Verdi has told Der Spiegel magazine that Amazon "shouldn't rely on being able to keep all their promises to customers before Christmas" and that the union would call strikes when it would hurt the company most.Germany has had strikes by Amazon employees this year over wages. In June and September several hundred workers at the US company's distribution centres in Leipzig, Saxony and Bad Hersfeld in the Hesse region  walked out. Verdi has around 2.2 million members and has said it wants to force Amazon to negotiate a collective wage agreement that complies with standards in the German retail sector. Amazon claims that the wages it pays are above average in the logistics industry. "Job descriptions for staff are typical of the logistics industry such as the storage, packaging and dispatch of goods," a spokeswoman for Amazon Germany told Reuters. The spokeswoman added that the strikes in June and September had not affected customers.There is so far no detail on whether the strikes are planned again for the centres in Leipzig or Bad Hersfeld, or any other of the eight distribution centres in Germany.Amazon employs more than 9,000 in Germany but is reportedly considering opening five new centres in Poland and the Czech Republic.
AwesomenessTVlaunched in the summer of 2012 as a YouTube multi-channel network (MCN) aimed at tweens and teenagers. In May 2013, it wasacquired by DreamWorks Animationfor $33m plus up to $117m in bonuses for hitting future earnings targets.Now in October 2013, its main channel has more than 900,000 subscribers on YouTube and 176m views, but its wider network has 25m subscribers, nearly 2bn views and 65m monthly visitors. A rapid rise, to say the least.Founder and chief executive Brian Robbins says that AwesomenessTV is capitalising on changing media habits of its young audience. "They don't watch television any more, at least the way we used to watch television," he said during a keynote speechat the MIPCOM conferencein Cannes.Robbins said that children are still sitting on their sofas watching videos, but the source is now YouTube and the devices are smartphones and tablets. "It's not just my kids, or kids in the US. It's kids everywhere," said Robbins, adding that half his company's views come from outside the US, and that half its views and comments come from mobile devices."For kids their devices provide a gateway to their friends, and a means to consume the content that they love," he said. "If you want to reach and engage kids, you have to go where they go, and that's online."Robbins also explained that AwesomenessTV launched with 20 shortform shows, despite lots of advice ("even from YouTube") to focus on three or four instead."Us adults, we like to eat meals, but kids snack, and they snack a lot. Where I might have a few marquee shows on my radar, kids, because they are on their devices all day and night, have both the time and appetite to consume a lot of content, especially around the things they're passionate about," he said.Robbins also said that the people watching AwesomenessTV are also "curating and creating" their own content on YouTube: which includes sharing their favourite shows with friends, but also filming their own responses."We're in this new era of entertainment where the lines between consuming content and participating in it are blurry," he said, before pointing to the global nature of YouTube, with 40% of the 80,000 channels in AwesomenessTV's network produced outside the US."Kids really don't care where the content is coming from, just as long as it speaks to them," said Robbins. "The bottom line is that creating videos that are funny, shareable and culturally relevant is the best way to engage this audience."Shortform showsRobbins showed the trailer for a new show called Side Effects, which blends story and musical covers in Glee-esque style, with a central character who suffers from "musical hallucinations" due to the medication that she's taking.The show will be delivered in 5-6 minute episodes, even though the production quality makes it look like a show that could easily live on broadcast TV as full-length episodes."I think YouTube right now is a shortform experience: kids love it for that, and it's where their attention span is," said Robbins. "I don't love it as a filmmaker to be perfectly honest with you, but I love feeding their passion for content."AwesomenessTV has experimented with taking some of its content to TV, signing a deal with Nickelodeon to produce a half-hour comedy sketches show collecting some of its popular online skits. It premiered in July, and according to Robbins it doubled the ratings for its time-slot on that network."We want to play in both worlds. I think there's a great opportunity to start stuff on YouTube, develop it, build an audience and then drive it elsewhere in other forms, like we did with Nickelodeon," he said.However, Robbins spoke at length about the challenges facing TV networks like Nickelodeon, walking a line between pitching AwesomenessTV as a new production partner for those companies, and as a fearsome new competitor poised to disrupt their businesses."What's happening online today is very similar to what happened in television 25 years ago," he said. "Just as branded cable networks like ESPN, CNN and MTV and Nickelodeon transformed television, a new generation of online channels is going to do the same thing," he said."I don't think we're replacing television. Let's be really clear: people are watching more TV than ever, but we're filling the periods of time that these kids have, because they have these devices… If my kids aren't entertained every second, they lose their minds! And we're here to fill that gap."A still from Side EffectsAdvertising growthWhat about the challenges facing this new generation of online video networks? Most make their money predominantly from ads on YouTube, with regular speculation this year that those revenues may not yet be enough to fund profitable businesses – at least not those investing heavily in original shows.Robbins, whose career has included producing TV shows Smallville and One Tree Hill, admitted that it's still much more profitable to have a popular TV show than a popular YouTube show, but sees that changing."The advertising model is catching up very slowly. Right now TV is getting this much money, and YouTube is getting this much," said Robbins, with gestures to indicate huge and tiny ad revenues respectively."But we're starting to see a shift. For next year we see a big shift, and that shift will continue," he said. "I also think we'll create properties online that will become very valuable franchised properties that will transfer across media."That's one reason why DreamWorks bought AwesomenessTV so early in its growth. Robbins said the company plans to spend around $10m creating shows this year, from bigger projects like Side Effects to smaller videos designed for viral sharing."There's a handful of companies in Los Angeles right now who I think are going to be the next generation of cable networks," said Robbins, although he said there is no plan for AwesomenessTV to expand into feature films under the wing of DreamWorks boss Jeffrey Katzenberg."No, he wants me to stay in my lane and stay out of his business!" joked Robbins, before outlining the likely form of collaboration with his new parent company. "What we're doing is giving the studio another platform to develop content, reach an audience and ultimately help them market the movies."Like other MCNs, AwesomenessTV is thinking hard about expansion, with plans for a bigger presence in countries like Brazil and the UK, where its videos already have big audiences. And like other MCNs, the company is also looking beyond YouTube."We're going to live everywhere: YouTube is just the beginning. AwesomenessTV will have a mobile app, we'll be on Xbox and PlayStation and every other device you can think of that kids are using," he said.Networks futureThe key to this expansion – and a phrase that's over-used at TV industry conferences – is "good content", but Robbins added a twist to the familiar claim that quality is what will separate winners from losers in the entertainment world."At the end of the day good content wins. What's different is with this audience, you have to constantly refresh that content," he said. "They will not just watch repeats over and over again. Those days are over."That led to more speculation about the future for the big, established television networks aiming for a similar audience of tweens and teens. What would Robbins be doing if he was in charge of Nickelodeon in 2013, for example, to respond to changing habits of their audience, and disruptive competition from the YouTube world?"The one thing that I would do: I don't think they make enough content. If you look at the primetime schedule on most of those networks, there are three to four original shows on, and it's not enough. It used to be enough when there were only two channels, but now with a mobile and a tablet, I have so many choices," said Robbins."That's the big problem: the model is broken. Their shows are relatively expensive to make, so they can only afford to make a certain number of them. So they are sort of stuck, and until they figure out how to change that model, you're going to see the audience keep eroding."
In the coming weeks, investors will be faced with an intriguing choice. Buy shares in the Royal Mail, one of the oldest long-distance communication enterprises in the world – or take a punt on Twitter, one of the newest.The internet has created plenty of work for postmen delivering parcels despatched by online shops, but&nbsp;written messages more often travel in bits and bytes than envelopes these&nbsp;days.The Royal Mail delivers to 29m addresses in the UK – and sends more mail on its way overseas. But Twitter claims 215 million active monthly users, and is growing fast, with its following up from 150 million a year ago.Comparisons are less flattering when it comes to hard cash. Royal Mail Group has an annual turnover of £9bn, while Twitter tapped advertisers for a mere $316m (£197m) in 2012 and despite being seven years old has never turned a profit.Which means that, while Royal Mail generates £310 in revenue per address, Twitter's active addresses produce just $1.47 of revenue each – around 92p per&nbsp;year.The 500-year-old postal service will float at about £3.3bn – a shadow of the $12.8bn (£8bn) Twitter is likely to raise. But the Royal Mail is considered a sure bet. Analysts say its value could soon rise to as much as £4.5bn, thanks to changes in the law that will allow it to set higher delivery prices.Twitter's digital precursors suggest room for growth is potentially stratospheric. Facebook made $5bn in revenues last year, Google $31bn.But the Twitter feed does not lend itself as easily to advertising as a search engine. Unlike Facebook, it is not the internet version of a telephone&nbsp;directory. Twitter is a soapbox for those with something to say, and if its users do not like the way advertising is introduced, they will say something.
Watching the legal system deal with the internet is like watching somebody trying to drive a car by looking only in the rear-view mirror. The results are amusing and predictable but not really interesting. On the other hand, watching the efforts of regulators – whether national ones such as Ofcom, or multinational, such as the European Commission – is more instructive.At the moment, the commission is wrestling with the problem of how to protect the data of European citizens in a world dominated by Google, Facebook and co. The windscreen of the metaphorical car that the commission is trying to drive has been cracked so extensively that it's difficult to see anything clearly through it.So in her desperation, the driver (Viviane Reding, the commission's vice-president) oscillates between consulting the rear-view mirror and asking passers-by (who may or may not be impartial) for tips about what lies ahead. And just to make matters worse, she also has to deal with outbreaks of fighting between the other occupants of the car, who just happen to be sovereign states and are a quarrelsome bunch at the best of times.The idea behind the proposed newgeneral data protection regulation(GDPR) is to extend controls to foreign companies that process the personal data of EU citizens. The draft regulation proposes a strict compliance regime with fearsome penalties (up to 2% of worldwide turnover) for infringement.Personal data is definedas "any information relating to an individual, whether it relates to his or her private, professional or public life. It can be anything from a name, a photo, an email address, bank details, posts on social networking websites, medical information or a computer's IP address."Needless to say, the companies potentially affected by this regulation are mightily pissed off, for obvious reasons: Google'sturnover last yearwas $50bn, for example; so a 2% fine would be a billion dollars, a sum that would make even that company's bosses choke on their muesli. So we can expect the wrangling in Brussels to continue, with lots of pious declarations about the economic blessings that giant US internet corporations bestow on European citizens.But while all this is going on, the ground is shifting beneath the disputants. They are arguing about organisations' responsibilities in holding and processing personal data, and about the rights of an individual (the "data subject") to know how their data is being used. But technology is already making some of these considerations moot. The advent of "big data" means that those who try to focus data–protection measures on individual records held by individual organisations may be whistling into the wind.The reason is that routine big-data analytical techniques can now effectively manufacture personal data that is not protected by any of the measures we've used up to now. A well-known illustration of this is the way Target, an American retail chain, creatively collated scattered pieces of data about individuals' changes in shopping habits to predict the delivery date of pregnant shoppers – so that they could then be targeted with relevant advertisements.It's called "predictive analytics" in the trade andaNew York Timesreportof the Target case explains how it's done. One of the company's data analysts noticed that some women customers were loading up on supplements such as calcium, magnesium and zinc. "Many shoppers purchase soap and cotton balls, but when someone suddenly starts buying lots of scent-free soap and extra-big bags of cotton balls, in addition to hand sanitisers and washcloths, it signals they could be getting close to their delivery date."As a very perceptive academicstudy of predictive analyticspoints out, there are some serious downsides to this application of big data techniques. One is the way they neatly circumvent current approaches to data protection. The individual components in the data jigsaw may all be satisfactorily protected under whatever regulatory regime is finally agreed in Brussels. But data analytics may nevertheless produce from them a piece of personal information that is intensely private – for example sexual orientation as inferred fromclues in social networking posts.The second danger is that personal data inferred by analytics may be damaging to an individual. And damage may result whether the inference is correct or faulty: a correct inference that someone is concerned about a potential health issue might have an impact on their employment or health insurance prospects; while an incorrect inference (that a woman was pregnant, say) might lead to discrimination (not being granted a job interview).The point is that in neither case would the individual know what was happening. And it's not clear that our current approaches to data-protection be much use either. We're back to horses and stable doors again.
IfGTAV's macabre carnival of excess is too bland for your gaming palate,Gone Homemay be a better option.A darkly tranquil exploration of themes of alienation, family and sexuality, it spins an eerie tale of a travelling daughter returned home to find her family absent and an empty mansion steeped in mystery.Those that tackleGone Homemust disentangle a narrative strewn with discarded notes and letters around a single building, a creation that deftly unsettles the player with its apparently shifting theme and tone. Disappointingly brief, it presents a mix of mystery game and homage to 90s pop culture that, while predominantly stolid, is tremendous nonetheless.
For the invisible protagonist ofRain, life is an anxious experience. The young boy's world is one of monsters and darkness, and he is only visible in the rain, when droplets of falling water highlight his form. Cast as the child lead, the player is tasked with saving a mysterious girl beset by unearthly creatures who leadsRain's hero into a drizzly otherworld. There he must move between shelter, where he is invisible, and the constant downpour that makes him stand out.Much running and skulking results, making use of the torrent from above when needed. Ultimately a combination of puzzle solving and exploration, there's little technically new about the gameplay, but it does boast a distinct atmosphere, a wonderful score and a knack for making the player feel apprehensive.Rainmay be no masterpiece, but it's worth considering if you thirst for a gently frightening alternative to more typical fare.
Revisiting the nadir ofStar Warslore for its latest game may seem like a risk for Rovio, but it's no surprise thatAngry Birds Star Wars II(Windows Phone 8, 79p) is more fun than the prequel trilogy upon which it is based.Following a familiar pattern of good guy-based birds v evil empire-infused pigs, there are now new characters to try, such as Jar Jar Binks and his ever-useful tongue. The ability to buy different characters and thrust them into action dilutes the challenge somewhat, but fresh levels and power-ups are always welcome in the enduringly popular series. There's also the introduction ofSkylander-type toys that are scanned into the phone to unlock fresh avian friends, an interesting sign of where Rovio is heading.Trouserheart(iOS, £1.99, 10tons) is an altogether more original experience, putting you in control of a king who has had his trousers pilfered by some wicked goblins. What follows is an entertaining hack'n'slash adventure, with randomly generated levels that offer lots of action and treasure to be gathered. Don't let the blocky, cartoon style visuals mislead you – this is a challenging, witty title that deserves success.
Such is the nature of the annually updated sports franchise that any change to a successful formula is likely to promote debate. InFifa 14, the talking point is Precision Control. A new gameplay system based around player momentum, it makes it much more difficult to perform a major change of direction, resulting in player movement feeling more realistic – yet a little less responsive – and quite different fromFifa 13. Ball retention and dribbling are more challenging, requiring players to use passing and off-the-ball movement to create space. While initially jarring to theFifastalwart, it soon promotes a more considered, strategic approach to the game.Elsewhere, the new shooting mechanic impresses, adding realistic mid-air movement to shots, making for some spectacular finishes. But while gameplay changes feel largely positive, others do not. The new menu system feels cumbersome and irritatingly slow, and matches can be subject to occasional stuttering and slowdown.Those expecting major evolution will be disappointed;Fifa 14's changes are hardly radical – and sometimes unwelcome – but its range of game options is unrivalled. With Career mode, online (including a new 2v2 co-op Seasons mode) and the wonderful Ultimate Team, it remains the most feature-rich football game on the market.
To some people (boys mostly, aged between 15 and 45),Gran Turismowill mean a&nbsp;lot of misspent hours racing a Nissan Skyline or the likes around the Grand Valley Speedway to the sound of theChemical Brothers. Gran Turismo thePlayStationgame, in other words.The BMW 3 Series Gran Turismo isn't really that kind of car. It's bigger, longer, a little higher and less sporty than the 3 Series saloon. It would actually be better suited to the old meaning of Gran Turismo, as in Grand Tour. You know, back in the day, when a well-to-do young chap would take off for Italy in search of culture and meaningful experiences after graduating from Oxford.So why would he choose to travel in one of these new Gran Turismos, as opposed to a regular 3&nbsp;Series saloon or estate (or Touring as BMW call it)? Well, our tweedy, floppy-haired hero – we'll call him Rupert – may require the extra room for his luggage, plus watercolours, sketchbooks, journals, teddy bears, etc. But Rupe doesn't want to appear sensible, dull or too grown-up, so the estate is not an option.The rakish coupe good looks of the GT will appeal to his racier side, maybe even to the glamorous signorinas down in Venice and Rome of whom he's already dreaming. Who knows: if one can be persuaded into the back, the extra legroom may come in handy… Or perhaps that is too much to hope for. Anyway, he's a young man of considerable means, so the extra cost of the GT over not just the saloon but the estate won't worry him at all.That's the kind of thinking BMW are doing, anyway. The other way of looking at it is that the GT is a&nbsp;funny compromise, neither one thing nor the other: without the dynamic driving joy of the saloon, and not sufficiently sportier or more beautiful than the estate to justify the extra cost. I tend towards the second view, though I do like this car, unlike the 5 Series Gran Turismo, which is an ungainly monster. The 3 series GT is neater, better proportioned, far more aesthetically pleasing.And it is nice to drive, if not as engaging as the saloon. This one, the smaller of the two diesels, isn't the perkiest, but you can squeeze an impressive number of miles out of a&nbsp;gallon. And there is loads of legroom in the back, for either those 18th-century Italian ladies or – more likely, given everything – 21st-century teenage offspring. And there's actually more luggage space than there is in the estate. But if I were a dog, I think I'd prefer the latter, with a more vertical back window. Did they – Rupert, etc – take dogs with them, on their Grand Tours? Of course they did.BMW 318d Sport Gran TurismoPriceFrom £30,910Top speed130mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.7 secondsCombined fuel consumption (manufacturer's figure)62.8mpgCO2 emissions119g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating7/10
Valve, the enigmatic developers of the epoch-making Half-Life series and multiplayer stalwarts Dota 2 and  Team Fortress 2, has made a series of living room-friendly announcements. Firstly, it plans to release a free operating system based on its online games shop Steam, which will run onSteam Machines: consoles that run Steam OS and are designed to sit under your TV rather than via a PC or Mac. While Valve itself won't be making them, a number of hardware manufacturers have said their Steam consoles will be available next year. Their other piece of news was the Steam controller, which has two round track pads rather than thumb-sticks, as well as a central, clickable touch pad reminiscent of PlayStation 4's. Although it looks a bit peculiar, Valve's unblemished history of awesomeness suggests that it's likely to work pretty well.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewAccompanied by dissonant clanks and crackling static, your life as Lone Survivor is one of austerity and the constant danger of grizzly death at the hands of faceless beasts, which wander around outside your flat in the aftermath of an unspecified apocalypse. Taking its cues from Silent Hill, your experience is a mix of hallucination and reality that never goes out of its way to explain which is which. This leads to a constant feeling of dread, emphasised by the haunting soundtrack and deliberately lo-fi 2D. The game's creator has also said PC and Mac versions will be available soon.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewRain's dreamlike, elliptical story involves a small boy who is invisible. Finding himself in the deserted, rain-soaked streets of an unspecified European city, he can only be seen when caught by a downpour, vanishing entirely when sheltered. It does a good job of helping you navigate with a character you can't actually see and the puzzles are simple, letting you enjoy the story and bask in its atmospheric, melancholy soundtrack.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewOriginally released in 2002, The Wind Waker is unusual in that it takes place on a series of islands rather than in the land of Hyrule, and Princess Zelda doesn't even put in an appearance. Everything else is in order though, from its likable, kinetic-feeling combat, to the succession of subterranean dungeons, which feel meagre compared with other outings in the series. Regarded at the time as a bit of a rush job (almost unheard of for Nintendo), its resplendent HD makeover leaves the game practically unaltered, just giving it a shiny new exterior. Although not the finest Zelda game, this is still a sweet slice of exploration and puzzle solving.
Twitter's estimated $12.8bn (£8bn) stockmarket debut will make a billionaire of its founding investor Evan Williams, who used his profits from selling a previous business to Google to take an early gamble on the microblogging site.When Twitter comes to market in November, the significant share Williams still holds in the most sought-after Silicon Valley business since Facebook could be worth $1.2bn.But the biggest winner will be a little-known private equity boss called Suhail Rizvi, who is understood to hold a 15% share worth at least $1.9bn. The son of a psychology professor who moved from India to Iowa at the age of five, he owns the Rizvi Traverse investment firm, which has taken him from Hollywood speculator to Silicon Valley insider.Rizvi helped Hugh Hefner take Playboy private, invested in the studio behind the Twilight films and bought up the ICM Partners talent agency, which represents Robert Redford, before moving on to technology.Feverish excitement about the forthcoming float also held unexpected benefits for a bankrupt Boston consumer electronics chain called Tweeter, whose stock rose 1,800% as confused amateur investors piled into the shares. Its stockmarket ticker symbol, TWTRQ, is almost identical to the TWTR short form chosen by Twitter.More experienced investors on Wall Street welcomed the firm's prospectus as measured and without surprises. "There was nothing that stood out as weak, no unusual metrics that had to be uncovered," said Ryan Jacob, head of tech investment firm Jacob Asset Management.Advertising experts were more downbeat, warning that turning Twitter into a profitable business would be a challenge. The company lost $70m in the first six months of this year, and despite the scale of smartphone ownership today, the money advertisers spend on the small screen is a fraction of Google's income from its PC-based search business."If Twitter is going to be a financial success, it has to monetise its biggest asset – its audience – and fast," said Rupert Staines, European managing director of social advertising specialist RadiumOne. "But it could well struggle to do this. Its environment is not particularly advertiser friendly. Think how quickly tweets appear and then disappear on a timeline; consider the potentially intrusive nature of ads in your conversation stream."The list of Twitter's early investors, published in its initial public offering prospectus on Thursday, is a heady mix of Saudi royalty, Russian oligarchs, media moguls and technology entrepreneurs, with many of the same players behind Facebook's early funding rounds making a reappearance.The stake owned by Peter Chernin, the former News Corporation chief operating officer and a longstanding right hand man to Rupert Murdoch, has not yet been disclosed but he is a central figure in its network of backers.These include a longstanding News Corp investor and Murdoch ally, the Saudi prince Alwaleed bin Talal, who placed a $300m bet on the site in late 2011, having been brought into Twitter's golden circle by Rizvi.Twitter's most senior employee after chief executive Dick Costolo is Adam Bain, a former News Corp star, who was in charge of selling advertising across its websites, including MySpace, before jumping ship. His shares are worth at least $36m, while Costolo could be sitting on winnings worth $172m including stock options that have yet to vest.Co-founder and director Jack Dorsey, who claims to have dreamt up the idea for Twitter while at New York University, has held on to nearly 5% of the shares, worth some $490m.Dorsey, whose day job is at his mobile payments startup Square, built the prototype for the service that now has 200m monthly active users in just two weeks. The coding was a joint effort with Biz Stone, who is not listed as an investor in the prospectus, leading to suggestions that he may already have sold his stake.Also unlisted is Noah Glass, known as the "forgotten founder", although he is reported to have recently received cash in a settlement with the company.Another beneficiary is Jim Payne, the chief executive of MoPub, a mobile advertising exchange acquired by Twitter in September in an all shares deal which saw the firm's owners handed an estimated 3% share.Major Facebook backer Yuri Milner's DST Global investment fund, whose cast of rich Russian followers now own more than 5% of Twitter, having invested in 2011 when the company was valued at $8bn.Twitter valued itself at $20.62 per share in August, and it is understood there are 620m shares outstanding, although a lower number was disclosed in the prospectus. At the August price, Twitter would float for $12.8bn, nearly 29 times its revenues over the past year. A hefty valuation for a company whose average revenue per user in the latest quarter was 64 cents. By contrast, Facebook floated at 26 times revenues.
Shares in failed electronics retail chain Tweeter Home Entertainment Group soared afterTwitter announcedit was intending a share sale.Tweeter, which specialised in high-end electronics, filed for bankruptcy in November 2008 and closed its stores soon after. But its shares surged 1,800% to 13¢ after the social media firm set out its plans for an initial public offering.The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ordered the suspension of shares in Tweeter at 12.42pm ET,determiningthat "an extraordinary event has occurred or is ongoing that has had a material effect on the market" for Tweeter shares.Tweeter trades under the stock symbol TWTRQ, just one letter different from Twitter's intended "ticker" symbol, TWTR.Twitter announced on Thursday that it intends to raise $1bn on the US stock markets in an initial public offering (IPO). But the company has yet to begin marketing its share sale, which remains months away. Twitter stock is unlikely to be on sale before November at the earliest and the government shutdown could delay the sale still further.Tweeter, in the meantime, is a shell company. Tweeter closed its doors during a dark period for electronic retailers. Larger rival Circuit City also shut up shop in the same month. After the company filed for bankruptcy, trustee George Miller said there was "not a possibility" that the store would reopen.This isn't the first time TWTRQ has soared on news about its social media near-namesake. Tweeter shares jumped a fraction of a cent last month after Twitter disclosed it had confidentially filed papers with the Securities and Exchange Commission about its IPO plans. They soon lost those gains.
Alongside its announcement to raise $1 billion dollars, the largest Silicon Valley public stock offering since Facebook, Twitter revealed that it now has 218 million users with 500 million tweets sent every day.Here are some of the most memorable tweets from the company's seven-year history. Which tweets stick most in your mind?Share your memorable tweets in thread belowand we'll add the best suggestions to the list.1. A 33-year old Pakistani software consultant suddenly found himself at the centre of the biggest news story in the world:Helicopter hovering above Abbottabad at 1AM (is a rare event).&mdash; Sohaib Athar (@ReallyVirtual)May 1, 2011Without knowing it, he had been live blogging the raid on Osama bin Laden's hiding place:Uh oh, now I&#39;m the guy who liveblogged the Osama raid without knowing it.&mdash; Sohaib Athar (@ReallyVirtual)May 2, 20112. The tweet that launched a meme. The 28 April will forever be known as #EdBallsday, when two years ago Labour's shadow chancellor tweeted his own name from his own account and didn't delete it:Ed Balls&mdash; Ed Balls (@edballsmp)April 28, 20113. NASA astronaut Mike Massimino, made history on 12 May 2009, by sending the first tweet from space:From orbit: Launch was awesome!! I am feeling great, working hard, &amp; enjoying the magnificent views, the adventure of a lifetime has begun!&mdash; Mike Massimino (@Astro_Mike)May 12, 2009Wondering how you can top that? By live tweeting from space of course, which is what Timothy Creamer did on 22 January 2010:Hello Twitterverse! We r now LIVE tweeting from the International Space Station -- the 1st live tweet from Space! :) More soon, send your ?s&mdash; TJ Creamer (@Astro_TJ)January 22, 20104. Using an iPad, Pope Benedict XVI pushed the button on his much-anticipated first tweet from his personal account @pontifex meaning 'builder of bridges':Dear friends, I thank you from my heart and I ask you to continue to pray for me.  &#10;Pope Francis.&mdash; Pope Francis (@Pontifex)March 17, 20135. Barack Obama's understated victory tweet after winning another term as US president became one of the most shared tweets of all time:Four more years.twitter.com/BarackObama/st…&mdash; Barack Obama (@BarackObama)November 7, 2012What tweets would you add to the list?Share your suggestions in the threadand we'll post them above the line.
All companies, when filing for an initial public offering, are required to detail potential pitfalls in their future as a warning for investors, and Twitter,which revealed it is going public on Thursday evening, is no different. So what is the company afraid of? And what does that tell users of the service about where the social network is heading?More embedded mediaThe most important risk facing Twitter appears on page 23 of the prospectus. &quot;If we are unable to compete effectively for users and advertiser spend,&quot; the company writes, &quot;our business and operating results could be harmed.&quot;As Twitter&apos;s revenue figures show, the company primarily makes its revenue through advertising. In the six months to June 30, 2013, the company took $221m in ad revenue, with revenue from data licensing, its other major income stream, trailing far behind at $32m.Anything that harms Twitters ability to compete for advertisers harms its bottom line, and so the company expresses real fear over the possibility another partner mightgo the way of Instagramand pull its integration with the site:Following Facebook’s acquisition of Instagram, Facebook disabled Instagram’s photo integration with Twitter such that Instagram photos are no longer viewable within Tweets and users are now re-directed to Instagram to view Instagram photos through a link within a Tweet.Twitter is clear that the future lies in more integration, not less. What that means for users is a continued push to get companies to implement Twitter Cards, the chunks of code which allows Twitter to show short previews of sites being linked to.A Twitter Card. Photograph: /Twitter.comMore featuresTwitter warns its potential investors that providing &quot;our products and services to our users is costly &quot;, particularly as &quot;we develop and implement new features, products and services that require more infrastructure, such as our mobile video product, Vine&quot;.&quot;New features&quot; isn&apos;t a hugely surprising thing for a technology company to promise in its IPO, but for Twitter it is worth making note of.The site rose to success on a ruthlessly simple product: 140 characters of text delivered to your followers. As time went on, a few improvements were made, such as the introduction of official support for mentions (replies using the @ symbol) in 2008, or the &quot;new style&quot; retweets in 2009. Prior to that, retweeting was limited to manually copying a tweet and adding &quot;RT&quot; at the start.But in recent years, Twitter has gone from introducing the occasional tweak to adding features which change the user experience on a more fundamental level. The aforementioned Twitter cards were introduced as a &quot;media pane&quot; in 2010 before being expanded to include previews of other websites in 2012. And that same year, apparently as a response to the purchase of Instagram by Facebook, Twitterintroduced photo filters for its app.The purchase of Vine in 2012, originally a standalone video sharing company, remains the biggest move Twitter has made so far into an area which it had previously left to third-parties: the creation of tools to add media to your timeline. The company, it seems, doesn&apos;t just want to own the timeline itself. It also intends to own the tools with which users add to their timeline.Vine, Twitter's video service.Photograph: Esther Vargas/flickrMore partnershipsBut Twitter can&apos;t offer all of these features itself. &quot;The availability and development of these applications and content,&quot; it writes, &quot;depends on platform partners’ perceptions and analysis of the relative benefits of developing applications and content for our products and services.&quot; In other words, Twitter needs to stay at the top of the pile to encourage others to build things for its site.&quot;In addition, we generate revenue from licensing our historical and real-time data to third parties.&quot; It&apos;s only 14% of the company&apos;s revenue, but that&apos;s still not money which Twitter can afford to lose –particularly as it remains loss-making.But there&apos;s one major area where it remains remarkably quiet. When it comes to the site&apos;s public API, the set of programming tools with which any developer can write software which works with Twitter, it has just one thing to say. Describing it as a product for &quot;platform partners&quot;, Twitter writes:The Twitter public API allows platform partners to integrate Twitter content and follower relationships into their applications. For example, a platform partner can connect to the Twitter public API in order to collect, filter and integrate real-time content from Twitter into a live television program or a third-party website to integrate Tweets into a sentiment monitoring application to help companies monitor and measure conversation on Twitter about their brand.When Twitter&apos;s API was launched, it was used by developers to write apps which could be used to view the site on the move. In fact, Twitter didn&apos;t even have an official app until it bought Tweetie in 2010. But the writing has been on the wall for third-party developers for at leasttwo years, and so their absence from the prospectus can&apos;t come as too much surprise.•Twitter&apos;s chief executive Dick Costolo took a pay cut to $14,000 this year.
From Rupert Murdoch's longstanding lieutenant Peter Chernin to Saudi prince Alwaleed Bin Talal and the secretive Hollywood investor Suhail Rizvi, Twitter's early backers form a colourful cast of characters. Not surprisingly, many of the Silicon Valley insiders who made fortunes from Facebook were also early investors in Twitter, and stand to gain again when the microblogging site goes public.Twitter's stock was valued by the company at $26 a share before pre-IPO, and then opened with a huge pop at $45.10. Like all stocks, that will fluctuate wildly, but what's clear is that Twitter's biggest shareholders are suddenly very rich. Taking the opening price on the day of the IPO, how rich exactly?Suhail Rizvi and Rizvi Traverse Management, $3.84bn85,171,093 sharesPrince Alwaleed bin TalalRizvi is the intensely private founder of New York private equity firm Rizvi Traverse, and is said to employ a person to remove information from Wikipedia and delete photographs of him from the internet. The son of a psychology professor, he moved to Iowa from India when he was five. While recent investments have been focused on technology – Facebook before it went public, Square and Flipboard – Rizvi was first attracted to Hollywood. He helped Hugh Hefner take Playboy Enterprises private, and bought and sold the studio behind the Twilight series. He also led the buyout of ICM, the talent agency whose clients include Robert Redford and Mel Gibson. Along with former Google executive Chris Sacca, he has attracted many of Twitter's high-profile investors, with Sacca unearthing shareholders wanting to cash out and Rizvi finding the buyers. Most notable among them are Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal, the long-time News Corp backer, who was brought into Twitter by Rizvi in 2012.Evan Williams, Twitter founder and director, $2.57bn56,909,847 sharesEvan Williams, Twitter co-founderTwitter's first backer had a series of startups behind him before taking an interest in the microblogging platform. He founded and sold the Blogger text-based blogging service to Google in 2003, and used the cash to found the podcasting company Odeo, where Twitter's founders met. He was Twitter's chairman until replacing Jack Dorsey as chief executive in 2007, and later ceded that role to Dick Costolo. He still exerts a major influence on the board. The prospectus revealed he has an agreement with Dorsey to vote his shares, which expires when the company goes public in November.Spark Capital, $1.46bn32,414,224 sharesThe venture capital company, founded in 2005 and now with $1.5bn under management, led Twitter's second round of investment and originally owned around 15% before selling down. Its portfolio also includes Tumblr, Foursquare and AdMeld.Peter Fenton, Twitter director, and Benchmark Capital, $1.42bn31,568,740 sharesFenton is a general manager at venture capital firm Benchmark Capital Partners, which invested during Twitter's series C funding round. Fenton's family trust owns 1,688 shares and the rest of the holding is held via Benchmark.Union Square Ventures and affiliates, $1.26bn27,838,992 sharesThe New York venture capital fund which led Twitter's first round of investment. Has also backed Foursquare, craft retailer Etsy, social messaging site Kik and the taxi app Hailo.DST Global and affiliates, $1.07bn23,744,745 sharesYuri MilnerThe Russian investment fund run by Yuri Milner made fortunes by taking early stakes in Facebook, Groupon and Zynga. DST reportedly took a $400m stake in Twitter in 2011 in a funding round which valued the company at $8bn.Jack Dorsey, Twitter founder and executive chairman, $1.06bn23,411,350 sharesBy the age of 13 Dorsey was obsessed with dispatch logistics – the art of sending deliverymen or taxi drivers to multiple locations. Some of the programs he invented are still used by drivers today. He claims to have come up with the idea for Twitter while at New York University, and built the prototype with Biz Stone in two weeks while working at the podcasting firm Odeo. In 2009 he founded mobile payments application Square, with the ambition of replacing traditional cash and card tills.Jim Payne, MoPub chief executive, and other MoPub stockholders, $667m14,791,464 sharesThe mobile advertising exchange was bought by Twitter in September in an all-shares deal.Dick Costolo, Twitter chief executive, $369m7,589,608 shares plus 582,660 unvested stock optionsDick Costolo, Twitter CEOCostolo's first career, after graduating in computer science from the University of Michigan, was not as a programmer in Silicon Valley but as an improvisational comedian in Chicago. He worked at Andersen Consulting for eight years, and went on to found and sell a series of companies, one of which, FeedBurner, was sold to Google. He joined Twitter as chief operating officer in 2009, and stepped into the top job on a temporary basis when Evan Williams took paternity leave. The job became permanent in October 2010 when Williams decided not to return to a full-time role. He was paid $11.5m by Twitter last year in stock and cash. As of August this year, his $200,000 a year salary has been reduced to $14,000.Adam Bain, Twitter president of global revenue, $81m1,785,818 sharesBain joined Twitter in 2010, having previously been in charge of generating advertising revenues for MySpace, IGN and other News Corporation digital properties. He earned $6.7m from Twitter last year, including a $200,000 salary.Mike Gupta, Twitter chief financial officer, $61m1,350,000 sharesGupta became the chief financial officer of Twitter in December 2012, having previously worked at Zynga, the social gaming company, from May 2011. Gupta oversaw Zynga's December 2011 IPO, which failed to achieve sufficient "pop" to wow Wall Street.Christopher Fry, Twitter head of engineering, $51m1,125,000 unvested stock optionsFry joined in April 2012, and was previously senior vice-president of development at customer database software group Salesforce.com. He holds patents in distributed computing and was appointed a director of online payment platform Braintree (whose customers include Angry Birds and lettings site Airbnb) at the end of March, just before its $800m acquisition by eBay.Ali Rowghani, Twitter chief operating officer, $45m990,354 sharesRowanghani was Twitter's CFO before Gupta, and is said to be "the man who saved Twitter", turning it from a heady startup into a smooth company ready to go public.Vijaya Gadde, Twitter head of legal, $41m900,000 sharesGadde joined Twitter in 2011, and was promoted to the role of general counsel, the head of the company's legal department, in August 2013 after the departure of Alex Macgillivray. Her appointment marked a change in focus for the company: Gadde's specialism is in corporate and securities law, whereas MacGillivray had a focus on intellectual property.Peter Currie, Twitter director, $14m300,000 sharesThe former Morgan Stanley banker once ran a mobile phone group bought by AT&amp;T and was finance head at Netscape Communications before it was listed and then sold to AOL.David Rosenblatt, Twitter director, $13m291,666 sharesFormerly chief executive of digital marketing group DoubleClick, which was bought by Google for $3.2bn in 2007, Rosenblatt was president of global display advertising at Google until 2009.Peter Chernin, Twitter director, $?Unknown number of shares which have yet to vestA longstanding lieutenant of Rupert Murdoch's, Chernin worked as president and chief operating officer of News Corporation from 1996 to 2009. Despite the rightwing political leanings of his former boss, Chernin is a Democratic party donor and helped raise funds for Barack Obama. He now runs the Chernin Group, which invests in and operates media and technology businesses. His other directorships include American Express and the Pandora radio service. Chernin acquired another 200,000 shares – $9m – the day before the IPO.Biz Stone, Twitter founder, $?Twitter's co-founder and former creative director is not listed in the IPO prospectus and may already have sold his entire stake.Noah Glass, Twitter founder, $?The software developer known as Twitter's forgotten founder, Glass co-founded podcasting company Odeo with Evan Williams. Glass is not mentioned in the filing although he is reported to have reached a settlement with Twitter some months ago that gave him some cash.
The smartphone market is continuing to polarise as South Korean manufacturer Samsung forecast it was heading for record quarterly profits while Taiwanese rival HTC reported its first quarterly loss since 2002.As HTCmade an operating loss of 3.5bn Taiwanese dollars (£73m) after sales fell a thirdto NT$47.05bn (approximately £1bn), analysts warned that the company needs to find a partnership or merger as it is squeezed out of the high-end market by Samsung and Apple and sees margins hit by low-end Chinese handset makers.Samsung Electronics, which makes memory chips, hard drives, cameras and TVs as well as smartphones and tablets, said it expects to record an operating profit of 10.1tn won (£5.9bn), up 25% from 2012. It didn't offer a preliminary revenue figure.Samsung's profit was helped by sales of memory chips, which were boosted after a fire at the factory of Chinese rival SK Hynix, the world's second-largest chipmaker. That drove would-be customers to Samsung, which has a substantial lead in the field, according to Lee Seung-woo of broker IBK Investment and Securities. He told Reuters that Samsung "could post considerable operating profits throughout this year and next year, even if demand flags". Short-term prices for memory chips jumped by 37% in the second half of September after the Hynix fire.Analysts said the high end of Samsung's smartphone business is slowing. Barclays estimated that sales of its top-end Galaxy S4 smartphone fell to 16m in the July-September period, compared with 20m in the two months after its April debut, and forecast a further fall to 13m in the current quarter. Even so analysts reckon Samsung sold between 86m and 88m smartphones in the quarter just completed. Samsung does not release audited figures for handset sales."Memory [chips], not handsets, is driving Samsung's next leg of profit growth," Mark Newman, an analyst at Bernstein, wrote in a client note.HTC meanwhile is reckoned to have seen its smartphone shipments dwindle to just 6m handsets during the quarter, according to a preliminary estimate by Francisco Jeronimo of the research company IDC. That would give it a market share of around 2.3% in a world market of 260m smartphones for the quarter. Its shipments are sliding: in the second quarter HTC shipped an estimated 6.6m units, and a year ago 8.6m units.Peter Chou, HTC's chief executive, had warned of the loss during the previous quarter. But the company's problems appear to be multiplying, with rumours that suppliers are demanding earlier payment than before, putting pressure on HTC's cash position. The company recently sold mobile video business Saffron Digital for $48m – the same price it acquired the business for in February 2011 – and will sell its remaining 25% stake in headphones company Beats for $285m, which will bring in an $85m profit two years after it spent $300m for a 51% stake in the company.Dennis Chan, an analyst at Yuanta Securities in Taipei, told Reuters HTC has been hurt by its insistence on using more expensive components, particularly chips, for low-end markets like China, hitting profits.HTC's fall into loss suggests it will find it impossible to recover its former position in the smartphone market, where it was the biggest Android handset supplier to the US in 2010, said Horace Dediu, who runs the Asymco consultancy.The smartphone business is going through rapid change. Nokia, which once dominated, agreed in August to sell its handset business to Microsoft after seeing its smartphone sales dwindle. Meanwhile BlackBerry says it will exit the consumer smartphone business altogether. HTC is seen as next in line: no independent phone company that has made a quarterly loss has managed to recover, according to Dediu."The phone business is the biggest technology business and one of the fastest growing. And yet the paradox is that the rising tide does not lift all boats. In fact, the rising tide seems to be sinking small boats while rocking the largest, and foundering some," Dediu said.Dediu estimates that HTC will be bought, merged or broken up before mid-2015. The company's latest quarterly revenues are comparable to those of BlackBerry – though half of the latter came from services."Fundamentally there are a lot of things that need to be fixed [at HTC]," Laura Chen at BNP Paribas told Reuters, adding that HTC needed to work on marketing, supply chain management and streaming its product line. "No sign of recovery anytime soon."But Cher Wang, HTC's low-profile chairwoman and co-founder who owns 3.8% of the business, has repeatedly ruled out selling the company and has said a low share price did not bother her.Questions have been raised over the management style of Chou. The company told Reuters: "HTC's board and broad employee base remain committed to Peter Chou's leadership. The [flagship] HTC One product family – which has been met with accolades by media and consumers alike – was a result of Peter's vision and leadership, and speaks for itself."
Headphones are great, but the cables are annoying. Split by Greenwing Audio hopes to get rid of the wires with two tiny wireless earbuds.Wireless bluetooth headphones already exist, but are either joined by some sort of cable, or unwieldy and expensive earbuds with short battery life.Split takes a different approach. The two earbuds are totally separate, with their own batteries, storage, processors, and music players built-in.Burst over streamThe earbuds then use short radio bursts to synchronise on-board clocks, which then allow the earbuds to play your music in-sync without having to be constantly connected.Every time you change, pause or play the track, or adjust the volume, the two earbuds briefly communicate to tell each other what&apos;s going on.By using quick bursts rather than streaming music between each earbud, the radiation emitted by the earphones is significantly reduced and so is the demand on the batteries.Split wireless headphones.Small and bite-friendlyUsing synchronised clocks and quick radio bursts allows Split to be much smaller and lighter than traditional Bluetooth or other wireless earphones, making them just one inch long, and barely bigger than the earbud itself, with a four-hour battery.To start playback you can just separate the earbuds, which are magnetically held together. From there, music playback control is managed by using a 3-axis accelerometer that detects when you bite. One bite &apos;click&apos; skips the track, while a double bite cycles through the volume settings.A tap on the right earphone will lock or unlock the player, meaning you can still eat without constantly changing the track.Splitis currently looking for $435,000 of support on Kickstarter with pledges starting at $10, and a pledge of $155 securing you a pair of red Split earphones.How to charge and connect Split to a computer.Why it might not workInstead of taking music from your phone or audio player, Split needs your music to be stored directly on the earphones. That means you have no visual control over the playback or playlist, and you only have room for up to 24 songs.It also means that streaming services like Spotify or Google All Access Music are out, as you have to have the music files themselves, with supported file types including MP3, AAC and WAV files.Split wireless headphones. Photograph: Greenwing Audio/KickstarterWhy it might take offThe Split earbuds are some of the smallest headphones you can buy, which makes them ideal for listening to music while exercising, and being wireless means you totally remove the problem of tangled cables and catchable wires.They also don&apos;t depend on another device to supply the music, meaning that the music won&apos;t stop if your phone or audio player runs out of battery.The innovative bite control also makes managing playback a lot easier and entirely hands free, which could be great for all sorts of occasions when your hands are tied up, but you need to skip the track or change the volume.With hands-free control and without having to rely on your phone, Split could be the ultimate, discrete in-ear wireless headphones.Overall: a four-star rating• Earlier this week, the LumiFold low-cost portable 3D printerexceeded its crowdfunding target.
After seven years of serving 140 character messages to the world, Twitter&apos;sIPO filingdetails the scale of its audience and its revenues for the first time.Twitter has over 200m monthly usersAs of 30 June, Twitter had 218.3m monthly active users, which marked an increase of 44% within a year.Twitter's monthly active users hit over 218m in June 2013.&nbsp;Photograph: Benedict Evans/TwitterFor comparison, LinkedIn has around 240m users, but both are dwarfed by Facebook&apos;s 1.2bn users.Around five tweets are sent per user per dayTwitter has 218.3m active users per month.However, per day, Twitter only racks up around 100m active users, who collectively send around 500m tweets a day, which works out at 70bn characters, if everyone maximised their 140 character allowance per tweet.That&apos;s about 22,580 War and Peaces per day.Twitter&apos;s timeline is viewed 1.65bn times per dayWhen it comes to eyeballs on screen, Twitter&apos;s 218.3m monthly active users generate just under 151bn timeline views a quarter, which works out at around 1.65bn timeline views per day on average, or around 16 views per user per day.Increasing revenues but still loss makingIn 2012, Twitter&apos;s revenues increased by 198% to $316.9m (£197.4m), but the company made a loss of $79.4m for the year, although that was a reduction from a loss of $128.3m in 2011.Advertisingaccounts for 87% of Twitter&apos;s revenue, of which it generates around $0.30 per 1,000 timeline views, or approximately $495,000 a day according to that metric.Dick Costolo&apos;s not in it for the headline salary figureTwitter&apos;s chief executive,Dick Costolo, took a large pay cut two months ago, taking his annual salary down from $200,000 to $14,000, for which Twitter gave no official reason.Dick Costolo took a significant salary cut. Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesHowever, Costolo received $8.4m in stock awards and $2.9m in options as of 2012. If Twitter&apos;s IPO goes as planned, both stocks and options should increase significantly in value.Shares and millionsEvan Williams, Twitter&apos;s former chief executive and co-founder holds 12% of the company shares, whileJack Dorsey, Twitter&apos;s chairman and co-founder holds 4.9% and Dick Costolo holds 1.6%.With the company estimated to be worth between $12bn and $20bn, that will see all three safely into multimillionaire territory.Spam is one of Twitter&apos;s biggest threatsSpam is a problem for everyone across almost all communication methods. Twitter, however, sees it as one of its biggest threats to user growth, specifically mentioning it in the company&apos;s IPO filing.Spam on Twitter refers to a range of abusive activities that are prohibited by our terms of service … including posting large numbers of unsolicited mentions of a user, duplicate Tweets, misleading links (e.g., to malware or click-jacking pages) or other false or misleading content, and aggressively following and un-following accounts, adding users to lists, sending invitations, retweeting and favouriting Tweets to inappropriately attract attention.Twitter spam.Despite the company&apos;stargeted efforts to tackle spam, Twitter estimates that around 5% of its user base is actually automated spam accounts or fake users.Twitter is also worried that substantial spam could affect the company&apos;s user analytics and therefore the perception of performance, as well as user growth.Growth isn&apos;t always a good thing for serviceAlthough Twitter&apos;s service stability has improved over the past few years, the company is still worried about the infamous &apos;Fail Whale&apos;outagesreturning due to the real-time nature of the service.Although we are investing significantly to improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure, we are not currently serving traffic equally through our co-located data centres that support our platform.Accordingly, in the event of a significant issue at the data centre supporting most of our network traffic, some of our products and services may become inaccessible to the public or the public may experience difficulties accessing our products and services.Twitter's infamous fail whale of old.Twitter sees service availability as a key factor for its business – if Twitter is unavailable due to disruption, then users are going to go elsewhere.Any disruption or failure in our infrastructure could hinder our ability to handle existing or increased traffic on our platform, which could significantly harm our business.Potentially ready for ChristmasTwitter now has to carry out the traditional roadshows to court investors, but the timing of the company&apos;s public filing suggests shares could start trading in mid to late November.TheUS government&apos;s shutdownmight affect the timing of the IPO, however, as the US Securities and Exchange Commission must approve IPO filings.• Did you know Dick Costolo was a standup comic before ranking 4th inMediaGuardian 100 for 2013as Twitter&apos;s chief executive?
Rockstar has announced that an update file is now available for GTA Online, the troubled multiplayer extension to Grand Theft Auto V. Since the free download was released on Tuesday, thousands of gamers have found it almost impossible to access the new content, which allows players to meet up in an online version of Los Santos, where they can carry out out co-op missions, race cars or just chase each other through the streets with sub-machine guns.The publisher has kept players up to date via itsGTA Online Status page, where an assortment of problems, from disappearing save files to game-crashing bugs and poor connection with the Social Club service, have been reported. As the instability continued, Rockstar made the decision to disable the microtransaction feature, which allows players to buy in-game currency with real cash.Currently, the update, which downloads automatically when GTA V loads, is only available to PlayStation 3 owners, but an Xbox 360 version is expected later today.Until then, players are being offered a range of possible fixes for the key issue - the inability to progress past the tutorial race at the beginning. From Rockstar's site:Some players have reported being able to get into the Tutorial race by re-downloading the Title Update, which can be deleted from Xbox Home or the PS3 XMB (Game Data Utility, NOT save data). Others reported having luck by selecting "Swap Character" from the Online tab within the pause menu, deleting the character that was unable to get into the tutorial, and then creating a new character. Going into GTAO in Solo mode may also help to allow completion of the tutorial.  Some who were experience this issue have been able to get in just by trying again later.We'll up date this story when the Xbox 360 version of the patch is available.•Helen Lewis: Yes, it's misogynistic and violent, but I still admire GTA•GTA V and the future of micro-transactions•GTA 5 review: a dazzling but monstrous parody of modern life
(WARNING CONTAINS BIOSHOCK AND BIOSHOCK INFINITE SPOILERS)I'm Sorry. Really, I'm very sorry about the above admission. I've been trying to come up with a way to talk about BioShock Infinite's story-based DLC without giving away significant plot points in it and Irrational's 2007 masterpiece. Lord alone knows that the less players know about the stories contained in the cities of Rapture and Colombia, the more they're likely to be blown away by their first encounters with them. But there simply is no way to discuss Burial at Sea without offering up some details about the sunken dystopia of Rapture and the twisted denizens that inhabit it.Still, is this such a bad thing? Burial at Sea is the very definition of fan service.Not only does it offer an intriguing glimpse into the barmy universe of BioShock Infinite, where neither the motives of the characters nor the very fabric of reality can be trusted, but it satiates a couple of desires many fans of the original BioShock have had since the credits rolled on that game back in 2007. (Oh, and if you're not a fan, and you've yet to play either of the aforementioned games, I strongly urge to you stop reading now.)You see, not only does Burial at Sea mark Irrational's return to the sunken city of Rapture – the beautiful and horrific metropolis they created for BioShock – but it returns players to a time before the city's fall. Ever wanted to see what Rapture looked like in all of its grandeur before the civil war laid it to waste? Now's your chance …Much like in BioShock Infinite, Burial at Sea begins with the player walking the streets of an otherworldly city, only in this case, the floating platforms of Columbia have been swapped out for the glorious art-deco pomp of Rapture's submerged corridors and pavilions.As the player guides Booker through his paces, they'll see familiar sights such as the Nano-Tubes, Big Daddies patching up parts of the city on the ocean floor and even an outlet of Rapture Records where they can listen to a rendition of Le Mer by Django Rheinhart.As delightful as it is to return to Rapture, Irrational's creative director, Ken Levine says it's there as the best backdrop for his new story – and is less about providing a kind of 'greatest hits' experience for players."I had another story I wanted to tell about these people – Booker and Elizabeth – in particular," he says. "But I'd be kidding if I said there wasn't some desire I had to go and play back in Rapture.""But the last thing I wanted to do was the whole 'midichlorian' thing and explain parts of the world to people that they didn't need or want explained. [Burial at Sea] is not about going back and explaining what happened back in Rapture. Rapture is a backdrop for this story."Living for the cityRunning on the Infinite engine, it looks utterly sumptuous; dark hard-wood panelling and gold plating contrasts beautifully against blood-red carpets and green banners proclaiming the strengths of Objectivism. Rapture's civilians chatter excitedly in the streets and the hubbub mingled with 1920s music makes the environment feel alive as a city."If you go back and look at Rapture in the original game," says Levine, "you'll find that your memory is kind of looking back through rose-tinted glasses. ""The kinds of places we can build now – especially the fact that we can now have a population – we saw that as a huge opportunity [to revisit Rapture] to just see what life in it was like."On the surface, Rapture looks like Andrew Ryan's dream working the way it was meant to, but if players prick up their ears, they can hear the first signs of dissent.In BioShock's timeline, Burial at Sea takes place after the failure of Frank Fontaine's first rebellion. Ryan Industries is in the process of taking command of Fontaine's assets and Fontaine's small army of violent Splicers has been banished to an underwater prison in the dilapidated Fontaine Department Store building. Levine says the madness in Burial at Sea needed to be partitioned in this way for the sake of moving things on."That was a tricky problem to begin with," he says. "Once we knew we were doing Rapture before the fall, just picking up a gun and running around shooting people wasn't going to work.""We wanted the game divided into the exploration of the city and into a traditional BioShock experience," he says. "We knew we had the central story of Fontaine's clash with Ryan, but we didn't know exactly what he did with Fontaine's gang.""You ever seen Escape From New York? It's basically Escape From New York!"Setting the sceneThe DLC begins with an opening that would be right at home in a pulp dime-store novel. Private investigator, Booker DeWitt, is approached in his office by a mysterious woman named Elizabeth. He lights her cigarette with a snap of his fingers (using a flame Plasmid) and listens as she asks him to help her find a missing girl named Sally. Elizabeth comes on like a classic femme fatale; she seems to know more about Booker and Sally than she lets on and shadows play over her eyes. Booker takes the case and heads towards the den of one of Rapture's figures who has been known to partake in the odd bout of human trafficking – an artist with a couple of screws loose named Sander Cohen.Seeing the worlds of BioShock and BioShock Infinite thrown into the mix together raises up its own set of questions. Is Infinite now part of the Rapture lore? Is Burial At Sea showing us one of the myriad parallel universes hinted at in Infinite? Levine is adamant that the strands tie together."It's Rapture prime," he says. "It's Elizabeth prime.""There's a difference between BioShock and Infinite in that the focus was more on the characters in Infinite and their moral progression. The Elizabeth you see here is not the one that was dancing on the beach in Infinite – even though there are echoes of that scene here – she's more opaque.""She is a product of the affects of people's ideas being put into reality. She didn't ask for any of it and all of it was put upon her. She's the embodiment of extremism."Levine's sentiments hit home as I played through Burial at Sea. Elizabeth functioned the way she did in Infinite as a mechanic – she still opens tears and she still scrounges for resources – but the wide eyed, optimistic youth of Colombia has been replaced by a character who is altogether more cynical, darker and quicker to judge Booker. To be honest, she seems right at home in Rapture …
Twitter revealed details its hotly anticipated initial public offering on Thursday  saying it intended to raise $1bn from a share sale.The seven-year-old social media company now has over 200 million active users who send 500 million tweets a day, according to the prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.The share sale will further enrich Twitter's multi-millionaire founders. Analysts have predicted that the company could be worth between $12bn and $20bn when it starts trading.Jack Dorsey, Twitter's chairman, holds 4.9% of the company's stock, Evan Williams, the former CEO and fellow co-founder, holds 12%. Dick Costolo, CEO, holds 1.6%.Twitter had 218.3 million monthly active users as of 30 June, an increase of 44% from the 151.4 million a year previously. However it warned that growth will slow. "We anticipate that our user growth rate will slow over time as the size of our user base increases," the company said in its announcement.Twitter's revenues increased by 198% to $316.9m in 2012, according to the filing. But the company posted a $79.4m loss for the year and lost $128.3m in 2011. The company has been spending large sums in order to build up its service and said it intends to carry on spending after it has raised the new money.Last month Twitter paid around $350m in stock for the mobile advertising company MoPub, its largest acquisition to date. "Additionally, we may use a portion of the net proceeds to acquire businesses, products, services or technologies," the company said.The company will be listed under the stock market symbol TWTR.In a letter attached to the filing Twitter said: "Twitter was born on March 21, 2006, with just 24 characters. We started with a simple idea: share what you're doing, 140 characters at a time. People took that idea and strengthened it by using @names to have public conversations, #hashtags to organize movements, and Retweets to spread news around the world. Twitter represents a service shaped by the people, for the people."The mission we serve as Twitter, Inc is to give everyone the power to create and share ideas and information instantly without barriers. Our business and revenue will always follow that mission in ways that improve – and do not detract from – a free and global conversation."Twitter's IPO is the most anticipated technology offering since Facebook's flawed stock market debut in May 2012. That share sale proved a disaster for Facebook. It took until September this year for its shares to recover to the levels they reached on the day of the sale.Forrester analyst Zachary Reiss-Davis said the challenge for Twitter would be managing the relationship between advertisers on the site and the users who create and read its content.Advertising accounts for 87% of Twitter's revenues. "Twitter's big question is not growth," he said. "It is how do they continue to make this an exciting place for their users while engaging brands and advertisers."Twitter said last month that it had filed IPO documents with regulators under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (JOBS) that allows "emerging growth companies" to keep much of the details under wraps.Companies are obliged to make the documents public about three weeks before the start of "road shows" in which they meet with potential investors in the IPO.The timing of Twitter's public filing suggests shares could start trading in mid-to-late November, after roadshows to court investors.The Securities and Exchange Commission must approve IPO filings and only has funds to last a week or two. Twitter's share sale may not be delayed as the IPO was filed before the shutdown.
When the Silk Road, the internet&apos;s biggest marketplace for illegal drugs,was taken down earlier this week,the price of Bitcoin plummeted.The two were &quot;intrinsically linked&quot;, according to Jeremy Cook, chief economist at currency brokers World First, but with Silk Road gone, does Bitcoin have a future?What are Bitcoins?Bitcoins are an anonymous, decentralised, peer-to-peer digital currency.In contrast to older forms of electronic money, no company controls Bitcoin, nor ever could: all the rules about how it works are embedded into the very operation of trade, including the rate of inflation and how to verify transactions.How do I get them?For most users, the easiest way to get Bitcoins is to buy them. But due to strict anti-money laundering controls, even that is tricky.Most Bitcoin exchanges, such asMt Gox, the best-known, require users to wire money from their banks to the exchange.A small group of hardcore users get extra Bitcoins through &apos;mining&apos; for them: running computers which perform the calculations needed to make the currency work, in exchange for a share of the built-in inflation.What do they look like?Files of seemingly random data.Bitcoins have no physical existence, although some have devised ways to spend the digital currencyby printing the necessary information on paper notes. Instead, they are long lists of the digital signatures of previous owners. When a Bitcoin is spent, the old owner adds their digital signature to the end of the list, combined with the digital signature of the new owner.How do I spend them?With difficulty: few mainstream places accept Bitcoins, though the number is growing and now includesfashion websites,pubs, and online dating serviceOKCupid.If your tastes are on the geeky side, however, you might have more luck. You can buy web hosting, geeky t-shirts, and even membership of the Reddit social network with Bitcoin.Who&apos;s making money from Bitcoin?People who bought early and sold at the peak. The currency has been through two boom-and-bust cycles, with the cost of one Bitcoin rising from $2 to $30 in 2011, and then from $13 to $266 earlier this year. But having a fortune in Bitcoin is a bit like having a fortune in gold: you have to sell your holdings to really make the most of it.Why would I want them?The big driver in Bitcoin’s early growth was the online drug marketplace Silk Road, which took advantage of the currency’s qualities to provide anonymity to patrons.While Silk Road no longer exists,a number of smaller outfits offer the same services.But beyond access to illicit substances, for many fans Bitcoin use is a political statement: its existence proves that a currency with no centralised control is possible.How secure is Bitcoin?As secure as its user.Although there have beensome bugswith the currency’s programming, all of the reported thefts have come from the outside.If users don’t keep their &quot;private key&quot;, the password which lets them spend their Bitcoins, well hidden,they can easily lose everything.And, of course, anonymity cuts both ways: if you get tricked by a scammer into parting with your bitcoins, there’s no higher authority to turn to.Will it ever be a mainstream currency?Economists and developers point to several flaws in the implementation of Bitcoin which render it unsuitable for widespread use. One problem is that the currency has deflation built in to its very core: only 21m bitcoins will ever be produced, and we&apos;re already halfway there. Most economists believe deflation is disastrous for an economy, but the Austrian school of economics, beloved by the libertarian creators of Bitcoin, disagrees.A more immediate problem is that it&apos;s not clear that the backbone of the currency can withstand the increased use that going mainstream would take. Transactions can already experience relatively lengthy delays in processing (taking minutes to clear), and that&apos;s just with Bitcoin remaining mostly popular amongst enthusiasts.• Was Silk Road&apos;s creator a genius who masterminded an online criminal underworld? Or did he actually dofive very stupid things to get himself arrested?
Martin Hollis is primarily adored in the games industry for being the lead designer on Goldeneye 007, the smash-hit multiplayer James Bond game. So when he announced he was making a first-person shooter about love for Nottingham's GameCity festival this year, it seemed an interesting twist on his past. He's abandoned the AKs to become a matchmaker.Aim for Love is a festival game that Hollis designed to encourage people to develop short, intense relationships with each other via game mechanics. With the help of George Buckenham, of Copenhagen game-design studio Die Gute Fabrik, and DJ Pawel Jalowiecki, who will provide a live soundtrack, Hollis will set up two cameras at twilight in Nottingham's Market Square from 19-26 October, letting two members of the public decide who in the crowd to "aim" at. Two separate people will be projected onto huge screens – "about as big as a house each", according to Hollis. What they do in front of the cameras is up to them; afterwards, it's their turn to control the cameras, creating a game that's self perpetuating and predicated on player energy, improvisation and investment.For Hollis, it's a game all about developing a relationship between the two "chosen" players. It's about those two people making a story together, and then passing on control.An impressive assortment of designers has been asked to devise games for the two screens, which will move position daily. In addition to Hollis, Phil Fish (creator ofFez), Richard Lemarchand (associate professor in the USC games programme), Mike Bithell (Thomas Was Alone), Vlambeer (Ridiculous Fishing), Keita Takahashi (Noby Noby Boy), and Sophie Houlden (Swift*Stitch) are also contributing.Hollis has chosen to centre his game on creating and playing with relationships. "The first thing the casual player will notice when they come in is that there are two enormous screens in Nottingham Market Square," he says. "And then they will notice that there are crowds of people on the screens, and then they will notice that the people are in Market Square and that there are cameras, and that they're on the screen. And that they're sort of involved in a game.""One of the cool things about this is that play is a game with a magic circle, which is the invisible boundary of playing a game or not playing a game. Traditionally, the boundary between playing and not playing is thought to be a very strong idea … you know whether you are playing a game or not. You sit down at the table, you say, 'Let's play Monopoly', and you say 'Yes, yes, let's play Monopoly', and then you know you're playing. Players of Aim for Love are going to sense that they are part of the audience/players of this game and that attention is directed at them by the controllers. What the 'choosers' do is control two sides that move around the two screens – one on each screen – and are tasked with picking a couple that are good together."Players who are interested in finding friendship, love, or perhaps their long-term partner can also head along to GameCity. "So the casual players will come in and they won't know anything about it," Hollis says. "They will be novices – members of the public. Then there's another category of people who have heard something about this; maybe they're single, perhaps they are reading these words now, and are just interested in a new experience. They go along just to find out what it's like to be cajoled and teased a little bit by a stranger, and selected to play the game."Is this a video game? An alternative reality game (ARG)? Performance art, even? "I pitch the game as being something like a parlour game, something like a level of complexity of spin the bottle," says Hollis. "Most of the interest is from how people behave, and most of the benefit is from forming relationships. Something that's not so easy to quantify. It's not an ARG, it's not a video game, it's about 10% video game. It's an indie game really."Is there a way of "winning"? What would he like the game's outcomes to be? "I was thinking we'd give five points for a friendship, 10 points for a love affair, and 20 points for finding your lifetime partner," says Hollis.He plays his cards close to his chest; it's really hard to make out if he is joking. I think he might be serious.Elaborating on the matchmaking element of his game, Hollis says: "It's a low investment, so you don't have to do lots of preparation. And you can meet a number of people in a short amount of time in a friendly, sort of non-serious, pleasant – I'm not going to say 'loving' environment – you know, a situation with a really good vibe. I mean, the DJ is really important. It's going to be like a little party."Are the couples given specific tasks, other than to choose other couples? "The naked idea is no, but we will iterate over the week on this," Hollis says. "As you can imagine, it's impossible to test this without a market square and two huge screens. I've done two tests recently at the MAC in Birmingham. We had a lovely crowd of people, but it doesn't really match Nottingham. It worked very, very well with those people. But as George Buckenham said, we really don't know what's going to happen so we've got to be prepared to adapt if it doesn't work. So the first night we're going to have to tweak it maybe radically, and as you've said maybe there needs to be more tasking. What we found in Birmingham is people would do things like use the circles [the game's aiming device, which appears as a reticule on the screen] like volleyball – they interact with and tease the people in the audience, if you like, with their power and their attention."But according to Hollis, not everyone was happy with the reticule concept, which perhaps made some feel like a sniper's target. He has therefore abandoned the idea, and is thinking of another way to represent being "chosen" on screen. I suggest a love heart; Hollis seems to like the idea. "You can't see it," he says, "but my hands were in a love-heart shape."Games designed to be played outside present unique challenges. Often game designers don't have to take the time of day into account, but Hollis tells me he took that element very seriously when considering the project."One of the reasons for picking 5.30-6.30pm is twilight. It's both the actual twilight, with the sun just setting, and also a psychological twilight when people are moving from thinking about work into thinking about play – they're in the process of relaxing. I think it's a good time of day to surprise people a little bit with an opportunity they weren't expecting."From shootouts in St Petersburg to love on the streets of Nottingham? It's a transition I certainly wasn't expecting, but you never can tell with Hollis.•Aim for Love is part of the GameCity festival in Nottingham, running 19-26 October across various Nottingham venues
Tesco&apos;snew 7in Android tablet, called the Hudl, is family-focused, with kid-friendly features and a beginner&apos;s guide to Android built in.Offering a low-cost alternative to Google&apos;s £199 Nexus 7 and Amazon&apos;s recently price-cut £119Kindle Fire HD, Tesco is aiming the £119 Hudl at people who wouldn&apos;t ordinarily think of buying a tablet computer.Design: Soft-touch plastic that feels good in the handThe Hudl is a colourful Android tablet encased in soft-touch plastic, which makes it easy to hold and feel good in the hand. It&apos;s also light enough, like most other 7in tablets, to wield with one hand.The Tesco Hudl tablet has a soft-touch plastic back.The front of the device is dominated by its 7in high-definition screen. It is both sharp and clear, making text from websites and ebooks easily legible, while TV and movies look good. The screen&apos;s viewing angles are also pretty good, which should make sharing videos and pictures with friends and family easy.The back of the device sports two fairly loud and clear stereo speakers that make for better video viewing.SpecificationsScreen:7in HD LCD with 1,440 x 900 pixelsProcessor:1.5GHz quad-core processorRAM:1GB of RAMStorage:16GB plus microSD slot supporting up to 32GB cardsOperating system:Android 4.2.2Camera:3-megapixel rear camera, 2-megapixel front-facing cameraConnectivity:Wi-Fi (a/b/g/n), Bluetooth 4.0, GPS, micro HDMIDimensions:128.8 x 192.8 x 9.85mmWeight:370gPowerful enough for web browsingTesco has given the Hudl a 1.5GHz quad-core processor, which generally produces a lag-free experience within individual apps. However, with only 1GB of RAM, multi-tasking displays a noticeable burden on the Hudl, with slow transitions between apps and a touch of mildly frustrating lag in certain situations. The Hudl is certainly not the fastest or most powerful 7in tablet out there.For the most part, the processor copes well enough with the demands of web browsing, sending email and watching YouTube videos, but I found that video and audio could occasionally move out of sync while watching shows via the BBC iPlayer app.Tesco rates the Hudl&apos;s battery life at around nine hours, which proved to be roughly accurate in my testing. It charges quickly via the included mains charger, and lasted for around a day&apos;s worth of good general use, including watching videos, reading websites and sending and receiving around 25 emails.With light or occasional use, you&apos;ll have to charge the Hudl about once every two or three days, which is about on par with competing 7in tablets from other manufacturers.Software: Perfectly usable standard AndroidUnlike other 7in Android tablets such as Amazon&apos;s Kindle Fire family, Tesco decided to make only minor additions to the standard Google Android ‘Jelly Bean’ experience.That means users have full, unadulterated access to the Google Play Store, including its 850,000 or so apps, plus movies and music services.Tesco&apos;s only immediately visible addition is a small white T in the bottom left-hand corner of the screen, which acts as a one-tap access button for Tesco&apos;s services. These include Tesco&apos;s online grocery shop, the Tesco Direct store, Tesco&apos;s F&amp;F clothing store, Tesco Clubcard, Mobile network and Tesco bank account access, as well as a store locator.Tesco has also given Hudl users direct access to its on-demand streaming entertainment services, including Blinkbox movies, music and books, and Tesco&apos;s Clubcard TV.Blinkbox movies works well, offering on-demand movies and TV shows on a pay-as-you-go basis, while Clubcard TV provides free access to a roster of family-aimed streaming TV shows.Blinkbox music offers free streaming music, while Blinkbox books, which wasn&apos;t available at the time of writing, promises to offer access to 600,000 books in the near future.For the family audience, Tesco has also added account control into the Android 4.2.2 operating system, allowing parents to set up restricted accounts for the kids that prevent access to certain content and applications, including YouTube.The Tesco Hudl tablet has features such as account control that restrict children's access to age-restricted sites and services.Tesco has also attempted to make Android more accessible to tablet novices with a simple walkthrough guide, instructing the user on setup and general use.Camera: The results are poorThe camera on the back of the Hudl takes only passable still shots at 3-megapixels, and while it is also capable of capturing high-definition 720p video, the results are poor, full of judder and bordering on unwatchable – certainly in indoor lighting conditions.The front-facing camera is also anaemic, producing shots with washed-out colours, but does the job well enough for the highly compressed demands of video calling, which will be its primary use.Price: As little as £6o in Tesco Clubcard vouchersAvailable in black, blue, purple and red, price is arguably the Hudl&apos;s greatest strength. It&apos;s available in-store for £119, but can also be bought with just £60 of Tesco Clubcard vouchers, which represents astounding value if you happen to be a Tesco shopper.The Tesco Hudl tablet is available in four colours.Verdict: A great value tabletOverall the Tesco Hudl tablet is great value. It&apos;s not the best 7in tablet out there, but it holds it own very well compared to similarly priced competition.It feels good in the hand, has a crisp HD screen, and packs enough punch to handle web browsing, email and general tablet usage without much worry or frustration.For £119,it&apos;s hard to beat the Hudl, and it would make an excellent first tablet for the kids or the grandparents.Star rating: 4/5
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which was published earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).The Wagner Files HD (£3.99)No, not the former X Factor contestant – although turning his life into a digital graphic novel would be quite something. This app focuses on composer Richard Wagner, with the main comic-strip story augmented by animation, videos and photos. Oh, and music of course: operas from the 1920s and 1930s plus a visualisation of the overture from The Flying Dutchman.iPadGrazia UK Magazine (Free)Weekly magazine Grazia launched its "shoppable" iPad app a while back, offering digital issues with the added feature of being able to buy products straight from the pages. Now it's squeezed the app down for iPhone too, providing Grazia readers with a smaller-screened fix of fashion, features and shopping.iPhoneNBA 2K14 (£5.49)Early reviews for 2K Sports' latest basketball game are mixed, it's fair to say. The game certainly looks good, with fluid on-court action and a host of licensed players and teams (including LeBron James, who's the face of the game). For first-time players it's well worth a look, but people who bought NBA 2K13 may prefer to stick with the existing version.iPhone / iPadMarvel Puzzle Quest: Dark Reign (Free)Puzzle Quest was one of the first games to make a success out of blending match-three puzzling with RPG-style battles. Now it has a new partner, Marvel, meaning it's ditched the monsters in favour of super heroes and villains. You're still matching gems to help your heroes fight their way out of trouble.iPhone / iPadGoodnight Mo (£1.99)This children's app comes from developer StoryToys, best known for its pop-up fairytale book-apps. This has a different theme: bedtime. It's a story about a monster named Mo preparing for bed, with eight pop-up scenes taking kids through a pre-bedtime routine that (maybe, just maybe) will send them sleepwards in the real world.iPhone / iPadThe Cave (£2.99)The Cave comes with impressive credentials: published by Sega, it's the latest game from Ron Gilbert, of Monkey Island fame. This is a brand new adventure, with multiple characters – you choose three out of seven available – as you explore the titular cave. The twist is that the characters can work together to solve puzzles, making for an absorbing game.iPhone / iPadGreat Britain &amp; Ireland - The Michelin guide 2014 (£5.99)The restaurant world is buzzing about who has and hasn't got Michelin stars this year, but this app is aimed at diners rather than chefs: it's a guide to all the restaurants and hotels that have been garlanded by the Michelin inspectors. But it's not just about their views: the app lets you contribute your reviews too.iPhoneArtsy (Free)"The art world in your pocket," according to the App Store listing, although thankfully considerably cheaper, and with no mouldy old sharks stinking up your trousers. This app collects together more than 60,000 artworks from galleries and museums, letting you browse them in high-resolution and learn more about the movements they're part of. Not a replacement for real-world artspotting, but something to stimulate it.iPhonePumatrac (Free)Nike has its fitness-tracking app, but now Puma is following suit. Pumatrac focuses on running, tracking how far and fast you run as well as the calories you burn, and helping you analyse how that's changing over time. There's also a "run score" to encourage you with a light spot of gamification, and the ability to share tips and routes with others. It also plays nice with the Pebble smart watch.iPhoneEmily Books Reader (Free)This is a marvellous idea: less an ebook reader and more a "new kind of book club" whose curators Ruth and Emily choose a different book every month to make available, along with interviews, artwork and other related extras. It's offered through Apple's Newsstand system, with a monthly subscription of £6.99.iPhone / iPadTransport Tycoon (£4.99)I was the world's worst transport mogul in the original Transport Tycoon game on PC, with a prodigious talent for messing up buses, trains and ships alike. So I'm slightly nervous about trying again on iOS, but there's no doubt that Transport Tycoon is impressively faithful to the original game, as you build routes, buy vehicles and stations, and try to master 49 scenarios.iPhone / iPadShift by TNW (Free)Shift is the work of tech site TheNextWeb, but it's far from an aggregator of online stories. Instead, this digital magazine promises new stuff: features about "technology, innovation and startups" from around the world, with a £1.99 monthly subscription or £2.49 per-issue payment getting you the mag.iPadTownCraft (£2.99)It would be surprising if it's taken this long for someone to try a Minecraft-meets-FarmVille game on iOS (although knowing the long tail of the App Store, someone may well have tried already). There's some good old god-game love in TownCraft too, as you build a town, craft tools and manage your growing population. There's lots of character in this.iPadThe Love Book (£1.99)The UK's National Poetry Day was this week, and The Love Book is a good way to carry the feeling onwards. It's a collection of poems, short stories and letters about love, read by actors including Helena Bonham Carter, Damian Lewis and Helen McCrory. You can also record your own versions to share with friends, with four months to practise before Valentine's Day…iPhone / iPadShapes Music (£2.99)This is an intriguing musical app: Shapes Music aims to teach you to play along on a virtual keyboard with thousands of music videos, with the transparent keys hovering over the video as it plays. The videos are pulled from YouTube, so there's a good mix of artists, and you can create playlists of your favourites.iPadMashupDJ (Free)And more interactive musical fun. This is a tool for creating songs that mash up tracks from two artists to (hopefully) tuneful effect. There's a drag-and-drop editing mode for pros, or a simple one-button mode for the rest of us. And the songs? It's fair to say they're eclectic: Bad Company, Chic, David Lee Roth, Devo, New Kids On The Block, Pantera and the Spin Doctors are all included. For the prospects of a Chic-meets-Pantera bootleg alone, this is… worrying.iPadAxel's Chain Reaction (Free)This children's storybook-app stars a boy named Axel, whose classmates think he's a "fidgety, distracted, clumsy boy", and who wants to make a moving insect sculpture to prove he's not. It's a beautifully-crafted app, and as the developers note, "Parents of children with high-functioning ASD, SID, ADHD, or language disorders, might recognize a bit of their child in Axel".iPhone / iPadTwelve by Ann Hirsch (£1.99)This app is so ugly, it looks like an AOL chatroom from the 1990s. Oh, wait, that's the point. It's a thought-provoking story told through the famous interface by Ann Hirsch, drawing on her own experiences of AOL chat as an early-teen. The story is told through the chat window, and looks fascinating and unsettling in equal measure.iPadSnoop Lion's Snoopify BoomBoom Soundboard (£1.49)Just for the title, really. Well, no, Snoop has become a mini-mogul in the apps world, making $30,000 a month earlier this year from sales of digital stickers in his Snoopify photo-sharing app. This follow-up is an entertaining musical app for playing with Snoop's beats and samples, then sharing the results.iPhoneTop Movies – A Zoomable Timeline of Movies (Free)Finally, something for film fans – and perhaps more specifically, fans still finding their way in the world of film.  It's a "zoomable timeline" of the last 100 years of movies, where you can dive into daily, monthly and yearly views of films to get more details on each, and then tap through to buy the ones that are available on Apple's iTunes Store.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
