How did you get involved in online gaming?Well, I didn't even have a computer when I started. I was at university four years ago trying to work in the computer labs and I couldn't get on one because all these guys were playing games. Eventually I tried playing Doom on one of the 486s and loved it. Then Quake came out and suddenly you could play anyone, anywhere - especially at university as you have the fast JANET network at your disposal.Is online gaming now rivalling the popularity of console gaming?You really have to have high speed connections like ISDN or ADSL to seriously compete online. Dreamcast tried to bring out an online option but it wasn't adequate for action games like Quake III. I believe the new PlayStation 2 will be coming out with an internet connector for ISDN so I think they will come together again as people are writing games for both formats. In many ways consoles are more suited to playing these games as they prevent arguments over people winning because they have a faster computer or a better graphics card.Is the UK still hampered by metered access to the internet?Absolutely. I became a professional gamer in January and the first thing I did was move to Sweden so I could have ADSL at home. We're catching up in the UK but it's been too long coming and it's still prohibitively expensive.How do you see online gaming developing?When I started it was purely for a laugh - I could have named every other player. Now there are thousands playing, there's prize money, people are sponsored and there are live events. Even if you wouldn't actually call it a sport, it's certainly going in that direction. There are soon going to be teams competing in leagues. Battletop is setting up the BIGL (British Internet Gaming League) and the top league in that will be a professional league. One thing that's perhaps lacking is having a game specifically suited to tournaments. Once they make a game that can be played like a sport then it will start to get really exciting.Do you like the anarchy of the net?I help run a website and the great thing about that is that people can read something then immediately put their own comment there. Gaming is such a community that people want to discuss the best player and the best games. It would be good to get people online using their real names and to be accountable for what they do while they are online.Any favourite places on the web?Barrys Worlddoes a lot of community websites and it's fun to look around at each Clan's (team's) website to get player profiles and information on them. I also likewww.worldcybergames.organdwww.us.battletop.comfor keeping up on all that's happening with e-sports.&#149; For more information on Sujoy and online gaming issues seewww.xsreality.com
Seeing was believingFor a glimpse of how the consumer electronics world will look in 2001, the place to be last week was the CEATAC 2000 show in Chiba Japan.Many top Japanese companies including Sony, JVC and Hitachi paraded their new products at the show.JVC announced the impending launch of the world's first hybrid digital/ analogue video recorder. The model pairs a 20 gigabyte hard disk drive with an S-VHS recorder. Users can record programmes digitally on the hard drive then archive them on the S-VHS deck. The unit goes on sale in Japan next month for around &#163;1,200.Sony's key offering was the Airboard, billed as a personal IT television. The unit features a 10.4inch LCD TV complete with TV reception, wireless email and internet access. It goes on sale in Japan later in the year for around &#163;800.Sony also debuted a home-based hi-fi system that uses its Memory Stick storage cards.Top billing on the Sharp stand went to the PC-X2001, an LCD desktop PC that features TV, PC and net content in one unit.Pioneer displayed the latest in DVD recorders. The DVDR 2000 is both DVD-R and DVD compatible and the first DVD recorder to feature an a high speed iLink connector. It goes on sale in Japan later in the year.Panasonic unveiled a host of prototype products, many of which use its Secure Digital (SD) storage cards. These   included AV enabled notebook PCs, digital music recorders, mobile phones and digital cameras.Fine tuningThe first of Sharp's long promised LCD screen TVs with built-in tuners arrives in the shops this month.The &#163;1,500 12inch LC-12A2E features a flat screen active matrix TFT LCD panel which is said to deliver a resolution of 921,600 pixels. Sharp also claims that the screen has a 160 degree viewing angle and a backlight with 60,000 hours' life.It will be joined next month by a 15inch set, the &#163;2000 LC-15A2E, while a 20inch version, the &#163;4,000 LC-20A2E, will be available early next year.All three models are less than 5cm thick, boast three speakers, a Nicam Stereo decoder and include component and composite video inputs for connection to a DVD player/VCR.  Also due in the stores this month are a pair of ultralight Sharp notebook PCs, the &#163;1,795 PC-AX20 and the &#163;2,045 PC-AR10.Sony goes to the dogsSony's robot pet dog Aibo is about to befriend a new canine chum. Details about Sony's third electronic hound, including when it is to be launched in the UK, are to be revealed at 9.00am this morning - unfortunate timing for us, but required by Japan.Sony has confirmed that the new dog is designed to partner and interact with its predecessor.  Aibo went on sale in Japan last June, with the first batch of 3,000 dogs selling out in 20 minutes.Sony has sold more than 45,000 dogs worldwide, and they even have their own soccer tournaments.  (AN)Hearing earringResearchers at IBM's Almaden Research Centre in Silicon Valley may be after jobs moonlighting on the next Bond film. They have taken up designing jewellery with a difference. For example, they have embedded a microphone into a necklace, attached a couple of speakers to earrings, and converted a ring into a scrolling device that works like a mouse.A watch and bracelet also double as data storage devices, for when you need disk space for web surfing. IBM says: "By combining pleasing form with digital function, the researchers hope to one day free users from carrying around clunky digi tal devices and accessories like palm computers, web phones, headsets and microphones, by incorporating them into items they already wear."Free speechMicrosoft and Cambridge University are giving away the software needed to build your own speech recognition system. The Hidden Markov Model Toolkit (HTK) is available on servers in the university's engineering department at http://htk.eng.cam.ac.uk/The software was originally developed by Steve Young and Phil Woodland at Cambridge, and Entropic bought it in 1998. Microsoft - which bought Entropic and will retain the copyright on the code - says the release "will enable the hundreds of sites worldwide that already use HTK to continue to build on its capabilities, and will increase access to HTK in schools, universities and research laboratories".Phil Woodland, a reader in information engineering at Cambridge, plans to continue developing the software.Bright noteFans of translucent plastics engineering should check out the latest products from Sam sung, one of South Korea's consumer electronics giants. The New E (Hip-Hop) MP3 music player comes in vibrant tangerine or blue that is "sure to be a hit with the iMac generation", says Samsung. The alternative New D (Jazz) model has twice the memory (64MB) and is made from brushed aluminium.The new Samsung SDC-80 digital camera is available in four translucent colours: green, blue, tangerine and white and costs about &#163;249. In spite of the iMac styling, it connects only to a PC....Star turnIn the early days of screen-based computing, there was some discussion as to whether the screen format should be horizontal or vertical. Horizontal won, and it was somewhat hard for dissenters to turn heavy tube-based monitors on their sides.That is no longer a problem with flat LCD monitors, which often come with pivot mounts. LG Electronics' 15in Flatron FL577LH (&#163;595 plus VAT) can easily be rotated from landscape to portrait.And users don't need to worry about reconfiguring Microsoft Windows to display a vertical image. LGE says the monitor comes with software that automatically rotates the image when the user rotates the screen.  (JS)
Talking pointHow on earth could Jack Schofield write hundreds of words on chat programs yet not mention the original - Internet Relay Chat?It was developed in Finland in 1991 and has been used by millions the world over. IRC allows you to swap files, chat privately, and runs on virtually any operating system (including Epoc, PalmOS, Amiga and VMS). And instead of taking up 5.5MB and gobbling resources, an IRC client will take up 300KB and run happily on a very old machine.ICQ? No thanks; I want to chat, not watch superfluous animated widgets.Gideon Hallett.ghallet@pilot.netJack Schofield replies:the article (Everybody go surfing, October 5) was actually about group surfing, not chat. ICQ was included for ICQ Surf.Poor lineAt what stage does failure to provide a service become intentional and the selling of a "non-existent product" come under the trades description act. Maybe the Guardian should consider offering a forum for a "class action" against Freeserve?Having paid &#163;10 a month for unlimited access to the internet with Freeserve via the telco Energis, I initially found that evening connection was at best problematic. I felt sorry for people who had paid for an off-peak service but was not personally inconvenienced.Now the daytime service is rapidly deteriorating. Lunch times and after school hours are becoming impossible. I cannot even get past the BT "network busy" which suggests that Freeserve has not purchased the capacity to even get to its modems!Richard Pagerichardpage@veg-edible.clara.co.ukAlong with many others, my account has been terminated due to "heavy" use. Freeserve claims that I have been using its service for almost 17 hours per day. My own logs contradict this.It appears to be in direct contradiction of 1.11 of their terms and conditions which state: "All internet calls will be subject to network management controls. We reserve the right to disconnect you after two hours continuous use and/or 10 minutes of inactivity during connection. There is however, no limit on the number of connections made every day."Also, the service is described online as giving "unlimited internet calls day and night, 365 days a year".How can Freeserve justify termination on grounds of causing "abnormal" load on their system when I - and others - are using the service as described by them?Furthermore, Freeserve has recently changed the terms and conditions because some users were storing too much email. Why did they not change them to account for high usage?Companies should not be allowed to offer a service and then blatantly and arbitrarily withdraw it on a whim.No one will take either the internet seriously or companies like Freeserve until they act with responsibility.David Leedlee@ansible.freeserve.co.ukIs it write?A couple of weeks ago, you published a letter stating that CD-RW discs were only readable on the machine that wrote them.I was astonished that anyone should produce such a daft standard that I expected this assertion to be contradicted inFeedback, but there was no letter then, nor was it mentioned in Ask Jack on backups on September 17.Is it really true? I think we should be told!Colin Cohenc.cohen@europe.comJack Schofield replies:No, it is not true. The CD-RW (ReWritable) system uses reflectances much lower than those in the original CD spec and may be unreadable in older drives, but any drive that meets the MultiRead spec should be able to read them.
Green fingered city dwellers without a plot of their own will soon be able to buy a virtual garden at the click of a mouse.A farmer, an accountant and an information technology manager have teamed up to offer clients a harvest of veggies.Around 35,000 would-be London gardeners in Kensington and Chelsea are being offered the chance of using the internet to own and tend an organic vegetable plot in the countryside. The website also offers weather forecasts, updates on conditions in their plot and advice on how to improve their crop.The website gardeners will be spared only the ordeal of getting their hands dirty. Picking, weeding and tending will be done by the scheme's creators, Richard Knock, who farms in Mendlesham, Suffolk, the accountant Jon Reade, and Graham Amiss, an IT manager from Felixstowe.They devised the scheme in June when Mr Knock complained about the falling price of wheat to his neighbours, Mr Reade and his wife, Katy, also an accountant."Katy came up with this internet vegetable plot idea, and I said, 'Don't be stupid'," said Mr Reade, 35. "Then I thought about it and got the wheels in motion." Mr Amiss agreed to   design a website, and they went back to Mr Knock with a firm proposal.They are offering city dwellers eight options ranging from a 9x10metre plot for &#163;495 a year to a plot of their own specification plus "five speciality vegetables" such as asparagus and five petal salad for &#163;695."When we get an order we will prepare the plot, and it will be on web within a week," said Mr Reade. "Our customers will be able to access their web page using a password. There will be a picture and a summary of how the veggies are going. If they need any treatment we'll ask for their input."Like any real gardener, you take the good years with the bad, but many of the varieties are hardy."Mr Knock's wife, Julia, will help him to harvest and pack the crop ready for Mr Reade to collect. "We'll harvest during the day and deliver in the evening, so the vegetables will be as fresh as they can be," said Mr Reade. Customers can also visit the farm and help to harvest their own crop.The three hope to expand the scheme to include soft fruits and pre-planted window boxes and hanging baskets.They also plan to offer internet gardening to everyone in an inner city area, by franchising out to small farmers.The website iswww.myveggiepatch.com
Chancellor Gordon Brown has announced a £10m initiative intended to link the UK's poorest communities to the internet.Addressing an internet summit in London, Mr Brown said tens of thousands of families would receive free computers and cheap internet access in a bid to bridge what he called the "growing digital divide" between rich and poor.While half of the wealthiest 10% of households have internet access, just one in 20 of the poorest can get on to the web.The money will be spent on 10 pilot projects under which free computers will be given to 35,000 households which do not already own one, along
with cut-price phone connections.Community webs - linking those involved in the projects to the rest of the internet - will give training and advice on jobs, while access to local services and IT training centres will be provided as part of the public-private venture.
 
"This will help overcome the barriers people may face in access to employment, education and local services and it will give many the opportunity for the first time to use the internet," Mr Brown said.Liverpool's Kensington Estate, - among the most deprived 1% of areas in Britain with unemployment three times the national average - will be the first community to be "wired up". Firms ICL and Gardener Systems will work with local organisations to put 2,000 free computers in homes on the estate and ensure residents can use them.Nine other pilot areas which will take part in the project will be named in the coming months.The scheme will help the government meet Prime Minister Tony Blair's pledge to ensure everyone has internet access by 2005.
Boxman, one of Europe's three largest online retailers of CDs, has ceased trade and is seeking to enter voluntary liquidation.The company suspended its website two days ago, and is now requesting approval to liquidate from investors and creditors.It becomes the highest-profile dot.com casualty since boo.com collapsed in May.The omens have been growing for Boxman. In April, it was forced to cancel a £300m float. And last month it asked existing shareholders to approve the issue of new stock at just 10p a share. This latest round of financing has failed."If a massively discounted share sale is the only way Europe's leading online music seller can get financing," asked the Industry Standard at the time, "what hope is there for everyone else?"But all may not be lost. According to the Financial Times, talks are said to be still in progress with at least one potential buyer.
The European Commission has today approved the merger between internet company AOL and Time Warner, on condition that the companies will not compete unfairly with media and entertainment rivals.In a statement, the commission said AOL is to sever its structural links with German media giant Bertelsmann.Sources said the EU antitrust authorities only formally endorsed the merger after the companies agreed to several concessions, including ending ties with Bertelsmann, Europe's biggest media company.That move will prevent AOL "from having access to Europe's leading source of music publishing rights, thereby eliminating the risk of dominance in the emerging markets for on-line delivery of music over the internet and software-based music players," it said.The companies also have provided guarantees that they will not unfairly discriminate against other companies that provide internet content or within the music industry.With the guarantees, the commission voted to approve the deal.  EU authorities made quick progress on the issue after Time Warner last week dropped a separate joint venture plan with EMI Group of Britain, which would have created a major music company. European regulators had strongly opposed that deal.
The world's biggest corporate merger - the tie-up between internet companyAmerica Onlineand media groupTime Warner- is today expected to be approved by the European commission after months of wrangling.Mario Monti, the competition comissioner, is expected to say the &#163;87bn deal can go ahead after extracting concessions designed to ensure that the new company's rivals will not be unfairly disadvantaged.Last week's collapse of the related &#163;14bn tie-up between EMI Music and Warner Music in the face of stiff regulatory opposition from Brussels removed the commission's fears that AOL-Time Warner will be able to monopolise the market for entertainment delivery over the net.The deal still faces regulatory hurdles in the US. The federal trade commission has said it may scupper the merger unless it is assured that Time Warner will allow rivals to lease some of its cable lines which run into people's homes. That the companies have been willing to compromise with European regulators suggests that they will also be ready to allay Washington's concerns.To win Mr Monti's blessing, AOL, already the world's largest internet company, has reportedly agreed to sever links with Bertelsmann, the German media groupwhich owns 50% of AOL Europe.Such a concession would effectively prevent any potential for collusion between Warner Music and Bertlesmann's BMG, one of the world's top five record labels.A similar restructuring of AOL's French unit, which it runs with Vivendi, is on the cards and AOL has reportedly agreed not to force content providers in the US to sign exclusive carriage deals with AOL Europe.Time Warner, for its part, has said it will not discriminate against non-AOL internet service providers who want to distribute its music online for a period of five years.The commission's decision to clear the deal will go some way to defuse American suspicions that European regulators are deliberately seeking to hold up internet-related mergers to give their own companies time to catch up.Such a charge was levelled at Brussels when it decided to block the telecoms tie-up between MCI/Worldcom and Sprint earlier this year, stating that it feared the merged entity would dominate the internet's backbone. That ruling is now under appeal.The EC is expected to clear a similar deal on Friday - Vivendi's &#163;20bn takeover of Canada's Seagram which owns Universal Music and pay-TV station Canal-Plus.This deal raised similar concerns, but Vivendi has now made a series of significant concessions and the acquisition looks likely to be given a green light.
Coinciding with breast cancer awareness month, the UK Breast Cancer Coalition (www.ukbcc.org.uk) has gone online to extend its campaigning work. Aimed at empowering patients to lobby government and health professionals for improved access to treatment, the project invites people to log on to a campaigns website where they can email a ready-prepared letter to their local MP or health authority, find out about local campaigns or give feedback on consultation documents.&#149; Over the hill and out of touch? Grandma's Guide to the Internet (published by Willow Island) could be for you. Designed for silver surfers who still think of the net "as something you wear at night to keep your perm in place", this not-at-all patronising guide is full of gems to get older women gripped. One section on browsing suggests typing in "knitting" as a typical topic. Real pearls of wisdom.&#149; The wonders of Wap and other telecoms developments are the subject of the next meeting of HighTech Women, a mentoring group for women in technology-related jobs. Taking place in London on November 1, the evening event will examine the changing face of the telecoms industry, from mobile internet access to broadband technology. Founded by Lucy Marcus, recently named by Business Age magazine as one of the top 10 women leading new media developments in the UK, the group aims to support hi-tech women with networking and partnering. Details:www.hightech-women.com.
Online Classics, the performing arts internet business, lost a fifth of its market value yesterday after announcing a heavily discounted &#163;7.4m share placing.Saying that new shares would be placed at 60p each sent the price of existing shares tumbling 17p to end the day at 67p.Chief executive Christopher Hunt said the price had been set to ensure the placing's success. "We knew our share price would take a hit, but we wanted certainty. We are confident that the price will climb back in the near future."The company, which is buying Mr Hunt's Iambic Produc tions for &#163;5m in cash and shares, expects to announce further acquisitions and deals with other broadcasters soon.Mr Hunt said the Aim-listed company would be looking for a full listing in "the longer term". He reported full year pre-tax losses of &#163;986,294, against &#163;14,738 profits the previous year.The takeover of Iambic would take the company back into profitability and positive cashflow.Online Classics provides performing arts content over the net. Iambic, a TV production company, will allow it to deliver content to other media.
Eidos shareholders' worst fears were realised yesterday when the beleaguered computer games company confirmed that its long-running takeover talks had collapsed.Infogrames of France had indicated in June that it had been prepared to make an offer for the firm best-known for its Lara Croft Tomb Raider franchise after successive profit warnings that had shattered the share price of the British firm.Almost four months later, the directors of Eidos said it had found the level of the all-share offer unacceptable and that many of the leading City investors with shares in the company were not permitted   to swap them for shares in overseas companies.Eidos shares slumped 13% to 255p, their lowest level since March 1999.Analysts believe that the state of the computer games market is so dire that Infogrames, Europe's largest computer games company, is under no pressure to strike a deal now but will probably return to the negotiating table in the first half of next year."The French don't need Eidos at the moment, they can just let the shares slip down further and then pick the company up at a bargain price," one analyst said.Confirmation that the talks have ended came three days after Jeremy Lewis, Eidos's chief financial officer and one   of its leading dealmakers, quit the firm to "pursue other interests". Yesterday's announcement compounds a miserable year on the market for Eidos. In 1999 its shares were some of the best-performing on the market, trading at a peak of around &#163;12 that valued Eidos at more than &#163;1bn. Based on last night's close, Eidos is now valued at &#163;280m.Mr McGarvey insisted that Eidos would be able to trade out of its trough thanks to a strong list of forthcoming releases and anticipation of the release of Sony's PlayStation 2 console."We never put this company up for sale, we were merely reacting to a bid from a third party", he said. "We will return   to our strategy of managing the company's growth and our employees are committed to that."Eidos is now expected to launch a charm offensive on the City in an effort to persuade it that the company can survive as an independent entity.It has just released a game based on the TV show "Who wants to be a millionaire?" and in the next few months has products linked to the films Chicken Run and 102 Dalmations.The collapse of talks will be a blow to both Eidos directors and shareholders. Chief executive Charles Cornwall is thought to have been looking for an exit from the firm to concentrate on his burgeoning media and internet interests in the US. He is expected to take a more back seat role as Mr McGarvey continues to run   the company on a day-to-day basis. Institutional investors have made no secret of the fact that they would like the company to be sold.US investment bank Morgan Stanley was brought in to kick-start the sale process but despite its efforts has been unable to find a bidder brave enough to buy the Wimbledon company.Electronic Arts, Havas Entertainment, Microsoft and News Corporation were all rumoured as possible buyers for Eidos but declined to bid.Analysts say that Eidos shares should recover after the introduction of PlayStation 2 and other new consoles. They say that the content Eidos owns is in demand from a growing and wealthy market.
&#149; Grand opening Halifax building society's phone and internet bank, Intelligent Finance , said it has opened 8,500 customer accounts in the first 10 days of trading.&#149; Green light The European Commission said that it had approved plans by Bayer , Deutsche Telekom and Infraserv Hoechst to set up a business-to-business joint venture called Chemplorer.&#149; Hands off French internet service provider and web portal Free confirmed yesterday that it had been approached by Italian ISP Tiscali , among other potential suitors, but said at this stage it wanted to stay independent.
Europe could overtake the US as the world's most important online marketplace as it is regarded as a largely untapped audience by American firms, according to net retailer Amazon.com's founder, Jeff Bezos."The rate of growth for Amazon in Europe is dramatic, much more dramatic than it has been historically in the U.S ... people here believe e-commerce is not taking off, but that's not the maths that I see," he told an industry conference in Stockholm.Amazon intends to roll out more local language websites following the recent launch of its French site,www.amazon.fr."Long term we would like to have a local presence in every country, but that's going to take a long time," he said.Mr Bezos defended his company's aggressive push into new markets as shares in his company continued to be hit by doubts that it would ever make money. He said that Amazon, which started life five years ago as a bookseller, intended to offer an increasingly wide range of products around the world.Amazon's latest deal was last week's online photo service, launched in conjunction with Ofoto, a digital camera company. The deal prompted a further wave of criticism on Wall Street, where sentiment has become negative regarding the Amazon strategy of providing a "one stop" net shop.Critics believe its strategy will lead to continuing losses. While the group's US books,   music and video division made an operating profit in the second quarter, its total losses rose 40% to $115m, largely because of the cost of expansion.Shares in Amazon were among the hardest hit of a poorly performing Nasdaq composite index yesterday. They were down almost 10% to just over $29 at noon in New York - sharply lower than an all time high of $119, reached last December.Bill Curry, Amazon's director of media relations, said: "We plan to keep expanding both products, markets and services. We are committed to a long term vision of being the place people can find everything they want to buy online."This view found some support in the investment community yesterday.Tim Albright, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, the American investment bank, said that Amazon's strategy would benefit over time because it is still the market leader. Things may be bad for the leading e-commerce companies, he said, but they were even worse for their smaller rivals, who are facing closure. "If people want to buy something online there are fewer and fewer places to go now."Mr Bezos said yesterday that Christmas would prove some of the doubters wrong."I think it's going to be a web Christmas," he told Reuters news agency.Wall Street will expect to hear further details of the company's bid for profitability when it announces its quarterly results, later this month.
The founders of Boo.com have agreed to write a warts-and-all book detailing the collapse of Britain's highest profile internet start-up.Ernst Malmsten and Kajsa Leander, the two 30-year-old Swedes who set up the online clothes retailer, are being paid a fee of &#163;50,000-&#163;80,000 to provide the inside story on how the company burned &#163;80m in little more than a year.The book is being co-written by a Wall Street Journal journalist and is being pitched as a book about popular culture as much as a standard business book.The authors have been holding an auction among London publishers. It is thought that Random House, the Bertelsmann- owned publisher, has won.An executive at a rival firm that has submitted a bid said: "Boo.com was such a turning point in the internet business that we were very keen to sign them up. It's not just an ordinary book about business."Mr Malmsten and Ms Leander felt heavily let down by several of the blue-chip investors who poured money into the company; a fresh wave of revelations could prove an embarrassment. Bernard Arnault's LVMH and US investment bank JP Morgan came in for particularly heavy criticism when Boo.com called in liquidators in May.The founders themselves were criticised for their failure to install proper financial controls and the champagne lifestyle many at the company enjoyed.
Miles Saltiel is a director of WestLB Panmure, WestDeutsche Landesbank's investment banking arm. He is co-head of European technology research and responsible for the group's equity strategy and internet coverage.As an undergraduate in Oxford, Mr Saltiel read politics, philosophy and economics before writing a Master's dissertation on Japanese business and government at Sussex university. He has worked in technology since 1979 when he joined GEC-Marconi.Since 1986, he has worked in investment banking, joining the WestLB Group in 1996 to become head of equity research at West Merchant Bank. He took up his current role in 1998.
Don't get me wrong, I loathe being on the bandwagon, and cherish the contrary opinion as much as any Englishman. So had I been asked "Is there anything new in the new economy?" nine months ago, when the New Economy was being tipped to banish the Old Economy from this earth, I would have taken the opposite view from the one I am about to put forward. But that was then. Today, with stock-market valuations crashing, and the New Economy seemingly in flight, it is more important to make the opposite case. Here it is.A new economy is emerging that will fundamentally change the nature and structure of global business. It is based on a series of innovations built one on top of the other over the past decade or so, and now reaching a tipping point - a point of inflection beyond which change accelerates irreversibly to a new order.Over the past decade, information technology has been increasingly used to allow customers and suppliers to work together to create more timely delivery of more custom-tailored offerings. The business processes have not changed, but while IT was previously largely confined to enhancing processes within a single corporation, it is now also being used to enhance inter-company processes. This effort began with client server systems, but was impeded by a host of technical difficulties. However, widespread use of the internet as an inter-company platform has effectively eliminated the bulk of these problems. We have already seen this in the hi-tech sector, telecommunications and financial services - the bellwethers of the new economies.The most important difference in these new economies is that they favour virtual integration over vertical integration. That is, they favour assembling a customer offering from best-of-breed components integrated across companies, as opposed to the same offering delivered as an end-to-end solution from one company. This preference is not universal, but in sectors of the economy where massive changes are under way, the cost of a single company keeping up with all the technologies to supply all the components has become prohibitive, in terms of cost and time to market. Moreover, because of the advances in inter-company IT systems, it is feasible to pull together multiple vendors into a single, coordinated supply chain that delivers a complex   product on time and within specifications. Under those conditions, the added value of best-of-breed component elements overshadows the integration value of a single provider.Wherever virtual integration can supplant vertical integration, it will win the accolades of the capital markets. Investors want their money to go into activities that increase the company's differentiation, its competitive advantage, its  raison d' tre for charging a premium for its offerings. That's what creates great returns and raises share price. To the degree that these offerings are diluted with components that are not core to the company, investors see their money going into something that will not create privileged returns and thus not impact on share price. So the best-of-breed providers leveraging the new IT get higher market valuations, giving them a lower cost of capital, as well as turning their shares into an acquisition currency. To be sure, the high-flying internet shares have shown that this idea can be abused, but companies such as Dell, Cisco, Microsoft and Intel - all of which supply components, not end-to-end solutions - have shown that the best-of-breed position can be very powerful.The rewards the capital markets have lavished on such companies in the hi-tech sector has given rise to an industry structure made up of networks of inter-operating companies. Ideally, each company in the network contributes that element of the end solution that is core to its mission and talents and leaves everything non-core to some other company, for whom that same element is core. In this way, every company is earning the maximum returns for its shareholders by focusing its scarce resources on the activities that generate the most competitive advantage for it.Finally, this networked economy has made itself even more dependent on IT systems to coordinate with customers and suppliers to create more timely delivery of more tailored offerings - so we are back where we started, initiating another cycle through this loop, recruiting more companies, expanding into adjacent sectors, reinforcing existing advantages, and creating new ones.This cycle is well under way in certain sectors of the US economy, with strong prospects for going global and for gaining expansion into other sectors. Rapid widespread adoption of the internet will accelerate these changes. This will undermine the traditional, vertically integrated Fortune 500 corporation, and give rise to more granular, networked economic entities. We are leaving behind a world dominated by Tyrannosaurus Rex for a new one ruled by velociraptors. The flesh-eaters will still create the havoc, but they will come in a new package.
Continental Europe and the US may have been enjoying a flourishing net radio industry for nearly two years, with big corporate sites such as Spinner, Launch.com and Imagine Radio attracting massive audiences, but here in the UK - where licences have been almost impossible to obtain - the scene has been barren.But things are changing and a plucky little pirate station called Interface Radio, which went on the net to escape the DTI, is leading the way by attracting hundreds of thousands of hits each month from its small studio in London's east end.The success of Interface shows that there is a potentially huge audience for net radio in the UK. By identifying an audience that is not well served by terrestrial radio - namely underground dance music mixed by DJs - Interface has shown that there is an appetite for niche music channels outside the narrow confines of UK commercial radio. Interface has no sponsors, nor does it take ads on its site. It makes money by charging the DJs who provide the music £10 per hour to play (it can stream more than one DJ at a time) and webcasting events for big clubs such as Gatecrasher.The reason why Interface's success has not been replicated by terrestrial radio stations so far is that obtaining a licence to broadcast music on the internet in the UK has proved nearly impossible. Although existing terrestrial radio stations have always been able to "simulcast" (stream the same content that is available on air) their output on the web, they have not been allowed to change the programming to make it web specific. And that, say the stations, is the fault of the UK record companies.In order to be allowed to broadcast music on the radio in the UK, a company used to have to obtain three separate licences. It had to sign with the publishers through an organisation called the Performing Rights Society; obtain a licence from the Mechanical Copyright Protection Society to allow it to store music, and, finally, it had to find a way to pay the record companies - usually through a company called Public Performance Limited. Effectively this has made commercial transmission an unappealing proposition, and stations in the US and continental Europe which have no such difficulty have been able to capitalise because most of them are available over here.But all that is about to change because the record companies have relaxed their regulations - and this has allowed Virgin Radio to improve on its existing online operation, and it could be the first of many. So far the site has been operating on a simulcast basis, but now the plan is to package it with different ads. Scottish Media Group, owners of Virgin Radio, say that eventually   this will lead to a series of genre channels.John Ousbey is head of Ginger Online, the new media arm of the Scottish Media Group. He says: "People who are listening to streaming media are twice as likely to buy online. They're more likely to click on banner ads, they've been online longer and they have better connections. They are basically a very net-literate audience and that opens up channels for us. Basically we can give advertisers a route into these very valuable customers."But it is not just new media upstarts who have designs on converting your PC into a radio. Bruno Brookes, onetime presenter of Radio 1's Top 40 show, recently set up StormLive.com - a net radio station hoping to tap into a market of 40-something listeners. Storm announced has just announced a deal with Sky Digital to broadcast its radio show via interactive TV, and Brookes says that the company plans to move into Wap "very soon". But for Brookes Storm is very much about taking traditional expertise from terrestrial radio and putting it online.  "The word radio has been hijacked by the internet," he says. "At the end of the day radio has to be a mix of music, information, competitions  and entertainment. It is not just 1,000 tunes back to back delivered by a computer server. That can be done in a back bedroom if necessary."  Brookes thinks that net radio is "no different from terrestrial radio. All we are doing is finding an audience on the internet to listen to a radio station". But not everyone agrees. Keith Pringle MD of Ride the Tiger, a subsidiary of Chrysalis, thinks that the real point about net radio is that it is nothing like old radio.He says: "When television first came on air the BBC put on vaudeville shows. It took the BBC years to realise that it could define itself by producing things like sitcoms. The same is true of new media. Internet radio is different from old radio because it has the ability to speak to people individually and to be interactive."Ride the Tiger is due to launch on October 31. Pringle is making very bold claims about what he calls "personalisation". He says that their new site will operate on a one-to-one basis - user tell Ride the Tiger about the kind of music they like, and Ride the Tiger feeds back a personalised stream. However, Pringle is being very coy about how that will actually work - he will not even reveal the domain name yet. He likens the site to Launch.com - the US site which "remembers" what a listener has been hearing and then customises the audio stream appropriately.  This kind of customisation has huge potential benefits for advertisers. In telling a net radio station what your preferences are, the site can amass information about you, and pass it on to advertisers."We've been able to associate music tastes and lifestyle interests together," says Pringle. "This gives you a very good understanding of your customer which means we are worth so much more to advertisers."But the UK companies will have to move fast the internet knows few geographical boundaries, and if they cannot cater for diversifying music tastes, users will simply seek sites overseas. New US companies like Echo.com are already building a user base in the UK and US giant Viacom is about to launch a SonicNet site in the UK and Germany next spring.  But the UK might already have lost out. Jason Franklin-Stokes is co-founder of BeSonic, a music delivery company operating in English out of Germany. The site has already built up a sizable audience in the UK. And Franklin-Stokes gives the difficulty of acquiring a licence here as the reason for locating to Germany. "If the UK cannot sort out its licensing problems, net radio will simply migrate to other countries in the EU."Where all of this will leave terrestrial radio no one is sure. But one thing you can take for granted. With commercial radio in the country currently pumping out a variety of channels all playing the same Britney Spears record, the migration to net radio will not come soon enough for many listeners.Useful linksInterface SpinnerVirgin InteractiveImagine RadioStorm RadioBeSonicEchoSonic Box
Boot up. Hit "enter". Spill it. Anything from anywhere out to everyone. That's the way Matt Drudge does it. And it's the way he writes about it, too. After seven years of publishing his sometimes sensational, occasionally world-beating news reports and gimmicky gossip on the internet, Drudge the cyberscourge has taken to the long form and published a book, The Drudge Manifesto. Or, as he puts it, "infamous internet news maverick who blew the lid off the Monica Lewinsky scandal gives a middle finger to the establishment".A mixture of memoir, jabs at the media and a bit of name-dropping - he claims Dustin Hoffman asked him: "Who's gonna play you in the movie?" - the book reflects his unflagging enthusiasm for news in all its forms as well as a somewhat naive wonder that he has attained such fame."This wasn't supposed to happen," he says, taking time between the non-stop ringing of his telephone to talk about himself and his book. "I was never supposed to be this successful. I just got lucky. I had a window of opportunity and I flung my entire body through it. All my dreams have been fulfilled and now I'm waiting for the nightmares."As we talk, Drudge is monitoring and updating the stories of the day. "It's fantastic - Albright chased after Arafat to bring him back and she was talking on a cell phone. Can you believe it?" He hoots with laughter, referring to a Reuters story that Madeleine Albright ran after Yasser Arafat when he stormed out of the Middle East peace talks in Paris. "And now Rupert Murdoch's interested in buying the big Russian media group - hilarious." Murdoch comes in for strong criticism from Drudge but apparently bears no ill-will as his Fox Network hurriedly altered its schedule to give Drudge an hour of Saturday night prime time to talk about the book.Working from his bedroom in Miami and talking to his cat by his side - "I'm not interested in anyone else's opinions but the cat's," he says - Drudge continually monitors the world's events, updating his website through the day and night: "There's a zone between 2am and 10am when nothing much happens, but I haven't figured out which time zone to apply it to. My theory is to always be in the middle of the action. News should be fun and exciting."A self-confessed leech, he utilises the resources of the world's wire services and news sources. His Drudge Report offers dozens of links to newspapers, television sites and columnists and he frequently puts his own snappy headlines on their stories. He also has a network of contacts who feed him tips, stories and suggestions. He was the first to name the Republican vice-presidential candidate in 1996 when a source close to Robert Dole called from a houseboat anchored off San Diego. He broke the news that Jerry Seinfeld would ask for $1m a week when a source from the show showed him a tape of Seinfeld ranting in the office.Other scoops include predicting that Buchanan would win New Hampshire; Clinton taking the Paula Jones fight to the supreme court; and breaking box office figures even before the studios had them. On one occasion, Arianna Huffington called him with a tip while he was in the shower.Not everything is sunny in the Drudge garden. He has enemies, and some say the wagons are circling around him. But if he is feeling embattled he does not show it. He laughs off the $30m libel suit by Clinton aide Sid Blumenthal, a lawsuit which, he says rather proudly, was approved by the president ("not even Nixon sued journalists"), making him the first journalist ever sued by the White House. Drudge published and then retracted an erroneous item that suggested Blumenthal abused his wife. "The $30m he is asking for is the same amount that OJ Simpson was ordered to pay for two murders, so I'm not worried about it at all."Something of a throwback - as well as writing in the style of Walter Winchell, Drudge wears a Winchell-style fedora - he says he makes friends easily but concedes that keeping them is difficult. As a child his best friends were the talkshows on the radio at night and a police scanner. "And we remain pals to this day," he says.It is appropriate that he chose Julia Phillips, a fellow maverick - some would say pariah - to help him   put it all down in suitably staccato style. Phillips is the Oscar-winning producer of The Sting and Close Encounters of the Third Kind, whose tell-all tales of booze, cocaine and sex in Tinseltown made her confessional book You'll Never Eat Lunch in This Town Again a best seller."Julia is a perfect fit," he enthuses. "She is lefty and I am righty. We met through a mutual friend and we spent five hours together talking and finishing each other's sentences. When it came time to write the book, I got in touch with her. We spent three months in her Hollywood pad and we wrote every single passage together."Julia Phillips likes to describe them as the Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers of writing: "I'm Fred Astaire and he's Ginger Rogers," she laughs throatily. She helped Drudge write his well-received speech to the National Press Club in Washington and when he asked her to work with him on The Drudge Manifesto, she did not hesitate.Although Drudge takes a scattershot approach to his many targets in the book - which is dedicated to Linda Tripp - he is particularly harsh on media companies and the people who work for them. He was able to break the Monica Lewinsky story because Newsweek sat on its reporter Michael Isikoff's article on the scandal while Drudge dug the information out of literary agent Lucianne Goldberg. "I call it News-Weak," he says.He had, he admits, a few qualms about going public with what he had discovered, asking himself: "Do I really want to do this? Does this woman know what she's talking about? If it's wrong, I'm finished. De-listed from the Entertainment Section on Yahoo! Banished forever to HoaxKooks and ConspiracyLoserListings." He went ahead with his report, the story was picked up around the world and for a few minutes Drudge was, he says, "the Earl of URL."Drudge's fascination with news dates back to his childhood days delivering the Washington Star in his Maryland neighbourhood. He would stop to read the entire paper on a park bench before he started his round, and would play editor, rewriting headlines and changing the leads to stories. He moved to Hollywood and had his first taste of the entertainment business when he landed a job at the gift shop at CBS studios, where he learned that the first lesson in good reporting is good snooping.By sifting through the wastepaper baskets in copying rooms, eavesdropping and intercepting memos, Drudge found himself on the inside information track. Then his father bought him a computer and his future was sealed: "I found a way to post items on internet newsgroups, things I had gleaned directly from the soundstages, the halls and the stalls. I collected a few email addresses. I set up a list. One reader turned into five. Five into 100. And faster than you can say 'I never had sexual relations with that woman', it was 1,000, 5,000, 100,000. The ensu ing website practically launched itself." This year he is expecting 350m visits to the site.He is confident that the internet, which he says, is "liberating the great unwashed", will eventually triumph over all other media: "In the same way that radio superseded movies and television superseded them both, in the same way that telegraph and telephone superseded town criers and extra-extra boys, in the same way the Concorde replaced the plane and the bullet train replaced the Orient Express and the Lexus superseded the horse and buggy,   so too the internet supersedes every mode of communication ever invented."Matt Drudge owes his fame to the internet and also to President Clinton's indiscretions. He will miss Clinton, whom he lambasts as the "Dean of Degenerates", but has high hopes of both Vice-President Gore and Governor George Bush: "I am predicting a low voter turnout with the worst man winning," he says. "I think I'll do well with either of them because I feel neither of them are ready for prime time. It's going to be a fun adventure."
On the tenth anniversary of the creation of the internet, the British scientist who invented the world wide web has called for the abolition of censorship online. As parents' groups and politicians press for new ways to police websites, Tim Berners-Lee rejects censorship as 'horrific'.In an exclusive interview with  The Observer , Berners-Lee dismisses the recent outcry over paedophiles targeting youngsters in web chatrooms, child pornography and fraud, and rejects calls for a 'net regulator'. 'I know there are some very strong feelings but you can not banish technology or regulate content.'Regulation is censorship - one grown-up telling another what they can and cannot do or see. For me, the idea is horrific. Universality is the key. You must be able to represent anything on the web.'Illegal material - child pornography, 'video nasties' - should remain illegal, but he insists 'the world is a diverse place and we should trust people, not try to police them... There are many cultures and they are continually changing. What somebody in Tennessee might think of as reasonable when it comes to nudity is very different from what someone in Finland might think.'Two neighbours next door to each-other might have very   different ideas. So any attempt to make a global centralised standard is going to be unbelievably contentious. You can't do that.'Instead of regulation it is up to parents to 'catch up' with the new e- generation and teach youngsters how to use the web safely. Children are at risk because they are 'technologically ahead of most grown-ups, who have to ask the younger generation how to turn the thing on and get it working. Adults are slower than children. They need to catch up so they can teach their children what to see and what to avoid.'Ten years ago Berners-Lee wrote the electronic code that enables computers across the world to 'talk' to each-other down a telephone line. The internet was born and has grown from a single website to more than 800,000,000, with e-commerce, chatrooms and email transforming the way we work, shop, do business, socialise and relax.The Manchester-born scientist has been hailed as 'the man who invented the future'. A decade on he says we are still 'just scratching the surface' of what the internet can do. 'The web is far from done. Just imagine you were back in the Middle Ages and somebody asked "Given the full impact that paper is going to have, where will we be?" That's where we are.'He describes the future as 'the semantic web... a new, more powerful interactive network that will really enable e-commerce and industry to hum. But I don't want to say more or everyone will jump on the bandwagon and that will wreck it.'He says his creation is 'progressing remarkably well... it's neat. It is an achievement of a group of people who had a twinkle in their eye about a possible future. We should celebrate the fact that we can change the world by creating a new social tool. It gives a great feeling of hope that we can do it again.'john.arlidge@observer.co.uk
'The thing that makes the new British economy go is owner-occupied housing. We have found a way not only to get rich from our own houses, but perhaps even to live off them entirely in the future.' - The Guardian, 26 July 1985Fifteen years on and that theory lies in tatters. And in 2015, an enterprising researcher will no doubt search through newspaper archives to find out what fanciful notions we attached to the term 'new economy' embodied in the year of the millennium.And confusion is likely to overcome the mind of the archive searcher because the term defies any definition. It is used interchangeably to describe anything from increasing use of computing and internet technology to the growth of the information, knowledge and networked society, and to the emergence of a sustained growth yet low inflation economy in the US. Indeed some multinationals, mindful of the contamination of the 'globalisation' brand, now refer exclusively to the new economy instead. After all, certain groups may profess to be anti-globalisation, but how could anyone possibly be 'anti-new economy'?Amid this semantic muddle, a very real debate is emerging among economists and others about the cause, extent and novelty of what is termed the 'new economy', and whether talk of a British new economy is premature. Indeed, before the party gets off the ground outside the US, Business Week, the publication that lays claim to coining the concept, murmurs that it may soon be over.The first point is to separate cause from effect. Is it the successful economy that is new, or is it the industries that underpin it?The new economy has been described in terms of inputs - the new industries producing intangible, 'weightless' products such as IT, biotech, software and telecommunications; the application of new technology to improve productivity across the economy; and globalisation, the simple, costless diffusion of these techniques around the world. But it has also been described in terms of the perceived result of these trends - the creation in the US of an economy handling sustained growth in output and productivity without the spectre of inflation.
In turn, this effect has been explained by phenomena other than technology, basically cheaper inputs. It's all down to the labour market, says Jack Triplett, of the Brookings Institution, while according to Andrew Oswald, of Warwick University, the new economy boom was a story of unfeasibly cheap energy, and the recent end of that trend spells doom.Supporters of such theses claim the role of technology in the ongoing US boom is overstated. The return on investment in this area is almost entirely contained within the IT producing sector, they say, and after accounting for cyclical factors, there is virtually no change in productivity in the other 88 per cent of the US economy. Put another way, the productivity growth in the US is fantastic, but given the sums of money invested, this should not be surprising.'It's mainly to do with the production of computers rather than their use,' says Ben Broadbent, an economist who has analysed the new economy extensively for Goldman Sachs. 'Hitherto, it's all been in electronics hardware production, where productivity has grown by up to 30 per cent a year. Subsequently views as to the future growth caused by B2B &#91;business to business e-commerce&#93;, the internet and weightless products are mostly conjectural, but we're optimistic.' Goldman Sachs estimates that B2B will add 5 per cent to UK gross domestic product over the next decade.Economic growth can be considered a succession of 'new economies'. Capital investment is reallocated to dynamic sectors and sub-sectors at the expense of older sectors and they in turn produce fast growth. This economic darwinism is what causes trend growth - it just so happens that at the moment the favoured sectors are information, communications and technology (ICT). A genuinely new economy would reflect a broader shift, where use rather than production in new industries causes a stepchange in productivity across all sectors.Externalities, those returns on investments that can't be measured in simple economic terms, are crucial in this context. The key example is network externalities. Their intangible effect on an economy is captured by Metcalfe's Law. This says that the value of a network is proportional to the square of the number of users, because of the number of potential connections between network users. Such arguments have emboldened investors in these areas.Others argue that the effect of instant internet networks compared with those that require a contacts book and a telephone is negligible. For example, that B2B is nothing more than a small technical advancement on existing supply chain management systems. Such analysis is the realm of conjecture and counter-conjecture.'A lot of the benefits of the ICT revolution are not going to be measured by the conventional economic statistics,' says Garry Young of the National Institute for Economic and Social Research - for example, the ability to receive the latest football results on a mobile phone.
Despite this productivity, figures will prove the acid test of any new economic revolution. But these are notoriously flaky and, since the shift from manufacturing to services in the 1980s, productivity has been increasingly tricky to track. There is little to suggest an effect of the new economy in overall UK and European productivity figures. Until this year UK figures for labour productivity growth were actually falling.The irony is that if the sceptics are right, the new economy boom in the US is very much a tale of manufacturing, albeit of the hi-tech sort. There is a danger that in trying to mimic that boom by focusing on weightless intangibles we may throw the baby out with the bathwater.As for monetary policy, there are doves on the Monetary Policy Committee who believe we are on the cusp of a leap in productivity which increases the capacity of the economy to expand without raising inflation. 'Some say that it allows you to have lower interest rates because the economy does not reach its speed limits as quickly,' says Young.But there is a more general problem, says US economist Robert Shiller in the context of overvalued stock markets. If we overstate the returns to the new economy then there is a danger that at the macro level, society allocates too many resources to the dotcom dodos of the future, and not enough to other priorities. The £100 million spent funding Boo.com, was £100m lost investment in, for example, genomics or photonics, two areas in which the UK could lead the world. Even the new economy has an opportunity cost.faisal.islam@observer.co.uk
Over the next few weeks in parts of the more salubrious areas of London, an experiment will take place which could have a dramatic impact on the UK's high streets. Containers, each about the size of the average fridge, will be placed outside 100 homes. These 'Bearboxes' allow retailers to deliver goods to your home even if you are not in,  writes Jamie Doward .Powered by solar panels, Bearboxes use mobile phone technology to register deliveries and then message you when the order has been fulfilled. The deliverer types in a pin number to open the Bearbox, places the items inside, and then types in another number to relock it. The device, which is fixed to the wall of the house to prevent theft, records the size of each delivery so you know how full the container is.'This will allow people to download their shopping. People will use the high street stores to try things on but they don't need to visit the shops to order catfood on a regular basis,' said John Hale, a former manager with Vodafone, who says he got the idea after hearing his wife complain that she was never in to receive the large   amounts of books she ordered over the internet.Given that statistics show around 60 per cent of home deliveries end up at the local post office because the occupier is out, the makers of Bearbox believe they have solved a major problem facing consumers who order over the phone or the internet. Analysts at Forrester Research predict that by 2003 there will be two deliveries per household per week - thanks in part to the development of new delivery methods.If the trials take off, Bearbox will look to offer customers the chance to buy the containers or hire them. The company is in talks with several technology and white-goods partners with a view to developing the containers on a mass scale.Bearbox believes that businesses as well as consumers will be interested in the device - named after the cage used in US national parks to keep bears from raiding rubbish bins for food. 'Restaurants can have their early morning fish deliveries,' Hale said. Homeworkers who need to take delivery of large amounts of equipment or files will also want their companies to supply them with a Bearbox, he believes.
We are all, said Keynes, the slaves of some defunct philosopher. For philosopher, read economist. The thought came to mind one day last week when, in the course of a journey from my home near Cambridge to the railway station, I passed by the Marshall Library in the university's Faculty of Economics and Politics. The library takes its name from Alfred Marshall, the eminent Victorian who did a great deal to shape the emerging 'dismal science' and whose collection of books was the seed-crystal from which the present magnificent library was grown.As the crow flies, my journey measured just over six miles. But it took almost an hour to travel the distance in a car. It would have been quicker by camel. As it happens, I do not normally have to drive into Cambridge at rush hour, but tens of thousands of less fortunate folk do, and they endure interminable traffic jams and pump out unconscionable amounts of pollutants in the process.Cambridge is choking on   prosperity. It has the heaviest concentration of high-technology companies, venture capital and ancillary services of any town in Europe, perhaps of any town outside North America.Every shop in the centre has signs advertising vacancies. One cannot enter a supermarket without running into posters advertising for, nay, begging for, workers. Unemployment is, to all intents and purposes, zero.The Science Park, on the outskirts of the city, is so crammed with hi-tech companies that their employees queue for half-an-hour merely to exit on to the A14. Across the road the St John's Innovation Centre, a nursery for start-ups, is filled to the   rafters with new companies. The old Cambridge City football ground has been turned into a huge office complex. Ditto the old council offices on the top of Castle Hill. Ditto the old Chivers jam factory in Histon, and the suburban gardens at Mount Pleasant. A few miles out of town a new 'research park' has risen from a gravel pit, and its first units were let before the water had been drained from the site.What has all this to do with Marshall? Simple: Cambridge is an example of a phenomenon about which the old boy wrote extensively - the tendency of firms to cluster together. Marshall called it the theory of 'industrial districts'. Such districts enjoy the same economies of scale that only giant companies get. Specialised suppliers arrive. Skilled workers know where to come to ply their trade. And everyone involved benefits from the spillovers of specialised knowledge. As Marshall put it in his  Principles: 'The mysteries of the   trade become no mysteries, but are as it were in the air.'But the 'Cambridge phenomenon' - the name comes from a famous 1985 report by Segal Quince Wicksteed, a consultancy firm - is not just 'in the air'. In a new report, featured in  The Observer  last week, the firm estimates that Cambridge hi-tech firms generate exports of more than &#163;1.5 billion annually. Several are already billion-dollar companies. As the second-rank companies move into that league, the attractiveness of the cluster will increase, and with it the pressures that are choking the city to death.What can be done about it? Probably nothing. As we reported, the local authorities seem paralysed by the Cambridge phenomenon, like rabbits caught in the headlights. Marshall would probably counsel them to do nothing, on the grounds that the feedback loops in the system will solve the problem in time.Property is already so expensive in Cambridge that young academics and post- doctoral researchers, the lifeblood of a research university, cannot afford to live there. Will people continue to cluster in a place where rabbit hutches cost &#163;200,000 and nothing moves faster than a camel? We will see.John.Naughton@observer.co.uk
Shares in 365 Corporation, the firm best known for its irreverent football websites but that is determined to position itself as a "digital media and communications company", received a much needed kick yesterday, closing up 4p at 63.5p.Driving the rally was news of three telecoms acquisitions in cash and shares with a total value of &#163;4.62m and combined annual revenues of almost &#163;3m.The deals form part of an effort by 365 to consolidate telecoms hardware firms focused on small businesses in London and the south east. The plan is to buy up small hardware suppliers and use their customer bases to cross-sell 365's other services such as internet access.Dealers are warming to the strategy, particularly with a growing awareness that 365 appears seriously undervalued. Its market capitalisation is &#163;127m, following a slump in its shares from March's high of 300p.As telecoms firm trade at an average of 18 times last year's sales, the implied valuation of 365's business division alone is &#163;138m.Then there is the consumer division. At its full year results in June, 365 reported that its internet services had 2.1m users.Teamtalk, a rival in this arena, trades at around 18 times sales. On that basis 365's consumer division, which had sales of &#163;14.7m, should be valued at around &#163;275m on its own.Insiders say growth at both divisions since the year's end has been strong, and with &#163;40m in the bank there are no fundraising worries.Management appears to be increasingly frustrated by the share performance. Executives have already said they may spin off the business division to realise value if the price does not pick up.The content of 365, which ranges from music to sport to gardening, could also prove attractive to a more established media player seeking to boost its online presence. Buy for recovery.
What is it about beige? Why is the go-getting computer industry so married to this most cheerless of liveries?Granted, the Apple designers are offering us a collection of candy coloured iMacs, and the G3 looks splendidly reminiscent of a Bondi-blue jellyfish.Meanwhile, Nokia and others offer a chance to stand out ever so slightly from the herd with customisable press on covers for handsets. But what are we to do if plastic covers, or Macs or their operating system are not to your taste?The answer is: call in the decorators. An increasing number of artists and companies are now offering to customise stuff that has being crying out for ornament and a touch of individuality.One such company,Art-tek.co.uk, offers a service to transform just about anything, from computer mice to laptops, into a gleaming, lacquered objet d'art using the honed skills of Japanese lacquerware artists."We think hardware should be a visual feast, coolly tactile and reflect the owners personality just like desktop designs do," says lacquer artist Susumu Okawa. "So at Art-tek we enjoy turning the mundane into a highly personal work of art. Something emblematic."Art-tek's work is the logical extension of the success of the configure-it-yourself PC offers of Gateway and Dell and reflects the fact that many more PCs are becoming part of the furniture as PCs move into the home and should look just as good. The company takes com missions to decorate handsets and hardware in any way its clients desire, charging from &#163;90 for a simple lacquered mouse to hundreds more for a whole PC.It is no accident that Art-tek uses Japanese lacquer techniques. Much of the decorated technology available takes its cue from Japan. A combined love of decorative arts and technology is very much alive there and several companies exist to bring boring computer boxes to life.Akira Sudo's Custom Paint Computers in Tokyo specialises in decorating Macs and PDAs. (Seewww.jd-net.com/WM)  The hand held devices it treats are particularly attractive - echoing the Japanese tradition of the lacquered box. "We use a special paint used by Japanese auto-repair shop which makes it particularly tough and gives our work that shell-like metallic finish," says Sudo.For tarting up a Palm, for example, the company   charges &#163;95. A small price to pay, perhaps, for the ultimate in self expression.Rather more expensive, but perhaps more convertible if you happen to be a fashion victim, are the one-off mobile handset covers being auctioned by Nokia, who commissioned top international fashion designers to create phone covers in support of the Aids charity London Lighthouse. These unique Xpress covers will be auctioned through online auction house QXL.com from 13-27 October (register for this atwww.london-lighthouse.org.uk).The company that makes the Xpress covers for Nokia, X-art, is also in the market to produce designs for individuals or organisations looking for promotional gimmicks. X-art has even produced covers for football teams so that fans can co-ordinate themselves with logos and colours even down to their mobile phones.Some PC manufacturers will be glad to hear that beige, too, is an option.
In September 1994, Adam Driscoll gave an unsigned band from Manchester their first London gig. The band was called Oasis and would go on to earn a multi-million pound fortune for the artists and their record companies. Adam Driscoll made three quid.Such was the lot for music promoters in the days before the internet. Spot all the talented bands, and allow the record companies to make all the money.But Channelfly has an interesting proposition. What if it had filmed that famous Oasis gig and acquired the rights from an unsigned band hungry for recognition? What if it then put the film for sale on the internet and charged   Oasis's millions of fans two quid each to download the whole concert?Nearly eight years later and Driscoll is now chief executive ofChannelfly.com, a rapidly expanding internet and music group that employs 53 people. The company has enjoyed a successful summer, acquiring the Student Broadcast Network (a network of 49 college stations) and hosting a Channel 4 late night music show, the Barfly Sessions held at The Monarch, the venue where Oasis first played that fateful gig.By night, a visit to The Monarch in Camden is deceptive. To the naked eye it looks like a large pub, with lots of trendy exposed brick and a modest stage. But   remote-controlled cameras are hidden away in the ceiling and the pub also houses a 24 track sound desk, vision mixers and separate production room upstairs."The first thing we did," says Driscoll, "was install cameras into the venue. Not webcams, but proper TV cameras. There no point in building an archive of material if it ends up looking like someone recorded it at home."Driscoll began archiving the bands last summer. Nearly 200 different bands play at the venue each year, but the first band he chose to archive was the then unknown Coldplay. Needless to say, they went on to have a number one album.Channelfly went for its first round of funding in Novem ber last year when it floated on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM). It raised &#163;3.5m with an initial share price of 50p.The company returned to the AIM market in July this year and raised a further &#163;4m through an institutional   placing. Since then the share price has bounced up and down as vigorously as a pogo dancer, rising to 135p in March before falling back again. But Driscoll says they have enough money to wait for broadband to kick in.Last month, Channelfly   announced that New York-based CMJ Network has agreed to distribute Channelfly's content on itsCMJ.comwebsite.In return, Channelfly.com agreed to distribute CMJ's weekly top 20 chart in Britain and produce a weekly radio   programme based on CMJ content on SBN.Beyond that, Driscoll wants to sign bands for himself. And he thinks that a revolutionised record industry will be able to offer artists revolutionary contracts. "When we come to   sell our own music we will be doing it at a very low cost," says Driscoll."Because it will be going down the phone line you don't have the physical cost of manufacture or distribution, that all gets stripped out. So what we can say to the artists is, the old model of you getting 10% of sales after everything has been recouped, is finished - we can offer 20, 40 even 50% of the sale price online."But Driscoll also hints that the type of music sold over the internet might also change. Radiohead recently announced that they wanted to get out of the album cycle and release smaller records - but more frequently. And Driscoll thinks that if customers are able to buy music on a track-by-track basis, then what need for the old-fashioned album?"Artists won't be able to get   away with fillers on albums any more, says Driscoll. "And customers won't shell out &#163;15 for an album on which they just like three tracks. They will simply download the three tracks they like. And record contracts will have to be written that reflect that."That's all very fine, but as anyone who has been following the Napster phenomenon wants to know, just how do you secure it? Driscoll puts his faith in a system called Magex. In fact, Channelfly is the first company ever to use the system commercially.Magex is a way of encrypting digital files. It works on the principle that users will often want to browse a track before they buy. It allows three listens for free, before the file locks itself. Only when the customer pays can the track be listened to again. If the customer then shares the file   with a friend, again the same principles apply. Three free listens and then shut out or payment."Magex is an interesting system," say Driscoll, "because it gives all the benefits of free promotional music without losing any of the copyright."Even so, the strongest safe in the word can still be cracked. But Driscoll is confident that Channelfly will be able to continue to make money, even if the 28-bit encryption of Magex can be cracked.So the one-time promoter of Oasis (and Travis, Kula Shaker, the Sterophonics and Mercury Music Prize winner Badly Drawn Boy) bites back.  Now that ADSL is available and broadband is round the corner, his undoubtable talent-spotting skills might mean that he makes a little bit more money out of unsigned bands than he used to.
The next generation of mobile phones with continuous internet access is
    supposed to herald a new era of economic prosperity for Europe.But if the past few weeks are anything to go by, the cost of developing the
    phones may puncture the boom before it even gets underway. 
    Earlier this year the giant European telecom operators were the darlings of the
    stock market. They could do no wrong as they planned their strategies to
    capture as much market share as they could for 3G (third generation) mobile
    phone, an item that could become the biggest selling consumer product of all
    time.Then came the government's auction for radio spectrum. It forced some of the
    world's biggest telecom companies to drop their guards and pay a ludicrous
    £22.5bn for the five UK licences on offer, far more than the wildest optimist
    had predicted.Most of their reasoning was negative. The companies could not afford to bid so
    much but they also couldn't afford not to. They were terrified that if they were
    seen to be out of the race for the 3G market, their shares would collapse on
    the stock markets.Meanwhile, in Finland they virtually gave away the licences away after a "beauty
    contest" in order to accelerate the development of cheap access to all. But
    that is another story. 
    As it turns out, the phone companies' stock market ratings have collapsed
    anyway. Shares of the big performers have fallen by a fifth while the value of
    Deutsche Telekom has more than halved (to £72bn).British Telecom's market capitalisation was low to start with because of its
    slowness to work out a strategy that investors thought credible. Even so, its
    shares have fallen by more than 50% since their peak this year leaving the once
    almighty UK corporation vulnerable to a takeover bid. It is now valued at only
    £46.6bn compared with Vodafone at £155bn.The extra debts that the companies acquired to finance the purchase of
    spectrum led to a downgrading of most of their credit ratings from "double A"
    to "single A" which means it will cost them more to borrow.Now the fall-out from the spectrum sale has moved to the banks themselves.
    Bank regulators in Europe are looking into loans totaling £117bn made to
    European telcos. They are worried about banks becoming overdependent on one
    sector. In Europe this year more than 40% of syndicated loans were accounted
    for by telecom companies.This is reviving memories of previous occasions when banks became
    overexposed to a single vulnerable sector - property in the early 1990s and
    hedge funds in the late nineties (and sovereign debt much earlier). Telecom
    companies are now being forced into fire sales of other assets to bring their
    debt ratios down to levels acceptable to the banks.M eanwhile, there are renewed doubts about the longevity of the hi-tech boom in
    the US. The current issue of Business Week - hitherto a leading advocate of the
    New Economy - carries an edited version of a new book (The Coming Internet
    Depression) by one of its senior writers. It warns that the process that led to
    the prolonged hi-tech boom in the US could be thrown into reverse if the stock
    market collapses and the boom in venture capital (which depends on a booming
    stock market) goes into reverse thrust.But, even if the internet bubble does not burst, the problems for telecoms in
    the UK betting their companies on 3G are formidable. 
    The huge amount paid upfront for spectrum has to be matched by an equivalent
    amount to develop the huge infrastructure needed to deliver the new
    technology, prompting worries that prices will be too high to create a mass
    market.Some economists say that the huge sums spent on 3G licences won't matter
    because they are "sunk costs" shared by all the operators and that as long as
    there is a competitive market prices need not be excessively high. 
    That isbarmy. Nothing is for nothing and the effects of overpayment can
    already be seen in the collapse of the telcos' market capitalisations - which is
    only the start of a chain reaction.Third generation companies, desperate to get a return on their investments,
    may cherry pick the areas they exploit or go for the more lucrative corporate
    markets first while cutting down on research and development in other areas. 
    Prospects haven't been helped by the poor reception that the over-hyped Wap
    (wireless application protocol) phones have received in this country.But make no mistake, the prospects for the next generation of phones that will
    always be connected to the internet are still awesome. It will eventually be the
    best selling product the world has ever known (with the need to buy an improved
    model every three or four years).Never before has there been an interactive consumer product that virtually
    everyone in the developed world will have with them all the time. And that small
    "always on" screen (which you are bound to look at when you start to use it) will
    quickly become the most expensive bit of real estate in the world for
    advertisers and marketers.It will always be difficult to turn mobiles into a major advertising medium
    because users would be put off by constant adverts in that small space - but
    not when you access it initially in standby mode. That screen is far too valuable
    to have words like Vodafone or Ericsson or Nokia stuck on it since it will be the
    place where advertisers can promote their wares knowing who you are, where
    you are and when you are.The unanswered question is who will ultimately own the space. It would be ironic
    - but perfectly possible, if the stock exchange valuations of the 3G telcos,
    burdened down by the huge cost of exploitation, led to takeover bids from
    outside predators.And no predators would be in a better position than those in countries like
    Finland where free licensing enabled the phones to come to a mass market very
    quickly thereby giving them the cash flow and the strong balance sheets needed
    to acquire overstretched rivals.Watch this space.
Surfing the web is supposedly a solitary occupation, so why not get a group together and take a tour? You can take your friends to different sites while chatting about the things you can see, even if your friends are scattered across the globe. The educational and commercial implications of this approach are immense. But better do it soon, because there's a monster devouring the internet, and communal surfing could soon be just another adjunct of ICQ ("I Seek You").Although it is still struggling to make an impression, the group surfing idea is far from new. It goes back at least as far as January 1995, whenMarjorie Schejterposted one of the most exciting messages to hit the WWW-talk mailing list.She was announcing a test version of Ubique's Virtual Places software, an "extension to the web", and the Sesame Navigator browser. "People who use Sesame will be able to meet each other at your web pages, interact in real-time using text chat and audio, and conduct guided tours of your site and of other Virtual Places sites," she wrote. And it sounded like an Open Sesame for the web.This wasn't a mass market program - Virtual Places was available only for expensive Unix workstations - but it was surely just a matter of   time before someone came along with something that ran on Windows PCs and Macs, and used a central server to synchronise surfers, instead of asking webmasters to run a "virtual reality" application.But while many companies have tried, none seems to have been much of a success. Gooey has come closest, but even that has struggled to reach critical mass. And that's the problem with all the systems that have started from scratch. You can visit half a dozen of your favourite websites with CrowdBurst, Odigo, TogetherWeb, TourBar or whatever, and sometimes not find anyone there at all.When you do find someone else at a website, either they turn out to be Brazilian (and   claim not to speak English) or an Israeli (and claim not to work for a software developer) or else your message requesting a chat times out and you don't make contact at all. Well, that's what happened to me: an evening trying different systems for this article netted just one brief chat.It isn't that group surfing programs are hard to use: most get you up and running within 10-15 minutes. Typically you go to the home website and download a browser plug-in that identifies you to the system. It's best to save the file to a common directory, such as C:\Dowloads on a PC, and run it from there, thinking carefully about the implications of the various questions you may be asked. As well as a   nickname and an email address, details may include your gender, age, marital status, languages spoken, job, hobbies and interests, and even your star sign. Most of these will be made available to other users who may look you up before deciding whether to accept or reject an offer to chat.Once installed, the plug-in will add a side-bar or an extension to the bottom of your browser or, like Odigo, run pop-up consoles that help you find other users and send them messages, much like any instant messaging software. With "community surfing" add-ons, the tour guide or group leader can take other users to different websites, or pass control to another user.There's no doubt that these systems could be very useful in, for example, customer service applications, education and training. And they could provide newbies with conducted tours that introduce them to the best of the web, perhaps as pre-packaged sets of web addresses. But there is considerable doubt about whether communal surfing will ever become a mass market, or if it does, that the companies providing these applications will become rich and famous.The problem is that their initial premise is wrong. For huge numbers of people, surfing is not a solitary business. While online, they are also using a text-chat or instant messaging service, and the market for internet-based chat has already been taken. It is dominated by ICQ, which is owned by America Online, and by America Online's own Instant Message (IM) feature.ICQ already has more than 73 million users, and AOL takes the total to 138 million: a large proportion of the web. Even Microsoft, which can distribute its IM software with Windows, has only about 20 million users.And if you look at ICQ, it has not only been growing at a prodigious rate, it has been adding new features and new services just as quickly. There is now almost nothing you cannot do with ICQ. You can send instant messages, exchange files, keep notes,   send email, send SMS messages to GSM mobile phones, create your own web page, send greetings cards ... and with ICQ Surf, "surf along with other ICQ Surf users, find people who share your interests and chat with them on the same web page!"With the new ICQPhone, you can even use internet-telephone technology to talk-and-surf, using your voice as well as, or instead of, typing in text. This is the nascent market that Firetalk and Cahoots probably thought they had to themselves.All this means that ICQ's software has become something of a monster: the basic file is now a 5 megabyte download, and there are 13 optional plug-ins. However, there's rarely a shortage of people to chat to. The problem with ICQ is keeping people away.And whereas most online chat and communal surfing programs are limited to one or two operating systems, sometimes only Windows, ICQ supports most clients to some degree, including Palm and Windows CE handhelds.AOL probably understood the power of instant messaging before the rest of us. It bought Ubique, the pioneer, in September 1995, when the idea was still permeating through the web, then sold it again, in May 1998, to IBM's Lotus Software division. Just a month later, AOL took over Mirabilis, the developer of ICQ, swapping a loser for a winner. It was a smart move, and one that will be hard for any start-up to overcome.Still, one curious point about the whole online chat/group surfing field is how much it owes to Israeli companies. Both Ubique and Mirabilis were founded in Israel; so were Gooey, vTrails, (the company responsible forTourBar.com), andn2g.com, which launched its "guided surfing technology" earlier this year.Success breeds success, of course. But if you do take up communal surfing, don't be surprised if you keep bumping into Israelis.
Think of someone you know who has never used the net, not even for email: your mother perhaps. If a government survey released this week is to be believed, the net-disenfranchised constitute 55% of adults - or almost 25 million people on the wrong side of the digital divide.Now put yourself in the position of the web missionary: the poor idiot who, after dinner and a bottle of wine, agrees to show your never-user around. How do you do it?Conscious of the power of first impressions, do you decide to show them one thing, which, to the eyes of a newcomer, will immediately release the potential, spirit and charm of the web? If so, what will it be? Email? A powerful search engine? A portal? A news service? None of the above?I believe there is one unmarketed, relatively unknown type of site that, executed right, will help to introduce the newcomer to the internet and keep them coming back. It is called a weblog.A weblog is, literally, a log of the web - a sort of   frequently updated portal, where new entries go to the top and old ones drift to the bottom. It usually consists of the take of one editor - the weblogger or "blogger" - on the gems he or she has found online, either generally or on a theme. It sounds simple, and it is. Find one who shares your taste, and you have a surfing companion for life.The benefits to the new user are many. As with a conventional gateway site, you are soon offered links to other sites that cover your field of interest. But a good weblog will contain extra qualities: topicality, an individual voice, and a simple, often Spartan, design. These combine to create user-friendliness away from the glare of the big corporations - exactly what the sceptical surfer wants from the net, and doesn't get anywhere else.If your newcomer is into US media gossip, say, they need not go much further thanMediaNews.org, edited by Chicago weblogger Jim Romenesko. It may be produced by a journalism institute, but it began as a labour of love. "A weblog," he says, "is certainly more intimate than a corporate site   - and I think the best ones will increase that intimacy."With intimacy comes the freedom to explore a niche:http://www.chaparraltree.com/honeyguide. Honeyguide is a science weblog and Romenesko's other site, theObscure Store, a weblog of the weirder world of news.If your newcomer wanted something more general, they would find that close bond in any number of personal sites.http://www.obscurestore.com. The Haddock Directory is a weblog-cum-portal by Phil Gyford, an ex-Londoner now attending a course in "studies of the future" in Texas.Kitschbitch, by Katy Lindemann, a gap year student who did a stint at the Guardian, is more diary-based. And inRebecca's Pocket, half news weblog, half liberal treatise on the world, San Francisco-based web developer Rebecca Blood chats to you as if you were in the next room. The tease "what's in Rebecca's pocket?" says it all.So why are weblogs so little known? Although they have been around since the very beginning of the net, the term was coined only in December 1997 (by Jorn Barger, editor of theRobot Wisdom weblog), and there are still only tens of thousands across   the world - nothing compared to the billion or so web pages in existence. Furthermore, most blogs are run by twentysomething Americans with at least an unhealthy interest in computers - a bias that is still reflected in the content of most sites.Only in the past year has software been developed which allows people to get blogging with the minimum of know-how:Blogger, the most celebrated of these, has just celebrated its first birthday and its 40,000th user. But although Pyra, the company that created it, is rightly praised for increasing the number of webloggers, Blogger has also spawned "link-sluts" - cliquey, second-generation webloggers who link to better blogs in the hope of a link in return. Despite Blogger's impressive figures, the number of quality   weblogs hasn't quite reached critical mass.Webloggers can also be fiercely protective of their independence. Like the editors of zines before them, they exist in a world beyond the gaze of the marketing exec and the venture capitalist. "Few webloggers are doing weblogs to attract millions of viewers," says Gyford, who edits Haddock. "They don't have any marketing budget to help them do that, so they won't."Romenesko concurs, although his audience has grown quickly from just hundreds of visits a month to a quarter of a million, by little more than links and word of mouth. "It's like fanzines - it's always going to be a semi-underground culture, and they have a limited interest," he says. "Look at how much money is spent on marketing for these major sites." He does, though, sound a note of vindication: "Fox News: their website, which has probably dozens of employees, they market on the Fox News channel. They don't have many more visitors than I have at my Medianews.org weblog, which has never spent a cent in promotion."Like Romenesko, most webloggers are sceptical of the way corporations exploit technology - and rightly proud of the way weblogs buck the trend."As we are increasingly bombarded with information from our computers, handhelds, in-store kiosks, and now our clothes," says Blood, in an apologia she has posted on Rebecca's Pocket, "the need for reliable filters will become more pressing. We urgently need to cultivate forms of self-expression in order to counteract our self-defensive numbness and remember what it is to be human."Such filters are especially important to the newcomer; but the irony remains that it takes a corporation to reach newcomers on any scale. So, anathema as it is to many in the blogging community, why aren't more corporations doing weblogs of their own?A few newspapers have tried it out.The San Jose Mercury Newsruns a weblog, with high-profile IT columnist Dan Gillmor at the helm. The same newspaper produced one to catalogue the Y2K "crisis" in the days and hours after midnight 2000 - pity   the journalist who had to cancel leave for that. Other papers with weblogs includeThe Minneapolis Star Tribune, theMelbourne Ageand, of course, the Guardian. Our blog of global journalism has been around since April.Also there is increased potential for niche media, such as the trade press, to create weblogs to suit their market. "I can easily see a corporation producing a topic-oriented weblog," says Blood. "In fact, I think it would be a very good way to position oneself as an expert in an area. I'm surprised more companies aren't doing this."But the value doesn't stop there. Internet service providers (ISPs) such asVirgin NetandFreeserve- home surfers' first view of the net - have long been putting original content on their websites, hoping customers will see them not only as a connection but as a gateway to the web.Many customers proceed to change their home page to a search engine or media brand they trust. But how much more trusting would newcomers become if these   pages truly fulfilled the gateway function, and provided regularly updated links and commentary from the new surfer's point of view?The trouble, as Gyford points out, is the fear of losing 'stickiness'. "Big corporations will want to attract millions of viewers," he says, "so they'll produce very different products. People who make such decisions would have seen it as sending viewers off to other sites which is still, to them, a very bad idea."Of course, it doesn't take much nous to realise that links are what the web is all about; nor that 'stickiness' is achieved by offering users a service they trust.If you believe statistics published by Which? Online this summer, seven million Britons don't believe the net product is for them; and another half the population, who have used it at work, can't justify having it at home.Maybe it's time the ISPs, whose job it is to get people online, adopted more of the spirit of the net and said hello to the corporate weblog.&#149;  Chris Alden edits the Guardian Unlimited webloghttp://guardianunlimited.co.uk/weblog.
SwappitRecreate the pleasure of getting rid of stuff you don't want in exchange for stuff that you do want atwww.webswappers.com, a UK-based site where people list their haves and their wants. Granted, some are a little strange, like the person who wants to trade a holiday for eight in a 1998 caravan for four Steps tickets in Glasgow. Or the person who has an Ethiopian silver earwax scoop and wants big kitchen knives, a futon base, and a toaster. Yes, the site's worth looking at just for its entertainment value. Maybe that's why MIT Media Lab director and internet guru Nicholas Negroponte took a 5% stake in the venture last week.Invest in funGet that day trader buzz without putting up any real money atwww.smartstocks.com, a site that lets you set up a portfolio and invest wildly with pretend money. The simulation uses live stock quotes and market information - which includes tips from other participants, complete with misspellings for that true, high-risk, low-reliability chatroom feel. Create an investment group and compete against other groups, if you dare.Historic clicksBT caused an uproar when it claimed it had a patent on the concept of hyperlinking: the basic way in which the web is constructed, allowing people to click on a live area of a website and jump to another location. BT said it had applied for a patent in 1976, and it will remain in place until 2006. But patent lawyers have been looking at a 90-minute film made by Stanford University in    California in 1968 (seehttp://sloan.stanford.edu/MouseSite/1968Demo.html. In it, computing pioneer Douglas Engelbart, the inventor of the mouse, demonstrates his newfangled contraption by, er, clicking on hyperlinks.Earth viewsNasa may be having a few headaches with lost probes and explorers but it does know how to do great websites. Yet another cool link to add to your favourites menu is Visible Earthhttp://visibleearth.nasa.gov, which features an extraordinary, searchable collection of satellite images, visualisations and animations of earth. Unfortunately, there's only one image of the UK in the "countries" section. Even Yemen gets two, and Botswana three.Charity picsSales of limited edition photographs atwww.image4is.comwill benefit Sight Savers International, Global Tiger Patrol, and the Alzheimer's Society. Fifteen per cent of the gross profit generated by the images will be donated to these causes. Artists include Peter Fox, Jonathan Knowles and Adam Lawrence.Fly MirSF Cody, the unusual gift site, is offering 10-day trips to Mir for a "Mir" &#163;16,000,000. Check out the details atwww.codygifts.com, but given reports in the past of the station's various fires, failures and other hair-raising incidents, most people will probably prefer to get their highs from another turn on the Millennium Wheel.Jonze signsThe Academy-nominated director Spike Jonze has joined the advisory board ofAtomFilms, the popular film site that features animations and short, downloadable films. Jonze, who directed the superb feature film Being John Malkovich, will join other artists to make three short films for the site.P2P mailMailshellnow offers a service that lets web users trade and share content over the net while   remaining anonymous and secure from junk email. Users choose content channels that interest them on the Mailshell site and the program creates a new, separate, spam-filtered, and anonymous email address - a "mail shell" - every time the user gets or shares content.New and notedY2K pundit Peter de Jager is back with a new publication on managing change and technology atwww.technobility.com. Detergent company    Surf is targeting students with an online soap opera,Foam and Away, whilewww.e-circle.co.uklets people set up their own group email and discussion lists. A new car broker website,www.drivethedeal.com,  promises monthly low-price specials, andwww.naturalnaturally.comis touting itself as the only "totally natural online store".Electrobug, a home electronics guide, aims to take the pain out of buying and selling consumer technology products online.Six of the bestHappy news!Positive Presswww.positivepress.comGoodNewsDailywww.goodnewsdaily.comWomen's Wire upbeatwww.womenswire.com/goodnewsGood News Indiawww.goodnewsindia.comStay Upbeatwww.upbeat.netGood News Networkwww.goodnewsnetwork.org
I  have a new toy and it is attracting quite a bit of attention. Workmates come over to my desk, pick up the gleaming new toy, "ooh" and "aah" as if it's November 5, and then ask how much the toy is going to cost when it comes out. My answer ensures the same response from everyone - they quickly put it down and walk off before they risk damaging it.And the cause of all this excitement? The next generation of MP3 player, Creative Labs' Dap Jukebox. Dap stands for digital audio player, a term which Creative Labs is keen to stress as the Jukebox is designed to do far more than simply play MP3 files.Yes, the estimated price of &#163;349 might make you flinch, but the Jukebox makes every other player on the market look ready for the retirement home.And while it is roughly twice the price of other players on the market, it offers much more than twice the performance. The fact that it has been designed as a curvy, silver delight doesn't harm matters either.It is not the Dap Jukebox's   looks that have got reviewers in a tizz, though. The Jukebox can pack up to 200 albums of MP3 files on to its 6GB of memory (the higher the quality of the encoding, the larger the file size - 200 albums is possible at a 96kbps bit-rate).Creative Labs has made the whole process of retrieving tracks off a CD on to the player as painless as possible, as long as you have an internet connection.As soon as a new CD is placed into your PC's CD drive, the program goes off to the CD DataBase on the internet, identifies the album, artist and even genre (this takes a few seconds), then begins the process of copying it on to the PC's hard drive and encoding each track into the chosen audio format. Each CD should take 15 minutes to copy.You can also plug speakers into the back of the Jukebox via its two stereo line-in sockets.The Jukebox also uses firmware software, meaning that its operating system can be upgraded to take account of new digital formats. This is highly significant, given that MP3 has only a limited shelf-life as the standard digital audio format.Microsoft is currently leading the pack of would-be successors with its Windows Media Audio (WMA) format, which offers better quality and smaller file sizes than MP3, as does Dolby's pioneering Audio Acoustic Coding (AAC) format.Creative Labs is promising that the Jukebox will be able to read MP3, WAV, AAC, and WMA formats.Technicalities aside, what is it really like to be able to carry an entire record collection around in your hand? I have always listened to music en route to places. In fact, I used to be late for work every day because I couldn't decide on a selection of CDs to take with me to play in my Discman.Similarly, my one gripe with my last MP3 player was the pain of having to delete everything then transfer a new album on to it whenever I wanted to listen to something new.Those problems simply don't exist any more. I have about 100 albums on my Jukebox at the moment, and I just grab the player and my headphones on the way out of the door, knowing that whether I want to listen to Talvin Singh, The Clash or The Byrds, it's all there, accessible in seconds.You can search by album, artist or genre, queue up a few albums to listen to, or pick individual tracks and then save the resulting playlist on the Jukebox to play another time.At the same time, the Jukebox can be oddly unsatisfying. The best analogy is probably that of the child let loose in the sweet shop.If you have a finicky CD Discman or MiniDisc, and you want to change the disc you are listening to, you know that will involve effort.But with the Jukebox, you aren't constrained in the same way, only by the range of your record collection. So having borrowed the new Richard Ashcroft album from a friend at work (and copied it straight on to my Jukebox), I'm still to get past the second track.Listening to a new album requires an element of discipline, as you get to grips with songs that you've never heard before. Why would I want to do that when I have pretty much every one of my all-time favourite albums sitting just a few clicks away on my Jukebox?Minor worries about the future of our music-listening habits aside, Creative Labs will still need a small riot squad armed with boltcutters to get my new toy off me.I'm not crazy about the Dap prefix but, for once, an IT company has come up with the perfect product name. It really is like owning the best pub jukebox you ever heard.
Dance your way to freedomSpace Channel 5Sega Dreamcast 	&#163;39.99  Sega	****Slinky, sexy and stylish are some of the most underused words in a game reviewer's lexicon, but Space Channel 5 demands they be dusted off and reinstated.Quite simply this super-stylised dancing game is one of the treats of the autumn season. Starring space age newscaster Ulala (think Kate Adie crossed with Barbarella), your aim is to rescue hostages, and battle the Morolian alien scourge, by out-dancing them. Yep, this is the only game where Wayne Sleep would be more use than John Wayne.In a similar way to Bust-a-Groove ,you have to match the alien prompts - left, right, left, down, shoot, shoot - while keeping time to the beat. Be successful and not only will the hostages be saved, but your ratings will go through the roof.Display "uncle at wedding reception" co-ordination and the plug gets pulled. It sounds simple but as the pace quickens and the timing changes you'll curse your musical incompetence.But at least it looks good when you fail. Mixing 60s retro-futurism with Austin   Powers kitsch, Space Channel 5 looks unlike any other game, with Ulalu particularly well animated. Combine all this with a splendid jazz funk soundtrack and you've got a recipe for mainstream success.Unfortunately there is the occasional button response problem with some presses going unregistered: a crucial problem in such a game.Also, like many Sega titles, this is a shortlived experience with only four levels to strut your funky stuff through.Still, unless your mouth has been surgically sealed, you'll be smiling while you're grooving and keep humming the soundtrack for months. It looks like Space Channel 5 just got another subscriber.  (GH)Goggles on for a runway successCrimson SkiesPC	&#163;29.99 Zipper/Microsoft	****Nothing is guaranteed to send the casual gamer scrambling for the books section so much as the sight of a plane on the box. But stand firm, friends. Because although the Crimson Skies game engine owes more than a passing debt to Microsoft's aviation titles, it is actually a rollicking action adventure.It's a wonder no one thought of it before. Take the basic physics model and graphics engine from a flight sim, jazz it up a little, simplify the flying process, and add lashings of atmosphere.It's 1937 in an alternative US of A, torn apart by the pressures of Prohibition and the Wall Street Crash. You are Nathan Zachary, a dashing air pirate who, with his trusty squadron of privateers, seeks to exploit the chaos in a series of daring raids from his airborne HQ, the Pandora.There are 24 single-player missions in all, and you don't have to memorise a manual the size of Milwaukee to get cracking. The flying process has been simplified considerably, and stalling and blackouts are no longer an issue. Your only worry, given the average altitude of most missions, is staying clear of the ground.The simplified control system frees you up to concentrate on the dogfighting. Planes are customisable, with an arsenal of very un-1937 armaments to choose from; locations vary from 30s Manhattan to a Hollywood   studio; missions include rescuing a pal from a moving train and stealing the plans to an enemy plane. For more of a challenge, there's a veritable fleet of multiplayer options, and play all takes place over beautiful, detailed environments.The stroke of genius here was basing the game on an existing comic strip. This gave the developers ready-made stories, characters and dialogue, and explains why Crimson Skies is so steeped in flavour. Plenty of effort, too, has been put into the pre- and post-game screens, cinematic sequences (such as fabricated newsreels), mission briefings, music, in-game radio banter and, most importantly, the plot. The result is a truly immersive experience that will take you right back to the glorious black-and-white heyday of Biggles and Flash Gordon. (AB)Mr Driller's boring gameMr DrillerSony PlayStation	&#163;20-25 Namco 	*Namco claims that "the main objective in Mr Driller closely follows" Dig Dug, an arcade classic from 1982. The aim of the game is to drill down in a race against time, and that's the only real similarity. But   while the gameplay is completely different, Mr Driller does capture the arcade spirit of the early 80s, and would have been a huge hit on the early Atari consoles.There is also a bit more to the game than appears at first glance. Susumu, the drilling character, quickly runs out of puff, so you have to pick up air capsules to stay alive. Also, the coloured blocks through which Susumu drills can join with other blocks of the same colour and, if there are four or more, disappear. This often makes the difference between progressing and being   crushed to death by falling blocks that your tunnelling has undermined.Traps are formed by solid blocks that are restistant to Susumu's drill. (You can drill through an X block with five hits, but you lose 20% of your air.)As in cartoons, gravity does not act instantly, and you can try to outrun the consequences of your actions. This makes the gameplay more frenetic than the average puzzle game, though you don't get the growing tension that characterises the best examples of the genre, such as Tetris.The advantage it shares with other classic puzzlers is that the two-dimentional graphics and sound don't matter much.Mr Driller started as an arcade game and has been converted for Game Boy Color, Dreamcast and other formats. The Game Boy version - not tested - might be the one to buy, because the handheld format suits quick blasts. On more sophisticated consoles, Mr Driller looks a bit too thin to retain much interest, though it could well appeal to younger players.  (JS)
Britain's first personal video recorder (PVR), which uses technology that BBC director general Greg Dyke has predicted will change the TV industry forever, arrives in your local Dixons this week.The TiVo, made by Thomson and marketed by BSkyB, records on to an integrated 40 gigabyte hard drive and also allows you to pause and rewind live TV.It costs &#163;400, plus a one-off payment of &#163;200 (or &#163;10 a month) for access to an intelligent electronic programme guide that learns the user's viewing preferences and makes suggestions as to what they might like to record. It works with both digital and analogue TV systems.The introduction of TiVo in the US nearly two years ago generated acres of press coverage, largely on account of the TV companies' fears that users would never watch an advert again. Others, Dyke included, believe that once   users have mastered the unit's electronic programming guide, traditional TV schedules will be jettisoned.Yet PVRs like TiVo and its rival in the US, Replay TV, have hardly captured the TV viewing public's imagination.Both TiVo and Replay went on sale in the US in early 1999. Since their launch, combined sales for both systems have been less than 100,000 units. Although industry pundits predict sales will reach around 400,000 by the end of the year, that's still very small beer in a nation of committed couch potatoes. That figure is made to look even more modest compared with the enormous take up in the US of DVD players.So will it fare any better over here?Not surprisingly, Sky's director of new product development Brian Sullivan believes so. He's banking on sales of up to 100,000 units in   the first 18 months to two years of the product's life. He also feels that some of the reasons why sales have been sluggish in the US don't apply to the UK."In the US the product was clearly over-priced, with early units selling for $1,000. Also it was a new product category. Britons have been hearing about the product for two years now and are more aware of it than the Americans were when it launched over there."Sullivan is also believes that Britain is a nation of time-shifters. The TiVo box sports a facility   called a Season Pass that will automatically record every episode of a particular programme. For a nation addicted to soaps it could prove to be a winning feature.The Sky/TiVo unit is unlikely to be the only PVR using hard disk storage on sale in the UK for long. Sky has already announced the spring arrival of XTV, an enhanced Sky Digital decoder that also features an integrated PVR manufactured in the UK by Pace Micro Technologies and NDS Technologies, part of the News International stable. The XTV unit will boast two digital tuners enabling, for the first time, Sky Digital viewers to watch one satellite channel while recording another.Other manufacturers, such as Nokia, Bush and Philips, have also unveiled   prototype PVRs, though they are unlikely to reach the market until the companies have secured deals with broadcasters to programme information.One company the trio would dearly love to secure a deal with is ONdigital. In spite of constant speculation, including rumours of a tie-in with TiVo's rival Replay TV, the digital broadcaster has refused to give anything away. Company spokesperson Andrew Marre admits that "personal video recorders are on the company's roadmap, but not for a long time and not at the kind of price Sky is charging".The success of the TiVo box may hinge on whether a nation that still can't programme its VCRs can work its way round TiVo's operating system.Fortunately, the TiVo system is very simple to use. One click on the remote control brings up TiVo Central, the system's menu page. Recording a programme involves browsing the on-screen listings, which feature two weeks' worth of schedules at a time, finding what you want to record and clicking on it. Users can also use the system's search option to discover, for example, if a certain film will be shown in the next couple of weeks.But the search is limited to programme titles. An obvious enhancement for the MK II version would be a keyword search, so for example you could type in Coventry City, and all the programmes that   mention the football club would flash up.Users are offered a choice of recording quality for the programme. On best quality, the hard drive will store up to 14 hours of programming. Using the lowest quality, the system can archive up to 40 hours of TV in a standard akin to long play mode on VCRs.Viewers can also rate the programmes they have recorded using the TiVo's thumbs up system. As the system develops a bank of information about the user's viewing habits, it begins to make suggestions as to programmes they might enjoy. It will also automatically record some programmes if it is confident that the user would not want to miss them.According to Sky's research the system's trump card could be its ability to pause live TV. Users can either continue to watch the programme from the point they stopped or return to seeing it in real time. Thanks to the unit's buffer system, users can also instantly jump back eight seconds, a feature sure to prove popular with sports fans looking for instant replays of controversial incidents.While there's no denying that the TiVo system is capable of some rather neat tricks, it is essentially a video recorder. So will the notoriously price-conscious British public be prepared to spend &#163;600, when &#163;250 buys a fairly sophisticated Nicam Stereo VCR? Sky's marketing team certainly has an interesting 12 months to look forward to.How Tivo worksBuy a TiVo system and you are in actually installing a mini PC under your TV. The box uses the Linux open-source operating system, contains a 50Mz Power PC processor and boasts a 40 gigabyte hard drive.To record programmes, the TiVo system takes the analogue signal from your TV aerial and using its MPEG encoder chip converts it into digital binary code which it then stores on its hard drive. When you want to watch the   programme, it uses its MPEG decoder to change the digital stream back to an analogue one that is compatible with your TV set.The unit also features an integrated modem which has to be connected to your phone line - Sky supplies a splitter to save you installing a new line.Each night the modem makes a freephone online call to Sky to update the TiVo's electronic programme guide.
Gearing up for PS2Sony says that 33 titles will be available for the PlayStation 2 when it is launched in the UK on November 24. The line-up will include Fifa 2001 (Electronic Arts), International Superstar Soccer (Konami), Rayman Revolution (Ubisoft), Ready 2 Rumble Boxing:   Round 2 (Midway), Ridge Racer V (Namco), Tekken Tag Tournament (Namco), Theme Park World (Electronic Arts) and Wild Wild Racing (Rage). Another 13 titles are scheduled for December, and 50 more in the first quarter of 2001.PS2 buyers might also think about looking for a steering wheel. As well as the classic driving games already mentioned, the list includes four Formula One titles: F1 World Grand Prix (Konami), F1 World Racing Championship (Ubisoft), F1 Championship Season 2000 (Electronic Arts) and Formula 1 2001 (Sony).Console kingsTwo dozen of the country's best game-players turned up for the finals of the UK Console Championships, hosted   by Gameplay at the recent Live 2000 exhibition at Earl's Court, London. More than 800 players tried their hands in the regional heats, playing Gran Turismo 2 on the Sony PlayStation, Goldeneye007 on the Nintendo 64 or Soul Calibur on the Sega Dreamcast.Three players left the all-day battle with &#163;1,000 cheques: Lee Hamilton, from Middlesborough (PlayStation champion), Martin Casey from Glasgow (Dreamcast champion), and Richard Barrington-Hill from Stourbridge (Nintendo 64 champion).On demoMicrosoft is running a public "stress test" of its next multiplayer game, MechWarrior 4: Vengeance, which is being    developed by its Fasa Interactive studio. The 69MB download includes four of the 21 mechs in the game - Cougar, Loki, Madcat and Thor - and one of the 26 multiplayer maps in the retail version. The test will run atwww.microsoft.com/games/mechwarrior4until November 7. The final version should reach the UK in February.Cryo, a French software house, is also offering a 12.4MB playable demo of Gift, "Philippe Ulrich's Exhilarating Action Adventure Hero Who Parodies the World of Computer Games". The demo can be downloaded fromwww.gift-game.com, and the game is due on PC and Game Boy Color in November.If you are missing the Olympics, another French software house, Kalisto, still    has a decathlon online: you can play all 10 events free athttp://decathlon.tf1.fr. A little   French is required: it is not hard to understand Perdu.
What computers have you owned?When the world was ruled by dinosaurs, I had a word processor called a Nexus; now I have a house full of Macintoshes.Have any IT specialists influenced your writing?Yes, Alan Kay, who invented object-oriented programming and the laptop. He also coined the term "personal computer".How do you see our lives being affected by IT today?Technology is finally catching up to our needs. The net allows us to talk directly to each other in a way we haven't done since humanity lived in small groups. We're very lucky that it's evolved as an organic entity, a bottom-up design rather than being hierarchically controlled from above - that's part of its extraordinary power. I'm resolutely optimistic because we tend to get the future we imagine.What are you hoping to achieve on your websitewww.h2g2.com?A powerful mode is created when our experiences and information are pooled together. So the site is a collection point containing as much communal information as possible, a real-time guide that encourages people to put in and take out information wherever they are.What are your current projects?Another book and a novella, to be published on the web. Part of the reason I'm in California is to work on a movie version of The Guide, with my director, Jay Roach.How is digital technology affecting your work?Digital animation makes creating special effects for films like The Guide possible. There's a specific proposal in front of me to make a digital video. It's particularly beguiling after making a digital radio series with Mark Rickards of the BBC which was edited on a computer_ he did part of the editing on the plane trip home!Is there anything you hate on the web?Racist sites. I saw a particularly obnoxious site about Jews in Hollywood. But I also think people are too worried about pornography on the web. Children have to be protected, but it's better out in the open where unlimited scrutiny can function like sunlight on ice, softening its impact, rendering it unimportant. If you come across it, you just think, "what sad people".Have you ever been attacked by a virus?Just once! I wrote a program to handle the complex layout and cross-referencing for The Meaning Of Liff, which I co-wrote with John Lloyd. A Trojan slipped in and completely fried my hard disk.If you take the long view of our future, what do you see?We need to make a concerted effort as a species to get into space travel. Our future lies on other planets, especially as we will lose the moon in less than a billion years, making the earth uninhabitable.&#149;  Douglas Adams' personal view of digital technology, The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Future, will be broadcast on Radio 4 at 11am, October 11, 18 and 25.
Ericsson's long-awaited R380 web-enabled phone is a masterpiece of miniaturisation.The first of the new generation of Wap (wireless application protocol) phones to use the internationally owned Symbianoperating system, it functions like the offspring of a love affair between a mobile phone and a Palm personal digital assistant.It has a dizzying number of functions including email, voice recognition, infra-red transmission, diary, handwriting recognition, address book, synchronisation and so on - with a claimed standby time of 107 hours. It also makes telephone calls.Because of its extra features, it is not as light as Ericsson's cute R320 model, but its weight (166 grams on our kitchen scales) is amazing considering all the features   it packs in. It can just about fit into a well sewn shirt pocket or equivalent.The R380 looks like an ordinary phone but the keyboard on the 31mm x 21mm screen (used for routine calls) opens up to a panoramic 82mm x 30mm, leaving space for seven wide lines of text to be written. In the Wap world that's the equivalent of Cinerama.Text can be written by hand or typed on a rather too dinky Qwerty keyboard on the screen using a pull-out plastic stylus (but get spares because it keeps falling out). The quality of the handwriting recognition is good but you wouldn't want to write anything long with it.Access to Wap sites was faster than most other Wap phones - but that doesn't mean fast in absolute terms. It was prey to all the usual Wap pitfalls (impossibility of accessing certain sites and slow loading times) but it is the best Wap phone I have come across so far, and deserves to be successful.For any one wanting to write articles on a proper keyboard, a Psion Revo (which shares the same Epoc operating system) is far better, though bulkier. The 380 doesn't have the in-your-face sassiness of the Palm family, but its screen is 75% of the area of a Palm and it comes with a built-in telephone.It is dear   compared with other Wap phones at a starting price of &#163;299 (available from Carphone Warehouse) but you are paying for novelty and extra features.The biggest downside is that it will not support the next generation technology of GPRS (general packet radio service), which will offer an "always-on" connection to the internet.That is the real problem: for the foreseeable future, whatever phone you buy will always be superseded by something much better a year later.Sometimes, a guy's gotta buy what a guy's gotta buy...
Speak easilyHandspring Visor owners could soon be using their PDA (personal digital assistant) to make phone calls. The company has announced that a plug-in GSM phone module will go on sale in the US in December and probably arrive here next spring.  Dubbed the Visorphone, the module features a battery, speaker, antenna, a series of buttons and a headset.It will sync with the Handspring's Palm-based personal information manager (PIM), so it can access numbers already stored in it.  The module will also enable users to send e-mails and surf the net, although they must first download a web browser for the device. Handspring in the UK could not say which phone networks the module will support, or its price. It's expected to cost around $300.  Several companies are working on similar modules for the Palm series of PDAs, although these are not expected to go on sale until the end of next year at the earliest.   Also on sale in the USA - and expected here next year - is an MP3 player module for the Handspring.Instant imageEver wanted to email an image seconds after you've taken it? That's the key facility on the &#163;350 Casio Message-Cam, which goes on sale next month through Vodafone stores. It's essentially a touch-screen PDA which features a digital camera, voice recorder and all the usual organiser facilities. However, it's bundled with a Siemens C35 Wap mobile phone which uses the Vodafone network. Connect the two together and thanks to the Message-Cam    web browser, you'll be able to surf the internet and send both text and pictures by email.  (AN)Your diary on your wristSeiko Epson has come up with a watch that doubles as a PDA complete with a personal information manager (PIM).The Chrono-bit wristwatch performs the functions of a   supercompact computer and can sync up with schedule and contact data from Microsoft Outlook 2000/98/ 97, Lotus Notes R5/R4.6, and Lotus Organiser 2000.Data from the PIM is synchronised with the watch by pressing a button on its "synchro-station" via a cradle connected to a PC.Characters and numbers can also be entered manually using the watch's revolving bezel-type keyboard.  The watch is water resistant, and will be available in the stainless steel and plastic versions.Priced at &#163;300 for the Japanese market, the Chrono-bit does not yet have a UK release date.Chrono-bit now joins other gadget watches already available in Japan, including a fully functional watch that can take digital pictures, send them via email, and play music files. Other models offer wireless communications and GPS (satellite positioning) functions.  (MF)Back to the futureIBM survived the death of the mainframe at the end of the 1980s, and has now launched a new generation of machines for the web-serving generation.The zSeries, built for e-business, is a range of 64-bit systems running the new zOS operating system.  It is descended from the S/390 and the MVS operating system in a range with its roots in the S/360, launched in 1964, but IBM says "it's not   your grandfather's mainframe any more".The processor module is 5in square and packs in a total of 35 chips containing 2.5 billion transistors; it can handle 300 million transactions a day.The machine can also be used to consolidate the work of hundreds of Linux servers, forming a single "network in a box".IBM has also consolidated its different server businesses - which used to compete with one another - into one eServer division. This now includes the mainframe zSeries (was S/390), the iSeries of integrated servers (formerly the AS/400 range of minicomputers, formerly the System/38), the pSeries of performance servers (formerly the RS/6000 range of AIX/Unix minis), and the xSeries of Intel-based servers (formerly the Netfinity range).More product announcements are expected as the incompatible ranges are upgraded and homogenised.  (JS)
Don't ask JackJack Schofield shows his usual Microsoft bias. Getting Microsoft Office might be the best solution to Anne-Marie's problem (Ask Jack September 28), if the documents she's being sent are all Microsoft Word or Microsoft Excel documents. But it's rather an expensive solution both in money and time.I recommend the excellent MacLink Plus set of translators from Dataviz, which can convert from lots of different file formats into AppleWorks format, and vice-versa. They also integrate very nicely into AppleWorks, appearing as options on the pop-up menus in the Open and Save File dialogs. The latest version, 12.0, is available for under &#163;90, including VAT.Paul Durrantpaul@durrant.co.ukMr Schofield is either unaware of MacLink Plus, in which case he shouldn't really be offering advice to Mac users, or he is deliberately ignoring it to push a Microsoft product.AppleWorks is a great application with a very user-friendly interface and is quite undemanding on system resources, three things you cannot really say about Microsoft Office.Mr Schofield, please either provide a less blinkered view of the Mac market or rename Online as The Microsoft Report. This is getting silly.Jason Stainesjstaines@postmaster.co.ukMissed outI'm staggered that the Sinclair Spectrum didn't make the PC timeline: after all, it defined computing for British kids in the 80s, while Apple and DOS boxes remained impossibly expensive imports. (Didn't any of your writers remember Sinclair Research Ltd?) No sign of Amstrad, either, though its PCWs were the first to bring word processing to many British homes.Nick Sweeneynick@nonspace.orgWelcome readDouglas Rushkoff's take on net censorship (Second Sight September 28) got much right and was a very welcome contribution on a mostly ignored subject.He could have drawn out the thread of the implications of napster a bit more. There's been a "consumer" (read "citizen") revolt against raw capitalism, an implication strangely absent from much of the coverage in the net press.Neither does he directly mention "censorware" like NetNanny and others, and the implications of unrestrained, privatised, largely American censors deciding what is accessible to kids and others forced to use filtered net access (including workers in offices denied access to trade union sites).The one point that had me flummoxed was his claim that Dreamweaver and Photoshop "make artists indirectly censor themselves". Please explain.Paul Canningcann03ing@yahoo.comNew look MacCraig McGill's review of OS X (Online, September 28) could be boiled down to one sentence: "It's different, so I don't like it".He may genuinely prefer the current Mac OS, but perhaps he has forgotten that with a few weeks or even days of unbiased use, the quirks and differences of OS X could become equally familiar.The loss of familiar landmarks like the Apple menu, for instance, may be disorientating at first but OS X includes new and powerful ways of navigating through the system.A modern Mac OS with pre-emptive multitasking and protected memory is years overdue. Let's hope most Mac users take a more positive attitude than Mr McGill.Cameron Patersoncameronp@lineone.netAs the kind of Mac user who uses her Mac the way she uses her car - if it goes I'm happy and don't even want to think about why - I welcomed Craig McGill's piece on Mac's OS X.It was a model of clarity in the way it spelled out the new operating system's downside. It was positively user-friendly - rather like the Macs I know and love, come to think of it.What a pity Apple seems to be heading off into unfamiliar territory. I guess I'll just have to look after my herd of aging   dinosaurs (from Classic to iMac OS 9) and hope they don't all die on me.Christine Findlaychristine@maura.demon.co.ukCensorshipJohn Carr's response to my article about blocking software (Second Sight, September 21) might have been more informative to readers had he noted that he and his wife, Labour Peer Baroness Thornton, were active in promoting the Regulation of Investigatory Powers bill and that Carr has long advocated the imposition of blocking software in public libraries as well as schools.I also found it interesting that he referred to my alleged desire to look at pornography myself, since I have told him before that I do not use pornography recreationally and have managed to avoid seeing it on the internet by the no-doubt complicated hi-tech trick of not clicking on it.Although Mr Carr claims to plead for tolerance and freedom of choice, he apparently wishes that only his own choice be observed in public and educational facilities.Some of us would choose otherwise, preferring not to impose repression on young people when we know that it correlates so highly with sex crime.Mr Carr may wish to avoid pornography, but I find this less compelling than my desire to avoid promoting rape.He also ignored the substance of my article, which pointed out that blocking software does not simply block pornography, but also blocks a great deal of material that is not pornographic or even related to problematic subjects.Most importantly, the software may block words like "Playboy", "pornography" and "breasts", but cannot be relied upon to do what it claims to do, which is block most erotic images. Why should the government waste money on an obstructive, intrusive policy that does not work?Unfortunately, Mr Carr's letter is typical of the calibre of debate we have come to expect from the proponents of censorship and, alas, from government, who ignore the facts and instead repeat indefinitely things that are not true and do more harm than good.Avedon Carolavedon@cix.compulink.co.uk
Picture the scene: suddenly you get a boss who has got it in for you but can't fault you for any of your work. So he starts looking at all the back emails you have made, and all the websites you've visited, copies of which are on the back-up server even though you have deleted them."What's this?" he says. "Ordering your holiday, replying to emails from friends - and all in MY time." And that's just a mild example of what could happen now that the government has caved in to industry to allow companies "routine access" to any emails and phone calls made at work to discover whether they are business-related.Remember what Richelieu said - give me ten lines written by the most honest man and I will find something in them to hang him for.Patricia Hewitt, the minister for e-commerce - believed to be the same Patricia Hewitt who used to be an outstanding champion of civil liberties - denies that business is being given a licence to snoop because there are limits companies can't go over, such as "intercepting personal calls for unjustified scurrilous interest". But who's to judge?In theory, it wouldn't matter so much if all employees knew exactly what company policy was (do you?) and if it was all laid out in a contract of employment. But this gives undue power to the employer because not many people will refuse a job - after getting through all the competitive interview stages - because of something potentially threatening in the small print.As Caspar Bowden, director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, said today: "By allowing employers disproportionate powers of surveillance over employees, these regulations fly in the face of the protection afforded by the human rights act".The government's decision should be tested in the courts as quickly as possible. Meanwhile, be careful what you do in your lunch breaks; use your mobile to make calls, and the infra red port to your laptop to buy that book from Amazon. Maybe your employers could end up knowing much less about you than they do now.
Online music company Napster received a stay of execution yesterday as a US appeal court allowed it to continue business until a final verdict on its future had been reached.Napster, which allows its 32m users to download music without charge is being sued for copyright infringement by the entertainment industry.After the hearing, Hank Barry, Napster's chief executive, claimed the industry had "stonewalled" his proposals to reach a settlement.Mr Barry said he had suggested that his company charged its millions of users a fee to download music, which would go towards compensating the recording artists."We're willing to pay very substantial amounts to the artists," Mr Barry said."With a very conservative estimate, the first-year payments to the artists would be in the neighborhood of a half a billion dollars." The federal appeals court is considering arguments in the copyright case the US music industry has brought against Napster.The case is viewed as a landmark in the issue of copyright on the net. After hearing both sides' arguments the San Francisco court on Monday adjourned to consider a verdict. Lawyers for Napster argued that the company was no more than a service provider which could not be held responsible for the activities of its users. Crucial to Napster's case is a 1984 supreme court decision that allowed Sony to continue making   video recorders capable of duplicating copyright-protected material.But the Recording Industry Association of America argued that Napster's service was tailor-made for piracy. Yesterday there was    still no sign the industry was ready to strike a deal. Some observers suggested a deal might still be made if the music companies sensed the case might turn against them. Gene Hoffman of ISP EMusic.com,    was sceptical about a late deal. "The record companies do not have much of a incentive to settle when it is not proven Napster can make a dime off their customer base."Useful links:www.napster.com/pressroom/legal.html  Napster legal case documentswww.riaa.com/napster_legal.cfmRecording Industry Association of America case documents
The Ford Focus Zetec that I drove came - as is the way with cars given to journalists for their appraisal - with a number of flattering extras (CFC-free air conditioning, heated washer jets for the windscreen, electrically powered door mirrors, and other such essentials) but not, alas, with the one thing I'd been hoping to try, which was one of Ford's Third-Age Suits.Developed in collaboration with Loughborough University, the Third-Age Suit apparently looks like a cross between a bee-keeper's smock and an astronaut's outfit. While designing the Focus, Ford's engineers - who are obviously a nimble bunch - would climb into a Third-Age Suit in order, according to Ford's literature, "to simulate driving capabilities of people often 30 years or more older than themselves". The suit would slow the engineers down and restrict their movements, "giving them a feel for the needs of an older generation".I'm not sure Ford needed to consult scientists on this garment; I once had a suit from Next that had much the same effect. Still, the fact that Ford took the trouble gives a glimpse of the lengths it went to in the design of the Focus, lengths which have paid off handsomely. Everything in the car seems to be within comfortable reach.If you want to sing the praises of the Focus, you have to join the queue. Only Tiger Woods has won more prizes recently. The Focus was named 2000 North American Car of the Year not long ago. It had already been awarded European Car of the Year and became the first car in the history of the awards to win both titles. It has also won its share of earnest, industry medals (What Car? gave it a Security Award for, among other things, its lockable bonnet, which should see off your local hot-wire crew) and it was nominated a Millennium Product by the Design Council. (There's a special, limited edition Millennium version of the car in a punishingly bright yellow with a Millennium Product logo stamped on its alloys, if that excites you.)There are more than 130,000 Ford Focuses on the road in Britain and in recent months it has been battling with its elder and now completely d&eacute;class&eacute; sister, the Ford Fiesta, for overall dominance of the British market. And little wonder. The Focus is perhaps the first genuinely covetable Ford since the glory days of the Anglia, and a triumphant vindication for that change of heart a few years ago, whereby Ford, formerly a byword for conservatism and crashingly dull good sense, suddenly went all courageous and groovy on   us, issuing the badly named but likeably different Ford Ka and the deeply svelte (for Ford) Puma and Cougar which followed it.Once it had seemed that the entire point of the Ford operation was to provide somewhere for young sales executives to hang their jackets. But no longer. Probably only Skoda in our time has undergone such an abrupt image reversal. That flash of white sock and whiff of wide-boy which pretty much defined Ford's output throughout the 80s was   entirely missing from this new generation of incautiously designed, dead cute oddities. Gone, too, was the Ford boredom factor. (Try and say "Ford Fiesta" without yawning.)The Focus is not remotely soporific, certainly not in the Zetec variant, which gives the entry-level car a sporty makeover: moulded front seats, alloy wheels, some leather on the steering wheel, metallic dials - the usual sub-Colin McCrae gimmicks. Here, though, those features don't come across entirely as impostors. The car feels nippy and light but sturdy, as if fit for the occasional bit of rough road.It's also easy on the eye without being bland. The tendency of modern cars to look like tentative experiments in glass-blowing is ameliorated in the Focus by the sharp lines around the wheel arches. The same goes for the triangular side-indicators. Though definitely part of the culture of the blob, the Focus has some discernible edges, too, which is a relief.This is less true of the interior where - again, in common with pretty much every new car in production - the dashboard and instrument panels seem to take as their essential influence the kidney-shaped dressing table (albeit a kidney-shaped dressing table turned on its side). Given this preponderance of ovoids, pear shapes and teardrops clustering around us on the insides of our cars, it is a wonder any of us can still summon the presence of mind to drive in a straight line. Still, the cabin is big enough and airy enough that you don't find yourself pressed into contact with the dashboard or blinking into the instruments at close range.The Focus manages the trick that the VW Golf used to pull off, of achieving a cachet among young about-towners (who can keep themselves happy with the bigger-engined models and the sporty trims) without entirely alienating the five-door family market. Nor even necessarily the Third-Age Suiters. It's got the place sewn up.The lowdownFord Focus ZetecPrice:from &#163;11,495.Maximum speed:115mph (1.6i).Acceleration:0-62 in 10.9 seconds.Fuel economy:39.8 mpg combined.At the wheel:Anyone really.On the stereo:Hocus Pocus by Focus.
T he London offices of iVillage UK - the US import, Tesco-backed women's network - are bereft of the usual luxuries     associated with dot.coms. There are no inflatable meeting rooms, ergonomic furniture, or silk-stream air sculptures.     Instead, the network that hopes to be the place where British women "find answers" is housed in cramped, albeit     temporary, offices in a Mayfair business centre.Here, 25 staff slave away at 23 screens, and the walls are decorated with mission statements on photocopied A4: "The     voice of women in the UK," screams the first. "It does what it says on the tin," instructs the second. And finally:     "Community is a group of people, being in one place with shared ownership" (a line straight out of a Californian     management consultant's manual). These precepts, explains the newly appointed editorial director, Tina Gaudoin, are at     the heart of iVillage UK and how it defines itself.Arguably, Gaudoin herself and not the product strategy is iVillage's best-kept secret weapon. Rival UK women's portals     scoff and say the Yanks - despite having launched the largest women's network in the world, last valued at £150m - will     never get inside the head of the British public. But with Gaudoin - former deputy editor of Tatler, Times writer and     founding editor of high- brow fashion magazine Frank - iVillage has bought in a piece of the British establishment and     ensured an experienced editorial team, from print, TV and radio journalism.Gaudoin has the added attraction for her US employers of having worked in the States for several years (writing for the     New York Times, Mirabella, American Vogue and Harper's Bazaar); indeed she met iVillage's CEO, Candice Carpenter,     while working on an upmarket home-shopping channel. The story goes that Carpenter, who has been seeking an     editorial captain since January, brought in Gaudoin as a consultant, and in the middle of a meeting clicked her fingers     and said, "Heck, Tina , why don't you do it?" Or something like that.It must have been a tempting pay packet (pushing six figures) to lure her away from Triyoga, the yoga centre she has set     up, her two young children and an easy freelance writing gig. "It was the community model that attracted me," says     Gaudoin, who admits she had no experience of online editing. "It's completely different from a women's magazine: this     is a bottom-up medium. You look at what members want and provide programming around it. It's about providing a place     where people can share experiences - where you can get advice on getting your figure back into shape from, say, a     mum in Cornwall. Real women providing real advice."She cites a case history from the US site where one woman posted a desperate plea: "Help, someone! I want to murder     my three-year-old!" This stimulated a huge Samaritan-style response and an online debate about child abuse which     went on for weeks. The parenting channel, with chatroom, message boards and online experts, is one of the first to be     developed on the UK site (still at demo stage) along with others devoted to beauty, careers, relationships, diet and     fitness and computers and the internet.iVillage US now claims 9m unique visitors a month (1m more than women.com, its main competitor). When it launched     five years ago, it was hailed as a political movement: a network for women by women, to improve their lives, counteract     ignorance and promote solidarity and "speaking out". Its UK sibling tried out its political wings at last week's Labour     conference with a debate hosted by Cherie Blair. It is also working to promote affordable childcare and fairer deals for     mothers. Whether British women will embrace this right-on variety of US community en masse remains to be seen.Gaudoin faced a similar challenge in 1997 with Frank, when she attempted to break the glossy mould by combining     politics with attitude and frocks. It didn't sell well enough, however, and was pulled last year. Apart from the "tell it like it     is" approach, Gaudoin insists, the comparison ends there. Fashion comes way down the agenda with iVillage. "It's not     about being glossy and glamorous," she says. "It's about providing answers for women. I don't think it needs 'an     identity' in the same way a glossy magazine does. But I think we can assume women don't just want to know about     lipsticks and frocks."Unlike Associated New Media's Charlotte Street and IPC's Beme - which one year on are consolidating into niched areas     - iVillage intends to stay broad spectrum, aiming at ages 24 to 55. It has the advantage over its competitors of having five     years of market research to justify its decision and has built up a detailed profile of its already existing UK visitors from     their marital status to their cornflakes. No UK publisher can claim that. "Women don't have a lot of time. They come to     iVillage to find answers. Once they've got them, they leave," says the US head of marketing, Hilary Graves."It's a bit like the Tesco philosophy: why go anywhere else when you can get the information all in one place?" says     Gaudoin (hence "what it says on the tin"). The content, she says, is already "pretty deep" (the parenting channel has 800     articles), but it will take at least 18 months before it has the girth of the mother site. High-profile writers she can confirm     include Sally Ann Lasson (famous for having a high-society affair) on dating, Annabel Heseltine (political and news     analysis) and Christine Hill (leading ante- and postnatal expert).Both iVillage and its fellow US émigrée, women.com, differentiate themselves from the current market leader,     Handbag.com (which has just announced 312,158 unique users for July), by being "deeper and richer in content" and     providing "more interactive tools". For some reason these tools - which include everything from a prenatal calendar, to a     self- explanatory Make over O-matic and the more elusive Keyboard Yoga - are seen as unique selling points.Unlike other UK women's sites, however, which are desperate for commerce, Gaudoin is keen to distance iVillage from     the online shopping mall experience. So what does Tesco get for the £12m plus £25m marketing budget it has pledged     over three years - apart from its 50% stake? Ostensibly, it's satisfied with being the exclusive online grocer and having     tie-in promotions and click-to-buys on the parenting and food channels.On advertising and sponsorship revenue alone, iVillage UK will have to stretch the Tesco cash for three years, when it is     calculated it will break even. Whether or not Gaudoin will be around to witness the red figures turning to black - with a     young family and ambitions still to get back into print journalism it seems unlikely - she wants to make it "the market     leader". "In the US, we know what works", she says, rather incongruously.
Ericsson is ploughing $60m (£38.7m) into a global advertising assault to spearhead its vision for the mobile internet.The campaign, through Publicis, breaks next month and incorporates TV, radio, print and outdoor ads across 15 markets, including the UK.The work will target network operators and service providers, as well as promoting awareness and understanding of mobile internet among the general public. The catchline reads "The mobile internet. It's an everyday thing."Three TV executions were directed on location in Europe by Jörgen Lööf, whose previous work includes spots for Ikea and SAS in Sweden.A mixture of US and European actors were used to offer evidence of the ads' multicultural appeal. And the print campaign was shot by the photographer Kelvin Murray.John Giere, vice-president of branding and marketing communications at Ericsson, said: "We want to break through the hype surrounding mobile internet and to present the facts clearly and simply. The campaign shows that it will not dramatically affect our lives, but instead make a lot of everyday tasks easier to manage."Ericsson estimates that by 2004 there will be as many as 600m users of mobile internet devices - more people than will be using fixed internet access.
There are two nets - divided only by the Atlantic. And never has that ocean seemed as wide as during the party conference season, ending with the Tories in Bournemouth this week.Firstly, there was the net of legend. A forum for democratic Athenian debate, where information would be widely available to everyone. In secretive countries such as Britain, it would herald a new age of glasnost. Information would really be free and government would not be able to hide from unflattering stories.Then, there's the net of fact: difficult to work your way around, confusing and bamboozling - in the same manner that the Sir Humphrey Applebys of this world pile official documents onto the desks of ministers.At first glance, Britain is overrun with online political coverage. There's sites such as YouGov (www.yougov.com) and at the Labour party conference last week, delegates roamed the halls wearing the neck lanyards of conference sponsors ePolitix (www.epolitix.com) which describes itself grandly as "Britain's leading political and parliamentary website" and is run by the publishers of the House Magazine. Seasoned correspondent Robin Oakley, the former BBC political editor now at CNN.com's European operation, could be seen at work - and both ourselves and BBC Online had a presence.But while these sites are, well, great, there's something missing. If you really want to be inspired by the way online journalism covers politics, you have to point your mouse to the US. There, democracy online really does have a meaning.The first thing I have to say is that we have an interest ourselves - Guardian Unlimited is presently planning its own political site. But all UK political sites have lessons to learn from the US.It's not just because technology is bound up with US politics now (Microsoft has spent more than $15m lobbying and contributing to the Republican and Democrats since 1997, according to a report from US campaigning group Common Cause published last week). It's also that the web has been turned into a well-oiled machine for covering big and little politics in a way users can understand and relate to.While the next election will be Britain's first e-election, with online reporters competing for user share as hard as their print counterparts, the election for US president in November will be the first where the net may actually influence the result.For the candidates, the net is an essential marketing and fundraising tool. Millions of dollars have been raised online for them, and the US TV networks compete wildly for online coverage of the party conventions.What's striking besides the sheer amount of space devoted to politics is that there's a voice and attitude to US political websites. By and large - and bizarrely, considering the combative nature of British papers - UK online political coverage tends towards the respectful. In the US, if a site is not taking the mickey out of a candidate it is pressing hard for answers to difficult questions.Subverting the po-faced official sites, well-designed spoof sites have become the bane of high-profile politicians - to the extent that the Bush campaign tried to buy up unflattering site addresses to reduce the options for opponents. He had good reason: one of the strongest spoof sites in the US iswww.gwbush.com, which has twisted rap star Eminem's The Real Slim Shady into a game where the Republican vice-presidential nomination jives to The Real Dick Cheney.The candidates themselves are not averse to getting down and dirty online. The Republicans have set upGorewillsayanything.com, a comprehensive list of negative attacks on the vice-president. The Republican National Committee produces the Goreinventionconvention.com andGorepollution.comsites, which are pretty self-explanatory. The Democrats have hit back with similarly aggressive sites such asIknowwhatyoudidinTexas.comandMillionairesforBush.com. The sites are considered significant enough by the parties for them to accuse each other bitterly of online negative campaigning.And while the big UK parties' sites have improved massively in the last year (the Labour party relaunched its site last week with live webcasts from the conference and full speeches), it's hard to imagine them displaying the flair and imagination - and cash - of their US counterparts. Some would say it's just a reflection of the difference in political culture. In the US, citizens demand access to information from their servants. In the UK, subjects accept what they are given and expect information to be handed to them.That is a view reflected by much of Britain's online political coverage. But I don't believe that. It's just up to the web to prove them wrong.&149; Simon Rogers is deputy editor of Guardian Unlimited
Favourite sites?Football 365.com is my favourite football site, but that's one of our own. The other sites I go to tend to reflect my own interests. One is old pop music, so I recommendexpectingrain.com, an unbelievably intense resource about Bob Dylan, that runs around 12 news stories a day about him. I also recommend woolyrockstars.com, where you can buy knitted models of Jimmy Hendrix, Dylan and the Beatles. eBay goes without saying. We loveeBay.Latest online purchase?I purchase a lot of stuff online, all to feed my sad obsessions. I last bought: a poster advertising a Duke Ellington concert, from eBay; an Evening Standard billboard announcing the death of Marc Bolan, and some football programmes. That's all true.Most recent technological faux pas?I cannot operate my new Sony video, which I've had for a year and a half. That's true as well.Main news sources on web?For general news I'm afraid I still use television. I risk the derision of small children in the streets by still being a fan of the BBC.Most persistent spam emailer?I do not regard anything as spam. I think it's communication, I think it's marketing. I like junk mail and I like spam, and this is the truth. I can   sort out useful pizza companies and minicab firms from useless Franklin mint material in a nanosecond.Time spent on web?I spend 10 hours a day on the web, between my work and my recreation.Next boo.com/clickmango?Anything that was launched to be puffed up, then sold on to some mug.Least useful site/s on web?The official sites of big organisations like Uefa and the IOC. These tend to be hi-tech arse-covering operations by people who don't want the public to know anything about their activities. That is the opposite of what the internet is good at.Most useful site?Those which join together people who have a shared passion but are geographically disparate.What screensaver do you use?It's of a band called MC5, a fantastic group. It's the opening section of their song, Kick Out The Jams. That and the opening speech from Taxi Driver are how I motivate myself in the morning.Most irritating thing about the web?That there's not enough rubbish on it.Do you bother with old media?I love the old media. I love television, radio, newspapers, magazines and cinema. I would love video if I could get the fucking thing to work.
&#149; Thank goodness for the internet, because without it we fillies wouldn't be able to pick up blokes. That's the upshot of a survey byNewWomanonline,  which claims that one in 10 women meet their lovers online. The results do nothing for the reputation of women on the internet, so it's bizarre to see that they come from a women's website and not the likes of MegaStar. Isn't it about time that men got a harder deal? Come on MegaStar, let's have a survey about how frequently men use the internet for looking at porn.&#149; Dot.com death of the week was Worldsport.com, the much beleaguered website set up by Alan Callan, a tax exile and one-time business manager for Led Zeppelin. As redundant staff besieged Media Guardian with calls to join them in the Pitcher &amp; Piano on Thursday afternoon, scurrilous rumours started to emerge about offshore accounts. It seems that tax and national insurance contributions have not been paid as far back as February and employees are not going to get paid for their last month's work. The more disgruntled and conspiracy theory-minded are already suggesting that the whole thing was some kind of tax dodge. So get ready for the dirty underwear.&#149; Speaking of dirty underwear, thanks to Surf at least one section of society is going to have immaculate drawers   - yep, time to talk about smelly ol' students again. Catch them on their first day in the overwhelming new world of college, give 'em some soap and get them for life - clever idea really. Make a website (surf.co.uk) into a soap opera, Foam &amp; Away (cos all students ever do is watch soaps), entertain them with Surf Foam club nights, and bob's your uncle - you have brand loyalty. Now why didn't someone think of that when I was a student?&#149; The dot.com quiz league (dotcomquiz.co.uk) kicks off this Thursday at the London club Fabric, promising to do for the new media industry what Question of Sport did to the world of sport. According to the bumf, it's a chance to show the world that there's more to working in the new economy than micro-scooters, goatee beards and a bag full of stock options. Wonder what it could be then? Apparently quiz master Mark Lamarr may know the answer ...&#149;  Halifax has pulled the launch of its IF internet bank for the third time, making a valiant attempt at apeing last year's scarlet pimpernel of the web, boo.com - and we all know what happened once boo.com did launch. At the end of the week Halifax said it was able to launch a phone service, but didn't give a date for the launch of the internet bank. Oh dear.&#149;   Amy Vickers is new media editor of mediaguardian.co.uk. Email her atAmy.vickers@guardian.co.uk
Sony Corporation's products are the stuff of the  Zeitgeist of the consumer age. Walkmans, Discmans, laptops and most recently WAP phones, marketed to the dance generation, have let Sony promote itself - despite the scale of its operations - as the funky face of global enterprise.There have, of course, been a few hiccups in the company's glossy corporate image - notably George Michael's highly publicised and successful extrication from his Sony recording contract, amid accusations of Sony's suits stifling and bullying the creative urge. But it has done little to take the shine off a generation's favourite manufacturer. In Prague last week the eco-warriors weren't stomping their Walkmans. Anti-capitalist activists carried placards lambasting McDonald's, but it is the sort of stick Sony has avoided.All that is likely to change, however, as news gets around that the entertainment and technology giant advocates spying on eco-friendly groups who criticise those same sleek, ergonomic lines on its products.It sounds like something out of a futuristic dystopia. It is also true. Earlier this summer, to representatives of the European Information and Communications Technology Industry Association in Brussels, Andrew Baynes, project manager at Sony International (Europe), made Sony's pitch against eco-activism. Sony's problem with the greenies is this: its products contain toxins and are difficult to dispose of. Environmentalists would like tougher controls. Sony wants to avoid them.Its strategy is outlined in a leaked paper currently doing the rounds of the alternative internet community. Titled 'NGO Strategy', it bears all the Cold War histrionics of J. Edgar Hoover's G-Men. The document discloses the names, contacts and internet addresses of leading environmental groups that pose a public relations threat to the company - the Northern Alliance for Sustainability, Greenpeace, the European Environment Bureau, the Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition and Friends of the Earth.The electronics industry, including Sony, has been fighting efforts by environmentalists who would prefer the manufacturers to take responsibility for environmental and health hazards of product disposal. In the EU, these efforts have culminated in the European Commission Directive on Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment - or WEEE. The proposed law would force manufacturers such as Sony to take financial responsibility for managing their products throughout their life   cycle, a period that includes disposal. Compulsory targets for collection will be set in 2006 - when between 70 and 90 per cent by weight of all collected equipment must be recycled or re-used. The directive would further propose the phasing out by 2008 of mercury, lead, cadmium and other toxic chemicals commonly used by the electronics industry.The cost to the electronics industry could be astronomical. And since the European legislation surfaced several years ago, the American Electronic Association - an industrial umbrella organisation for more than 3,000 companies, including IBM, Microsoft, Motorola and Intel - has launched a major offensive against extended producer responsibility. The AEA says the legislation contradicts World Trade Organisation code.Sony's presentation makes for sobering reading - after three global demonstrations in the last year, are NGOs still to be characterised as subversive operatives? 'NGO Activity to watch out for!' reads page five - with added links to literature published online by Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace. The environmental organisations are further identified as 'highly active' and 'well organised' with a 'global reach'.'Don't wait!!' is the mandate from the Sony report to company personnel. Sony's recommendation is the hiring of corporate press officers as rapid reaction units. And the preparation of industry-wide template responses - as opposed to the dribs and drabs of contradicting information usually associated with press offices.So far, you might think, Sony's is the response indicative of any corporate behemoth facing the prospect of having to take responsibility for its products. But then follows the punch line. The presentation suggests the electronics industry employ 'web investigation agencies' as a solution to pesky online critics. London-based Infonic Plc are the web snoops recommended by Sony.Infonic's website is a defiant call to arms for blue-chip companies besieged by online activists following the swell of protests in Seattle, Washington and, more recently, Prague. 'Suddenly a company's voice is no longer louder than that of its leading critics. Activists, customers, journalists and employees are talking to each other like never before, with big business finding it increasingly difficult to stay in the conversation.'The internet detectives boast few morals in terms of the clients they take on. Infonic first rose to prominence when the company was hired by Shell International to decipher the internet as a barometer for public opinion in the aftermath of Greenpeace's victorious occupation of the Brent Spar oil platform in 1995. Other clients featured on the company website include   British Airways, Levis Strauss &amp; Co and Unilever.The use of internet trawlers like Infonic to specifically monitor NGOs sets a precedent in the commercial sector. The monitoring of internet-friendly activists has, in recent years, taken on an alarming momentum. The Big Brother of internet investigation agencies, America's E:Watch, helps more than 800 of the world's largest corporations keep track of their reputations across cyberspace. A watchful eye on the antics of corporate protesters, naturally, is a priority. E:Watch clients include the H. J. Heinz company and Northwest Airlines. 'You'll hear rumours before they start to spread,' assures its website. 'You'll be among the first to find out about negative or inaccurate information - instead of the last.'Commercial companies using internet detectives to snoop around the websites of their detractors? It sounds like an alarming development in the information war. Until now, the activities of protest groups have traditionally been monitored by governmental agencies. Last May, the Paris-based 'Intelligence Newsletter' reported that reserve units from US Army Intelligence were deployed to monitor the 16-18 April protests against the IMF and World Bank in Washington. 'The Pentagon sent around 700 men from the Intelligence and Security Command at Fort Belvoir, Virginia, to assist the Washington police on 17 April, including specialists in human and signals intelligence,' the report said.According to the newsletter, activist files are being circulated via the Regional Information Sharing System, a networked database used by 5,300 law enforcement agencies in the US, the FBI, the US Drug Enforcement Administration, the Internal Revenue Service, the Secret Service, US Customs and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. The activities of anarchic groups detailed by RISS include findings on Greenpeace, the American Indian Movement and the Zapatista National Liberation Front.Sony's advocacy of Infonic, on the face of it, might not amount to anything more than a smear campaign against the likes of Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth. But environmental organisations that rely on funding for survival could find themselves crippled in the face of unsubstantiated rumours. 'People on the boards of foundations are very much part of the establishment,' says Iza Kruszewska, spokesperson for the Northern Alliance for Sustainability. 'Big corporations hold a powerful sway over their opinions on funding NGOs.'The nervous shiver that characterises the language employed by the Sony report has been met with mild bemusement by the various environmental organisations named within its pages. California's Silicon Valley Toxic Coalition employs no more than 14 staffers at its San Jose offices. 'There's little need for web investigation agencies,' laughs Ted Smith, its executive director. 'We're hardly a Fortune 500 company. If they want to know anything about us, all Sony has to do is read our website.'
Technology can never be a magic wand. The science of  Star Trek offers no foundation on which to build a networked society, nor any clue on how to manage the transition of UK business from a manufacturing- to an information-based economy.It is the Prime Minister's wish to make Britain the best place in Europe for e-business. In many commercial respects we have already arrived. However, as a political ambition, this raises much more than a question of simple business evolution, as revealed by the recent launch of the UK Online project, which aims to digitally enfranchise the entire population in two years.As a society, if we are to embrace both the tyranny and promise of the internet, every institution, public and private, will have to face huge challenges for which many are unprepared. Earlier this year, Tony Blair appointed senior civil servant Alex Allan as the UK's first e-envoy. Allan was given the Herculean challenge of bridging the gap between business,   government and technology; the greater part of of this involved dragging many public sector agencies from the nineteenth straight into the twentyfirst century.Allan has resigned for personal reasons, and this leaves a question mark over the succession. Should a role as important as this be a Cabinet appointment, a civil service appointment, or an appointment based on merit, experience and ability alone?Several names have already been suggested. Jim Norton, director of e-commerce at the Institute of Directors, narrowly lost to Allan on the first occasion and appears reluctant to include his name again. Norton has said the e-envoy's role is not one job but several and that there 'are only so many hours in the day'. On Thursday he endorsed the   surprise candidacy of Richard Barrington, the e-envoy's director of industry, a technology evangelist on secondment from Sun Microsystems and a popular choice for IT companies and publications.Barrington works alongside Anne Steward, director of the CITU, and another strong potential candidate. On secondment from the Australian government, Steward is the author of a review of government IT projects and has played an important part in the design of the UK On-line portal.More likely to be the first choice of the civil service, Steward lacks the soap-box evangelism of Barrington, but between them they have much of the political and technical experience the role requires.If reports are correct, Blair appears to be considering expanding the role of Patricia Hewitt, the small business Minister, to include the office of the e-envoy. Creating a place for an e-Cabinet Minister may not be wise, as a single point of ownership for the collective responsibility of   our digital future looks about as attractive as responsibility for the Millennium Dome.Following on from an embattled party conference, a clever choice of e-envoy could be a positive result for the Prime Minister and offer a convenient boost to business and public confidence in the Government's plans for a digital economy - finally wiping away the shadow of the RIP Bill and other contentious e-business-related legislation.The last thing I would advise Blair to consider is another political or civil service appointment to a role that requires its own unique degree of latitude and independence.There is no map to follow in marking out the hazy boundaries of a wired society. The role of e-envoy demands an energetic person, one capable of expressing a collective vision of progress and policy, supported by a management team that can inspire, encourage and facilitate the enormous changes required by both public and private sector initiatives.With the open competition for the post starting in just over a week, and an appointment expected towards the end of next month, it's time the Government demonstrated evidence of thinking 'outside of the box'.
Picture the future frontline of the automobile war. Scene one. You're gridlocked on the M25 for more than an hour. By the time you come off Britain's longest car park you've bought some shares, booked a restaurant and arranged to view a house for sale nearby. As you leave the motorway a voice from the car's onboard computer directs you to the property.Scene two. Your car has overturned. You're unconscious, but the airbag has cushioned the impact, and triggered an alarm system which alerted the emergency services. The ambulance will find you, because the car has a global positioning system.Scene three. The petrol   tank is low. A display beamed on to your rear-view mirror shows you the nearest petrol station which is offering you a free car wash.Scene four. Although you don't know it, a car accident 15 miles ahead means you are heading for long delays. A screen built into your dashboard plots an alternative route. Meanwhile, your engine's computer diagnostics system uses the internet to book the car in for a check-up at your local garageFanciful? Maybe now, but not in five years' time. Telematics - providing information and services to cars using telecommunications - is new in Britain now, but it is set to be the Next Big Thing. It is   already being talked about in the hushed tones analysts used to describe e-commerce five years ago.The predictions made for the exponential growth rate of telematics business are astounding. One of the biggest players in the market, US-based firm Delphi, suggests that half of all new cars could have telematic devices fitted as standard by 2005.The Economist Intelligence Unit predicts that more than 4 million cars sold in Western Europe in 2005 will have onboard navigation systems. And analysts at Deutsche Bank predicts that the telematics market will grow from $1 billion in 1998 to $42bn in 2010.Turning cars into mobile super computers is driven by forecasts of unprecedented congestion. Telematics help drivers find ways around the jams or, failing that, connects them to the wired world so that while stuck in traffic, they can communicate as efficiently as if they were at home or in the office. After all, some people practically live in their cars already. US consumers spend a whopping 500 million hours a week in their vehicles. In Europe, between 50 and 70 per cent of all mobile phone minutes are accounted for by drivers.Apart from cutting journey times, telematics' proponents argue that it reduces anxiety. 'When drivers know the nature and extent of a problem, they get less stressed about it,' said Bill McIntosh, financial director at Traffic-master, the UK company rolling out a pan-European vehicle navigation system.The firm's roadside sensors monitor the state of traffic. The information is processed and sent to drivers, via either mobile phones or devices built into cars. Trafficmaster users can also opt to pay for a tracking system that monitors vehicles' whereabouts - handy for, say, haulage firms worried about thefts.But it is not just technically savvy companies such as Trafficmaster which are excited about telematics. The big motor manufacturers, are disciples too, hoping that sales of this hi-tech kit will   improve their tight margins.General Motors is attempting to dominate the market with its OnStar system. Originally available only on GM luxury models, OnStar has been developed from a navigation and emergency response system to embrace other multimedia functions, such as video and email.Significantly, GM is offering other carmakers the chance to fit OnStar, which suggests the firm will soon look to float off this business.Analysts at Deutsche Bank predicted last May that OnStar could generate revenues of $4bn by 2005.Meanwhile, rival Ford's Connect telematics system could be worth $3.2bn in five years. Earlier this year Ford unveiled prototype cars called 24-7s. These all have integrated telematic systems which, apart from turning vehicles into something like    Kit, the camp-sounding onboard computer featured in the TV series  Knight Rider,  allow you to 'personalise' your car interior using a voice activation system. Want a pink dashboard? Just tell the car that's the mood you're in.The Economist Intelligence Unit says around 20 per cent of the value of an executive's car is based on its electronics systems. By 2005 this will reach 30 per cent.In addition, motor manufacturers know that by developing telematics systems they can can cut content deals with information providers and generate subscription revenues, so easing the cyclical nature of their industry. Ford already has a deal with AOL, while GM has Yahoo! on its side.But will the likes of Ford and GM be able dominate the telematics industry in the long run? McIntosh said: 'The   debate will be about who controls the customers. It will be interesting to see whether it is the car manufacturers or the telecoms companies. It's difficult to see how that works out, because the two sectors' planning cycles are very different, and putting anything into a car takes up to five years.'So far the car industry as a whole has been extremely slow in cornering the market. Only 2 per cent of car phones are fitted by the manufacturer; the rest are fitted later.Big mobile phone firms are on the prowl. Vodafone, for instance, has a dedicated telematics arm, and is planning to launch its own vehicle tracking service. The mobile phone giant is talking to a number of carmakers about supplying onboard telematic systems as standard, although it declines to comment on specifics.But the danger is that drivers could soon have too much information. 'The industry needs to be focused,' McIntosh said. 'All this infotainment such as "where's the nearest hotel, petrol station or golf course" - where do you draw the line? Clearly, there is an issue of driver overload. There's only a certain amount of information that they can efficiently handle. Safety analysts are now starting to look at telematics.'Nevertheless, telematics is ripe for growth. The words 'information superhighway' have just taken on a whole new meaning.
A man walks into a bar... Why blondes are stupid... What a woman really means when she says... Has anybody seen my pen? No, I haven't gone all Virginia Woolf on you. This isn't my stream of consciousness, it's what you're likely to find in your email in-tray when you return to work after a two-week holiday.And your heart sinks as you scroll down 328 unread messages. Two hours later you're still working your way through them: inane jokes, inane responses to inane jokes, inane responses to the responses.Occasionally, you'll come across something of import: a date for a meeting, a message from a client, a reminder that you've got an appraisal next week.By the time you've stored and deleted where appropriate, it's lunchtime. Start work and every thought will be interrupted by that familiar ping, as another email drops into your in-tray.Steven Roberts, a freelance copywriter, is concerned by the impact email has had on office communication. "Recently," he recalls, "I was working in the offices of a large television company. Nobody spoke to each other - virtually all information was communicated by email. Several times, I announced to my boss that I'd finished a job, only to be told to repeat this information by email and then to await my next instructions by email too. And my boss was sitting right next to me!"I'm old enough (just) to remember the days before email became a ubiquitous feature in the workplace. The days when people spoke to each other, arranged meetings using diaries and only asked the appropriate person if they had a query, not the entire company.I'm not a Luddite. I can navigate my way round the web, possess a fax and a mobile phone and, as I write this, digital television is being installed in my living room. But I can't be the only person who feels that email is taking over the office, at the cost of conversation and efficiency.According to the experts, I'm being alarmist. Psychologist Guy Fielding, a communications specialist at Oxford University, does not agree that email is replacing other forms of office communication. "Most people mistakenly believe in the substitution model for how communication channels work," he says. "We think that when a new form of communication comes along it eliminates the others - the telephone, for example, stops people travelling to see each other or writing letters."There's a lot of evidence that this isn't the case. In fact, people who use the telephone the most also travel the most - and every year the number of letters sent increases by 5% to 10%."Guy believes all channels of communication work as a network, feeding each other. For example, the person you're most likely to telephone is someone you already know face to face. And phonecalls are often made to set up face-to-face meetings."When you introduce a new communications medium like email, it has more of an impact on  how the other channels are used, not on whether they're used," he states. "People shift some of their activity out of the old channels but continue to use them, but only for the purpose best suited to them."The problem is that this process can take time. When a new medium is first introduced, people get a little over-excited about its potential, which leads to overuse - hence the flurry of email jokes, chain letters and inane messages wending their way around your office.Blame it on the innovators of the system, says Guy. "Naturally, they claim it's the system to replace all other systems, but that's not true. In the first flush of enthusiasm people try to do everything using the new medium."After a while they learn it doesn't work. When they return to the old systems, their use is refined because they've added another channel of communication. Email is not destructive of other forms of communication. In fact, it probably has the opposite effect."Adam Joinson, a psychologist at the Open University, says that far from inhibiting or disrupting office   communication, email has many benefits. "It's a great tool for brainstorming, decision-making and getting diverse groups in organisations - such as marketing and accounts - to talk to each other. If someone puts you on the spot by asking a question, you may answer rashly.But using email gives you the time to craft a sensible, articulate response. It's also a great aid to memory: rather than reminding people one by one of a meeting organised weeks ago, you can send a single email."Adam believes that we tend to over-emphasise how great face-to-face communication is. "When you listen to people talking face-to-face, most of it is not as coherent as you'd expect. In speech, a lot is implied. But in writing you have to focus on your message and spell it out."Adam has just completed a study comparing levels of self-disclosure in email and face-to-face communication. In the first part of the study, people using a computer chat programme were compared with a group talking face to face. Observers rated how many times they self-disclosed in the course of the conversation. The result? The people using email disclosed four times as much as those conversing face-to-face.The second part of the study compared email users with those using email and a video-conferencing camera. Again, those who couldn't see each other disclosed more. "Being able to see each other   actually reduces the amount of social communication," says Adam. "When they can't see each other, people are more focused and less concerned about being judged. We spend a lot of time focusing on controlling our non-verbal communication - maintaining eye contact, the way we sit, the tone of our voice etc. When using email we can concentrate on the message, not the way we present it."Email is a great tool for breaking down boundaries. Disability, accent, ethnic origin, dress sense and attractiveness become irrelevant. Instead - and this is the downside - we are judged on the speed of our response and our way with words.Adam says workers need to be trained in email use. "Research has shown that people who have problems with the amount of emails coming in don't know how to organise them into folders. People aren't properly trained in who to send messages to, or basic email etiquette - like not sending jokes or requests to everyone. Bosses should teach their staff to only check their emails a certain number of times per day so they're not constantly being interrupted."Many workplaces are cracking down on email use, by forbidding chain emails and personal messages. Adam says that it's important to maintain a balance, so that the social benefits of email aren't lost. "If email use is too tightly controlled, it will stop brainstorming and the forming of communities."
Ever wanted to trade stocks and watch television while sitting on the toilet? ThenSony'slatest wireless gadget could be for you.The Japanese hi-tech firm yesterday launched a    portable screen that can be used to surf the internet, send email and watch TV, billing it as the digital era's answer to its revolutionary Walkman personal stereo. The Airboard, a sleek, lightweight 26cm monitor that comes with a base station   to receive information, enables users to roam around the house and as far as the garden while staying connected and entertained.Trading stocks while visiting the bathroom was listed as one of the Airboard's possible uses, as    well as browsing the net or watching a video while cooking dinner. "There has been nothing like this in the world," said Shizuo Takashino, a director in charge of Sony's home electronics division.
