Crime. On your computer. Geddit? Photo byalancleaver_2000on Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFighting Cybercrime Today &gt;&gt; TrendLabsAnthony Arrott: "For example, in just one day—September 14, 2010—we received 6.2 billion reputation queries for email. We blocked 4.4 billion. For Web reputation, we received 41 billion queries. We blocked 585 million. With this amount of information, we're able to acquire in-depth data that helps protect our customers and provides insight into the current threat landscape." Fascinating view of spam- and cybercrime-fighting.Nokia N8 hits the streets (photos) &gt;&gt; Nokia Conversations"Today [Oct 1] was a special day for many folk as they were the first to get their hands on the brand new Nokia N8. Stores in Helsinki, Beijing, Shanghai and Moscow were packed as eager customers queued up to get their hands on the new N8."The new stats pages on AMO, or how I learned to love HTML5/CSS3/new JS APIs &gt;&gt; Mozilla Webdev"A lot of the demos of HTML5 and its associated trappings spend great effort trying to visually dazzle, and it's way too easy to write it all off as nothing but eye candy. What people forget is that a lot of the new features in modern web browsers have practical ways to make the development process cleaner, the user experience faster, and the end-result more sophisticated."'The Social Network': A Review Of Aaron Sorkin's Film About Facebook And Mark Zuckerberg &gt;&gt; Larry LessigWriting in the New Republic, the highly rated law professor isn't impressed.stop @mentions &gt;&gt; paper.liWhile it's nice for some people to know that they have a mention in the "paper.li" daily "papers", others don't like it so much - and this is the page where you can stop them.Google lateris nescis &gt;&gt; Kottke.org"Lorem ipsum" is how placeholder text begins when you want to fill a page with meaningless but apparently English-like text. But now that Google Translate can translate Latin to English, we can find out what it means.. right?First reaction to Microsoft patent infringement action against Motorola over Android &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsUnimpressed is the short version. Plenty of good links there makes it informative.Microsoft Files Patent Infringement Action Against Motorola &gt;&gt; Microsoft.com"Microsoft filed an action today in the International Trade Commission and in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington against Motorola, Inc. for infringement of nine Microsoft patents by Motorola's Android-based smartphones."Ah, and so it begins.ZBot gang suspects arrested in the Ukraine &gt;&gt; Graham Cluley's blog"It's certainly encouraging to see the computer crime cops around the globe working closely in partnership to tackle the increasingly organised nature of international cybercrime rings."After all, these crimes are no small beer. The scam being investigated by the authorities is said to have resulted in more than $200 million being stolen from consumers and businesses."cssPad: an iPad made with CSS using Quplo &gt;&gt; Quplo"I made it so I can use HTML and CSS for prototyping interactive apps before building them in XCode, as HTML and CSS are an ideal and flexible way to prototype."Some Android apps caught covertly sending GPS data to advertisers &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"The results of a study conducted by researchers from Duke University, Penn State University, and Intel Labs have revealed that a significant number of popular Android applications transmit private user data to advertising networks without explicitly asking or informing the user."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
An image from the Fotopedia Heritage initiative.At a Royal Society symposium on web science this week, Tim Berners-Lee let slip an interesting observation. Many people, said the web's inventor, no longer make a distinction between Facebook and the web. My guess is that these people are mainly teenagers – those whose experience of cyberspace is coloured by the fact that the first thing they encountered online was social networking. They started withBeboandMySpaceand then graduated toFacebook. And there they have stayed.So, for them, Facebook is where it's at. That explains why they no longer use email, for example, except – grudgingly – to collect official communications from school or college. Most of their electronic communications are routed either via text messaging or Facebook updates. Almost all teenage party invitations now come via Facebook, which has also become the logbook of their lives. When it was announced a couple of weeks ago thatFlickr, the photo-hosting site, had hosted its five billionth picture, someone pointed out smugly that Facebook already has over three times that number.The trouble is that many of those 15bn pictures look very similar. A few days ago I ran into one of my nieces whom I hadn't seen for a while. She's a lively, sociable young woman and had recently returned from spending an enjoyable summer in Cape Cod. I asked if she had any photographs. "Sure," she said, launching her Facebook page, where there was an album of 150 images, which on inspection turned out to be a succession of more or less identical images of young men and women wearing silly grins and making faces at the camera.Two things struck me about this album. The first was that it contained not a single image of Cape Cod. The other was how her photographs reminded me of those which appear on the Facebook pages of my own teenage children – which leads one to conjecture that there is now a "Facebook style" of photography, as distinctive in its way as that of the passport or wedding photograph.Many parents are astonished, nay horrified, by this Facebook style which, they fear, will endanger their children's employment prospects. After all, are not the tabloids full of stories of job applicants being confronted at interview with images, taken from Facebook albums, of themselves in flagrante? But I suspect that this is a generational concern; what today's parents forget is that tomorrow's interview panels will  comprise people who were themselves once captured in flagrante on Facebook – and will therefore have a lower shock-horror threshold.Adult concerns about the way teenagers wittingly – or unwittingly – compromise their privacy on Facebook rest on more solid foundations. The company's eventual prosperity depends on being able to sell personal details to advertisers, and so the site's default privacy settings are set to maximise the probability that those details will be available. Mark Zuckerberg and co know that something like 90% of internet users tend to accept the default settings on their software.Among Facebook's 15bn photographs there are, no doubt, some memorable and beautiful images, but to date I haven't seen any. That's not true of Flickr, which continues to be one of the wonders of the world and hosts hundreds of thousands of terrific pictures. More significantly, an increasing proportion of them are published under a Creative Commons licence, which means that they can be freely used for non-commercial purposes. This means that Flickr has become an astonishing resource for anyone who needs pictures for presentations or other purposes.As an example of what's now possible as a result isFotopedia Heritagewhich is basically the world's first endless coffee-table book. Itcame from an ideaby Jean-Marie Hullot, who was chief technology officer of NeXT, the company Steve Jobs set up when he was ousted from Apple in 1985. When Jobs returned to Apple in 1997, Hullot came with him and played some unspecified role in the resuscitation of the company's product lines.After retiring from Apple, he had a neat idea: to gather CC-licensed images of Unesco world heritage sites from Flickr, select the best and blend them with text drawn from Wikipedia and Unesco to create a ravishing – and free –iPad and iPhone app. At one level, the app is just an amazing example of what can be done with user-generated content. But it's also an indicator of how time-honoured genres might be enhanced. At its best, the elaborate, beautifully printed coffee-table book is one of the glories of Gutenberg's technology. But such books are expensive, heavy and finite. M. Hullot's venture reminds one that books no longer have to be limited in size: his app can continue to expand as more good images become available. But somehow I can't see them ever coming from Facebook.
Civilization Vis the best kind of strategy game: it's easy to pick up and the range of difficulty options will accommodate newcomers through to veteran armchair generals, while looking and sounding magnificent. Challenging you to create the most advanced society possible, a central tenet is the freedom to choose your path to success. Trample over enemies (and allies, should you wish) and conquer the world by force with a powerful army, or take a pragmatic approach by collaboration with neighbours to earn a diplomatic victory at the UN. Either way,Civilizationhas its title at its heart: take a remote, primeval tribe and turn it into a world-dominating, space-exploring superpower with, in the case ofV, laser-shooting Giant Death Robots thrown in.While this basic game premise has remained unchanged through the series, the interface here is much improved. Maps are now defined by hexagonal tiles, rather than squares, holding only a single combat unit, vulnerable against stronger enemies. Meanwhile, attacking from range is also available. Small communities may be invaded or befriended in order to gain freedom of entry on to their land and a few features from earlier editions have been dropped, such as the emphasis on religion and espionage, neither of which had a great impact. There are occasional AI glitches, but thisCivilizationis the ultimate in the genre.
After a dismal decade of uninspiringFifareleases, sending fickle gamers scampering to rival Konami'sPro Evolution Soccer, EA rediscovered its form two seasons ago, their title reinvigorated with a new look and feel, while Konami somewhat lost its way.Fifa's resurgence brought with it exquisite ball control, realistic player movements and challenging, but convincing, computer opposition, proving a deadly combination with its licence from the organising body offering all the rights to real player names, tournaments and stadiums.Two seasons later and the adjustments have become more subtle, fine-tuning the gameplay to feel more physical both when fending off defenders while dribbling and retaining possession, or when competing for the ball in defence.Fifa 11also moves away from this summer's World Cup edition, which shifted the emphasis towards attacking football, making it far too easy to score, while also drastically overestimating the England team's ability. Instead, the play is more balanced; sending passes fizzing across the turf feels more deliberate, allowing you to build up Arsenal-like moves before delivering a through ball with pinpoint accuracy to the elusive strikers.Heading the ball, a skill never quite mastered in previous games, is more controllable, making taller and more powerful players essential; shooting is similarly more realistic. Drives from outside the area are harder to keep down while retaining power, placement shots more dependent on player skill, timing and precision. Which only makes scoring even more satisfying, after which you can throw yourself into outlandish celebrations – although only the most athletic players are able to perform the more acrobatic manoeuvres, such as back flips.The in-game mechanics are significantly improved then, but it is inFifa's multiplayer mode that the football comes to life. The magnitude of EA's global enterprise is showcased by the stability of its online network, which rarely falters when playing one-on-one or, during the new 11-a-side matches, playing in a single position as your chosen player. In which mode, far from being the short straw, the latest addition of playing in goal is, in fact, a technical and engaging role requiring quick reactions, an eye for the flow of the game and an understanding of positioning to pressure oncoming forwards. To the football gaming veteran, all these improvements are both important and successful. It's undoubtedly the bestFifayet – just don't write off Konami yet.
The two biggest football franchises in gaming – EA'SFifaand Konami'sPro Evolution Soccer(PES) – have been going head-to head for more than a decade. Each, appropriately for the genre, generates fierce rivalry among fans dedicated to supporting their chosen title. So, as the two face off once again, which has the edge this year?After years of lacklustreFifareleases, EA rediscovered its form two seasons ago with a new look and feel. We got exquisite ball control, realistic player movements and challenging, but convincing, computer opposition – a deadly combination with its licence from the organising body, which gives it all the rights to real player names, tournaments and stadiums.WithFifa 11(Xbox 360, PS3, Wii, PC, cert: 3, out now), the adjustments have become more subtle, fine-tuning the gameplay to feel substantially more physical, both when fending off defenders or competing for the ball. It also moves away from summer'sWorld Cupedition, which made it far too easy to score. The play is more balanced, sending crisp passes across the turf feels more deliberate, allowing you to build up moves before delivering through balls. Heading, a skill never quite mastered in previous versions, is more controllable, making tall and powerful players essential. Shooting is also more realistic with drives from outside the area harder to keep down while retaining power and placement – emphasising skill, timing and precision. This makes scoring more satisfying and goal celebrations all the more acrobatic.In multiplayer mode the football comes to life. EA's global enterprise is showcased by the stability of its online network, which rarely falters when playing one-on-one or, during the new 11-a-side matches, as your chosen player. To which has been added the chance to play in goal – an engaging role requiring quick reactions and an eye for the flow of the game. To the football gaming veteran, these improvements are both important and successful; it's undoubtedly the bestFifato date. But no reason to write off Konami just yet …PES 2011(Xbox 360, PS3, PC, Wii, cert: 3, out Friday) feels like a long lost friend: familiar, but different – eager to win back fans. The new clean-looking menus and the exhaustive management selection options are an immediate improvement; a far cry from the garish screens from last year. But it's on the pitch thatPESshines.PES10was virtually unplayable, with frustrating player movement and hopeless ball control, yet the entirely new player modelling and movement system, rebuilt having asked fans for their ideas, feels both responsive and reassuring – faithful to thePESof old.Players not used to Konami's title may struggle initially to make the game flow, due to the uncompromising sensitivity of the "total control" 360-degree movement system and power gauge, which offers negligible auto-assist. Errant passes are frequent, by over- or under-hitting the ball, while movement of your player and teammates can feel almost too precise and mechanical. This may offer better player control, allowing dribbling past defenders with ease, but can leave you out of position and looks unconvincing next toFifa's seamless choreography. Defender AI has improved though, with improved player physics to enable jostling, blocking and deflections to give the game an unpredictable realism.This blends well with the truly awesome experience of thunderous shots rifled in from 30 yards – moments unrivalled byFifa– and the effortlessly cool tricks, feints and skills that make up for Konami's restricted licensing. But the sketchy online experience and occasion graphical glitch remain an irritation.At the end of the day, it's a close call, so perhaps the question is: which will you still be playing in six months time? An edge that has to go to Fifa (see below) but PES is a vast improvement, which bodes well for a franchise that only recently looked like it was on its way out. The rivalry continues and football fans, who know a thing or two about that, are all the richer for it.
Bad Cover VersionsPerhaps having only just recovered from hearing Creep turned into a soul ballad on X Factor, Radiohead fans should gird themselves for more misery here – as first Peter Gabriel then Jamie Callum turn their back catalogue into bland mush. With categories including "jazz funk kills kittens" and "rampant foolhardiness", Bad Cover Versions collects the very worst offenders in musical history for your displeasure. A common strand is pop stars attempting to become more credible by covering their cooler contemporaries – a tradition that stretches from Mika's murdering of Massive Attack's Teardrop to Olivia Newton-John's massacre of Johnny Cash's Ring Of Fire. We're also treated to the final word on the Who's My Generation by pop princess Hilary Duff, who sees fit to change the line "I hope I die before I get old" to the more accessible "I hope I don't die before I get old".Sorry I Haven't PostedSorry I Haven't Posted.Starting but not sticking with blogs is as common a guilty phenomenon as starting but not finishing the novels of Sebastian Faulks. And so, the worldwide web is full of personal blogs that have lain dormant for weeks, months or even years. Occasionally though, these blogs spring back to life, inevitably beginning again with an apology for not posting for so long. Here, digital artist Cory Arcangel curates and reposts a collection of the finest inspiring apologies/excuses from across the internet by bloggers who have discovered they have better things to do with their time – from people who have been too busy "working on my Queen musical" or their "Megan Fox Sim" to recovering from heart attacks to preferring to use their spare time sunbathing and washing their car.Blog roll: StageCast Albums.Cast AlbumsNews of rereleased original cast musical soundtrack albums.West End WhingersFabulously funny reviews of Passion, Paint Never Dries (AKA Love Never Dies) and other West End hits and flops.Blogging ShakespeareBard discussions including his finest stage directions and his best female characters.UnlimitedA Leeds theatre group chronicles the production of space travel show for kids.Shenton's ViewA critic's life from the perils of restricted view tickets to the "flip flop paradigm".Guardian Theatre BlogThe Barbican's snack menu and other pressing matters discussed.What we learned on the web this weekWhere Good Ideas Come From.Where good ideascome fromMike Tyson thinksEarl Grey sucks but toast has a purposeA secure wayto search the internetDr Seusscoined the word nerdWhenthe Pet Shop Boys went miniPeoplewho became nounsWhere to searchfor the phrase "I cheated on my wife"The taxonomyof rap namesShia LeBeoufcan't pronounce epitomeThe worst gigof Bill Hicks's careerHowShazam worksWhat Europelooks like to Americans
On a recent trip to Sweden, I was told that Germans look on&nbsp;Sweden as "a&nbsp;kind of Germany-lite". I&nbsp;don't doubt this is true in many respects, but surely not in matters of cinema (Bergman), theatre (Strindberg) and cars (Volvo). In these areas, at least, the Swedes' reputation is reassuringly heavy.Think of Volvo and words such as&nbsp;"substantial" and "dependable" and "sturdy" come to mind, synonyms essentially for "weighty". To put it&nbsp;another way, you don't think "sporty", "sharp", "responsive".The new S60 is an attempt to reverse that word association and, in&nbsp;the process, target the mid-range saloon segment dominated by those patronising Germans. In a novel variation ofStockholm syndrome, the Swedes have taken on the visual outlook of their market captors.When the first models were produced 10 years ago, the S60 was conceived as a departure from the Volvo's traditional boxy body. But it was a rather conservative attempt at innovation, like trying a new image by selecting a wider necktie. This new, wedgier, more compact look is more casual, more open collar. Inside, there's plenty of the kind of cool comfort for which Swedish interiors are justly celebrated – in the front, at least. The back seats are where the condensed, sloping style has taken its ergonomic toll – ideal if you've a stroppy colleague to bring down to size; otherwise, a child-only zone.As for its more adventurous profile, the S60 D3 suggests an oomph that it doesn't quite deliver. This is no major criticism, because it's far from slouchy, but you wouldn't want to find yourself in a getaway-from-the-lights scenario with some snarling youth in a GTi. Of course, if you did want to find yourself in that manner, your identity crisis would probably not be best served by a Volvo.My only real beef with the car is the console. Its appearance is fine – it appears simple and accessible – but appearances can be misleading. When you realise that, in an attempt to navigate the navigation system, you've adjusted the air-conditioning, and in trying to rectify your mistake, you've changed the radio station, you know that all is not ideal.Given that cars are nowadays all pretty easy to drive, what often makes the difference is the simplicity of the controls console. So it's odd that they should often, as in this case, seem designed in violent opposition to the concept of digital logic.The other small gripe is the electric handbrake. I know they're space-saving, but a switch you can't feel is a switch you can easily forget. By contrast, a manual handbrake is sturdy and dependable – rather like old Volvos. As Bergman knew, sometimes heaviness is necessary.Volvo S60 D3 SE PremiumPrice£27,295Top speed137mphAcceleration0-60mph 8.7 secondsAverage consumption53.3mpgCO2 emissions139g/kmEco rating7/10Bound forCompany car parksIn a wordGermanic
India has rejected a proposal by Research In Motion, the maker of the BlackBerry smartphone, to allow security authorities limited access to corporate email used by its customers.According to an internal memo leaked to India's Economic Times newspaper, India's telecommunications ministry said security agencies had been unable to access communications sent via corporate emails and on the device's BlackBerry Messenger service.India had threatened RIM with a blackout on BlackBerry communicationsin the country, as authorities pushed for access to messages sent between devices, citing fears that the level of encryption on the handsets could aid terrorist activity. The Canada-based manufacturer, which has approximately 800,000 customers in India, appeared to accede to government demands by allowing access to the Messenger service at the beginning of September, while talks about access to the high-security corporate email service continued.The news will bring a fresh blow to RIM amid reports of progress between the two sides. India had said it would test the feasibility of RIM's concessions throughout October and November. The internal memo reportedly showed RIM to have told the Indian telecommunications ministry that it cannot – for technical reasons – hand authorities a key to access encrypted emails.RIM's high security is obtained because it uses 256-bit encryption on messages and data sent between its servers and devices. It is thought that it could not give the Indian government unfettered access to some devices, because that would imply supplying the codes which could unlock any message.Speaking to the Guardian last month, Leif-Olof Wallin, a vice president of the IT research company Gartner,saidthat the complexity and range of security solutions offered by RIM may be the source of friction and misunderstanding with government authorities. "What seems to be the big challenge is that lots of BlackBerry service and infrastructure is not very well understood by the regulatory authorities or by its users," Wallin said. "Although physically it is the same device, it can be used in lots of different scenarios."RIM today declined to comment, though the company has previously said its negotiations with governments over increased access to data transmitted between BlackBerry devices would abide to four principles: that it was legal, that there would be "no greater access" to BlackBerry services than other services, that there would be no changes in the security for Enterprise customers, and that it would not make "specific deals for specific customers".Indian security authorities had also reportedly issued a 22 September deadline for mobile operators to begin hosting servers inside the country, placing data transferred across the carriers' networks inside local jurisdictions.India is the second largest mobile phone market in the world, behind China. Informa Telecoms &amp; Media forecasts that there will be more than 600,000 BlackBerry sales in India this year and that India's smartphone market will have reached approximately 12m – a figure forecast to grow to 40m by the end of 2015.Authorities in theUnited Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and Lebanon area also reviewing the future of BlackBerry servicesin their countries, all citing security fears over the level of encryption employed by RIM.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Would have to say my Optoma H50 digital projector, although it's eight years old now. It's improved my life because it means I can still watch films (by projecting them on one of my living room walls) without having to own a television.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it a few days ago to watch an old Henri Georges Clouzot film called Quai Des Orfevres.What additional features would you add if you could?Some kind of port which allows me to screen films from my computer.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Far from it; it's the future of home entertainment!What always frustrates you about technology in general?It always goes wrong and breaks at some point.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Read the instruction manual, I guess – something I've never done in my whole life.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I embrace technology, but lack the interest to be a proper nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My Wrangler Jeep, I guess. Beyond that, I have a laptop and a mobile phone and apart from my projector, that's where my technology starts and ends.Mac or PC, and why?Started off on PC and then defected to Mac. I once read that the iTunes/iPod was Apple's Trojan horse and I think that is absolutely correct. I love music, bought an iPod and had no idea that it wouldn't work with my PC without buying more programmes! This was about eight years ago. Then my iPod wouldn't actually work so I had to replace it. I was very close to not bothering but at the time the iPod revolution was something I was keen to be a part of since I always used to take tons of CDs and a CD player whenever I travelled abroad.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I stopped buying DVDs a long time ago when I woke up and realised I hardly ever watch films twice. That said, I occasionally buy DVDs if I'm researching a new film and I think they'll be a useful research item to give my DP or editor etc. I download music but have been meaning to buy a CD for a while of a new, very young group from Memphis called Magic Kids who sound, I think it's pretty fair to say, like Brian Wilson's grand-kids.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Depends what their CV's like.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Well, I guess I'll probably say something like a 747 since although I don't think it's something I really need, if I owned it, one imagines I'd be able to afford it (give or take a few million) and I'd definitely like to be able to afford one!•Simon's latest film,Red White &amp; Blue, screened at London's FrightFest in August, and is now in cinemas across the US
Games Aidis the UK games industry's umbrella charity fund, helping out a range of young persons charities throughout the country. To support the cause, several ex-Real Time Worlds staff are running theLoch Ness Marathonthis Sunday, which is just like a regular marathon, except across enormous hills."Many of us have found ourselves with more time on our hands than we expected, so it's good to be able to channel that into such a worthy cause as GamesAid," says Colin MacDonald, RTW's Studio Manager. "Hopefully, as well as raising money for a great cause, this helps reinforce that the games industry in Dundee is alive and kicking."You can sponsor the teamhere, and then sit back safe in the knowledge that you can spend Sunday in the pub and not running up muddy inclines.
The European commission is taking the UK government to court for breaching European Union laws on internet privacy.The court action follows complaints made by broadband users to the UK Information Commissioner relating to the secret use of Phorm activity-tracking software monitoring users' online habits,an experiment BT dropped in 2009after tests in 2006 and 2007.But BT has now said that it is "simply inaccurate" to link the court action to the company. The telecoms operator hit back at reports linking the commission's investigation to the company's experiment tracking the online habits of customers in order to target them with relevant advertising."The potential infraction proceedings relate to an alleged mis-implementation of EU law by the UK government. As such, they are a matter for the EU and the UK government. It is simply inaccurate to describe them as relating in any way to BT," the company said.The European commission twice wrote to the UK government in 2009 asking it to change privacy laws under the Regulation of Investigator Powers Act (RIPA) and the Data Protection Act (DPA). The commission has now said it will use court action to force the UK government to more fully implement the Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive and the Data Protection Directive.The commission yesterday said: "The commission considers that existing UK law governing the confidentiality of electronic communications is in breach of the UK's obligations under the ePrivacy Directive and the Data Protection Directive."BT, the UK's largest broadband provider, attracted controversy for testing technology developed by Phorm that tracked the habits of customers in order to increase the relevancy of advertising it serves. Itsubsequently droppedthe idea after a backlash from users and privacy watchdogs.European ePrivacy and Data Protection directives require the establishment of a regulator based in the country to make sure the interception of users' communication is within the boundaries of the law, which the UK does not currently have. The UK Information Commissioner has also spoken of the need for such a body.The commission said the UK government is not strict enough in the way it prohibits the interception of a person's communication. "Current UK law authorises interception of communications not only where the persons concerned have consented to interception but also when the person intercepting the communications has 'reasonable grounds for believing' that consent to do so has been given. These UK provisions do not comply with EU rules defining consent as 'freely given, specific and informed indication of a person's wishes'," it added.UK law should align itself with EU directives ordering penalties to be imposed for any unlawful interception of communication, the commission said, rather than limiting sanctions to "intentional" interception, as the law currently states.Daniel Hamilton, campaign director at privacy lobby group Big Brother Watch, told the Guardian: "For companies like BT to monitor the internet access habits of their customers in order to sell targeted advertising is simply unacceptable."While it's humiliating that it has taken the threat of European court of justice action to highlight the deficiencies in the UK's privacy laws, BT should not seek to pass the buck and blame the government for its policy of snooping on its own customers. BT must take concrete steps to ensure such intrusions into personal privacy are not repeated in future."
As the header makes reasonably clear, the Official PlayStation Magazine has asked its readers to vote for the 50 bext PlayStation games ever. The results are appearing in the 50th issue of the magazine, but here's the top ten, for your argumentative pleasure... Well, it's Friday afternoon so why not waste a few minutes, shouting "How can they possibly have left out [insert overlooked classic here]?!" at your computer...1. Uncharted 2: Among Thieves2. Metal Gear Solid3. Final Fantasy VII4. Grand Theft Auto Vice City5. Metal Gear Solid 46. Metal Gear Solid 37. Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare8. Shadow Of The Colossus9. Red Dead Redemption10. Resident Evil IVAny surprises there? I expected more of a showing for the Grand Theft Auto series – instead, it's Metal Gear that's dominated the top ten. And how about Shadow of Colossus up there at number eight, despite selling a fraction of all the other titles on the list?So what would you add or subtract?
Once the undisputed king of football games, the Pro Evolution Soccer series has floundered in recent years. Last year's edition was comprehensibly beaten – both critically and commercially – by Fifa 2010, and clearly things had to change.PES 2011 is a major reinvention for the series and one that some longer-term players may struggle to deal with – at least initially. The most obvious change is the pace of the game. Where once PES was fluid, fast and frantic it now plays at a more realistically sedate Fifa-speed. Perhaps realising the impact of this change, the developers have reintroduced an adjustable speed option. If the default level is to slow you can adjust it to a more frenzied – or comatose – pace depending on your mood.The main change on the pitch is the passing, which is now a lot more realistic. Actually it's just harder. Forget lazy stabs of the through ball – you now really need to direct the ball to the player. Over time you begin to appreciate the freedom this offers and you can really vary the power and direction of the ball. The pinging build ups of old are now much harder to pull off but conversely much more satisfying when you do. Unfortunately, some occasionally erratic player AI (artificial intelligence) is a problem. Occasionally an opposing defender will be gripped by indecision, allowing you to waltz past – especially if you are on the wing. Likewise, the keepers flap far too often with many goals scored off parries.The better news is that the game looks fantastic. Player likenesses – always a PES strongpoint – are better than ever. The action feels more physical too with plenty of jostling for possession. Sadly the commentary is as unintentionally laughable as ever.Off the pitch, the Master League has been expanded and taken online. The ability to bid against other players in an online transfer market adds a lively thrill to an already epic gameplay mode. More generally there is much better access to tactics and strategy, with players able to manipulate their team's position and lineups to an almost Football Manager-style degree.Despite the issues, PES 2011 feels like the start of something new. It isn't perfect and veterans may find themselves upping the speed and reminiscing about mazy runs up the middle of the park. But give it time and PES 2011 offers a rewarding and enjoyable game that probably needs another year or two to reach full potential.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
It's hard to open your email, or a web page, at the moment without stumbling across some mention of tablets – often, the iPad. Spammers trying to lure you to give away personal details by offering "free iPads!" Online,designers discuss the "iPad-ification" of web pages, making them more accessible to people who might be navigating the site using touch, rather than a mouse. "Already we're seeing more and more people at airports, coffee shops and on the train using their iPads to read books, browse the web and watch video," comments the writer at that Mashable link.And, of course, the tablet announcements are coming thick and fast: even before the iPad was in peoples' hands, there was the JooJoo (formerly the CrunchPad, to be designed together with TechCrunch; but that all fell apart, though we've seen no sign of the threatened litigation by Michael Arrington). Then there was the Samsung Galaxy Tab; the Viewsonic (not yet seen in the wild); the Toshiba (ditto); theperhaps-it's-real HP tablet running Windows 7; and most recently the RIM PlayBook.One thing about all those, apart from the iPad: not seen in the wild. Even the Galaxy Tab hasn't quite hit the shops, as the mobile networks are figuring out how much to charge for it and on what plans. Even the breathless PR announcement that dropped into my inbox this morning, saying that it will be "in UK shops" from 1 November, was notable for the complete absence of prices. (And as for hands-on, Tim Bray doesn't count as "in the wild". As he said himself, the onehe's been usingis a"not quite production" model.)(Update: Tim Bray gets in touch to say that the Tab *is* real, and his model is a production model.)Even the PlayBook, which RIM says will be in the hands of (a few, selected) enterprises in October, has drawn some doubters:as computer sciences student Justice Gödel Conder points out, can you actually see the finished, physical item in this YouTube video?No:"There is no evidence that the PlayBook exists as advertised. Why do I say this? I will make it brief. There is not a single frame in the BlackBerry PlayBook commercial that shows the actual device! The only thing being seen in the commercial is [computer-generated] special effects. Don't believe me? Watch the ad again. Sure, those special effects are amazingly fast and responsive and cool but where is the device?"And, he points out,"Remember the ads for the BlackBerry Torch? They were entirely done with special effects too. The Torch seemed so fast and cool in those ads. The only problem is the actual real phone didn't operate nearly as good as it did in the CG ads. The BlackBerry Torch ads are awesome but the phone is crap. Take note."He also points out that the device shown on stage at RIM's launch was never actually used: nobody touched the screen: "I can't help but wonder if he's just holding a dummy (plastic) device." And nobody has been able to lay hands on one. "What did the atttendees of the PlayBook announcement get? A device encased in glass playing videos. The new OS isn't shown once, just a repeating video ad. Why not let everybody test out that amazing screen and new OS?" It could be, he suggests, just a dumb LCD screen: "Is there a single shred of evidence to say otherwise?"And of course RIM doesn't have a stellar track record with touch devices: there was the Storm touchscreen phone (more of a squall;I hated it,Stephen Fry hated it,David Pogue hated it) and the Torch, which hasn't exactly set the world alight.So there we have lots of tablets that have been announced, but are definitely not in the shops where you can poke and play with them. Perhaps they will be by Christmas.But I've begun wondering about a bigger question. Given the number of companies that are announcing tablets, one of two things will happen: the market will absolutely explode, and everyone and their dog will have a tablet in a couple of years, rather like digital music players (think: iPods) a few years ago; or it will be another brief flurry, rather like netbooks are turning into, which will in turn mean swathes of red ink.I suspect that for Apple to do well out of iPads, it actually needs those competitors to do well too. There's nothing worse for a company than to try to create a market, only to find yourself the only one in it. Amazon had plenty of competition for the Kindle, which validated it efforts; it is already emerging as the dominant force in the dedicated e-reader market (despite Sony's best efforts with the E-reader).With tablets, if everyone decides that all the competition is rubbish, Apple will be left alone, standing in the middle of a blasted heath, master of all its surveys … which won't be much. Palm had a similar experience in the handheld PDA market: once Psion fell by the wayside (and decided to focus on its Symbian operating system instead), there wasn't much else – and although people did look at them, the functions that Palms could do were quickly sucked into mobile phones.That then necessitated Palm's move into mobile phones, through its complicated merger-and-split with Handspring – where for a period the OS and the hardware makers were separated, which worked about as well as arsenic poisoning for both sides.What Apple actually needs is something to compare itself against. The fact that it never went into netbooks, even while all the experts and analysts were suggesting it should (my own position –in favour in February 2009,against in January 2010– altered with time) indicates that it's picky about the markets it goes after. Although you could figure that out already: this is why you never hear about Apple's enterprise database offering, CRM offering, or until recently, byits social network. (And actually we're still not really troubled – as in taking any trouble to do much with – the latter.)Tablets, though … before Apple came along they were a tiny market: analysts estimates put sales at a few million per year at best. (This is defining a "tablet" as something with a screen larger than 5in; analysts love to demarcate, in a way that consumers don't.) And most of that is in what you could call "blue-collar enterprise" markets: very much for the shop or factory floor (though with a few in hospitals).Apple is thus already the biggest player in the market. The question, which all these wannabes don't answer – because we can't get our hands on them yet – is whether people will be tempted to follow iPad buyers into the tablet market.It looks as though we'll have to come back in a year's time – even 18 months – to find out the answer. My own feeling? This is going to turn into an iPod-like rout of rivals if they don't do something better than the 7"in models on offer. (Why are they 7in? I've heard, but despite searching theAndroid documentationhaven't been able to find confirmation anywhere, that that's the maximum size that Android allows; if anyone can point me to proof positive that would be useful.) Possibly the arrival of the Chrome OS, which definitely will support larger screens, will help.All they need then is some really good software. Oh, and physical hardware would help too.
Just what the world needs: another URL shortener. Though this time it's from Google - which as Jeff Atwood (half the brains behind the wonderful Stack Overflow) points out, might actually be one of the best places to have a shortener, seeing that it must already have a vast table of lookups for URLs all over the web.Thegoo.glshortener is at present pretty basic: just a text box where you enter the URL to be shortened.If you're not signed into a Google accountyou always get the same shortened URL back for a given URL entry,but if you're signed in you'll get a different shortened URL particular to you back. That's likeunlike,say, bit.ly which has the idea of "users" (so that you can shorten a URL that someone else has shortened, but get your own result, which means that you can see if people are clicking onyourlink, or other versions of the same link. [Corrected: I'd forgotten to sign in to test the Google shortening.]Thushttp://bit.ly/dvox3E,http://bit.ly/cPBpf4,http://goo.gl/B6dtandhttp://goo.gl/info/xziJall go to the same place, but the bit.ly one will give you more granular statistics: compare and contrasthttp://bit.ly/dvox3E+andhttp://bit.ly/cPBpf4+andhttp://goo.gl/B6dt+, andhttp://goo.gl/info/xziJ+which are the respective pages for the statistics about each shortened version. (You get the info page for goo.gl links, as with bit.ly links, by adding a + to the end of the shortened URL.)There also isn't an API for goo.gl yet, though the company promises that it's coming.One very neat thing that itdoesdo:QR codes. These are the two-dimensional forms of bar codes which can contain lots more data - nearly 3K of binary data at most.A QR code generated by Google's goo.gl URL shortener: just add .qr to the shortened linkTo generate a QR code using goo.gl, you simply add ".qr" to the end of the shortened link. Thus:http://goo.gl/B6dt.qr- which looks like the image at the left.QR codes being useful to mobile phones, which can read them via their cameras. (Yes, we have heard the suggestion that we should use QR codes in the paper to link to the website. Can we consider it a little longer?)It's worth noting that Atwood (among others)isn't a fan of shorteners- and he quotesJoshua Schachter, who notesthat"The worst problem is that shortening services add another layer of indirection to an already creaky system. A regular hyperlink implicates a browser, its DNS resolver, the publisher's DNS server, and the publisher's website. With a shortening service, you're adding something that acts like a third DNS resolver, except one that is assembled out of unvetted PHP and MySQL, without the benevolent oversight of luminaries like Dan Kaminsky and St. Postel. "For this reason, most shorteners won't let you shorten an already-shortened link (because such double obfuscation is generally used by spammers or for malicious reasons).But as hesaid in 2007,"I often wonder why Google doesn't offer an URL redirection service, as they already keep an index of every URL in the world. The idea of Google disappearing tomorrow, or having availability problems, is far less likely than the seemingly random people and companies who operate these URL redirection services-- often for no visible income. "Well, now it has. It will be interesting to see how much Twitter traffic (since that's the main avenue for URL shorteners) goes to it.[Corrected to add that Google has "user shortening".]
Oliver Blank wasn't the first person to sketch out an idea on a napkin in a bar and certainly won't be the last, but this one was pretty special. Blank is a musician, but one who prefers to use technology to release his music into the wild.With a developer, he's brewing a new scene for theRJDJiPhone app that invites the user to remix sounds from their environment to create location-relevant music. It's the opposite of plugging in your MP3 player to escape where you are. "Like a 'flâneur', it's to encourage you to explore new parts of the city," he explains. "When we move through the city with an MP3 player on it makes us disengage. This app grabs sounds from around you and makes you more aware of your environment."That idea is at the centre of Blank's music. For his first album,Karhu ja Tiikerini, he combines instruments with with samples from the Finish soundscape. Blank collaborated with one  American and one Finnish director to produce a DVD for the album, having signed with the labelCocoSolidCitifour years ago.His biggest project, due for launch in early November, is to release his new albumKalevala- named after the epic Finnish traditional poem - as an app. Version one will be a basic sample player (not unlike thisgame on his site) while version two, planned for early 2011, will allow users to take pieces of Blank's music from the album to remix elements of tracks, underCreative Commonsterms, and share with friends as an MP3.Blank, a video games graduate, can't quite emphasise enough how important it is to him that people share his music online. Karhu ja Tiikerini is available for free download from hissite, and he'll readily share theDropboxlink, as well as streams onSpotify, and for sale throughiTunesandLast.fm. When he tried to add the album to Last.fm as a free download, his digital distributor removed it and introduced a charge. Blank said he also can't control his own profile on Apple's Ping,  because again the existing relationship is between the site and the  distributors.Escalators at the Sörnäinen subway station in Helsinki. Photo byMikko Luntialaon Flickr.Some rights reserved."It's my album and these are my rights," he said. "I don't want to get worked up about it, but it worries me that the middle  man, the digital distributor, can have more control over my work than I  can. The distributor trumps the artist because the distributor is the one who has the relationship with the site. So I can't have control over the whole  process."He's also adamant that distributing his work is not about making money, and perhaps travelling in the same direction as the web has made it easier for him to move on and explore alternative ways of making money. "The way I'm going to make money is licensing, moves and TV - through organisations that are set up to pay and licence. That part of the industry is not going away. That's a really nice balance between an artist who's interested in making some money and an artist who just wants people to experience his work."Helsinki. Photo byDirk Heitepriemon Flickr.Some rights reserved.Blank's apps will also be free, though he says it is good that artists can explore a format where consumers are prepared to pay - like Brian Eno's generative music appBloom.  "There is inherent value in the different ways to experience an artist's  music. I'm particularly interested in interactivity and in people that  don't have a creative relationship with sounds - to give them that  excitement of creating something new with sound."Apps present an enormous opportunity for more interactive forms of music, says Blank. "I can reach millions of people  with a new album, or an album as an app or a sound toy... I don't have to worry about their computer or graphics card or any of the problems of enhanced CD Roms. These are smooth, powerful platforms for devices where you interact, touch, use GPS - as an artist who uses sound I just had to jump in."There's a letter Blank bundles in with his free album download that asks people to share the album and, if they really like it, to buy it."This would mean so much to me. The independent label I released on would be very pleased too. Plus, maybe I'll save up enough cash to come play  in your city. My thanks from a warm room in darkest Finland, Oliver."As our conversation ends, Blank mentions an indy label boss who told him how music blogs and downloading are killing music - but then how labels are relying on gimmicks like special edition gatefold vinyl with plush photos, recouping their losses by exploiting the super fans."This is the point where they could be doing apps, using different ways to engage or finding new people to bring the music to, different ways to configure the music they are making. That's core for me - I think it's so cool that I can let people make music I haven't heard before with my own music."
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Google has been collecting its Street View photos for Antarctica for some time. Photo byNational Library NZ on The Commonson Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMaking money with mobile malware &gt;&gt; Graham Cluley's blog"Earlier this year I described the Terdial Trojan horse, which was distributed posing as a Windows mobile game called "3D Anti-terrorist action", but made calls apparently to Antarctica, Dominican Republic, Somalia and Sao Tome and Principe without the owner's permission.So how did it make money for the hackers?"Well, it transpires that although the Trojan did make phone calls to numbers associated with various far-flung corners of the world, the calls never made it that far."Google URL Shortener Gets a Website &gt;&gt; Google Social Web blog"There are many shorteners out there with great features, so some people may wonder whether the world really needs yet another. As we said late last year, we built goo.gl with a focus on quality. With goo.gl, every time you shorten a URL, you know it will work, it will work fast, and it will keep working." Ooh, take that, er.. whichever URL shortener gave up a while back. An API is coming, Google says.Gallery: JPEG vs Google WebP images"Since browsers do not currently support WebP, we used a PNG container to allow users to see these WebP images in a browser." Yes - while it's good to have a more efficient image container, it's a bit of a problem if browsers can't view it.Yahoo Losing More Top Execs &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"This entire mess–and that's precisely what it is–calls into question the tenure of Bartz, a tough-talking, cost-cutting exec who was brought in to clean up Yahoo after the maelstrom around the failed takeover attempt by Microsoft several years ago."How The Guardian is pioneering data journalism with free tools &gt;&gt; Nieman Journalism LabWe are, you know.Payments to Suppliers over £500 (in PDF only..) &gt;&gt; Birmingham City Council"At Birmingham we are committed to making our finances clear, so that everyone can see exactly how we are spending money." Which is why we put it in PDFs and redact some data which you'll need an FOI request to get at.Local government data and the armchair auditors: are you sitting comfortably? &gt;&gt; Public FinanceDavid Walker: "A government committed to evidence might, in theory, have researched the prospect for armchair auditors and other dimensions of the Big Society before they became policies. What do we know about people's enthusiasm and capacity? Ben Page of Ipsos Mori says his surveys imply a 'seismic shift' would be necessary to get the involvement the government envisages."Gillian Fawcett, head of public sector at the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, says: 'The reality is that very few members of the public currently look at local authorities' accounts – even though that opportunity is available to them. In many cases, where people are interested in accounts at all, their interest will be restricted to a specific issue, often to an area of personal interest.'"Just remind us how the government could have researched the evidence for armchair auditors? Or where we could audit items of spending above £500 before Eric Pickles's order? Chickens and eggs come to mind.What Platforms Will Have Mobile App Devs in 12 Mos? &gt;&gt; GigaOm"Where it gets interesting is when we ask which platforms developers plan to create apps for in the future. While most will continue working on iOS, we saw over a 50 percent increase in those that said they plan to work on Android apps (from 39 percent to 61 percent) and a doubling of interest in Windows Phone apps (from 9 percent to 18 percent). BlackBerry also saw increased focus 12 months out: 19 percent up from 12 percent today. It should be noted this survey was taken before RIM's news this week." Note though that this is extremely US-centric, so Nokia (Symbian) is significantly under-represented. Flash developers for mobile phones - not that we're sure that's a big crowd - may start feeling lonely soon, though.Distilling the W32.Stuxnet Components &gt;&gt; Symantec ConnectIn-depth post from July analysing this intriguing piece of malware.ACS:Law: This is what regulatory failure looks like &gt;&gt; TechnoLlama"..the more harm would come from the unlawful processing, the more security there should be. ACS:Law and the ISPs are therefore in blatant breach of the Seventh Principle [of the Data Protection Act]. This is unforgivable, and the Information Commissioner should make a stand and send a clear message to other data processors. Otherwise the DPA is just reduced to a bunch of fancy words on paper."A user's guide to websites, part 1: If it wasn't broken why fix it? &gt;&gt; Rev Dan Catt's BlogOf Flickr (and GuardianRoulette) fame: "Everyone still loves feature X but hates using Perl [in which it's been re-written], it gets re-written 3 times in PHP, it still doesn't scale."Someone re-writes it in an afternoon in Python but it only works and scales if sub-feature "x" gets left out. 98% of users don't notice, 1.9% of users form a protest #hashtag on twitter. 0.1% of users argue about the merits of scaling in PHP vs Python vs Their Favourite Language, they write a blogpost about it (using their own blogging platform they wrote themselves in 1997) slashdot links the post and ironically declares the original site "over"."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Mention surfing in the far south-west of Britain and the general assumption is that you are talking about donning a wetsuit and riding a wave.But that might change after multi-million pound plans to build a "super-fast" broadband network to cover Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly were revealed today.It is claimed that the £132m project will create 4,000 new jobs, safeguard another 2,000 and improve the lives of business people and householders often frustrated at how slow surfing and working on the internet is in the region. Leaders of the scheme, which is being watched by other rural communities as far afield as Asia and South America, say that by 2014 – if all goes to plan – Cornwall will be one of the top five "most connected" places in the world.Eyebrows have been raised at some of the claims made by partners Cornwall council and BT, especially at the number of new jobs they say will be created.But the Conservative leader of the council, Alec Robertson, said it was a "landmark" moment: "The introduction of next generation super-fast broadband has the potential to transform the local economy over the next 20 years," he said.Robertson said access to "world-class communications" would increase the competitiveness of firms already in Cornwall and attract new ones.Speaking at the project launch in the resort of Newquay, BT's chief executive, Ian Livingston, claimed that Cornwall would be "a much better place to surf than California" – when it came to the internet rather than the ocean, that is.Ed Vaizey, the communications minister, said he was excited by the scheme. "Households and businesses in this largely rural area can now look forward to having one of the best broadband connections in the world," he said.Many creative businesses have been set up in Cornwall in recent years, often by native Cornish people returning home or by outsiders attracted by the lifestyle. The region has also drawn international companies specialising in alternative power.But a common complaint from business people is the problem of poor broadband speeds.The aim of the new project is to give between 80% and 90% of businesses and homes access to super-fast fibre broadband by 2014. Half of them should have "fibre to the premises" technology, which could deliver download speeds of up to 100Mbps (megabits per second).According to the communications regulator Ofcom, the average residential download speed in the UK was 5.2Mbps in May 2010 – although speeds tend to be even lower in rural areas.However, the fibres will not reach the most remote areas in Cornwall and they will have to rely on a mix of alternative technologies such as "advanced copper", wireless and satellite broadband.The first customers should be connected next year. BT and the council say the network will be available on an open wholesale basis to all communications providers.BT is providing £78.5m and there will be up to £53.5m from the European Regional Development Fund. The European commissioner for regional policy, Johannes Hahn, said it was the largest investment of its kind supported by EU funds.Cornish business people largely welcomed the moves. Martin Nixon, managing director of a brand and web development agency based in Hayle, near St Ives, said as well as improving download and upload speeds the project would create a "buzz".Dorian Spackman, whose company produces internet television channels and magazines, spoke of the frustrations of working in a place where broadband speeds have been so poor.He recalled the annoyance of not being able to broadcast a concert by the rock band Ash when they played a remote location in Cornwall because there was no broadband. "Potentially this is fantastic news," he said.But he also expressed reservations that such speeds would be achieved and thought the projections about the numbers of jobs that could be created sounded optimistic.
Jimi Heselden was surprisingly little known, even in his native Leeds, until his death at the age of 62 in an accident involving one of the Segway motorised scooters which his self-made engineering firm had recently acquired the right to produce. This obscurity would have changed, if only via scrutiny of the accounts of Leeds Community Foundation, through which he had started an exceptionally generous programme of charitable giving, reaching £23m this year.His quiet style, enterprise and generosity were in a great tradition among northern entrepreneurs, although few had the rough-and-ready origins of Heselden. Born and brought up on Halton Moor council estate – an area richly described by Keith Waterhouse, who moved there as a boy during the slum rehousing of the 1930s – he would have spent his working life as a coalminer had it not been for the 1984-85 strike.He left Osmondthorpe secondary modern school aged 15 to work as a&nbsp;labourer and then at Temple Newsam and Lofthouse collieries. The first, in the grounds of one of Britain's greatest Elizabethan mansions, gave him a sense of history and the power of wealth. The&nbsp;second taught him other lessons. In&nbsp;1973 flood defences gave way and seven miners were drowned.Pit closures following the defeat of the National Union of Mineworkers saw Heselden made redundant, with enough of a pay-off to put to enterprising use. He rented a small workshop in east Leeds with a mind to making something and selling it, but the breakthrough came in an unexpected way.He initially began a sandblasting business, but problems shoring up the resulting heaps of debris led him to combine his knowledge of mining, where structural support is critical for safety, with lessons from history. He&nbsp;invented a&nbsp;new version of&nbsp;the medieval gabion – baskets filled with stone or rubble which have been adapted in modern times to line riverbanks and road cuttings.The resulting Concertainer was a&nbsp;classic cottage-industry product, with Heselden's sisters helping to fill his wire baskets with the prescribed mixture of earth and sealed water containers, while he worked on perfecting a&nbsp;collapsible mesh that could be shipped flatpack. Promotion was difficult, but the invention took off in the early 1990s when Heselden used a stretch of&nbsp;Yorkshire's notoriously eroding coast at Ulrome, near Bridlington, to mount a&nbsp;demonstration of its robustness.With the publicity, Heselden's concept took off, albeit renamed as the Bastion, when the Ministry of&nbsp;Defence accepted its use as a cheaper and much more rapidly deployable replacement for sandbags.Two men and a bulldozer can fill a section of Bastions in 20 minutes, compared with the seven hours it would take 10 men to fill the equivalent 1,500 sandbags. Such data led to orders from Nato in former Yugoslavia, where more than 38 miles of Bastions were installed; flood defence teams in New Orleans; and £53m in contracts with the Pentagon between 1998 and 2003.An even bigger order came from the US military the following year, and in 2006 Heselden was appointed OBE for services to the defence industry and charity. He appeared in the Sunday Times rich list with a fortune estimated at £93m and might easily have considered that it was time to ease up and enjoy the rewards of success.He had a large house and ample grounds close to the river Wharfe at&nbsp;Thorp Arch, opposite the limestone village of Boston Spa. He was given planning permission to build a&nbsp;miniature railway there, and was a&nbsp;genial host with a fund of stories.But he could not relax the entrepreneur's restless energy. As Hesco Bastion's profits grew, reaching £32m last year and raising his wealth to more than £200m, he led the British purchase in January of Segway, the brainchild of the American Dean Kamen, whose other inventions include electric wheelchairs, insulin pumps and a compressed air device to launch anti-terrorist teams to&nbsp;the tops of tall buildings.The scooter, like the Bastion, is the subject of international military interest, with enthusiasts including the former US vice-president Dick Cheney (George W Bush had a ride but was famously photographed leaping to safety after losing control). Heselden showed the same boyish interest in the vehicle, which is not yet allowed on British roads. This appears to have led to&nbsp;his death after he lost control of a scooter on a bridleway above the Wharfe's steep banks near his home.His charitable giving began with donations to military causes, notably Help for Heroes, which received £1.5m two years ago. But his keenest interest lay in east Leeds, where he kept in touch with friends and neighbours, and was well aware of how life had been less kind to many of them.His origins and work experience also coloured his management style. In&nbsp;one instance, he flew 21 of his staff to&nbsp;Benidorm for a holiday after they met an important deadline. Tributes from Hesco workers since his death have called him a friend, not a boss.Heselden was married twice and is survived by his wife, Julie, two sons and&nbsp;two daughters.• James William "Jimi" Heselden, entre-preneur and philanthropist, born 27&nbsp;March 1948; died 26 September 2010-09-29 &nbsp;
The memory sticks were scattered in a washroom at a US military base in the Middle East that was providing support for the Iraq war.They were deliberately infected with a computer worm, and the undisclosed foreign intelligence agency behind the operation was counting on the fallibility of human nature. According to those familiar with the events, it calculated that a soldier would pick up one of the memory sticks, pocket it and – against regulations – eventually plug it into a military laptop.It was correct.The result was the delivery of a self-propagating malicious worm into the computer system of the US military's central command – Centcom – which would take 14 months to eradicate.That attack took place in 2008 and was acknowledged by the Pentagon only this August. It was strikingly similar to the recently disclosed cyber attack on Iran's nuclear facilities using the Stuxnet worm, which also appears to have used contaminated hardware in an attempt to cripple Iran's nuclear programme.Like the attack on Centcom's computers, the Stuxnet worm, which Iran admits has affected 30,000 of its computers, was a sophisticated attack almost certainly orchestrated by a state. It also appears that intelligence operatives were used to deliver the worm to its goal.Its primary target, computer security experts say, was a control system manufactured by Siemens and used widely by Iran, not least in its nuclear facilities.Yesterday, Iran confirmed that the worm had been found on laptops at the Bushehr nuclear reactor, which had been due to go online next month but has now been delayed. It denied the worm had infected the main operating system or caused the delay."I say firmly that enemies have failed so far to damage our nuclear systems through computer worms, despite all of their measures, and we have cleaned our systems," Ali Akbar Salehi, the head of Iran's atomic energy agency, told the Iranian Students News Agency.If the Stuxnet attack on Iran was a limited act of cyber sabotage, on Tuesday the US attempted to imagine what an all-out cyber war might look like and whether it was equipped to deal with it.In an exercise named Cyber Storm III, involving government agencies and 60 private sector organisations including the banking, chemical, nuclear energy and IT sectors, it presented a scenario where America was hit by a co-ordinated cyber shock-and-awe campaign, hitting 1,500 different targets. The results of the exercise have not been released.One of those who believes that cyber war has finally come of age is James Lewis of the Centre for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. Lewis said that while previous large-scale hacking attacks had been an annoyance, Stuxnet and the attack on Centcom represented the use of malicious programmes as significant weapons. "Cyber war is already here," said Lewis. "We are in the same place as we were after the invention of the aeroplane. It was inevitable someone would work out how to use planes to drop bombs. Militaries will now have a cyber-war capability in their arsenals. There are five already that have that capacity, including Russia and China."Of those, Lewis said he believed only three had the motivation and capability to mount the Stuxnet attack on Iran: the US, Israel and the UK.He added that a deliberate hack of an electric generator at the Idaho National Laboratory, via the internet, had previously demonstrated that infrastructure could be persuaded to destroy itself."There is growing concern that there has already been hostile reconnaissance of the US electricity grid," he said.Last year, the Wall Street Journal quoted US intelligence officials describing how cyber spies had charted the on-off controls for large sections of the US grid and its vulnerability to hacking.The head of the Pentagon's newly inaugurated US Cyber Command, General Keith Alexander, has recently said that it is only a matter of time before America is attacked by something like the Stuxnet worm.In recent testimony to Congress, Alexander underlined how the cyber war threat had rapidly evolved in the past three years, describing two of the most high-profile attacks on countries: a 2007 assault on Estonia, and a 2008 attack on Georgia during its war with Russia, both blamed on Moscow.Those were "denial of service" attacks that disabled computer networks. But it is destructive attacks such as Stuxnet that frighten Alexander the most.He favours agreements similar to nuclear weapons treaties with countries such as Russia to limit the retention and use of cyber-war technology.One of the problems that will confront states in this new era is identifying who is behind an attack. Some analysts believe Israel is the most likely culprit in the Stuxnet attack on Iran – perhaps through its cyber war "unit 8200", which has been given greater resources. They point to a file in the worm called Myrtus – perhaps an oblique reference to the book of Esther and Jewish pre-emption of a plot to kill them. But it could also be a red herring designed to put investigators off the scent.Dave Clemente, a researcher into conflict and technology at the International Security Programme at Chatham House in London, argues that where once the threat from cyber war was "hyped … reality has quickly caught up"."You look at the Stuxnet worm. It is of such complexity it could only be a state behind it," he said.Clemente points to the fact that the attack used four separate, unpublicised flaws in the operating system of the Bushehr plant to infect it. Other experts note that Stuxnet used genuine verification code stolen from a Taiwanese company, and that the worm's designers built in safeguards to limit the amount of collateral damage it would cause."The US and the UK are now putting large amounts of resources into cyber warfare, in particular defence against it," said Clemente, pointing out that there is now a cyber security operations centre in GCHQ and a new office of cyber security in the Cabinet Office. He added: "What I think you can say about Stuxnet is that cyber war is now very real. This appears to be the first instance of a destructive use of a cyber war weapon."
The video is a generator tearing itself apart after a cyberattack. Happily, it's a simulated one set up by the US Department of Home Security in 2007 – but it shows the sort of things that cyberwar, and in particular the Stuxnet worm, the first one known to be attacking machinery in this way, is aiming to do.What's quite scary about the video is that (sanctioned) hackers who did it were only told the domain of the system.The Stuxnet worm would do much the same to the generator: it interrupts the processes which monitor events, so that high-speed machinery effectively goes unmonitored and out of control.Is that real? In 2009 Fox News (yes, we know) reported that: "The US power grid has been hacked by foreign spies … Russian and Chinese cyberspies not only got into our electrical system but left behind computer programs that could be used for future attacks." The Department for Homeland Security issued a vaguely denial-based denial – "not aware of any incidents where the grid was compromised", but it was hardly convincing: "the vulnerability is something we have known about for years". See below:Cyberwar isn't new – Russia is believed to have used it before its invasion of Georgia to knock out websites and, perhaps, infrastructure. Napoleon famously said that an army marches on its stomach, but these days it thinks over the internet.And in the US, Lockheed Martin has put this (rather flashy) video together about cyberwar – in which it says that one of the biggest enemies is "foreign governments"."Economic espionage has always been a threat", explains Eric Cole, chief scientist of cyber security at Lockheed Martin. Which recalls, of course, theTitan Rain attacksagainst the US and UK governments in 2006/7. Cole is confident, by the way, that he's going to have work for the next 30 years in advising on how to evade these attacks.Is Stuxnet the way forward? And if it is, what does that imply?One cause for slight concern in all this is the fact that Siemens's SCADA system, as targeted by Stuxnet, runs on top of Windows – which offers all sorts of openings for zero-day vulnerabilities. One can't help feeling thatNorth Korea's decision to try to develop its own operating system based on Linuxwas wise: not only does it save money, but it might have some resistance to attempts to infiltrate its systems via worms like this. Though if you're dealing with national spy agencies determined to infect your systems, that may be a futile hope.
A big bone of contention in many countries, Google's Street View mapping service today goes live in Brazil, Ireland and Antarctica, meaning Street View now has a presence in all seven continents.Launched in May 2007 in five US cities, the panoramic imaging service has gone on to map cities on every corner of the planet, attracting ire and admiration along the way.Brian McClendon, vice-president of engineering at Google Earth and Maps, wrote on the company's blog: "We often consider Street View to be the last zoom layer on the map, and a way to show you what a place looks like as if you were there in person – whether you're checking out a coffee shop across town or planning a vacation across the globe. We hope this new imagery will help people in Ireland, Brazil, and even the penguins of Antarctica to navigate nearby, as well as enable people around the world to learn more about these areas."Speaking to the Guardian, Ed Parsons, Google's geospatial technologist – "When I joined Google, I was fortunate to be asked what I wanted to be known as" – said the latest move was "hugely significant" and that the service would continue to expand. "This allows you to visit places you don't normally," Parsons said. "One of the challenges we wanted to crack is to go to these remote places, and one of geo team at Google went to Antarctica so he took some kit and took some imagery. It's called Street View, but there aren't many streets in Antarctica!"This allows people to understand the contrast between New York Times Square and being on the edge of a glacier looking at penguins."Much has changed in the three years since Google launched Street View. Privacy was not nearly as contentious in the five US cities – New York, San Francisco, Las Vegas, Miami and Denver – as it currently is in Germany, and the camera resolution wasn't technically as good. On both these scores, Parsons says, Google has continued to innovate: "With each new release the imagery is of a higher quality and there are more tools to protect privacy, the technology evolves and it's easier to navigate."The company's exploration to the southernmost continent, Antarctica, also marks the company's visit to a continent where it isn't facing – or has faced – legal proceedings. Since launch, Street View has attracted legal complaints fromprivate citizens,criminal investigationsfrom authorities, andclose scrutiny by alarmed governments.Parson said: "One of the things that caused us surprise was how different the various nations' view of privacy were. So we had to change the way we operate to accommodate that. Germany is an extreme example, but no two countries are ever the same and we built those privacy considerations [for Germany]."In many ways new tech is always a little concerning to people. Like caller ID on [mobile] phones – that was concerning when it was a new thing, now it's accepted and agreed to be a useful feature. You have to draw a contrast between how many people use and the minority that are relatively loud. For us, it's about enhancing the use of Google Maps and we know that that increases by 20% at least when Street View functionality is added, making it the most popular web-mapping site on the planet."The new images will go live on Google Street View over the next 24 hours.
Oh no, not you again. Photo byCristóbal Cobo Romaníon Flickr.Some rights reservedByChris TaggartNow that theguidelines for the publishing of local council spending datahave been published, it's a good point to take stock of how councils are actually, well, publishing the data. And the picture is none too pretty.Out of the 66 councils (of a total of 434) publishing data (they have until January to start doing it), only 32 are publishing it in the correct format – as a comma-separated file which means it's easy to open in spreadsheets or import into database, or reuse in mashups. The rest are using a variety of tricky formats (e.g. Word, Excel files) that make it problematic at best to use the information as data, and to combine it with other data, so that it can be compared it over time, and with other authorities.The worst offenders are those publishing it as PDFs, a document format that is ideal for printing (which was what it was designed for), andterriblefor extracting data from.I've been told privately by some staff working for those authorities that they've been instructed to use PDFs precisely because it will make reuse more difficult.I should declare an interest here. I runOpenlyLocal, which opens up local government data, and also helped draw up the guidelines on behalf of the Local Pubic Data Panel on which I sit. We're also importing all the spending data and matching it up against companies and charities, andreleasing the result as open data.A good example of how two councils can take completely different approaches to the same thing comes withTrafford CouncilandBirmingham City Council. Both have published their information within the past couple of days.Trafford published theirs as a CSV file, and using standards set out in the guidance, which means that it can be instantly compared with any other council using the same guidance (and, incidentally, published ontheir excellent open data pagelisting large amounts of data that can be reused without restriction). They are also looking at publishing previous years' spending in the same format, to make it easy to see how spending has changed over time.Birmingham on the other hand published theirs as a PDF on aconfusing and messy page. However, not only is it not reusable as data without manually extracting it from the PDF file, there's none of the richness of the Trafford council data. No department names, no supplier ids, no descriptions of what the payment was for, and no classification. Comparison by category or by department is therefore impossible. They also seem to have silently redacted information, meaning that it's impossible to challenge whether a payment to supplier should have been redacted, as you'll never know it was made.[Charles Arthur notes: with some effort, though, it has beentransformed into a spreadsheetby Paul Daniel.]The scary thing is, however, is that Birmingham is by no means the worst., and in fact there aremany councils publishing the information not only as PDFs, but as PDFs with no licence for reuse, and with very little data in it. Special mention here should go to Hammersmith &amp; Fulham whichtrumpeted its publication in Juneof spending information for Jan-Mar, albeit as a near unusable PDF, but since then hasn't published a thing.However the award for the council with the most useless spending data is theLondon Borough of Wandsworth, in south-west London. First, the information is stuck in a PDF (and for the techies out there: it's been published with headings on each page, meaning that extraction is more tricky than usual).Second, there is no licence for reuse, meaning that the website Terms &amp; Conditions apply, in this case "Intellectual property rights arising from this site and its contents belong to the council. Use of the contents is limited to private and non-commercial use purposes only and may not be further exploited without prior written permission of the Council."Third, the information consists of a supplier name and an amount (presumably a total for the month). No date. No reference. No department. No category. No supplier id. No description. No classification.Somehow, this is not what the Secretary of State had in mind, I think whenhe ordered councils to open their books to the public.One ray of hope: Eric Pickles, the secretary of state, is expected to make an announcement on Friday telling councils that they must obey the guidelines. It will be interesting to see if it is retrospective - and how quickly it has to be implemented. But something really needs to change in some places.Charles Arthur adds:one of the points of the Free Our Data campaign was that publishing data like this would create opportunities for organisations like OpenlyLocal to create businesses doing things with the data that councils couldn't or wouldn't do. Look at what's happened with the number ofapps for finding Boris Bikes in London, for example: that's a commercial opportunity for app writers created entirely from making the data free. (And it has the byproduct of encouraging the use of the bikes, so everyone wins.)When local councils try to obstruct that, it holds back the private sector - and nobody benefits, not even the councils. We'll seek an interview with Mr Pickles on this matter in the future to see whether he sees it the same way - and what action he might take.
I have been keeping a rough track of the number of IDs and passwords I have on different internet sites and applications (at home, never mind work). I think today I managed to create an ID and password for the 100th. I'm afraid I cannot remember 100: I can remember about six. So, do I keep them all the same or do I keep a list somewhere?Richard PotterI keep an alphabetical list in a little black book, partly because I have more trouble remembering which log-on I used than remembering the password. This is a function of having used four different email addresses over the past 20 years, as well as having different IDs for some different purposes. It's a reasonably safe approach because I don't write down the actual IDs or passwords, just a few letters to remind me which ones I used, and it never leaves my private office.The first thing to do is to decide which are your really important sites. Examples could include your email and Facebook addresses, Amazon, anything to do with banking, and so on. These five or six sites should have passwords that are unique, hard to guess, and unrelated to one another. One way to remember these passwords is to create a little picture for yourself, based on the site's associations.You should not re-use the same password even for the less important sites. However, you can devise a personal system that creates hard-to-guess passwords that you know how to reconstruct. One example is to use the initial letters of a line from a popular song. This would give you a string such as MRwtam (Moon River, wider than a mile) which is impervious to a standard "dictionary attack". Into the middle of this string, you then stick at least two letters that you can derive from the site. For example, these could be the second and fourth letters of the site's name.This approach may not provide the best possible passwords, which should ideally include capital as well as lower case letters, and one or more numbers. However, you can certainly devise a methodical system that will do this.The advantage is that you can remember or work out passwords without having to write them down. If you forget which system you used, a JM in your little black book will remind you of the Johnny Mathis song without anybody else knowing what it means. This approach works for me because I tend to use a lot of different computers including machines on loan for review. However, it does have a very obvious flaw: someone who has access to two or three of your passwords for different sites may well be able to figure out your system. It's even easier for them if you put your extra letters at the beginning or end of the string instead of in the middle or perhaps in the second and fourth places.Even though it's not perfect, I still prefer my system to the ones most commonly used. These are (1) to use common words such as pet names, 12345 or evenpassword; (2) staying logged into sites permanently, usually via a cookie placed on your PC hard drive; and (3) letting your web browser remember passwords for you. Using the browser means you have to keep your PC secure, and never leave it in a state where someone else can access it without entering a password. If your PC is lost or stolen, then none of your passwords is safe.Whichever system you choose, you can check passwords for strength using theMicrosoft Password Checker. Of course, correctly designed websites should already enforce strong passwords, and prevent attackers from making multiple attempts to crack them. It's shameful that so many don't.A more secure approach is to use a password manager, which can either be a separate program or a browser plug-in. In this case, you only have to remember one "master password", though you're putting all your eggs in one basket.The most popular programs for Microsoft Windows include RoboForm and the open source KeePass, andLastPassis also worth a look. Other options such as Access Manager 2, Password Corral and 4uonly were reviewed by Scott Dunn at Windows Secrets:Password managers keep your login data handy. In a later article,Becky Waringsuggests "CallPod's Keeper, a $15 utility that comes in Windows, Mac, and iPhone versions and allows you to keep all your passwords in sync".Finally, there may be another alternative. Sites such asLogin 2andBug Me Notenable people to share passwords created using fake identities. If you want to access a password-protected site for a quick look around, or to read an article without registering, you may be able to use an ID and password that someone else has created. Obviously you should never enter your real login name or anything like your password into sites like these because hundreds of anonymous strangers could end up using it.
There's an interesting contradiction at the heart of every wrestling game. The action, in real life, is fake – punches are pulled, storylines are scripted, matches are pre-planned. In game, on the other hand, that make-believe world becomes fully realised. That's supposed to be a real grunt of pain you're hearing when a chair crashes into your opponent's skull.Wrestling is a world replete with absurdities and inconsistencies, but it must present an interesting challenge for developers – the more realistic they make the game, the less it must seem to represent what really occurs in the ring.It's just as well, then, that developer Yuke's have had plenty of time to decide how best to interpret this pantomime pugilism, with over 10 years experience of making grappling games of one form or another.In 2011, they find themselves in the enviable position of being able to release a title for a franchise with no real competition either in real life or the games market. Big sales are guaranteed, so what incentive is there to keep on improving?I was lucky enough to attend a preview of WWE Smackdown vs Raw 2011 in Los Angeles a few weeks back, and it looks as though the developers aren't resting on their laurels. With a raft of improvements and a new sandbox-like backstage mode on offer, fans of musclebound men in tights have a great deal to get excited about.Striking mixAs mentioned previously, the fact the game falls into a curious grey area between beat-em-up and sport-sim means it's not realism, or simply over-the-top action, that the designers have striven for – more a striking mix of the two.Gamers need to believe that performing a spectacular but relatively harmless-looking finishing move really can cause more damage than being thrown off the top of a cage and through a pile of stacked tables. Selling illogicalities like this must be pretty tricky, but thankfully the designers I met all seemed to be huge WWE fans, so they have a pretty firm understanding of what's required.With a franchise as big as this, it will be the fans that have the final say – and consumer feedback from THQ's 2009 release has been one of the deciding factors for improvements. Bringing back a free-roam backstage mode last seen in 2003's WWE Smackdown: Here Comes the Pain, for example, has created enormous excitement within the community.Here comes the free-roam modeI can only assume this is more painful than it looks. Photograph: THQOne of the problems every fighting game or sport-sim faces is how to keep players interested beyond playing scores of exhibition matches and tournaments. While previous Smackdown games have offered limited career-modes, this year's iteration gives you more freedom and allows you to get more involved with the action outside the ring than ever before.If you think about it, it's surprising this hasn't been prioritised consistently throughout the Smackdown series. Any lapsed wrestling fan will tell you that the absurd backstage antics filling in gaps between bouts were often as entertaining, if not more entertaining, than the main events.So if you wander up to another wrestler in the revamped RPG-lite Road to Wrestlemania mode, you may be challenged to a match. He may present you with a mini-quest or suggest forming an alliance. There's a great deal of humour present (including a backstage time-machine if you make a decision you regret), and WWE fans will relish the chance to mingle with their favourite characters.In terms of added depth there's also the WWE Universe option, which mixes exhibition and career modes. With as much – or as little – input as you want, it will create Smackdowns, Raws, pay-per-views, alliances, feuds and so on for you and your friends to play through whenever you load up the game.This allows you to call the shots in terms of arranging matches and title-shots while also offering the chance to just jump in and play without having to keep returning to the exhibition match screen – something any football-sim player will know can soon become rather tedious.This is your momentThe programmers have been very kind to the 53-year-old Bret Hart Photograph: THQThis year's tagline, 'This is your moment', may look like your standard corporate soundbite, but it effectively surmises the focus of the main improvements to gameplay.A lot of time has been spent trying to improve the more spectacular elements of the game, with ladders, tables, chairs and weapons all being heavily tweaked, so it's more satisfying than ever to smash your semi-conscious opponent in the chin with a ladder.Weapons and other 'foreign objects' (as they are known) are now easier to use – or position, in the case of ladders and chairs – and react more realistically when they fall over or get thrown into the ring.Rolling your opponent onto a table and jumping off the top of a ladder onto him is tricky to pull off but hugely satisfying, although I do wonder why people consistently leave ladders lying around under the ring in the first place.Hell in a Cell has also been completely revamped – the cell itself is larger and there's more space and possible gameplay options to explore relating to the event. Tweaks have also been made to the players' move creation facilities, which are now remarkably in-depth, and there will be the usual updates to rosters, costumes and graphics - with entrance sequences receiving particular attention.They took our jobsIt seems to be a given that fans of the series will be delighted at what Smackdown vs Raw 2011 has to offer, especially for a release that needn't have made much effort.Whether or not Smackdown will truly be a success will depend, in my eyes, on whether it can lure non-wrestling fans to the franchise simply through good gameplay – something I feel you haven't been able to say about a wrestling game for a good four or five years.During my demo, I still spent an awful lot of time either being constantly countered or lying comatose on the mat for interminable lengths, only to be hit by an unblockable attack the moment I got up. Perhaps I just wasn't very good at it.Given the universal acclaim UFC Undisputed received earlier this year, it's clear there's scope for Smackdown to appeal to all without angering its hardcore fanbase. If it can do that, THQ could have a pretty huge hit on their hands. Look out for our review next month.WWE Smackdown vs Raw 2011 will be released on 26 October for PS2, PS3, PSP, Xbox 360 and Wii
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
By 2014, the number of mobile internet users will surpass the number of users browsing the internet via a desktop computer, says a former adviser to Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign and member of technology panels on the United Nations.Professor Manuel Castells told a conference on web science at the Royal Society this week that the internet is a "key technology of freedom" for those able to access it, predicting that the planet will achieve "quasi-universal coverage of internet access as my generation fades away". In that time, he said, a "major disparity in the quality of connection around the world is a major issue of policy" for governments to tackle.The timescale for the shift echoes comments made by John Herlihy, head of global advertising operations at Google, who earlier this year said "In three years time, desktops will be irrelevant", predicting the mass adoption of smartphones.Speaking about the "phenomenal" societal impact of the emergence of social networks, Castells said the number of users – 500m on Facebook alone – is only at "the tip of the iceberg". "The deepest social transformation of the internet came in the last decade with social networks," he said, adding:"Increasing sociability, increasing happiness, an increasing feeling of being autonomous – all this relates to use of internet. The most important thing in this is that it's not anonymous – this is real people doing real things, sharing things. They're not just friends, they're contacts also. They're doing things together, they're not just chatting."Social networks are living spaces. People share with limited emotional effort. This is a constantly networked world that evolves with human experience, and individuals choose the terms of their co-evolution. Entrepreneurs build these sites, not corporations. The important thing is that even if people go into these sites, they can't do whatever they want. People will create another and take all their friends with them. The entry barriers are so low, the capital [outlay is] almost nothing, and [the barriers to entry are] so diffused."If Facebook becomes nasty people disappear. This is constructed by individuals who organise, and their companies are in the business of selling freedom – if they don't give it people go away. This is transforming social movements and politics," Castells said.He cited the example of Barack Obama's election as one which could not have happened without the internet. Obama's Democratic Party campaign is credited as the first that attempted to connect directly to the voting public through social websites such as Facebook and YouTube.From the outset, Obama's campaign is said to have galvanised and organised the young American vote while rivals – and some pundits – tried to centre his candidacy around race.On Facebook, Obama had more than 2 million supporters; the Republican party candidate, John McCain, had just over 600,000. On Twitter in 2008, when the service was just a year old, Obama had 112,000 people following his campaign trail; McCain had 4,600.Many have acknowledged that Obama's election marked a significant shift in the way elections are fought, but Castells is one of the most-qualified people to make the judgement.He said the election of Obama would have been an "unlikely" event if it wasn't for the internet, and said that the right-wing US Tea Party is already exploiting online campaigning methods pioneered in the States by the Democratic Party."The unlikely election of Obama – which was a hope of many – could not have happened without the internet," Castells said. "But the Tea Party movement is already using the internet in extraordinarily effective ways."
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple bites back at Nokia lawsuit &gt;&gt; BBC News"Apple has begun legal proceedings against Nokia in the UK, accusing the mobile giant of infringing nine patents related to smartphone technology. It is an extension of a lawsuit filed in the US in December 2009."We'll wait for Steve Jobs and Stephen Elop punching each other outside the High Court.Digg and the Deathly Redesign &gt;&gt;| ZDNet UKJack Schofield on Dgg's maybe-impendingg deathh: "If Digg dwindles into insignificance, it won't be the first popular web site to fail. However, it may well end up illustrating some useful points. First, if you have a user-driven site, it may be suicidal to try to take it in a direction that's opposed to the one your "power users" want it to go. Second, it may be suicidal to redevelop your whole infrastructure and launch a new site in such a way that, in case of disaster, you can't go back. Third and last, appearances don't matter anything like as much as web designers think. Real users don't go to web sites because they look pretty but because they enable them to do things they want to do."BT Openreach announce 159 new fibre broadband exchanges &gt;&gt; thinkbroadband"BT have announced a further 159 exchanges today which will see faster broadband made available using Fibre-to-the-Cabinet technology. The new exchanges are part of Phase 6 of the roll out of fibre-based broadband which offers speeds of up to 40Mbps using technology installed in road-side cabinets."Asteroids. On *any* web page you ever want. &gt;&gt; Eric RothoffOh, lordy - it's a bookmarklet so you can apply it to any web page. First Pac-man, then Facebook, now this. How will productivity ever recover. Note his hint: good for zapping ads.What happens when it's all glass? &gt;&gt; (37signals)" I wonder if Apple will soon lose their perceived industrial design edge. It's not that they aren't incredibly good at it — they are the best in the business — it's that industrial design is trending towards transparency. It's all going glass. Everything is turning into a screen, from edge to edge. Once it's all about glass, it's all about software."Luckily for Apple their software is outstanding. But, I think over time great software is less of a competitive advantage than killer hardware only because software, across the board, is getting better quickly." (Thanks @whereistom for the link.)New Tablets More Smartphones Than PCs &gt;&gt; Gartner Blog"In my opinion, the tablet is moving to become a PC without the hard keyboard–so a soft keyboard is needed.  For that 10″ is the minimum.  These devices 7″ or smaller are really big smartphones."The "legal blackmail" business: inside a P2P settlement factory &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaGreat background piece on ACS:Law case.Tweet This Milestone: Twitter Passes MySpace &gt;&gt; WSJLast month the four-year-old micro-blogging service surpassed MySpace in unique visitors to become the No. 3 social networking-type service in the world, according to new data from comScore Inc."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Perfect kit for finding Windows Live Spaces users. Photo bywindy_on Flickr.Some rights reservedIs Wordpress.comgetting all those Windows Live Space usersreally that much of a coup? There was plenty of excitement on the Windows Live Space blog and the Wordpress.com blog about how "30million" (say it in a Dr Evil voice) blog would get moved over from Windows Live Spaces to Wordpress because, um, well, nice weather we're having... Nobody seemed able to explain quite why. Or, in other words, Microsoft had signally failed to monetise those blogs. (Couldn't it have done what Mark Zuckerberg did with Facebook and just let it grow? Anyway.)Now Joe Wilcox at Betanews says he hasobtained copies of internal Microsoft emailswhich suggest that 99% of those 30m blogs are "dead".The email exchange dates from 28 September, Wilcox says, the day after the announcement. Wilcox says he's not naming the participants because that might mean trouble for those involved. (Er, yes.)As Wilcox sagely notes,"It's not unusual for companies like Microsoft to overstate statistics that aren't otherwise easily confirmed. There's often huge PR advantage in larger numbers, and reporters tend to assume the figures are correct, particularly when they can't otherwise easily be confirmed. Often lowly public relations employees make these kinds of decisions. In this case, the number means much to WordPress.com, which could conceivably double in size over six months if just half of Windows Live Spaces bloggers migrated to the Automattic service. As of September, WordPress.com hosted 13.9 million blogs.""However, according to a senior Microsoft manger e-mailing colleagues: "The net is: 300k sites are expected to migrate of the 30M 'blogs' -- most are dead. Wordpress is adding somewhere in the order of zero servers to handle this capacity. This was a 'who has the best online service for blogging for our customers' and had nothing to do with technology."But it turns out there's a little more to this than meets the eye. Microsoft would dearly love Automattic - the company behind Wordpress.com - to shift to using its Azure cloud system (it's like Amazon's Elastic Cloud Compute system, better known as EC2). Last November at its Professional Developer Conference Microsoft suggested (orlet it be thought) that Wordpress/Automattic is hosted on Azure, or would soon be moving over. From the transcript: "One company I'd like to highlight is Automattic, developer of WordPress. WordPress is one of the most successful and pervasive blogging systems in existence today, used by tens of millions of bloggers worldwide. WordPress is also a tremendous ISV who's been working extensively with Windows Azure during the CTP...."But that isn't the case at all.As theAutomattic blog pointed out soon afterwardsin an FAQ: "Q:Are you moving WordPress.com to Azure?A: No. WordPress.com, which is Automattic's hosted blogging service, is going to stay on its existing infrastructure. Martin Cron from the Cheezburger Network launched a new blog Oddly Specific on Azure, which some people confused with Automattic."The existing infrastructure, since you wondered, being Linux/ApacheLiteSpeed(which says it's "Apache-interchangeable" - thanks@mutantein the comments)/PHP/MySQL.And that's the crux, as Wilcox points out, of those internal emails. The Windows/Azure sales people are wailing: "Waah! Everyone is reading that there are30 millionblogs moving from Live Spaces on Azure/Windows to that damn Linux!" So the managers at Microsoft are trying to calm them down by saying that hell, there weren't that many people using them anyway.However, neither end of the argument looks good for Microsoft's online efforts. Either it's giving up on a huge monetisation opportunity... or it never made any impact in blog hosting. So, choose your embarrassment, Mr Ballmer.Update:in the comments Paul Kim, Automattic's VP of user growth (and the Wordpress side of the excited blog comments of the other day)says:"We don't have an exact estimate for how many Spaces bloggers will move over to WordPress.com in the next 6 months, but in the first 48 hours we've completed close to 50,000 blog migrations which is very promising. (If there are only 300,000 actual active blogs (1% of 30 million), we'll be able to determine that very soon.)"
Gameification is the new online  buzzword. You can gameify your blog or company website by registering with asitethat awardspointsandbadgesto readers. And if you want to gameify your own life, iPhone appEpic Winturns your to-do list into a fantasy-style quest complete with virtual treasure for finished tasks. Or there'sMindBloom, a nattily designed site that promises to help you "grow the life you want" by awarding points for meeting goals in areas such as health, creativity and spirituality.These services are fun, but it is a mechanistic fantasy, I think, that  creativity or spirituality can be pursued via a simple points-awarding game. One of MindBloom's most popular daily goals is to "have a meaningful conversation". But this is precisely the kind of important experience that cannot be diarised and action-pointed. Not to mention that the person  with whom you are having that  conversation with might be offended to learn that it is part of a game.I spoke toSebastian Deterding,  a PhD student at Hamburg University researching the use of game design to motivate behaviour. He pointed out that all these sites offer is a way to "trick ourselves" – if we're not  motivated to become more spiritual  in the first place, a game mechanic will make us even more alienated from  ourselves. Moreover, says Deterding, "play is one of the last recesses of  useless and enjoyable behaviour"  – we shouldn't use it to motivate work.In fact, using play to motivate good behaviour might be like using sex purely as a form of  exercise. You run the risk of losing everything that made the thing worthwhile in the  first place.
BT, the UK's largest broadband provider, sent details about its customers to ACS:Law, the firm of London solicitors at the centre of a huge data privacy row, in a form that could be read by anyone – and which have now spilt onto the web.The details of more than 500 of BT's customers were sent by email in an unencrypted spreadsheet, following a court order obtained by ACS:Law, which alleged that they had been illictly file-sharing copyrighted information. But the documents subsequently leaked online, in the aftermath of an attack on ACS:Law's website orchestrated by web users protesting at the firm's actions."BT can confirm that it did send unencrypted data to ACS:Law," a BT spokeswoman told the Guardian. "However, this was not the cause of the leak. At a later date, due to a cyber-attack on the systems of the law firm, data that it held was leaked."At this time we do not believe any of BT's customers details have been compromised, although we are continuing to pressure ACS Law for confirmation of this. We were obliged to comply with court orders to provide information to ACS Law, as was any other ISP, where they were served with such orders."We are investigating how we came to be sending unencrypted data as we have robust systems for managing data. We have already ensured that this type of incident will not happen again, launched an internal inquiry and we have alerted the Information Commissioner's Office."As a result of this incident, the BT subsidiary, Plusnet, will be providing its 316 affected customers with an identity protection service including internet security software free of charge for the next 12 months.  Plusnet will contact customers directly regarding this over the coming days."Due to serious concerns about the integrity of the process that is being used by rights holders, we will resist efforts to share more customer details with rights holders and those acting on their behalf until we can be sure that alleged copyright infringements have some basis and customers are treated fairly."The case has brought rows over the standards of evidence required under the Digital Economy Act – under which persistent file-sharers could face restrictions on their internet connection – into sharp focus.ACS:Law's evidence would be sufficient under the new regime being brought in by the act to count as a "first strike" – which would involve a warning letter from the customer's internet service provider (ISP). But pressure groups opposed to the DEA say that the quality of evidence acceptable under the act for such measures falls far below that which would be needed to prove a case in court.Alex Hanff, of pressure group Privacy International, said the news about BT sending unencrypted customer data "compounds what is already a travesty of data security and further raises our concerns about data protection policies throughout big business and the public sector".Privacy International is seeking legal advice about the possibility of bringing charges against BT for contempt of court. Hanff said the breach by BT appeared to contravene the Norwich Pharmeceutical Order which requires data to be sent as encrypted Microsoft Excel files.ACS:Law already faces the prospect of a fine of up to £500,000 if the Information Commissioner determines that it was responsible for the data leak. The Information Commissioner has said he will include BT's handling of data – which may leave the company in breach of the Data Protection Act and a high court order – in its investigation into how the information was made publicly available.The personal details of more than 8,000 Sky broadband customers, 400 Plusnet customers and 5,000 other Britons accused of illicit filesharing were exposed on the website of ACS:Law, a legal firm which has been targeted by online attacks from a number of online forums due to its involvement in moves against people alleged to have shared copyrighted content.ACS:Law would typically write to customers whose details it had obtained and demand payments of between £500 and £700 for the alleged breaches of copyright. Although some people did pay the demands, many others ignored them. Few of the cases are understood to have reached court.BT today said: "Due to serious concerns about the integrity of the process that is being used by rights holders, we will resist efforts to share more customer details with rights holders and those acting on their behalf until we can be sure that alleged copyright infringements have some basis and customers are treated fairly."ACS:Law refused to comment when contacted by the Guardian.ISPs are obliged to deliver customer information to companies such as ACS:Law when issued with a court order. ACS:Law would have provided a computer's IP address and a time when it claimed that that the user of that IP address was breaching copyright. However, other dispute whether that is sufficient to link a person with the IP address.The director of Big Brother Watch, Alex Deane, told the Guardian: "It's extraordinary that BT – or anyone else – would be so incompetent when handling customers' personal data. Their failure is all the more pointed because it took place in the course of legal proceedings, in which any fool would know particular care needs to be taken."BSkyB and O2 said that they only ever deliver data of this kind in an encrypted format. An O2 spokeswoman said that the company takes "sensible" precautions when disclosing customer information, saying that files sent to ACS:Law by O2 were password protected, with passwords delivered by phone, not email.But the data that appeared through the solicitors' website was not protected. Both companies say they have written to ACS:Law to establish how the sensitive information was made publicly available.BT and O2 today joined BSkyB in saying that they would challenge future court orders brought by ACS:Law until the company can prove it handles data "responsibly".Talk Talk and Virgin Media, two of the UK's largest broadband providers, have consistently said they will not cooperate with customer information requests from ACS:Law. Both companies believe that the detection methods employed by ACS:Law are flawed.Andrew Heaney, executive director of strategy and regulation at Talk Talk, said: "It's a stark reminder of the dangers of giving out customer details to third parties in trying to combat file sharing."While we do not condone illegal file sharing, we have consistently argued for better ways of combating copyright theft. Handing over customer details to law firms to seek 'compensation', based on accusations from rights holders, is not the answer."The Guardian understands that ISPs charge ACS:Law around £65 for an individual customer's information. Some broadband providers charge by the hour to supply customer data – some thought to be charging up to £500 per hour – while others fix prices to a per-customer basis.
Rockstar has just announced the latest piece of DLC for Red Dead Redemption: theUndead Nightmare Pack. From the teaser website:The Undead Nightmare Pack will feature an entirely new mostly single-player campaign that follows John Marston as he tries to find a cure for the highly infectious zombie plague that has spread across the frontier.In addition to this epic new single-player adventure, The Undead Nightmare Pack also features brand new gameplay mechanics, weapons, zombie animals, mythical creatures and even a brand new secret location. All this, plus some exciting new multiplayer modes and much more to be revealed very soon.I wonder where they gotthatidea from?Meanwhile, Activision has finally confirmed that Call of Duty: Black Ops will contain a zombie mode with four-player co-op. The popular feature first appeared in Treyarch's previous Call of Duty release, World at War, with players battling to the death against incoming hordes of zombie Nazis. "We've taken extra special care to retain the essential ingredients of our Zombie game," says studio head, Mark Lamia. "And have also crafted a nice surprise for the fans."But which soldiers will be zombified for Black Ops? Will it be zombie Viet Cong? Zombie spetsnaz? A mix of both? Activision isn't saying just yet.
Cecilia Mascolothinks of mobile phones rather differently to most of us. To her the mobile, as the most definitive, ubiquitous personal device that we carry, can give unique insights into our state of mind.Mascolo has been part of a team atUniversity of Cambridge's Computer Laboratoryexploring mobile phones as 'sensors' that can monitor how the user's emotions change according to their location, surroundings, relationships or the time.EmotionSenseintegrates information gathered through different features of the phone - location through GPS, movement through the accelerometer, proximity to bluetooth devices as well as excerpts of conversations - to create an impression of how someone is feeling.Photo bySon of Grouchoon Flickr.Some rights reservedAt the core is an audio sample library - the 'EmotionalProsodySpeech and Transcripts Library' - which represents 14 categories of emotions. Excerpts from conversations are compared to this library and then overlaid with data on location and so on, illustrating trigger points for stress or mood at home or work, in crowds or alone and at different times of day.Dr Mascolo, working with fellow computer scientists and psychologists, is keen to emphasise that EmotionSense does not monitor phone calls, but excerpts of real-world conversations that are deleted as soon as the analysis is completed. This is not a tool for spying, but a very specific development for psychological research, said Mascolo."This is very significant because mobile phones are carried by people continuously and they forget who forget [about being surveyed], so new psychological studies can happen over long time scales and with large samples - something they are not yet able to do."It's still early days for this technology, which Mascolo stresses is an academic prototype rather than anything being developed commercially, or, as yet, anything that could make decisive psychological conclusions. But as a proof of concept it has succeeded so far, presented at theUbiquitous Computing conferencein Copenhagen today. Phase one used a small research group of 18 volunteers, usingNokia 6210 Navigatorphones running EmotionSense software, over a 10-day period.But initial results showed that 70% of the EmotionSense results tallied with what the volunteers had reported in a more traditional self-reporting survey. Grouping its analysis into either sadness, fear, anger, neutral or happy, EmotionSense found the home unsurprisingly triggered happy responses in 45% of results while being at work was responsible for 45% of 'sad' recordings. Evenings prompted more intense emotions and volunteers were less expressive when in larger crowds.Phase two of development will focus on making the programme more energy efficient and exploring how additional features of the phone could be used to expand the tool. "The point is where is this technology going, how can we make it safe, secure and unobtrusive," said Mascolo.So what are the all important applications for this technology? Researchers are next moving the focus towards well being - what are the triggers for stress, and depression, for example? And all from your mobile phone.
Photo bywhatleydudeon Flickr.Some rights reservedIf you used to be a customer of, or signed up for a trial with, Spinvox, then on Tuesday you probably received a text like the one above. (I had been offered a trial, though I never signed up, and never actually used the service; and enquiring on Twitter had responses from many other people who fitted into the same category.)An odd situation. How didVox Sciences- a small British company - know that the people it was sending these texts to were former Spinvox clients? Surely there would only be a few ways for that to happen:1)Nuance, which bought Spinvox's assets, sold the customer details of former Spinvox customers and triallists, and especially their mobile numbers, in a job lot to a some mobile list broker.2) A former or present employee of Nuance/Spinvox got hold of the "Spinvox former customers" list and sold it to a list broker, or to Vox Sciences.3) Someone not associated with Nuance or Vox Sciences got hold of the former customer list, with numbers, and sold/passed it to a list broker/Vox Sciences.(Are there any other alternatives?)Trying to find out who has actually done what turns out to be remarkably difficult. Nuance appears to have next to no representation in the UK. It's notable that, having acquired Spinvox, it has done absolutely nothing with the brand or technology (such as it was) that I'm aware of.I have called Nuance's offices on two different days, and left messages with Vanessa Richter who is its (Belgium-based) European PR asking her to get in touch; she hasn't. Nobody at Nuance in the UK was available to discuss the matter.At Vox Sciences, things weren't much better. I first spoke to Tushar Joshi, who is listed as the contact on the whois details for voxsci.com; he said he didn't know of any mobile campaign, though he's the technical (rather than, say, marketing) director. He did have one intriguing question: "Are you registered deaf?"The reason for asking that being that speech-to-text services are extremely useful for the deaf, and so the Spinvox list might somehow have gotten onto that. Though we quickly agree that it didn't make sense - what with my not being deaf, apart from anything.I next spoke to Ken Blackman, who described himself as a director at Vox Sciences. "We get our numbers from all sorts of list brokers," he said. But that didn't explain why it was targeting former Spinvox customers, did it? No, he agreed.He said he would investigate what had happened. That was late on Tuesday; since then I've not heard from him. Another call to Vox Sciences' offices on Wednesday indicated that he was uncontactable.So we're left with a mystery: how did the Spinvox data get to Vox Sciences? Did Nuance sell it or leak it? And is either method really the way that a company wants to act if it wants to retain the respect of its former customers?And does Vox Sciences think that this is going to improve its reputation? For a three-year-old startup, we can see that the list must have looked like a bunch of very tasty prospects. Butjudging by the sentiment on Twitter, that's not quite how it's worked out - especially because the text ended with "reply VOX STOP" to stop mktg. Gee, I have to use a text to make you, who haven't identified yourself, go away? Thanks a bunch.Update:James Whatley, who didwork for Spinvox for two years, has ablog post on it. He's not enamoured either.
Nintendo has announced that its 3DS handheld console will arrive in Japan on February 26 – with European and US launch dates following in March. The device, which provides a stereoscopic 3D effect without the need for glasses, will get a Japanese price point of ¥25000 (£188).There's no word on a UK price yet, but industry new source MCVpredictsit'll be £199. The veteran hardware manufacturer expects to shift four million units by the end of March 2011, with game sales of up to 15 million.The design of the console will be virtually unchanged since its appearance at the E3 event in June (read our hands-on responseshereandhere). Nintendo has, however, shown off a telescopic metal stylus that will accompany the hardware.During this week'sNintendo Conferencethe company has also revealed details of software and services available with the device, including a selection of augmented reality mini-games and 'Mii Studio', which allows gamers to create personalised Mii avatars based around self-portraits snapped with the 3DS camera. There will also be a retro gaming service, like the Wii's Virtual Console, allowing owners to download classic Game Boy, Game Boy Colour and Game Boy Advance titles.However, the delay to the expected 3DS launch, originally slotted for this Winter, has seen Nintendo slashing its profit forecast for the financial year. Net revenues are expected to be Y90 billion, down from Y200bn last year.
Just a heads-up if you're anywhere near Nottingham on Friday night. The organisers of the GameCity festival will be holding theirlatest GameCity Nights event, and the centrepiece is a demo of Hydrophobia,Dark Energy Digital's inventive and visually impressive aquatic adventure game for Xbox Live Arcade, which is released today. Senior creative designer Rob Hewson will be discussing the technology behind this watery sci-fi epic in which a huge floating city is attacked by terrorists.There will also be a cabal of indie developers hanging about on the night showing off their latest wares includingNerf Games,Ben BradleyandRichard Brooksby. It's all taking place at the Antenna club, and it's three quid on the door. You need to register firsthere.Meanwhile, excitement (or in my case, raw fear) is building for this year's main event, thefifth annual GameCity festival, taking place from October 26-30. As we've mentioned, I will be there, presenting a daily Gamesblog Breakfast 'show', with topical discussion, audience debate and lots of special guests. I can semi-confirm that the stars of theOne Life Leftradio show will be among my panelists, as will (fingers crossed) indie game design genius Adam 'Atomic' Saltsman (responsible forCanabalt) and singing game reviewerRebecca Mayeswho are teaming up todesign a new titleduringthe event. Please come along – if only for the full English breakfast that will be served during the lively intellectual banter...
Photo byBruno Girinon Flickr.Some rights reservedMarketing emails are increasingly being consigned to spam folders or simply dropped without delivery to the consumers they are emailed to, a study by the consultancy Return Path has shown.In the first half of 2010, around 1 in 8 marketing emails - from bona fide companies rather than pumped out by spammers - never reached their intended recipients, thestudysays.The proportion of such emails that done get there is rising: in the second half of 2009, the figure was about 1 in 9 emails not arriving.The study by Return Path shows that Demon, the UK's oldest ISP, is the hardest for marketers to reach.This will of course have marketers weeping into their Appletinis - but customers of the ISPs may be happy. What's at issue is quite how desired such emails are. Many sites will sign you up to emails, or say that you haven't opted out, or buy email lists from elsewhere and act all surprised when you contact them to complain. And as there's no equivalent of theTelephone Preference List(which also works for mobiles) for email, having a public email can be a trial.Guy Shelton, vice-president for European Sales and Service at Return Path, said ISPs are just trying to do their jobs. "ISPs are battling extremely hard to protect their customers from the scourge of spam," he said. "Marketers have their work cut out to prevent themselves from becoming friendly fire casualties in ISPs' war on illegal unsolicited bulk email."Indeed, given that around 98% of email traffic is spam, it's not surprising if ISPs are dumping lots of similar-looking stuff heading for their customers.Still, they have it harder in France, where only 84.1% of those emails reach the recipient; in the UK it's 86.5%; and in Germany it's 87.0%, though Germany tends to regard them much more as spam.There's one glaring omission from Return Path's study, in our eyes: what does Google, which has a growing email service, do? We have asked them and will add the response here if and when we get it.In the meantime - we'd be interested in your tales of marketing emails gone astray. Or perhaps not gone astray enough.How much marketing email goes astray?Internet Service ProviderMissing (%)Spam (%)Delivered (%)Demon27.19072.81Tesco10.4089.6Orange9.3610.2580.39NTL World7.95.2786.83BT Internet6.1818.9574.87Windows Live Hotmail4.669.1186.24AOL4.17.1988.71Yahoo!3.1716.6380.2Talk Talk2.81097.19Pipex2.77097.23Gmail2.8716.7580.39source: Return Path. Study carried out in first half of 2010.(Note: revised to add Gmail data.)
Ok, possibly not. Mass Effect 2, RDR and Plants Vs Zombies (iPad) may have something to say about that but I don't think I have enjoyed a game as much this year asEnslaved.  I've been playing the game since the weekend and while I haven't finished it yet I've seen enough to know that fans of intelligent story driven adventures will thoroughly enjoy.  The full review will be up next week but for now here are some impressions of the final game (360 version).Enslaved is a single player action/platform game, a genre seemingly lost in the modern gaming world of multiplayer and user generation.  So you can expect plenty of leaping and jumping as well as some staff-based combat against the numerous enemy mechs.  Controlling the aptly named Monkey your aim is to help your fellow slave, but now female captor, Trip return home. Any thoughts of solo adventure are thwarted by a security headband that Trip uses to control Monkey. The upshot? If she dies, he dies. The tension caused by this dynamic creates a bubbling narrative that will keep you going even in the game's trickier moments.Talking of narrative the story here is one of the strongest parts of the game. Maybe subconsciously the pre-release emphasis on the big names involved – Enslaved is written by Alex Garland and directed byAndy Serkis– made me aware that the plot may be worth bothering with. Luckily then it is. The relationship between Serkis' character Monkey and Trip is wholly believable and not since Ico – along withBeyond Good and Evilone of the big influences on this game – has a gaming relationship felt so alive. Gestures look realistic and the banter feels natural. It helps that the facial motion capture in particular is astonishing.  Monkey has enough of Andy Serkis to make him recognisable but the character shines through. For example you can see the initial disdain on his face as Trip asks him to find his own way to the top of a building while she clambers up the short-cut.The other key factor that will make you fall in love – or at least flirt heavily – with Enslaved is the setting.  Enslaved is set in a post-apocalyptic US but this is no grey and brown Fallout clone. Think blue skies, overgrown ruins and ambient birdsong all set in a ruined New York. Planet of the Apes is another influence on Enslaved.  While the levels are relatively linear there is some freedom to explore. More importantly there is an overwhelming desire to see what is round the next corner or in the next building. This is partly to see what graphical treat is in store. Enslaved really is very pretty and has some lovely cinematic moments. Think running alongside a rusting people carrier for cover from cannons, or climbing up a crumbling advertising hoarding.As for the gameplay you can see the influence of Beyond Good and Evil, Tomb Raider, Ico, Mirrors Edge, Prince of Persia and many others. The platforming itself is relatively simple. Vague button presses in the right direction will usually do the trick. Flashing ledges and pipes – plus the direction of the camera – ensure it is very difficult to get lost. This may change later in the game but clearly the designers realised that falling off ledges was not really the point of this game anyway.The combat is a little more challenging but simultaneously probably the weakest element to the game. Fighting the enemy mechs is a generally tedious affair. Using your staff for melee and ranged combat the fighting usually consists of blocking and waiting for weak points. Early on at least random button bashing is effective but by the middle of the game using the stun ability and managing your opponents becomes key.  You can also use taunting. By distracting enemies away from Trip you can keep her alive. Equally important is using her taunt ability to distract mech cannons and so give you the chance to attack. While the combat is paced nicely – so that you have time to breathe, take in the surroundings and plot your next route through the city – it does get a bit much at times. Luckily then there is stealth involved too, with the player able to sneak round the perimeter of undisturbed mechs.What else then? There are some regular puzzle elements although none – so far - have taken any time to solve. Think pulling levers to raise bridges and other such simplistic conundrums. There is also a surprising amount of variety to the core platform/combat. For example fairly early on you get to use a nifty hoverboard-style device on land and water.Intelligent single player games may be increasingly rare but Enslaved shows the genre is alive and kicking. It may end up getting a little lost in the blockbuster season - CoD and FIFA fans will probably not even notice it - but those who dive in are likely to find Enslaved a game to cherish.Enslaved is out on October 8th – the review will be live here next week.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Tragedy of the commons, under discussion. Photo byChris Radcliffon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThis is why we can't have nice things &gt;&gt; The 23x blog"So, where did I go wrong? I offered a service for free that anyone could use to shorten URLs quickly and conveniently. You probably never heard of it and that's OK; it wasn't supposed to be a large success. It was a way for me to play with PHP, SQL and mod_rewrite. It was something I could just put out there for people to use if they wanted as a sort of way of giving back to the internet community. And of course, the internet pissed all over it, as is their way. This is why we can't have nice things."Beware: Chinese iPhone 4 comes with a crippled Maps app &gt;&gt; Ogle Earth"I soon discovered that the Chinese version of the iPhone 4 comes with an aggravating quirk, though: The built-in Maps app is crippled. My phone's base map is hard-wired to Google Maps' censored dataset for China, where the depiction of China's borders complies with the official propaganda of the Chinese government. It does not, for example, show the region of Arunachal Pradesh as being disputed by China and India. On my phone, it belongs to China, even though the facts on the ground belie it — it is currently administered by India."HP Abandons Android | John Paczkowski &gt;&gt; AllThingsDJP repeats the FT on HP: three OSs would be 1 too many, it seems.RIM's new BlackBerry tablet, WebWorks developer platform – but who wants small tablets? &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWriting"I doubt there will be much enthusiasm for carting around a phone, a small tablet, and a laptop, so in order to be viable as a portable device for work it has to be a laptop replacement. I do see this happening already with the iPad, though for me personally a netbook is both cheaper and more practical."Apps are another key factor. It is smart of RIM to support Flash and AIR, which along with HTML 5 web applications are likely the best bet for supporting something like the PlayBook without a lot of device-specific work."Microsoft may be turning a new page in dropping Live Spaces &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"But this is a remarkable decision nonetheless. Microsoft is king of Not Invented Here (NIH) syndrome. The company has historically chosen to reinvent the wheel on many occasions: creating its own audio and video codecs, its own network protocols, and its own programming languages."It's not just external inventions that get ignored. Product teams within Microsoft even reinvent other Microsoft software: many of the programming tools overlap and duplicate functionality, many teams have recreated the same user interface concepts over and over. For example, there are at least four different "ribbon" implementations (Office, native Windows Ribbon Framework, MFC, WPF) which all look and behave slightly differently from each other. This is bad for users—programs that look superficially similar have different behavior depending on the which ribbon they use—and wasteful for Microsoft."End of the Road for Xmarks &gt;&gt; Xmarks blogIt's dead, Jim. The bookmarking service has 2m users, 5m desktops, 3,000 new accounts per day, 44m bookmarks, no money. (Thanksdvdhldnfor the pointer.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech".
Join Aleks Krotoski, Jemima Kiss, Gia Milinovich and Charles Arthur for the latest technology news. This week, they dissect The Social Network, often referred to as The Facebook Movie, because it documents the rise and rise and rise of the most popular social networking site in the world. 500 million users can't be wrong, right? Charles, Jemima and Gia report back from this week's special preview screening.Also this week, the virtual and the real worlds are under threat from hackers. An Iranian nuclear power plant has been infiltrated by a computer worm that attacks the integral systems of the plant's workings. Charles suggests it's a government job, and Gia gets excited about nuclear espionage.Alexander Hanff from Privacy International gives us the implications of the 750 MB file accidentally revealed on the ACS:Law website after it was taken down by members of the 4Chan social network - and what legal recourse the 10,000 email and ISP address owners have against the firm, who have the details as part of investigations into illegal peer-to-peer filesharing.Next week, as previously billed for this programme, the team are joined by Simon Carmichael from Torch Partners who will be answering your pressing start-up questions in the latest in our Start-Up Surgery series.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
BSkyB, one of the UK's largest broadband providers, has said it will no longer cooperate with the requests of controversial solicitors' firm ACS:Law and that it will challenge them in court, after around 8,000 of its customers had their personal information leaked online.The details – including credit card details and addresses – of thousands of broadband users became accessible via the firm's website in the aftermath of a series of "denial of service" attacks, orchestrated by members of internet forums protesting about the methods of tracking and notification employed by the company.The Information Commissionerhas said a fine of £500,000 could be levied upon ACS:Law, which also faces a disciplinary tribunal by the Solicitors Regulation Authority, legal action by pressure group Privacy International and legal action from people it apparently wrongly-identified as downloading illegal material.The company appears to compile lists of alleged infringers tracked by IP addresses, then appeals for a court order to the relevant internet service provider to hand over more information about the customer before taking the accused to court.Sky now says it will challenge these court orders until ACS:Law can prove it stores customer informtion in a secure way. A Sky spokesman said:"Following recent events, we have suspended all cooperation with ACS:Law with immediate effect. This suspension will remain in place until ACS:Law demonstrates adequate measures to protect the security of personal information."We continue to be very concerned at the apparent loss of data held by ACS:Law and by the actions of those who have sought to publicise the identities of individual customers. Like other broadband providers, Sky can be required to disclose information about customers whose accounts are alleged to have been used for illegal downloading. We support the principle that copyright material should be protected and we cooperate with court orders requiring disclosure."Because the security of customer information is also a high priority, we only ever disclose such data in encrypted form. In addition, we have an agreement with ACS:Law that requires data to be stored and used safely and securely."•Update 29/09: Separately, broadband provider Plusnet – which had around 400 of its customers' information exposed during the security breach of ACS:Law's website – today appeared to throw its weight behind increased transparency in the way companies collect information about those it suspects of downloading copyrighted content. The ISP, which was bought by BT in 2007, also suspended cooperation with ACS:Law. It said: "Due to serious concerns about the integrity of the processes used to obtain and store private customer information we are suspending with immediate effect the supply of any further customer data to ACS:Law until we are satisfied that weaknesses in these procedures have been addressed."A spokewoman told the Guardian:  "Our first concern is with our customers but we have been obliged to respond to court orders requiring that we disclose customer data. However, there is increasing evidence that there are deep concerns regarding the integrity of the process being used by rights holders to obtain customer data from ISPs for pursuing alleged copyright infringements."We need to have further confidence that the initial information gathered by rights holders is robust and that our customers will not be treated unfairly. We are urgently exploring how this can be assured, including through the assistance of the courts."The investigation by the Information Commissioner will try to determine whether the data exposure was a result of ACS:Law's method of storing information about people it suspects of sharing copyrighted material, or whether it was a direct result of the denial of service attacks against the website. The 365MB of information – which has since been distributed around the internet – containts the details of around 8,000 Sky broadband subscribers, 400 Plusnet customers, 5,000 Britons accused of illicit filesharing and emails between ACS:Law and its clients.Alex Hanff, of Privacy International, said the data breach was "one of the worst ever in the UK", while online advocacy organisation Open Rights Group today warned that the "unwarranted private surveillance" of people accused of downloading is a direct outcome of the Digital Economy Act [DEA]. Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, told the Guardian: "ACS:Law appears to be preparing to use DEA processes to target filesharers and Ofcom's code is wide open for them using that process, so that's a massive concern. This is all pretty terrible because, to be frank, Ofcom's system is going to throw up these situations as they're allowing private companies to exploit them."ACS:Law had no comment when contacted by the Guardian.
Microsoft is closing its Windows Live Spaces blogging platform and moving all its users over to Wordpress.com. It's a dramatic move which means that it's giving up a potentially huge slice of advertising business - perhaps because it simply can't make it pay.Or as Microsoftputs it, "partnering together" - redundant word alert - "and providing an upgrade for 30 million Windows Live Spaces customers".Make no mistake, this is dramatic: it means that Microsoft is giving up potentially valuable turf where it could have sold ads, in the manner of Google and the Blogger platform (which generates revenues for Google), and retreating from at least one part of the online space.As Tim Andersonputs it,"According to Microsoft it has 7 million users and 30 million visitors; and if you accept that business on the web is all about traffic and monetizing traffic, then it strikes me as odd that Microsoft has no better idea of what to do with that traffic than to give it to someone else.... What this means is that WordPress, not Microsoft, now has the opportunity to show ads or market other services to these users. "Dharmesh Mehta, director of Windows Live Product Management and author of the post for the Windows Live Spaces team, says:"As welooked at customers' blogging needsand what different companies were providing, we were particularly interested in what WordPress.com is doing. They have a host of impressive capabilities – from a scalable platform and leading spam protection, to great personalization and customization. WordPress powers over 8.5% of the web, is used on over 26 million sites, and WordPress.com is seen by over 250 million people every month. Not only that, Automattic is a company filled with great people focused on improving blogging experiences. So rather than having Windows Live invest in a competing blogging service, we decided the best thing we could do for our customers was to give them a great blogging solution through WordPress.com."Basically, if you're one of those Live Space bloggers, and you're actually still doing stuff on your blog, then Live Spaces is encouraging - nay, pushing - you over to Wordpress.Because if you don't want to shift over to Wordpress..."If you're not ready to migrate today, you can also choose to download your blog content, migrate later, or delete your Space."You've got six months before it disappears intothe great Bit Bucket where Geocities has gone.Often, of course, you can figure out who's really won out in a deal by comparing the corporate statements. What does Wordpress say? On its blog (of course),Paul Kim, its vice-president of user growth,says:"We're very happy that Microsoft chose WordPress.com as their preferred new blogging service for Windows Live users. It's a sign of how strong WordPress.com has become, and credit for that goes to every one of you who's been creating here."It certainly is. And note that there's no mention of Microsoft getting any advertising dibs there. Wordpress makes its money throughpremium blogs: you can get a wordpress.com site for free, but if you pay extra then you can do all sorts of other things, including host it on your own site (while leaving hassles like upgrades to Wordpress themselves.)Following the news that Vox is closing (on 30 September), and that its parent Six Apart (which created Movable Type) is joining with VideoEgg to create a new company called Say Media, one has to think that the pool of hosted blogging platforms is shrinking rather rapidly. Atthis rate, pretty soon it's only going to be Blogger and Wordpress.And if that's what it comes down to, you'd have to say that Wordpress has the edge. It's being taken up by the British government, even for non-blogging websites, where it acts as an effective content management system.That though may overlook the emergence of "superfast blog" systems such as Tumblr, which strip away a lot of the stuff on the outside - which can make blog upkeep complicated or tedious.Even so, it's not clear from here where blogging, as a separate activity, is really going. I still have the sense - as I said last year - thatthe long tail of blogging is dying. Microsoft's capitulation over Live Spaces seems an acknowledgement of that (its previous post, linked in that quote above, notes how much of a problem spam blogs and comment spam have been; indeed, when I used to trawl blogs for Technology content, Live Spaces blogs were notorious for being pure splogs or copy/paste jobs).Wordpress.com has done a better job keeping the spam out. The question now is whether it is building its business on top of an iceberg in a warming sea – or on dry land.
RIM, the maker of BlackBerry devices, is jumping into the tablet market levered open by Apple's iPad – but says that it is aiming its "PlayBook" at businesses, rather than individual consumers.Renewing its focus on its traditional users, who lie within corporations rather than in homes, the company's co-chief executive Mike Lazaridis announced the product by saying that the PlayBook – whose 7" screen is smaller than the iPad's 9" screen – is "the world's first professional tablet" and will contain features requested by the governments and corporations which need to control users' access to content and devices.The device, whose development and details had been rumoured for months, will be in the hands of certain enterprise customers from October, though no price has been given. It will be more widely available from next year.Following Apple's successful launch of the iPad in April – with 3m sold in 80 days, and analysts forecasting that it will have sold more than 10m in 2010 – a number of companies have pitched into the market. Samsung and Viewsonic announced versions which will run Google's Android operating system, while last week a video leaked apparently showing a tablet from HP running Microsoft's Windows operating system.The RIM Playbook will run its own QNX operating system, said Lazaridis – which will make it unable to run apps written for BlackBerry phones. However it will be able to run programs using Adobe's Flash technology, widely used for video, adverts and other interactive content on the web, and programs written as standard web pages.RIM has struggled in recent months as it has lost share in the US smartphone market to Apple's iPhone and phones running Android, which has led some analysts to downgrade its stock.But RIM may face an uphill battle even to displace Apple from a number of enterprises. Aleaked email list earlier this yearshowed that the iPad had rapidly acquired a large number of users among the top ranks of US's political and military, and its ability to communicate with Microsoft's Exchange and IBM's Lotus Notes systems has given it some acceptance within corporations.RIM may instead have to focus on its key strengths, such as its use of encryption for transmitting email, which has made it prized within corporations – though it has also brought it intocollision with governments in India and the Middle Eastwhich want to be able to wiretap that data.Robert Filkins, of the telecoms consultancy Coleago Consulting, suggested that RIM's longstanding relationship with corporations could stand it in good stead over Apple: "'Enterprise' tablets which use RIM or Windows or even Android operating systems are likely to be more appealing to system administrators and IT directors within larger enterprises who buy in bulk according to the time-honoured rule of 'tried and tested'. IT directors are likely to have trusted relationships with RIM and Microsoft Windows rather than with Apple.""However, the iPhone has made some inroads into the enterprise sector, and in time Apple's devices may well become more prevalent in the business market. For now though, consumer and enterprise remain distinct market segments and RIM's PlayBook could well establish itself over the iPad in the corporate environment."
*unless you read theNew Yorker profile of him, or saw the film, or are very attentive to our coverage.1) He's only five foot eight, but looks taller because he stands up very straight.2) He has been in a long-term relationship with Priscilla Chan, who is taking a medical degree and hopes to be a pediatrician, since meeting her at a Friday night party at the Jewish fraternity Alpha Epsilon Pi where he was carrying beer glasses which said#include beer.h.3) His father is a dentist whose website says "we cater for cowards".4) So that his father could be notified when there was a patient in the waiting room downstairs in the dentist practice attached to the house, he created a network. He called it ZuckNet.5) While he was still in high school (equivalent to secondary school in the UK) he wrote a program that would recommend music based on what you liked.6) He was approached by Microsoft, which was interested in buying it, but he declined.7) He is not (contrary to the film's claim) the youngest billionaire; that credit actually goes toDustin Moskovitz, who is eight days younger than Zuckerberg and was one of his roommates - and co-founders of Facebook - at Harvard University.8) Moskovitz is a billionaire (worth $1.4bn) solely by virtue of the estimated value of Facebook shares ($76 on the unofficial "aftermarket"): he owns a slew of them.9) Zuckerberg's favourite film director on his Facebook page is Aaron Sorkin.10) Or was, until he found out that Sorkin haddirectedwrittenThe Social Network. Then Sorkin's name went away.Read Jemima Kiss'sreview of the film The Social Networkon the PDA blog
The Social Network stars Jesse Eisenberg, above, as Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg. Photograph: Merrick MortonThe Social Networkis immensely unflattering for Mark Zuckerberg.Aaron 'West Wing' SorkinandDavid 'Fight Club' Fincherhave achieved a remarkable thing - an exhilarating, analytical and witty film about coding a website. But the drama is almost entirely spun out of Zuckerberg himself; his tactlessness and insensitivity around women, his obstinate and arrogant attitude to any authority figures, his precociousness and his curious mix of naivety and fierce ambition.It's a fascinating film for anyone as obsessed by the Facebook phenomenon as we all are, and a big geek thrill to see tech culture finally done some justice by Hollywood. And would it stand up as a film on its own merits? Absolutely.If Zuckerberg is an awkward genius, few of the other characters in the film are any more complimentary. Co-founder Eduardo Saverin is loyal but rather wet and non-committal, Napster co-founder Sean Parker is opportunistic and obnoxious and the Winklevoss twins, who claimed Zuckerberg stole their idea, are a delightful Tweedledum and Tweedledee - as styled by Calvin Klein. Discussing whether to beat their revenge out of him, Tyler says: "Well I'm 6'5", 220 and there's two of me."Bar a sympathetic lawyer and a jilted girlfriend, women come off pretty badly. Two early-stage Facebook groupies are given short shrift when Zuck hands out jobs to his friends, and elsewhere women are seen on the periphery smoking bongs and offering up their chests as coke platters. The implications of Facebook's impact on our attitudes to privacy and friendship are touched on, but fleetingly. It's no small irony that a character with limited social skills builds a site that will redefine social relationships for half a billion people, and that's the kernel of the film.There's a considerable amount of skill in putting pacey, engaging dialogue around scene after scene of legal negotiations and site coding which Sorkin does supremely well with well-crafted flashbacks and some unpredictable and eccentric behaviour from Zuckerberg, the boy genius. Jesse Eisenberg, who plays Zuck, apparently researched Asperger's in building up his role; in the opening scene, Zuck's inarticulate, obtuse insensitivity to his girlfriend almost seems to take that characterisation too far.There was a moment - after a series of scenes where the 'Winklevi', as Zuck calls them, are becomingly increasingly angry - where the intensity of the plot seems to waver a little, as if there's been too much shouting for too long. But the film finds more pace and scope in the nightclubs of San Francisco, student parties of Harvard and some deliciously claustrophobic camerawork at the Henley Regatta.By the end, it's hard not to sympathise with Zuck as the story is punctuated by scenes of him wired in and coding, seemingly isolated and overwhelmed by the phenomenon around him. He is portrayed as ruthlessly focused on creating that phenomenon, but by the end he seems less malicious - especially about the breakdown in his relationship with best friend Eduardo Saverin - and more naive. He's perversely likeable. As his lawyer says to him towards the end: "Every creation myth needs a devil."Facebook investor Peter Thieltold a conferencein San Francisco last night that even at $30bn, the site is still undervalued. While most of us will never know how close The Social Network is to the real deal, it will come to define Facebook and Mark Zuckerberg for a very long time to come. And as for Facebook's bottom line - myth building this good is only going to push that up.I give it four pokes out of five.The Social Networkopens in the UK on 15 October• Also:10 facts you (probably) didn't know about Mark Zuckerberg
When PES 2011 (Xbox 360) arrived last Saturday morning I knew it was going to be a good sporting day. Five hours later this feeling was confirmed as Lee Barnard scored Southampton's first goal for about 10 years (or so) and victory was secured at Hillsborough. But if the Saints winning was a surprise it was nothing compared to PES 2011. Konami have only gone and transformed PES into FIFA.Ok, let me clarify this. We're not talking licenses or innovative online multiplayer – PES is as far behind the FIFA curve here as normal – but rather the action on the pitch. Where once PES was fluid, fast and frantic it now plays at sedate FIFA-speed. Remember the days of bursting through the middle or down the wing with Adriano and co? Not any more. PES is now much more realistic but – whisper it – maybe not as much fun. Well, at least not initially anyway. Thank the sporting gods then for the adjustable speed option. Here you can adjust the speed from the FIFA-speed standard "0" to arcade crazy "2". More relevant is "1" which feels like the PES speed of old. Or you could be a masochist and play at "-2" and recreate the action of hungover veterans down on Hackney Marshes.The speed is one thing but the real change is in the passing and feel of the game. A new power bar is a big improvement and makes a massive change the game. For example the traditionally effective use of the through ball has lost its power. Now you really need to direct the ball to the player you want rather than lazily stabbing at the button. By varying the pace you can create a unique pass into space rather than the more scripted ones of older PES games. The general freedom now given to your general passing will take some getting used to but it soon becomes unthinkable to go back.The changes do take some getting used to though. This was struck home in the first game I played. England vs Sweden on professional – a nice easy way to start I thought. A feeling confirmed when I scored with my first move of the game. I sent a lovely dinked through ball to Rooney who placed it beautifully into the bottom corner. Easy? Not so. The next 44 mins of the half were spent under the cosh as I somehow kept it at 1-0. The rearguard action didn't hold though and I ended up losing 2-1. One thing quickly became clear - the old PES tactics of relying on pace and tricks just don't cut it any more.  Hardcore PES fans may need to relearn the game. Luckily then an overhauled strategy section will help.The strategy and tactical play has been massively improved. Players can be dragged and dropped into exact positions Football Manager-style and there is a huge amount of tactical flexibility available.What else then?  The graphics - especially the player likenesses – are fabulous. PES has never looked better. The physical side of the game is well depicted too with jostling defenders often pushing you off the ball or guiding you to the corner. The keepers seem to parry far too much though. I have been playing on professional and a high percentage of my goals have come via rebounds off keeper parries.The only – and I mean only – downer of getting PES 2011 two weeks before release is that there is no-one online. This means for now I can't comment on lag or how the new Master League online functions work in reality. Hopefully this situation will have changed in time for this Friday's review embargo (my review will be live then).Early days then but offline at least I've been impressed by PES 2011 – this is certainly more of a revolution than evolution. The flexibility around strategy, game speed and passing are a big step forward. To me it feels like PES has been let off the leash. Newer players may struggle but there looks like being a huge amount of depth to the action. I haven't played the new FIFA yet but PES 2011 is certainly back in the game.  My review will be up on Friday.What about you then? Will PES win out for you? Or has FIFA now won your football heart?
