You may have caught the rumpus last week when HMV sent an email out to its customers informing them of a scintillating deal. Anyone who purchased a 4GB PSP pack would be given the chance to pre-order a PS3 and receive preferential treatment over other HMV online customers. However, the email later pointed out that the deal hinged on Sony's delivery of units to HMV Guernsey and that consequently there was no guarantee that the pre-order would be fulfilled on launch day. Or indeed any day thereafter. Welcome to the twilight world of the value-added incentive.Bundling has become a common feature of console launches. In order to maximise revenue from meagre supplies, stores create their own packages which usually consist of the machine itself, a third-party peripheral and a couple of games. Customers will often find that there's no option to buy the console by itself. It's the bundle or nothing.So what's wrong with getting a couple of discounted games with your new PS3? Well, at this stage, it's not in the retailer's interest to bung Triple-A releases in with the hardware, as the machine will sell anyway and the decent games would fly off the shelves at full price. So what you get is the detritus of the launch line-up. Not only does this suit the retailer, it's great for the game publisher who often gets a cut on every bundle shipped and ends up making a reasonable return on a title that would otherwise have ended up in the bargain bin of history. It's only later that you find good titles bundled with console, when the games are selling the hardware rather than the other way round - as recent Nintendogs, Gears of Wars and Pro Evolution Soccer 6 deals attest.Even if the early advertising of a bundle names a game or two you might actually be interested in, read the small print. Retailers often insert a get-out clause stating that the contents may change. My advice? If you're determined to buy early and swallow the extra cost of a bundle, shop around. Go for a deal that's software rather than peripheral-based. And if you can stand it, just wait - refuse to play the bundle game. Ask your local store to call you when the hardware becomes available without a selection of asthmatic sports sims and clapped-out racers.But the shops have other ways to get you. In the US it is common for big retail chains to hoard stock until a Sunday, when they can place ads in local papers claiming to have 30 or so machines available. On Sundays, consumers have time to spare, children at home, nothing much else to do ... and when they arrive to find all the Wiis or PS3s have sold out at 8am, well, they're there anyway, they might as well buy something.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Because they don't like Yahoo!, it seems. The heart of the argument is that Flickr, the popular photo-sharing site bought by the web giant almost two years ago, is finally moving all of its users over to Yahoo!'s sign-in system.The move had been foreshadowed for some time, and last week "old-skool" users were told that the curtain would finally fall in March, and they needed to switch to a Yahoo! login or face losing their pictures. The arrival of a deadline caused a kerfuffle among some early adopters, who piled in thick and fast to complain about various issues - invasions of privacy, inelegant usernames and a lack of incentives among them.To many users (indeed, to the 95% of the site's 4.5m users who already use Yahoo IDs to log in) it seemed like a simple request. But for others, it was a controversy. "Way to go Flickr, screw the people that help make you what Flickr is today," said one user. "Time to vote with our feet perhaps," said another.The site's staff tried to fight the fire. "Flickr was acquired nearly two years ago and it is still the same people (plus a few more) running it, writing the software, designing the features, etc," said Stewart Butterfield, who started the service in 2004 with his wife Caterina Fake. "So, that hasn't really changed. This is not a new development."But the fire kept burning. The Flick Off! group has now grown to more than 1,500 members and many are suggesting switching to still-independent rivals such as Zooomr.com or SmugMug.Whatever happens, it shows how quickly the worm can turn when even sites with a strong community and reputation for great customer service face such revolt.It is not the first, of course. YouTube faced a barrage of criticism when the site's owners cashed in with Google last year, with users uploading videos expressing their anger that "their" YouTube was now somebody else's.Historically, every successful startup has faced the same teething pains: how to take necessary investment to keep the business growing while not getting slammed by users for selling out. Other community sites that could face the same dilemma in the future include Digg.com and Facebook, which had its own problems last year when it brought in a bizarre tracking system that invaded personal privacy."The same situation happens in music when artists get accused of selling out," says Martin Stiksel of community music site Last.fm."Taking a service for early adopters and bringing it to mainstream users is difficult, but creatively you have to make the decision to try and reach as many people as possible. It's about getting the balance right, but you win some and you lose some."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I'm not sure whether it is safe to admit that I haven't had an antivirus program installed on my computer for the past three years, but it's true. I care a great deal about security, yet none of the four Windows machines at home has antivirus software and none, so far, has been infected. This may seem ludicrously optimistic at a time when the internet is overrun with unpleasant and sometimes dangerous malware. As I am writing this, theTrend antivirus siteshows more than 4m infected files detected by them around the world in the past 30 days, and this, since it reflects one company's experience, with a distinct European bias, has to be a grotesque underestimate.There may be more than 1m computers controlled by botnets in China alone. Even some TomTom GPS units have emerged from the factorycontaminated with a Trojan. What makes this even more frightening is that the malware business is no longer run for the benefit of antisocial teenagers, but for organised criminal gangs.They don't want control of your computer out of a spirit of fun or malice, as earlier hackers did; they want to make money from it, by sending spam or attacking other networks by bombarding them with trivial web traffic, while quietly collecting all your passwords, credit card numbers and bank details and using those to make more money through fraud and theft.We certainly need defences. The trouble is that virus scanning isn't a worthwhile one. The strong defences are firewalls, caution, honesty and common sense. Firewalls are essential, but also easy. In fact is is almost impossible nowadays to buy a router or broadband modem that does not have one built in. Macs and modern version of Windows have software firewalls as well. I like a slightly more sophisticated one: the (free)Kerio personal firewall, which monitors outgoing as well as ingoing connections, so that if something has appeared on my computer and wants to communicate with the outside world, I will know it has made the attempt and failed.It can also be set to report any new program which starts itself or tries to start any other; and to keep an eye on all running programs to be sure they have not changed since last being run. That is really all the security anyone can ask for.It does entail some inconvenience and makes installing new software boring, but it's a very slight inconvenience compared to disinfecting a system or using conventional anti-virus software.It is common sense not to use Internet Explorer or Outlook Express except when you absolutely have to, and to download Microsoft's security updates regularly. It is common sense, too, which tells me never to open any attachments that do not come from people I know and trust, or from whom I am expecting something.Honesty helps. If you use either free software or legitimately purchased commercial stuff, you are extremely unlikely to get a virus from it. On the other hand, something like half the pirated copies of Windows available in China come with a virus pre-installed. In a similar vein, your computer can pick up nasty infections from porn sites even if you don't.The antivirus business is hugely profitable for three big companies. Symantec, which makes Norton antivirus software, made more than $500m profit last year; Trend Micro about $160m; and McAfee a little more (though it also lost its president and chief executive in a stock options scandal). It is in the interest of all these vendors to hype up the insecurity of Windows, which Microsoft, to be fair, has done a great deal about in recent years; that, though, has led to the AV vendors' noisy policy of constantly upgrading and advertising themselves.The warnings that bubble up almost daily from your system tray could all be reduced to one marketing message: "Nice computer you've got here. It would be a shame if anything were to happen to it."This is the mafia's traditional message, but with a twist: paying money to the virus protection racket doesn't actually protect you from the real online mafia very well.&#183;thewormbook.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The league of ISPsNice to see Plusnet commenting on broadband usage (What does 'unlimited' mean?, February 1). If only its customers could get in touch with them. It doesn't accept emails and waiting times when calling are horrendous.It all started when they sponsored Sheffield Wednesday. They and the "f'owls" went downhill at the same time. In fact, my bloody broadband seems to go up and down with Wednesday's league position. Do you think there could be a correlation?I thought of moving to Eclipse - but they are part of Kingston Communications, bottom of Championship table. Are there any more football clubs sponsored by crap broadband companies?Dave EyreSheffield&middot;"Unlimited" means exactly what the laptop-toting person on the Clapham omnibus thinks it means. Phrases such as "unlimited, subject to fair use policy" mean exactly the opposite, and the word itself usually signals "deception" when used by broadband providers. Action from the body governing advertising standards is long overdue.Richard GregoryLondonConsoling thoughtSurely with all this talk of Microsoft and Sony, we are overlooking the true winner of this war: Nintendo (PS3 launch price is no fun, February 1). People dismissed Nintendo after the decidedly shady offerings of the GameCube, but it has truly come up trumps with the invention of the Wii."Next generation" should be rephrased to "next innovation". Gamers don't want a constant torrent of rehashed titles that have passed their sell-by date. We want new and exciting games that challenge us and excite us, allowing us new ways to play. Nintendo ticks all the boxes.Alex ShutePortsmouth&middot;When electronics companies start to refer to Irish tax rates as "extortionate" you have to wonder just how badly is the [Irish] government screwing us? Still, I'm sure the rest of Europe can take comfort in the fact that Sony can point at Ireland and say "see, they are worse off than you, so stop whining and pay the money".decsramble.blogspot.comPictures of innocenceThe article (A picture paints a thousand invoices, February 1) is missing a point about people who have innocently (or through lack of knowledge) used copyright pictures and are left with no options. Pay or die. Why are only small businesses targeted? Is it easier for agencies to get the money out of their pockets without anyone going into court? It sounds like blackmail, offering a one-year licence running out next month.Alfonso TorrejonColchester&middot;As a web developer, I find most of the stock photography sites prohibitivly expensive. My clients don't expect a bill for &pound;500 for a website and another &pound;1,000 for a single image. Luckily there are plenty of free stock photo sites. Also, one of the reasons I got my digital camera in the first place was so that I could take pictures myself and not have to worry about these licensing fees.pixalo.com/communityUpdate controllerPaul May (Technobile, February 1) seems to have missed out the simplest arrangement - turn Automatic Updates off completely and access the update site when it suits you. Preferably just before you go for lunch so the downloading can take place (after you've selected those updates and only those updates that you believe to be safe, necessary and worthwhile) while you're otherwise engaged. Reboot when you return and voila!John DeanOxfordMissed pointYour new cartoon below the letters is just not funny. Please could we have My New Filing System is Unstoppable back?Alan ReynoldsCornwall&#183;Read all this weeks letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Probably not, but a disgruntled bunch of early adopters would like to see the graphics giant in the dock over the functionality of some of its hardware.As always happens when Microsoft launches a new flavour of Windows, the software "drivers" to run hardware and peripherals aren't all ready. (Somehow, it's always a surprise.) A quick internet search will reveal grumbles about scanners and so on, but among the noisiest grumblers are users of Nvidia's graphics cards. Nvidia admits it wasn't ready with an SLI driver - to run two cards together for superior games performance - for Vista. It hopes to have full SLI support by the end of next month.Another problem has been decreased performance under Vista for the bleeding-edge 8800 series graphics cards. These are the only cards at present that will support DirectX10, the next generation of graphics engine. This hardware is described as "Vista-ready" and it's this that is at the heart of the action being coordinated by "Nathan", a US-based gamer and industry professional."It was branded as something that it's not. It's still not functioning as advertised," he says. "Significant portions of the card aren't able to be used in Vista." He has a point. Shelling out big bucks - a top-of-the-range 8800GTX card costs around &pound;400 - only to find that it runs like a dog under Vista is, to say the least, not an ideal experience.So why upgrade if it runs better under XP? The answer is that DirectX10 only works under Vista. So it's a Catch-22 situation. If you want to play DirectX10 games, you have to have a DirectX10 card and Vista. But the cards perform poorly in Vista. So what are the chances of this ending up in court? At the moment, zero, as the grumpy gamers don't have a lawyer. But if that changes, watch this space.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A Canadian company with substantial venture capital backing claims to have built a "quantum computer" that will ultimately solve problems beyond the power of conventional systems - and will demonstrate it over a live link next week.While most scientists believe a useful system is at least 20 years away, D-Wave (dwavesys.com), based in Burnaby, British Columbia, says it has a breakthrough in a field that already promises revolution. The company says it expects to sell quantum computers next year that can solve knotty problems from protein structure to financial optimisation.The company has persuaded investors to put $20m (&pound;10m) into its radical new take on quantum computing and promises to show a prototype next Tuesday in its labs.A quantum computer can, in theory, be vastly more powerful than a conventional one because it uses quantum properties to carry out multiple calculations simultaneously. That's because quantum systems (such as various properties of electrons) simultaneously embody different "states". The best known simile is that of Schr&ouml;dinger's cat, the thought experiment in which a cat in a box is both alive and dead - until someone opens the box.In a quantum computer, every quantum bit (or "qubit") is simultaneously both 0 and 1. Put two qubits together, and you have a system whose values are simultaneously every value from 0 to 3. A system with only 300 qubits is in 1090 (one followed by 90 zeros) states simultaneously - more than the number of atoms in the known universe. If (and it's a big "if") you can frame your calculation in the correct way then rather than grinding through each individual step of the calculation (what is 2+2? Add 2 to 0, add 2 to 2, read the result) the quantum computer will move directly to the correct answer. What is 2+2? The quantum state: 4. (Wikipedia's full, and very mathematical, description ishere).But quantum computers literally stop working if you look at them. If any interference, even thermal noise, gets in from the outside world, quantum states "collapse". The cat is alive or dead, the bits are 0 or 1, not both, and the computer loses its magical multiplicity. So far, quantum computers have only been isolated long enough for a few thousand operations - too short to do anything really useful. Some scientists, such asMichael Dyakonovof the University of Montpellier in France, believe thermal noise makes quantum computing as impossible as perpetual motion.But D-Wave's "Orion" is designed to collapse: it uses a so-called "adiabatic" process, in which the quantum states evolve towards the answer. Noise actually helps this, according to D-Wave's founder, the scientist Geordie Rose. His Orion system is a 16-qubit chip, built with the metal niobium using conventional lithography, and cooled to just above absolute zero."The quantum states are like the notes of a chord," says Seth Lloyd, professor of mechanical engineering at MIT, who helped develop adiabatic quantum computing (AQC) theory. "If you could hear quantum states, you would hear a complex chord, changing towards a single note, which is the answer."The trade-off is that an AQC solves only one problem. It takes any set of inputs and settles into the one state that solves that problem for those inputs. Orion solves a theoretical magnetic field problem, called the two-dimensional Ising model, which would take exponential amounts of time on a normal computer. It can solve more useful problems, such as protein folding and financial optimisation, after a conventional computer translates them into the Ising model.With 16 qubits, it won't do anything a conventional computer can't, but D-Wave hopes to add qubits quickly if the unproven technology works. "The jury is out," says Lloyd. "It's a long shot, but they've gone about it in the best possible way: they've said 'Let's build it and see'."Others are less optimistic. "My gut instinct is that I doubt there is a major 'free lunch' here," says Professor Andrew Steane of Oxford University. "That means I doubt that this computing method is substantially easier to achieve [in the present of noise and imperfection] than any other."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
So you've decided to part with your hard-earned cash to avoid the M6 rush hour hell. You're bombing along, set to reach your destination with time to spare - thanks to Britain's first, and almost traffic-free, privately funded motorway.And then you see it. The ambitiously named main toll "plaza" looms on the horizon. This, you will learn, is why the private motorway is traffic-free. Not because people don't want to pay money, but because they don't want to go through the process of paying money.As the plaza draws nearer and you weight up what to do, panic sets in. Which lane is it to be? What do those funny little orange signs mean? You choose a track, only to realise that you're now heading for an ominous red cross. You'd better move, sharpish.But there's a maniac in a Merc just where you want to be. It's a free-for-all. Suddenly gridlock at friendly, plaza-free Junction 10 seems more appealing.For even in private-driver land, lanes may be closed. Worse, staffed booths may be unstaffed.Didn't you see the sign that said "have payment ready"? What do you mean, you think your bag is in the boot? You may have to pull over. Or you can brazen it out in one of the empty lanes. It's Hobson's choice. Hazard lights at the ready, over you go to a deserted lane.But it's the one for credit cards. No wonder everyone is avoiding it. You've never dared venture there before. It's enough trouble at a multistorey car park; the prospect of parking close enough to push in your card and press for a receipt is daunting to say the least. Have a good fumble and there's your card. Phew. Just please don't drop it. Now wind down your window, undo your seat belt and drive. Yes, all at the same time. What could be easier? Knitting fog, anyone?But hang on. You start to imagine what else could go pear-shaped. What if the barrier smashes into your bonnet if you don't set off quickly enough? There's an alarming possibility that while you are out of your seat, scrabbling for that dropped credit card, someone could smash into your rear end. What if your humiliating dawdling renders you a victim of someone else's road rage? These things happen.Preparation is everything, so spare a thought for those poor souls who have ended up in this corner of Norton Canes by accident. Yes, that happens too. Tootling along the M6 Southbound, still in the relative easy flow at around about Cannock, they miss the signs sorting the payers from the non-payers.However you've reached this point, the crowning moment of dread comes as you leave the booths in your rearview mirror. All the lanes now boil down into three again. How scary is that? And remember, if none of these calamities happens to you, rest assured they will happen to the person in front.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The government made much of its precision in identifying its useful and "unneeded" assets with the publication last month of the updatedNational Asset Register. Yet oddly, some of its assets - particularly the intangible ones - were overlooked: such as its huge and valuable stores of public sector information, including the Ordnance Survey's National Geographic Database. As the repository of data from which the official maps of Britain are drawn, the database must have a significant value; but you'll look in vain for its appearance in the register.Such overlooking of valuable public sector information is the sort of thing that has frustrated the Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information, which has just issued itsthird report. The panel was set up in 2003 "to advise ministers and officials on the opportunities for the information industry that flow from the greater use of public sector information". But are ministers listening?The advisory panel's report suggests that current policy - torn between the demands of data protection, freedom of information and earning a commercial return - is in a mess. The report reveals a tale of frustrated attempts to try to interest ministers in public sector information - which one expert member describes as "the main asset of government".Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign, which says that non-personal data collected by the government should be available freely, for free, for re-use in the knowledge economy, agrees.Refused accessThe advisory panel now sees its role as "helping government realise the value of public sector information". Members, who include Ordnance's Survey's director of strategy, academics and users of government information, appear divided on whether this should mean generally making information free for all. However, the panel's responsibilities take it to the heart of this debate. It acts as a final arbiter in complaints - for example, when a business claims that a government trading fund has refused it fair access to data. Two such complaints are now under consideration, the report reveals.Throughout the report, there is frustration at the low priority given by ministers to questions of public sector information. Members of the panel "have been disappointed in the past year with our inability to stimulate and secure ministerial interest", the report reveals. (We know how it feels: Guardian Technology has for the past month repeatedly requested an interview with Baroness Ashton, the minister at the Department for Constitutional Affairs with responsibility for information rights. Her office has not responded.)Lack of interest was a particular concern at the Cabinet Office, which until last year was responsible for coordinating government policy. "The reality is that it has not met with any minister over the past 18 months, despite attempts to set up meetings. Still less have ministers actively pursued any PSI initiatives."This black hole in policy extends even to the government's own IT strategy - another Cabinet Office responsibility, the panel says. The report expresses "surprise" that the transformational government strategy does not deal with the management of information. The advisory panel likens the strategy to that of a plumbing plan which does not consider what liquid will pass through the pipes, how the liquid should remain sanitised, who should be allowed to tap into it and how the liquid might feed into other systems and facilities. "We advised that these omissions were worrying," the report says. Government computer systems should not just enhance public service but support compliance with data protection, freedom of information - and the commercial re-use of data.Despite such concerns, the advisory panel finds reasons for optimism. Last year, prime responsibility for public sector information moved from the Cabinet Office to the Department for Constitutional Affairs, to which the advisory panel now reports. The report cautiously welcomes the move, proffering the hope that "our work will generate more ministerial interest in our new home than we managed to secure in the past".The downside of this move is that the Office of Public Sector Information, the government body directly charged with administering Crown Copyright, has also moved from the Cabinet Office to merge with the National Archives. The report reveals "two serious concerns". One is that the merger was in practice a takeover by the National Archives, suggesting a lowering of priorities. Second was that the name "archives" is associated with historical materials rather than live data.The panel warns that it will watch for "any diminution of emphasis" on the re-use of public sector information and report next year. The report is also silent on the key role of the Treasury, which is understood to be looking at raising more cash from public sector information.In an attempt to stimulate interest in the potential of re-using public sector information, the report publishes 16 case studies of new information services based on government data. These include the National Land and Property Information Service, which cuts the time needed to carry out a conveyancing property search from six weeks to two minutes, and the Met Office's health forecasting service, which helps the NHS plan for upsurges in diseases exacerbated by the weather.Interest in high placesAnother success is a free database of legislation and case law assembled by the British and Irish Legal Information Institute. The system draws material from 74 databases and includes some 186,000 searchable documents. "A new, extremely valuable information source was thereby created and is now available to all."The report notes several recent policy developments which may generate interest in high places. In 2009, the UK must implement the European Inspire directive, which requires government bodies to make geospatial information freely available. Ministers will also have to respond to the Office of Fair Trading's study into the commercial re-use of public sector information, which warned of unfair practices in the market. The advisory panel is expected to back the OFT's findings when it comments on the report.In his introduction to the annual report, the panel's chair, Richard Susskind, notes another development: for the first time, public sector information has become "a focal point for a national newspaper". Technology Guardian's Free our Data campaign has "raised public awareness of the topic", he says.Thank you. We will try to do more.&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A better mousetrapperMousetrapper UK has launched its MouseTrapper Advance control system for &pound;169.95, which includes a Microsoft Intellimouse. It "helps prevent RSI cases".mousetrapper.co.ukSony releases G11This week's new Sony Vaio notebook PC is the G11, which has the light weight (1.12kg) and long battery life (nine hours) coveted by business travellers.sony-europe.comMobile broadband on the cardSony Ericsson has announced the PC300 Mobile Broadband PC Card for laptops with support for "four generations" of network technology: HSDPA, UMTS, EDGE and GPRS, including CDS and SMS. It will arrive in the autumn.sonyericcson.comPixels for tunesBandwagon's Million Pound Jukebox site is selling advertising (at &pound;1 per pixel) to support new bands.millionpoundjukebox.comWei Wei goes mobiChina's Wei Wei will attend next week's 3GSM World Congress in Barcelona and be the first pop star to launch a new album to mobile phone users, via weiwei.mobiweiweimusic.comTreo 750 unlockedPalm is offering its Windows Mobile 5-based Treo 750 smartphone unlocked, online and through retail (around &pound;429).eurostore.palm.comAntivirus failuresVirus Bulletin magazine says that four out of 15 antivirus products failed to reach the standard required by its VB100 tests on Windows Vista, including McAfee VirusScan and Microsoft's Live OneCare.virusbtn.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
We get far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have room for in print. So here's what we chose from when we were putting together the selection that appears in this week's section. Click through to read..BROADBANDNice to see Plusnet commenting on broadband usage. If only their customers could get in touch with them. They don't accept emails and on their listed phone number and waiting times when calling are horrendous. Callers are not welcome at their Sheffield Office. It all started when they sponsored Sheffield Wednesday. They and the "f'owls" went downhill at the same time. In fact my bloody broadband seems to go up and down with Wednesday's league position. Do you think there could be a correlation? I thought of moving to Eclipse - but they are part of Kingston Communications bottom of Championship table..... Any more football clubs sponsored by crap broadband companies? Dave Eyre, Sheffield"Unlimited" means exactly what the average laptop-toting person on the Clapham omnibus thinks it means (What does 'unlimited' mean?, February 1), phrases such as "unlimited, subject to fair use policy" mean exactly the opposite, and the word itself usually signals "deception" when used by broadband providers - action from the body governing advertising standards is long overdue. Richard Gregory, LondonIt explains why our 4Mb NTL connections sometimes dips to 2 or less. We usespeedtest.netto verify the link. There is no nee dot download a tool as you connect to a local server and run a download/upload test that way. Sean Hogan, LondonI run a general broadband website called The Broadband Resource UK and wrote an article on this very issue last year after several emails from site visitors asking what throttling and traffic shaping meant. I'm pleased to see the processes adopted by ISPs are now being highlighted by the general media. This has also made many ISPs go public about traffic shaping. Not that I think what they are doing is a bad thing, generally. It works out better for the vast majority of users. Manoj Solanki, chief editor, The Broadband Resource UK&gt;&gt; The issue here from a contractual perspective is that if the service described in the contract doesn't reflect the reality of that service, an angry customer could justifiably argue that the IT supplier has breached its contractual obligations. Resolving this issue is simple: make sure that the contract accurately reflects the reality of what the service is, warts and all. Outside the context of the contract, the marketing materials and sales talk for the service should also reflect the reality of the service as much as possible. The reason: an angry customer will go elsewhere, even if you have got the contract right. The contract being correct might mean that you keep the customer for a while longer, but as soon as they can escape from your clutches, they will do.http://impact.freethcartwright.com/2007/02/aspirational_pr.html&gt;&gt; The quality is in the quantity. Nobody mumbles when you got 1 % voip/skypers/p2p'ers on your network (corporate or otherwise, a megabyte is a megabyte, it makes no difference) but when the effect rises in numbers, you will see different behaviour popping up.http://webtown.typepad.com/webtown/2007/02/the_meaning_of_.html&gt;&gt; I do think that Orange must be on thin ice when they advertise the "Unlimited" service like this: "Get up to 8 Meg wireless broadband with unlimited downloads and inclusive calls to UK landlines starting 01 and 02 plus 100 international destinations"http://www.orangeproblems.co.uk/phpBB2/viewtopic.php?p=9199#9199PS3 PRICINGi would say that Sony has lied to you and insist you have another interview. I live in Finland which is also a country within the European union and our currency is Euros. The PlayStation 3 is according to an official Sony website, going to cost 650 Euros for us Finns. Yes that is $827.92! It's about the same amount that it is going to cost in the United Kingdom. Well you figure out the rest.... Michael Tuomenoksa, FinlandWith all this talk of Playstation 3's pricing woes and delay upon delay, antagonising consumers to the point of despair, it seems that we have overlooked the entire point of this next-generation battle. Surely we as the gaming market are looking for innovation, something that we can experience that is new to our senses. Microsoft's Xbox has continued to supply a staple diet of decent gaming and a fantastic on-line system. But how is this any different from Sony's Playstation? Let's mark them off against each other...Improved graphics, check, improved controller, check, on-line capabilities, check, groundbreaking innovation in game content...ummmmmm! Surely with all this talk of Microsoft and Sony, we are overlooking the true winner of this 'War', Nintendo. People seem to have dismissed Nintendo in terms of Home Console Gaming after the decidedly shady offerings of the Gamecube, but they have truly come up trumps with the invention of the Wii. Granted, its name is absurd, but it is fun, as is playing the games. Each and every game on the Wii invites players to experience something completely new, compelling and exciting. Moving around your living room, looking like a complete berk to any onlookers as you attempt to swing your virtual baseball bat at the screen or slashing at the screen with your virtual sword as you guide Link through his latest Quest. Does the Wii have improved graphics? Over the Gamecube, yes it does. Perhaps not to the extent of Playstation and Xbox but who says that 'Next Generation' is defined solely by graphical power. It is my opinion that 'Next Generation' should be rephrased to 'Next Innovation'. Gamers don't want a constant torrent of rehashed titles that have passed their sell by date. We want new and exciting games that challenge us and excite us, allowing us new ways to play. Nintendo ticks all the boxes and has set itself aside from the crowd as being a truly 'Next Innovation' Machine! Alex Shute, PortsmouthNice article and interview with Ray Maguire of SCEE. But, I feel I must pull him (Ray) up on some things. 1. If you compare the GDP (PPP) (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_GDP_%28PPP%29_per_capita), then you quickly see that the US is in 3rd place with $41,399, the UK falls in at No.18 with $30,436, Japan above us at No.16 with $30,615 (stats from Wikipedia, via IMF for the year 2005). So relative to the US, we are a much poorer nation, yet we must pay so much more - part of the reason we are actually poorer!! 2. VAT is indeed 17.5% in the UK. But, taxes aren't generally that high in the US, so adding 17.5% to a US RRP is hardly a fair direct comparison. 3. Inflation is just shy of 4% (I believe) in the UK, and half of that in the US. 4. Increased cost due to transportation is a very valid point. If I knew which country was to be the central distribution depot for the PS3 I could draw better conclusions. However, the point remains that the Euro still gets one flat price (except for Ireland), and we get a higher price (both on direct monetary conversion, and compared via GDP (PPP)). And where are SCEE based? London. 5. If increased cost of transportation has bumped the price up for Ireland, then why is it £10 dearer in the North? - Although, he appears to have covered this off by alluding to bumping the price up in the UK to account for potential Euro-Sterling fluctuations. 6. As manufacturing processes improve, costs fall. I would estimate that cell &amp; PS3 have been in production now for six months. And finally.... 7. Given SCEE's treatment of it's "loyal customers" in the EU (a term SCEE has previously used): delaying the launch of the PSP; delaying the launch of the PS3; refusing to launch many non-PAL games (eg. original Katamari Damacy); putting many grey-importers out of business - you would have thought we would have been looked on more favourably? I'm afraid that Mr. Maguire has done nothing to convince me that we are not living in "rip-off Britain". In fact, he has helped confirm my suspicions that SCEE are partly funding this conspiracy!! That said, I am weak, and will be buying a PS3 at launch! Barry McCauley, WatfordFurther to Steve Boxer's article on PS3 pricing in the UK, I looked up the difference in pricing for Microsoft Vista using Amazon.com and Amazon.co.uk. The differences are Vista Ultimate UK £353.99 Vista Ultimate US $379.99 or £194.13 Vista Business UK £289.99 Vista Business US $284.99 or £145.60 Vista Premium UK £210.99 Vista Premium US $227.99 or £116.48 Thank God I'm an Apple Mac man. Christopher Skelton Tunbridge Wells&gt;&gt; When electronics companies start to refer to Irish tax rates as "extortionate" you have to wonder just how badly is the [Irish] Government screwing us? Still I'm sure the rest of Europe can take comfort in the fact that Sony can point at Ireland and say "see, they are worse off than you, so stop whining and pay the money".http://decsramble.blogspot.com/2007/02/irish-vat-rate-is-extortionate-says.htmlPICTURE COPYRIGHTThe Article is right, but it is missing a small point about people who has used innocently (or lack of knowledge) copyrighted pictures and are left with no options. Pay or Die. Why only small businesses are targeted? Is easier for Corbis an B&amp;M to get the money out of their pockets without anyone going into court? It sounds as blackmail, offering a year license running out next month. What happens when the web has been alive for only 2? They abuse of their position. Why we have to allow private individuals (Corbis) to do the policing in our street? (in this case "servers"). How legal is that? A search engine index looking for information to publish on the web is for public interest (All of us agree). MarcSpider does it for a private interest, and on a very obscure way. Does MarcSpider respect the robots.txt file? I don't think so, so where "moral integrity" on the web is from Corbis and B&amp;M? Are they going to teach me "morality"? Alfonso Torrejon, ColchesterYour article is not up to date. Both Getty and Corbis use PicScout to trace infringement (fingerprinting technology). And it is known that Digimarc also use PicScout crawlers as well. Review the releases on our site for Corbis, Getty and Digimarc. Eyal Gura, CEO, PicScout IncI was surprised Wendy Grossman's feature today which failed to mention Alamy, which has over 3000 contributing photographers and agencies and is (as far as I know) the 3rd largest stock agency in the UK. By comparison, I don't think Jupitermedia has much of a presence in the UK. The quote below is from the Stock Asylum Staff Report, 23 Jan 07: "Figures released by Alamy early this date show what most stock photography industry observers already know –– this British collection is growing at a phenomenal rate. And, with 7.6 million images now offered, Alamy is almost certainly the largest stock collection on the globe. The company said it added 3.43 million images last year, almost 1.19 million more than the 2.25 million added in 2005. In the latest quarter alone, Alamy uploaded 950,787 images with 443,214 coming from individual photographers and 507,553 from stock distributors. At the current rate, Alamy's online collection will surpass ten million images during the third quarter of this year. Though there is nothing magical about that number, reaching it would certainly help Alamy achieve its stated goal of becoming a major global marketplace for stock imagery". Nick Hanna, HastingsThe old traditional stock libraries won;t last for ever either ... yeah there's Flickr but more that that there's fotolia.co.uk ... cheap fast and vast ... photographers can sell their own stuff at good returns ... this will be the future of stock ... I use it all the time. James @ Logovend&gt;&gt; As a web dev meself I find most of the stock photography sites prohibitively expensive. My clients don't expect a bill for £500 for a website + another £1000 for a single image Luckily there are plenty of free stock photo sites. Also, one of the reasons I got my cam in the first place was so I could shoot myself and not have to worry about these licensing fees.http://www.pixalo.com/community/general-chat/intellectual-property-10990.html&gt;&gt; In the meantime, for blogs and non-commercial sites, it's probably worth sidestepping potentially expensive google image search results as a source for graphics. Instead use royalty free stock from the likes of istockphoto or, perhaps approach Flickr users who, as the Guardian piece points out, are usually only to pleased to see their prosumer images used, much to the chagrin of the professionals.http://www.chewingpixels.com/?p=214TECHNOBILE - UPDATESPaul May seems to have missed out the simplest arrangement - turn Automatic Updates off completely and access the update site when it suits you. Preferably just before you go for lunch so the downloading can take place (after you've selected those updates and ONLY those updates that you believe to be safe, necessary and worthwhile) while you're otherwise engaged. Reboot when you return and voila! But I suppose that's too simple to make 500 words and a lucrative article out of. John Dean, OxfordSo why do you keep running Windows, then? Jorgen Stepputat (no post town given)HELLO VISTAWhat surprises me about Vista is nobody has drawn a comparison between the Airbus 380 and Vista - both of them two years late - both cost about the same to develop - both need to be successful for their respective organisations to remain a relevant force in their market segment - both of them an extrapolation of existing products that no-one is clamouring to replace, by extrapolation, I mean bigger, heavier, can't land at all the relevant airports that it should, can't run on all the PC's that are in use. More crucially both ignore their own environmental impacts and harms, I run a small company and to change to Vista means throwing away 15 or so completely serviceable PC's (that will end up in landfill), a set of software applications that the company needs to operate, not to mention the testing and re-training to achieve no return on investment. The payback time on the airbus A380 will come at a time when people with long haul lifestyles will become increasingly aware that long haul wrecks the planet in a way that a trip down to subtropical Cornwall will not. Alan Bell, WaterloovilleBREAKING HD PROTECTIONYour article states that "Copy protection seems to be intact [...] What has been cracked is the playback protection, which was meant to ensure that you couldn't play an encrypted DVD on a dodgy player." The copy protection *isn't* intact, or rather it gets stripped out without being cracked. That done, people are already copying movies and trading them - without copy protection - on the internet. In fact, you need one of these copies (on your hard drive) to play it on your "dodgy player". I haven't done this yet, but for one movie I feel entitled to. I recently purchased an HP Media Center PC with a built-in HD DVD player, together with a 24" 'high definition' flat-panel monitor. It came with an HD movie, 'The Bourne Supremacy'. Alas, while my software and video card support HDCP content protection, the monitor doesn't. There's nothing "dodgy" about the monitor; many of the best monitors don't support HDCP. Oddly, the lower-end, less-than-HD-resolution monitors are more likely to support it. If I can't play my paid-for movie because they sold it to me "defective by design", then I have no qualms about bypassing the defect. One night if I have too much time, I may use Muslix64's crack to watch and back up my movie. But I'll wait for the easy-to-use utilities that some are now writing, based the crack. And I won't be copying any other movies. For that matter, I won't be purchasing any more high definition movies; not while they have the DRM hassle. Roger Strong, Winnipeg, ManitobaKate Bevan's article (1st Feb) shows a few misunderstandings about DRM and copying of DVDs (including HD-DVD and Blu-Ray). Firstly 'copy protection' is a misnomer - media can be copied if it can be played. DRM in this sense is about restricting playback, not copying. DRM is designed to render the content meaningless to someone without the correct key to decrypt it. Secondly, HDCP has nothing at all to do with the DVD - player combination. Its included on the interface between the player (which could be a PC) and the display monitor, to stop someone intercepting meaningful data as its transmitted. So HDCP allows authentication of the link between player and display, not player and DVD. HDCP has not been cracked, and its not necessary to crack it once the DVD contents are decrypted. No form of DVD uses HDCP, contrary to what the article tells us. 'Leaving the copy protection intact' as Kate states in her article is really rather a red-herring - one wonders what Kate thinks 'copy protection' really consists of. What matters is that movies released by the studios can now be circulated in plain (not encrypted) form, and will be played on other software and hardware than has been authenticated by those studios. Richard Dudley Hangzhou, ChinaDUMB FRIDGESIt's not just the cost of RFID tags that is delaying the arrival of smart fridges. What happens when I take a two-litre bottle of milk out of my fridge, pour some into my tea, and then return the slightly emptier bottle? What happens to the lettuce in the bottom of the fridge: where does the tag go on that? What happens when I unwrap my Cheddar cheese and put the cheese in a plastic box and dump the wrapper in the bin? And what about the stuff that's not in the fridge: the unopened cartons of orange juice, the oranges, apples and bananas, the tea bags? Alan Burkitt-Gray, LondonE-BOOKS: READING ON SCREENDailyLit(found at: ) allows books to be read in instalments via e-mail. We currently have about 250 classic works offered for free, including Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen; Dracula by Bram Stoker and The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. The works are sent in individual instalments on the day and time selected by each reader (e.g. every weekday at 6:30am). Each instalment can be read in under 5 minutes, and if a reader wants to read more he/she can click on a link and receive the next instalment immediately. The instalments are readable wherever a reader receives e-mail, including on any PDA, Treo or Blackberry. As such, it's great for commuters who want to read on a train or bus or for employees at work who don't want anyone to know they're reading books when they should be working! Susan Danziger, Publisher, DailyLitSITESEEING Your new cartoon below the letters page is just not funny. Please could we have 'My New Filing System is Unstoppable' back? Alan Reynolds, Par, CornwallLOUD CDs (CONT'D)The new Tom Petty album is also horrible. It is all compressed and hurts my ears after a few minutes listening to it on my ipod. It doesn't help that I bought it in a compressed format (AAC from iTunes) either. I haven't bought a new release in years, I think the last one was Sting's "Sacred Love", which is also highly compressed. Compare that release to his excellent "Soul Cages" released in 1991, mastered with something called "Q Sound" (maybe an early incarnation of digital compression), and it's night and day. The new Madonna "Confessions from a Dance Floor" is equally horrible. Then again, her target audience doesn't have a critical ear anyway so what does she care. You'd think more artists, especially established artists like Tom Petty and Sting, would want more control over the mastering. Then again, they are older men, and losing their hearing. Even Frank Zappa, late in his career, was losing his hearing and all the CDs released in the late 80s were very harsh in the treble. Luckily after he died one of his engineers quietly remastered two of his best releases. Tinseltown Rebellion and You Are What You Is, much to the delight of fans. Dave Lee Seattle
Sony's head of worldwide development, Phil Harrison, has been interviewed onstage atDICE 07. Wiredblogged live from the event. Immediately, he tells everyone he's been playing LocoRoco 2 on the way over, the big show-off. He also namechecks Super Rub 'a Dub, the downloadable rubber duckie sim certain to become PS3's killer app. Only kidding. Looks fun though.Harrison later manages to dodge the question about Sony's open-ended online gaming infrastucture, by pointing out that it's an evolving system (sounds like McClaren talking about England's midfield), but clearly, the company has an announcement up its sleeve and Phil doesn't want to blow it. He's better on complaints from developers that PS3 is too complex to program for (they're never happy - no suprise there). He finishes with a demo of Singstar which shows how players will be able to download tracks (from a database of around 2000 the producer told me) and upload their own performances via a USB camera. Oh no, it's massively multiplayer online Pop Idol. Why do you want to go and put stars in their eyes?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Yahoo Pipesis a new beta service that enables users to create mashups in a "visual programming environment" (ie drag and drop) -- and also save them so that other people can edit and re-use them.According toTim O'Reillyof O'Reilly publishing fame, it's "a milestone in the history of the internet", though this might be a slight exaggeration. It's still geeky. It certainly looks easier than creating mashups by manual coding, but ease of use still has some way to go.Where I'd certainly agree with Tim is that the idea is important -- probably more important than the execution. But as his post points out, the idea isn't new.Most Unix users are already familiar with the idea of pipes (|), which let you take the output of one small program and use it as the input to another. Now, if you have a web service producing a stream of data -- such as an RSS or Atom feed -- then it's pretty obvious that you can treat it in a similar way. That's basically what Yahoo Pipes does for a much bigger potential audience.An example that made this idea explicit a couple of years ago was Atomflow, of whichMark Paschal wrote:The core idea in atomflow is using Atom not only for aggregation and posting to weblogs, but to exchange web content between command line tools; that is, wrapping the UNIX and Web ends of "small pieces, loosely joined" around to meet again.Yahoo Pipes goes further in providing functional modules that users can plug into their pipelines, to do things like merge, sort and count data. Having a lot more modules would make it easier for beginners to create useful applications. Since Yahoo Pipes is essentially a modular system, that's probably the way it will go....See alsoTechCrunch,Anil Dash, Yahoo'sJeremy Zawodny, Google'sMatt Cutts, and dozens more.....Charles Arthuradds: demand has been so strong that for large chunks of the day - pretty much from when the US east coast woke up - the site has been, er, blocked. "We've called in the plumbers!" the page said at its documentation link. For something to be so popular that it overwhelms Yahoo does point to some very pent-up demand.At the very least, it might mean some more Yahoo Maps mashups rather than those ubiquitous Google Maps.. Well, I'm assuming so. I haven't actually been able to read the documents. But Tim O'Reilly's writeup does suggest that it's drag-n'-drop applied to RSS and XML. (OSX users will find there's a similar way to build up stuff like screensavers that use RSS hidden away in the developer tools. Wonder if Vista does too?)
Aristotle distinguished between friendships based on communal interests and those of soulmates who bonded out of mutual affection. The vast majority of people signed up for MySpace, Rupert Murdoch's phenomenally successful networking site, fall into the former category. But on present showing that won't stop its continuing expansion which, as the MySpace generation goes into employment, could eventually extend Murdoch's influence in ways that would make his grip on satellite television seem parochial.It was said at the time of purchase that if Murdoch tried to mess with MySpace's "sharing" culture by commercialising it, punters would simply switch to one of the dozens of clones it has spawned from Bebo.com to the upwardly mobile Cyworld.com, which has taken South Korea by storm and is now taking the battle into MySpace's backyard in the US. Cyworld points to research showing that MySpace is a "rites-of-passage" site that kids will grow out of while Cyworld is a "real you" experience. It is an interesting, almost Aristotelian, distinction but some argue it may already be too late for competitors to dislodge MySpace, except in niche markets.John Barrett of TechNewsWorld claims that MySpace is well on the way to becoming what economists call a "natural monopoly". Users have invested so much social capital in putting up data about themselves it is not worth their changing sites, especially since every new user that MySpace attracts adds to its value as a network of interacting people.It is common knowledge that a fax machine is worthless until others have one too. That is what is happening in social networking except that, unlike a fax machine, it can't be instantly swapped for another. It is easy to change search engines, even if it is Google. But if you change social networks you not only have to move all your videos, audios, messages, photos elsewhere but you also lose your network of friends unless they migrate with you. MySpace won't make that easy. Its massive user base will help maintain its dominance, according to co-founder Chris DeWolfe. "In social networking, there is a huge advantage to have scale. You can find almost anyone on MySpace and the more time that has been invested in the site, the more locked in people are".If it were a country, MySpace would be the seventh biggest, ahead of Russia and Bangladesh, though not all users are active. It had 153,339,321 users when I started writing this article and 153,523,640 when I had finished. What does this growth bode for the future? For the first time a like-minded media generation will grow up interacting instantaneously: globalisation personified. Maybe we won't need CVs any more as our lives will be there online.But will commercialisation kill the culture that spawned MySpace? The $900m (&pound;450m) three-year deal Google did to put its adverts on MySpace is, reportedly, being renegotiated. Upwards. When I visited the site this week I was met by offputting flashing adverts. Logging on I was then greeted with a loud video advert there was no obvious way of turning off. Good job I was not in a library.That doesn't bother MySpacers and they don't seem bothered by other matters. User-generated content, for instance. MySpace is a huge generator of it, maybe the biggest, but users don't get paid. But why not? Google, the owner of YouTube, the vast site that hosts video clips, is under siege from corporations, doubtless including Murdoch's Fox empire, to get royalty income from those clips. Yet MySpace creams off all the advertising income associated with user content without which MySpace's goldmine would vaporise. The difference is that YouTube's predators are large corporations, whereas consumer power is diffused among over 150m individuals on MySpace. Maybe they should form a virtual trade union.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I'm thinking of getting an LCD screen to replace for my old Diamondtron 19 inch monitor. What's the best way of getting rid of your old CRT? Rich EmmersonThe Diamondtron was an excellent monitor and should last a long time. It's probably worth offering it on eBay or at least recycling it locally via Freecycle (http://www.freecycle.org/). Otherwise there are not many good ways to dispose of one or two items, as opposed to dozens, unless there's a local recycler such as the Electrical Recycling Company Ltd (http://www.electricalrecycling.co.uk/) in York. The IT For Charities site has a useful list of recycling companies athttp://www.itforcharities.co.uk/pcs.htm. Icer, the industry council for electronic equipment recycling (http://www.icer.org.uk/), may also offer guidance when its website returns.If a monitor is only fit for scrap, your best bet is to contact your local council. The better ones will collect monitors for a small fee (usually up to £10) or let you take equipment to a dump where it will be recycled properly. Monitors are hazardous waste and you want them recycled by someone like The Mann Company (http://www.revision.tv/), not used as landfill.If you buy from Dell, they will take your old stuff away -- any brand -- and recycle it (seehttp://www.dell.co.uk/recycling). Dell is one of the few PC suppliers that takes recycling seriously, and recycles equipment via ReCom (http://www.recom.org.uk/). However, things should improve on July 1, when the WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) Directive comes into force in the UK. This brings in "producer responsibility," which means that all the companies who produce IT equipment also have to dispose of it.Backchat: Alan Gent also suggests TR Computers (www.trcomputers.com). "They are based in Winsford, Cheshire, but will collect within the M25 as well."
I have been using OpenOffice but am having compatibility issues with various people I work with. Is Office 2007 worth getting or is 2003 adequate for a writer/editor? Martin ToselandOffice 2007 is better but it is an acquired taste, and it is really up to you whether you want to acquire it. From a practical point of view, Office 2000, XP or 2003 will probably do fine, if youdownload the compatibility packto handle Office 2007's optional XML file formats. However, Office 2003 will last longer: Microsoft extended support is scheduled until 2014.
I've just heard that MI5 has started a new service offering to inform people by email of their latest thinking, changes to the level of terrorist threat and so on. Can you suggest a way of accessing the service anonymously? Name withheldMI5 has launched a couple of mailing lists, and you can subscribe by entering a name and email address athttps://www.mi5.gov.uk/output/Page575.html. The site says "You can register anonymously if you wish," and you can use a free web mailbox opened using spurious account details. However, if MI5 ever gets a clue, it will use RSS instead.
I have removed ctfmon several times from the msconfig startup menu, but it keeps coming back. Is it necessary to run this item in the background? I am using the latest version of Microsoft Office 2007. Deepak MukerjeeCtfmon is part of Microsoft Office. It is started by the Text Services and Speech applets in the Control Panel, looks after the Microsoft Office Language Bar and handles the Text Input Processor for things like handwriting and speech recognition. It can be removed, but there's no real advantage to removing it. See MicrosoftKnowledge Base article 282599for details.However, the ctfmon name has also been used by a few Trojans and viruses such as Delive-A and Raidys, so it's worth checking if you have never run Microsoft Office.
The BBC Trust, the new board which runs the corporation, isasking for public opinions on its on-demand services, for watching TV shows and listening to radio over the net.The BBC Trust is carrying out its first Public Value Test (PVT) - a new procedure that must be applied when the Trust considers applications from BBC management for the approval of new BBC services. The first PVT concerns the BBC's proposed on-demand services.Here you can find out how to take part in the public consultation on the BBC Trust's provisional conclusions. The BBC's Executive has been developing proposals to offer BBC programmes and content 'on demand'. They made an application last August for the following:* Seven-day TV catch-up over the internet * Seven-day TV catch-up over cable * Simulcast TV over the internet (streaming of live television networks) * Non-digital rights management (DRM) audio downloads over the internet (podcasting of selected radio programmes)The questions, which cover why the BBC should be doing this and how it might operate, include a number of points which I think most of us find a little controversial. For example:How important is it that the proposed seven-day catch-up service over the internet is available to consumers who are not using Microsoft software?And then there's whether series stacking (making whole series available as a catch-up) "could also deter people from buying DVDs or using commercial video-on-demand services". Whatever your feelings about the BBC's iPlayer and the impact it might have, it is worth putting forward your opinions so that the people who run the BBC can hear what you've got to say.Go and tell them what you think. The consultation is open until March 28.
As promised,here'sthe article I wrote on the Alternate Reality Game phenomenon for this week's Technology section. For more from the developers of Vanishing Point, Microsoft's ARG campaign to promote the launch of their new OS Vista, head toThe Daily Socialwhere I published the full trasncript from an interview with 42 Entertainment's Joe DiNunzio a couple of weeks ago. Here's a snippet:There are a couple of things that I can tell you very publicly are part of the secret sauce: Respect your audience. Know that you've got to create things that are going to be interesting and compelling to them and speak to them very directly.The second thing is, never perpetrate a hoax. Never try to make something that's not real real. What we do is like every good form of entertainment: we're creating an opportunity to suspend disbelief, and that's fun. We're not trying to convince them of something that it is not. And that is an extraordinarily important rule because if you break that rule, you've broken that trust. You've created a conflict as opposed to an opportunity for conversation with your audience. Ultimately it reflects badly on you, it reflects badly on your client. It's just not a good thing.As far as I know, there are no hidden clues in any of his comments. But you never know...
According toMCV, Disney (read: Masters of Merchandising) have announced that their hotly-anticipatedPirates of the CaribbeanMMObrand extensionMMO will be making cyber-waves upon the release of the third and (please) final film in the Spring. The game, which will not be made available in physical retail outlets, is the latest in the line of Pirates-inspired stuff designed to keep people's attentions beyond the amusement parks and the movie theatres.While there will be stand-alone home console bumph (unlike last year, when the only interactive merch was on handhelds), Pirates the MMO in undoubtedly intended to keep punter attentions on the Dinsey franchise for much longer. Good timing, then, as this summer should see the end of the film series.If I sound cynical, it's because of the first comment I read on theCommunity Q&amp;A: when asked if players will be able to take the bad (pirate) and good (Navy) sides, the response was a resounded "No". Sure, that may stop anyHuman-vs.-Horde-style uprisingsat Disneyland, but aren't MMOs all about allowing users to generate their own experiences in a virtual world within the mythos created by the designers? Allowing players to push the boundaries?Disney has a lot riding on this, their first product-driven MMO. They've tested the all-important security waters with theirVirtual Magic KingdomandToontownworlds, but the move from those products to something with, well, a backstory, goals, and game structures is a different bottle of rum. How muchwillthey control it?This is, of course, an inevitable question for anyone with a property who is trying to extend it into the so-called Web 2.0 landscape (which I would argue MMOs are part of). Star Wars Galaxies,Matrix Online, even World of Warcraft: they all had to contend with existing entities. In your opinons, did they successfully manage to let go?For more Pirate-y MMO-ness, check outthis fantastic transcriptfrom a group of pirate role players in World of Warcraft, andPuzzle Pirates, the first pirate online game.
If you've seen the newspaper this morning you may have caughtmy tirade against HMV's PS3 offer- i.e. buy a hard-to-shift PSP and get thechanceto pre-order a PS3. Which might not turn up on the launch day. Or indeed launch week. Unmissable!So, in the interests of consumer choice, I'm setting up theofficial Gamesblog bundle watchscheme. When you're out and about over the next few weeks and see a PS3 bundle offer - either good or bad - email us at gamesblog@gmail.com and give us the details.Even bettersend us a photo of the shop window where you've seen the offer, or maybe scan in the leaflet or advert. I'll add these to the post and keep it rolling so any time it's updated, it'll pop up on the site.Anyway, back to that tirade...Okay, so if you want a PSP (and there are some decent games coming), and fancy a go at getting a PS3, it's anokaydeal. And of course the two machines are going to enjoy some interconnectivity. You can, for example, download classic PSone games from the PlayStation Store using your PS3, then beam them across to play on PSP.There's also the Remote Play option that lets your PSP access your PS3's XMB menu via wi-fi so you can watch movie files, view photos or use the superior PS3 browser. At first, this is confined to ad-hoc wi-fi, but soon you should be able to access PS3 content from anywhere in the world.But still, it's the uncertainty of it all that irks. HMV Online can't really lose. The consumer can.
The modern media company will die if it closes itself off from the outside world, Alain Levy, the then chairman and chief executive of EMI Music, told the London Media Summit in October: "We must be increasingly flexible, collaborative and open." In many respects, Levy - who was dismissed on January 11 - had been as good as his word.EMI might have rung in the new year with a profits warning but, in the month before Levy's departure, the label had also trumpeted a host of initiatives - including a video-on-demand agreement with BT Vision, a partnership with Last.fm and the release of unprotected MP3 tracks from Lily Allen and Norah Jones.The latter move in particular raised eyebrows, given that the wrapping of its music with digital rights management (DRM) - the technology that prevents you making unlimited copies of digital files such as a song, video or film - is where EMI and the other major record labels have been anything but flexible. It was a significant talking point at Midem, the global music industry's annual conference in Cannes three weeks ago, where dissatisfaction with DRM was palpable. It was blamed for Apple's monopoly of the digital music market and the failure of download sales - still under 10% of the total - to reach their full potential.Money left on the table"We believe consumers will pay more, or purchase more music, without DRM," says Dave Goldberg, general manager of Yahoo! Music. "Given the choice, consumers will always choose music without DRM. To get them to buy with DRM, you need to offer them a discount of 20%. That is a lot of money being left on the table by the music business."Some business models - notably that of eMusic, which has licensed music from independent labels - are already proving this to be the case. eMusic, the second biggest download store in both the US and the UK, runs a subscription service: for a monthly fee, users can download and keep a quota of DRM-free tracks. The company has approached the majors on several occasions, says its chief executive, David Pakman, with the view to licensing non-mainstream back catalogue. But selling unprotected downloads - which he insists eMusic must do - remains a stumbling block. "We sell an individual track for a lot less than iTunes [as little as 12p, with a two-year subscription]," says Pakman. "But while the average iTunes customer in the US buys around 10 tracks per year, or the equivalent of &pound;5, an eMusic customer spends an average of &pound;8 per month. But the MP3 issue is insurmountable - which is a shame, because we can only see an economic upside."There are no signs that the majors will change their minds. There is, as yet, no concrete evidence that any of the majors are set to change course. The release of MP3s by two artists in very limited circumstances - Jones's track is only available to US users of Yahoo!, while Allen's Littlest Things was offered through her personal webstore - is small beer for a label with a catalogue of millions. Some rivals claim it was little more than a PR stunt. However, Midem delegates reckoned EMI's manoeuvrings pointed to a more significant U-turn on DRM, and that other majors are preparing to dip more than just their toes into unprotected waters.Rob Glaser, chief executive of RealNetworks, says the change will happen "between next year and five years from now, [although] it is more likely to be in one to two years". He told the International Herald Tribune that "DRM-free purchases is an idea in ascendance and whose time has come".Asking major labels about DRM is a bit like asking a politician if they'd like to legalise Class A drugs - an unpalatable decision even if, arguably, it could make economic sense. For the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, DRM remains crucial for protecting copyright and deterring online piracy.Any unfavourable side-effects, says Geoff Taylor, the IFPI's UK general counsel and executive vice-president, such as the way downloads from the iTunes Music Store will only play on Apple's iPods, are issues for technology companies, not the music business. "New business models - such as subscription services or rental - also rely on DRM," he adds. Except, of course, eMusic's doesn't.Opposition to the IFPI's view - essentially from the whole of the independent music sector, plus those download stores not owned by Apple and the odd major label dissenter - is equally entrenched.DRM, they say, has enabled Apple to build a proprietary ecosystem while competitors such as HMV and Napster are forced to sell tracks encoded with Microsoft's DRM that won't play on an iPod, and that therefore no one wants to buy. As for tackling piracy, DRM simply does not. Any technology can be circumvented; and major labels are already selling unprotected digital files - on CDs.Stopping the tideMost importantly, says Martin Mills, founder of Beggars Group, the indie record label, the ubiquity of MP3 makes it the format music fans actually want. "This is a huge and pretty irreconcilable divide between [the independents and the majors]," explains Mills. "The way that people want to consume music involves sharing and copying privately among close friends without commercial return, and it's very King Canute-ish to try to stop the tide that's already coming in."There are certain things we have in common with the majors and one particularly relevant one is that none of us can survive in an environment where people are taking our music without paying for it. It's just we've got pretty diametrically opposed views about how to get paid from the online consumption of music. What they want to do is to lock the new world into a box that's as similar as possible to the old world - where consumption of music is a unit that's paid for and individually attributable."However, according to a newly-published survey of European music executives by Jupiter Research, while there is dissatisfaction at boardroom level with the status quo, it is doubtful that any of the majors will abandon DRM wholesale. Far more likely, says Jupiter's Mark Mulligan, this year will see MP3s used sparingly as a promotional tool for new artists and back catalogue, while shortfalls in CD revenue will be countered by sales of mobile music and experiments with new ad-funded services such as QTrax.Says Mulligan: "I think if they did bring MP3 formats in, the benefits would clearly outweigh the costs and the risks. Part of the reason for that, and this is certainly part of record labels being a little bit more open to it now, is that it manages to get a bloody big Apple cart out the way. As soon as you go to MP3 then that removes the dominant advantage that Apple has. Basic sentiment within the industry is that Apple has become too strong."In which case, it will be all eyes on Europe where, after last month's ruling by the Norwegian consumer ombudsman that iTunes' lack of interoperability is illegal, a wider campaign encompassing Germany, Finland and France is gathering pace to force Apple to lift its DRM restrictions or to license its DRM to other companies - which it has so far refused to do.For now, however, the digital music market will remain a paradoxical universe: a promised land of unlimited choice, where protection protects very little, consumers are confused and the much-lamented CD album remains the best choice for sound quality, value and price.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Heavy snow outside and Lost Planet at number one in the charts - surely proof that more games should involve the white stuff? Yes, the campaign for more snow in games starts here, before probably ending sometime Friday evening. Think of classics like Amped 3,Horace goes Skiing, the snow level on Mario 64 (and every 3D platformer since) or even Winterspring in World of Warcraft - all made great by their snowy setting. Yes, ice and snow can be a lazy design inspiration - and ice can be particularly frustrating - but when used well they can add atmosphere and excitement. Or maybe I just don't see enough snow in real life. So, snowy games then - what has been your favourite?
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..The end of the road for DRM?Well, maybe. Loved by the music industry and hated by music fans, copy protection on downloaded music sales is slowly being rethought, reports Adam Webb.Computers are about to take a quantum leap into the futureA Canadian company with substantial venture capital backing claims to have built a 'quantum computer' that will ultimately solve problems beyond the power of conventional systems - and will demonstrate it over a live link next week.Yes, minister, it's time for the data debateFree our data: Advisory panel despairs at the low priority given to public sector information - and praises Technology Guardian's campaign.Refuse to play the console bundle gameKeith Stuart: You may have caught the rumpus last week when HMV sent an email out to its customers informing them of a scintillating deal.GadgetsHP DV 9092.EN | Creative PlayDock Z500 | Toshiba HD-E1Newly Asked QuestionsIs Nvidia about to end up in court over 'Vista-ready' claims?Probably not, writes Kate Bevan, but a disgruntled bunch of early adopters would like to see the graphics giant in the dock over the functionality of some of its hardware.Why are people threatening to quit Flickr?Because they don't like Yahoo!, it seems, says Bobbie Johnson.Read me firstAndrew Brown: Don't be held to ransom by antivirus mafia tactics.Will MySpace ever lose its monopoly?As the MySpace generation goes into employment, Rupert Murdoch's influence could eventually extend in ways that would make his grip on satellite television seem parochial, says Victor Keegan.TechnobileLinda Jones: It's not just the price of the toll that stops people from using the fancy new private motorway.The game genre that could not exist without the netCompanies are using punters to spread the buzz about products through Alternate Reality Games, writes Aleks Krotoski.Picture this: an NHS data project that everybody lovesMichael Cross: If you slip on an icy pavement this winter and land up in casualty, take heart. The chance of your x-rays turning up when they're needed is probably the best in the NHS's history.A Dickens of a copyright case at last approaches its endgameFour years of litigation have brought the Utah-based software group SCO to its knees - and pundits reckon that its demise is imminent, says Wendy M Grossman.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.NewsbytesA better mousetrapper | Sony releases G11 | Mobile broadband on the card | Pixels for tunes | Wei Wei goes mobi | Treo 750 unlocked | Antivirus failuresLetters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
During Steve Jobs's Macworld keynote on January 9, I asked:Now what's inside an iPhone?: "Has Apple ported OS X to the ARM chip?"It's a significant issue because getting software running on an iPhone is a different matter if it has to be recompiled for a processor that's incompatible with both the Intel and PowerPC versions of OS X.Now,Information Week reports:Warren East, president and chief executive officer of ARM Holdings plc, has confirmed that "at least three" processor cores developed at his company are present within the iPhone from Apple Inc."ARM is in 90 percent of the world's [mobile phone] handsets; we're in Wi-Fi, baseband processors and applications processors and most of the world's MP3 players. So it's at least three," East said.Given the history of Apple and the ARM chip (seeOh the irony -- the iPhone, ARM, Marvell and Freescale, below), this is not a surprise. Indeed, Dario Bucci, an Intel executive in Italy, pointed to an ARM from Marvellin an interview dated January 18.Bear in mind that ARM doesn't supply chips, it just licenses intellectual property to third parties: it's not a direct source. But still, you really wouldn't expect it to divulge details of a customer's products before they've even shipped. Especially when the customer is known to be as tyrannical about secrecy as Steve Jobs.
The rumours started last month that Microsoft would be introducing some kind of rewards system connected with achievement points. Now the corporation has announced TheOld SpiceExperience Challenge, in partnership with the gentleman's fragrance, which requires participants to increase their gamerscores by 1500 points between February 12 and April 12. Sadly, it's only open to US players and they must registerherebefore the challenge commences. A total of USD500,000 in prizes is up for grabs including copies of the Xbox Live Arcade game Contra and Old Spice t-shirts. And for people who fail the challenge? Two Old Spice t-shirts! Ba boom!Take my wife. Please.In other Microsoft generosity news (could this become a regular?) the company has announced that it'll be sharing the revenue from in-game ads with the developers of casual games that appear on MSN."Casual game developers traditionally operate on a limited revenue model, typically receiving a set fee from downloadable titles or a small royalty associated with game subscriptions. Now, by sharing in-game advertising revenue, we are allowing a more diversified business model that gives our partners more resources to create new, innovative titles for the 13 million people we see every month on MSN Games," explained Chris Early, studio manager for Microsoft Casual Games, benevolently.
Two new game trailers for you. Everyone's been talking about it, but in case you haven't seen it, we have the Manhunt 2 video. Clearly not as utterly insane as its predecessor but still dark enough for most.Also, 2K Games is about to release the PSP version of Sid Meier's Pirates in the UK. As a recovering Civilization 2 addict (one day at a time, etc), I thought I'd put temptation in my own way with this little look at the adventure strategy title.Both can be viewed below...>>
EA has announced the winner of itsSim Shortscompetition. The company invited budding machinima makers to create short films using the tools included with the PC release of Sims 2. The saucy comedy, "Wild Christmas", by David Cresswell took the honours and will now been shown in cinemas throughout the UK from february 2."Wild Christmas is a 2 ½ minute short created using the video capturing tools inherent in EA's massively popular The Sims™ 2 computer game. The film is a romantic comedy with a festive twist where a cheating man talks his way out of a sticky Christmas Eve situation involving a naked woman in a hot tub by using the family dog as an alibi."I enjoyed Cresswell's short, but I still feel that machinima is at its best when commenting on the videogame medium, rather than using it for wider narratives. Nothing has really impacted quite as forcefully asRed vs Blueand I love Coca Cola's GTA parody. Okay,Male Restroom Etiquetteis very funny and works with rather than against the restrictions of the Sims graphics, but then, in its study of neurotic male behaviour it exists within similar territory as the best inward-looking machinima.I wonder if PS3 - with its hard drive, its Linux OS and Sony's keen interest in user-generated content - can become a new mainstream forum for videogame movie making?
Major record labels are expected to start stripping copyright protection from their music downloads within the next six months after Apple chief, Steve Jobs, forced the issue with an open letter to the industry.Mr Jobs called on the big four major labels - Sony BMG, Universal, EMI and Warner Music - to abandon their policy of requiring Apple and other online retailers to package music downloads in digital rights management software that controls which devices it can be played on.Apple, under fire from some consumers and record label executives for only allowing tracks downloaded from its iTunes store to be transferred to its market-leading iPod player, placed the blame squarely at the door of the big labels.Mr Jobs, on the Apple website, argues that abandoning digital rights management was "clearly the best alternative for consumers" and said Apple would embrace such a move "in a heartbeat".Major label executives had privately hoped to force Apple to make both the iPod and iTunes Music Store, which uses its own proprietary format called Fairplay, interoperable with other players and online retailers.But Mr Jobs said the only way forward was to remove the technology altogether "because DRMs haven't worked, and may never work, to halt music piracy".Analysts said Mr Jobs was hoping to force the major labels into action. Most independent labels already make their music available in the non-restricted MP3 format."Given what we are seeing with music companies and how they have insisted on this in the past it will not happen suddenly, it will be a gradual erosion as people like EMI play around with DRM-free tracks," said Paul Jackson, principal analyst at Forrester.EMI has experimented with DRM-free releases by Lily Allen and Norah Jones.A spokesman said today: "The lack of interoperability between a rapidly expanding range of platforms and devices is definitely becoming more and more of an issue for music fans and we have been working with and will continue to work with our various partners to find a solution."The other major labels refused to comment but privately take a similar line, putting the onus on technology companies to come up with a solution that will make it possible to play downloads on any portable player but also allow them to maintain control.Peter Ruppert, founder of consultancy Entertainment Media Research, said: "He's just said the right thing at the right time, it's great for his branding. He's going to announce a deal with some big major and they are going to get rid of DRM along with everyone else. I think it's going to be very sudden."John Kennedy, head of international music industry group IFPI, said he was pleased that Mr Jobs now wanted to address interoperability, "but he appears to be saying that interoperability has draconian side effects. We don't believe that that need be the case.""After such a long period without interoperability, it seems to me that the right thing to do would be for Steve Jobs to sit down with the industry and say 'I believe these are the consequences if I allow interoperability' and for the industry to explain how we believe that some of the side effects that he believes are inevitable are not inevitable."Until now Steve Jobs has not advocated interoperability; perhaps now the door is open to find a combination of interoperability and DRM to have a win/win scenario for Apple, the music industry and the consumer."
There's more than a little irony in the fact that yesterday - when the world markedSafer Internet Day- hackers were attempting to knock over the root servers that form the backbone of the internet.A handful of the 13 machines that work as the internet's traffic cops were struck last night as Asian hackers overwhelmed them in a co-ordinated strike. According toour report, the attacks lasted 12 hours but failed to completely immobilise the servers in question.Although the assault lasting several hours was the largest in the past five years, it had little effect on internet users."It was a significant and concerted attack, but the average internet user would have barely noticed," said Paul Levins, the vice-president of corporate affairs at the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), the body that oversees the running of the root servers and the net's addressing system.Two servers seemed to be the target of yesterday's attack, one operated by the US defence department and the other by Icann. The US homeland security department confirmed it was monitoring what it called "anomalous" internet traffic.Using botnets and zombie machines, the hackers tried to overwhelm the root servers in what was effectively a massive denial-of-service strike. But security experts say ordinary internet users wouldn't have noticed any real difference, despite the fact that Graham Cluley of Sophos likened the attack to '"twenty hippos trying to get through a revolving door at the same time".The question, however, must be a wider one about security - and the possibility of further threats. If they had enough to impinge on the root servers in this way, who's to say they aren't going to try again?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Hackers last night mounted the most significant attack since 2002 on the computers that direct traffic on the internet, it emerged today.The hackers, believed to be from Asia, bombarded the 13 computers, or root servers, that serve as the internet's central address books.But although the assault lasting several hours was the largest in the past five years, it had little effect on internet users."It was a significant and concerted attack, but the average internet user would have barely noticed," said Paul Levins, the vice-president of corporate affairs at the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), the body that oversees the running of the root servers and the net's addressing system."Ironically, the system gets stronger and better because of the attacks as we're constantly upgrading the technology," Mr Levins said.Hackers periodically try to overwhelm the root servers with requests and information, which can slow down the network response.The servers are distributed throughout the world and, much like an electricity grid system, can redirect their efforts to where demand is highest.Root servers manage the internet's domain name system (DNS), used to translate web addresses such as guardian.co.uk into the numerical internet protocol (IP) addresses used by machines.When a person types the name of a website into a web browser it looks up the location of that site by consulting a root server.Two servers seemed to be the target of yesterday's attack, one operated by the US defence department and the other by Icann.The US homeland security department confirmed it was monitoring what it called "anomalous" internet traffic."There is no credible intelligence to suggest an imminent threat to the homeland or our computing systems at this time," the department said in a statement.The attacks began last night and lasted as long as 12 hours."The main thing is that there was very little impact on the general public, the servers were able to hold up against the attacks. The internet in general was designed to even withstand a nuclear attack," Zully Ramzan, a researcher at Symantec Security Response, told CNET News.com.
Microsoft InfocardWell, the headline comes fromO'Reilly Radar, and it's true. But an alternative would be along the lines of "Microsoft comes to OpenID's rescue".The point is that OpenID was torpedoed below the waterline on January 19 byGoogle's Ben Laurie, who wrote:OpenID announced the release of a new draft of OpenID Authentication 2.0 today. I'm reluctantly forced to come to the conclusion that the OpenID people don't care about phishing, since they've defined a standard that has to be the worst I've ever seen from a phishing point of view.Microsoft's identity expert Kim Cameron came in on Sunday withIntegrating OpenID and Infocard - Part 1, with diagrams that illustrated Laurie's kittens attack and showed how Microsoft's Cardspace solved the problem. He added:So is this just like saying, "you can fix OpenID if you replace it with Cardspace"? Absolutely not. In this proposal, the relying parties continue to use OpenID in its current form, so we have a very nice lightweight solution. Meanwhile Cardspace is used at the identity provider to keep credentials from being stolen. So the best aspects of OpenID are retained.How hard would it be for OpenID producers to go in this direction?Trivial. OpenID software providers would just have to hook support for self-issued cards into their "OP" authentication. More and more software is coming out that will make this easy, and if anyone has trouble just let me know.Instead of throwing a wobbly, the OpenID people did the sensible thing, which has resulted in ajoint announcementtoday from Dick Hardt, Sxip Identity; Kim Cameron, Microsoft; Michael Graves, VeriSign; and Scott Kveton, JanRain. This says, basically, that OpenID (JanRain and Sxip) will support InfoCards, Microsoft will support OpenID, and "Kim Cameron, Chief Architect of Identity at Microsoft, will work with the OpenID community on authentication and anti-phishing". In sum:The four companies have agreed to work together on a "Using Information Cards with OpenID" profile that will make it possible for other developers and service providers to take advantage of these technology advancements.The result should be a safer web, with fewer users falling victim to phishing attacks and identity fraud.Background: Information Card is what Microsoft has offered as an open standard, whileWindows CardSpaceis an implementation built into, but not limited to, Windows Vista. The whole point of InfoCards/CardSpace is that it will supportanyidentity system and it therefore supports multiple identities. A user can have a large number of cards (see photo) and present whichever they like to log in to any particular Web site. In many or most cases, self-issued cards are acceptable -- which is the same as creating your own ID and password, without the typing. And, of course, it's much easier to click an on-screen card you've called (say) Guardian than to remember your ID and password.
The AnnualGame Developers Choice Awardsfinalists have been announced by theInternational Game Developers Association(phew, that's a lot of descriptive words), and the press release with all the details ishere. To summarise:Okami and Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion Lead the Finalists of the Seventh Annual Game Developers Choice AwardsAs a member of the awards board committee I personally find it frustrating that one of the front-running games has not yet been released in Europe. Then again, Nintendo's Brain Training lost out because it was relased in Japan in 2005. Full nominations after the jump.Best GameGears of War(Epic Games / Microsoft Game Studios)- Cliff Bleszinski, Michael Capps, Rod FergussonOkami(Clover Studio / Capcom Entertainment)- Atsushi Inaba, Hideki KamiyaThe Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion(Bethesda Game Studios / 2K Games/Bethesda Softworks)- Todd HowardThe Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess(Nintendo EAD / Nintendo)- Eiji Aonuma, Satoru Iwata, Shigeru MiyamotoWii Sports(Nintendo)- Satoru Iwata, Shigeru Miyamoto, Keizo Ohta, Takayuki Shimamura, Yoshiaki YamashitaAudioCompany of Heroes(Relic Entertainment / THQ) - Crispin Hands, John Johnson, Jennifer Lewis, John TennantDEFCON: Everybody Dies(Introversion Software) - Alistair Lindsay, Michael MaidmentGuitar Hero II(Harmonix Music Systems / RedOctane) - Jeff Allen, Eric Brosius, Izzy MaxwellLara Croft Tomb Raider: Legend(Crystal Dynamics / Eidos Interactive) - Troels Folmann, Karl Gallagher, Mike Peaslee, Gregg StephensLocoRoco(Sony Computer Entertainment) - Kemmei Adachi, Tomonobu Kikuchi, Kouji Niikura, Nobuyuki ShimizuCharacter DesignFinal Fantasy XII(Square Enix) - Hideo Minaba, Hiroshi Minagawa, Akihiko YoshidaLocoRoco(Sony Computer Entertainment) - Tsutomu Kouno, Keigo TsuchiyaOkami(Clover Studio / Capcom Entertainment) - Mari Shimazaki, Sawaki Takeyasu, Kenichirou YoshimuraRayman Raving Rabbids(Ubisoft Montpellier Studio / Ubisoft Entertainment) - Michel Ancel, Charles Beirnaert, Hubert Chevillard, Florent SacreViva Piñata(Rare / Microsoft Game Studios) - Ryan StevensonGame DesignBullyAKA Canis Canem Edit(Rockstar Vancouver / Rockstar Games) - Michael SkupaOkami(Clover Studio / Capcom Entertainment) - Hideki KamiyaThe Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion(Bethesda Game Studios / 2K Games/Bethesda Softworks) - Todd HowardViva Piñata(Rare / Microsoft Game Studios) - Justin Cook, Gregg MaylesWii Sports(Nintendo) - Keizo Ohta, Takayuki Shimamura, Yoshiaki YamashitaTechnologyCompany of Heroes(Relic Entertainment / THQ) - Drew Dunlop, Shelby Hubick, David Swinerd, Ian ThomsonDead Rising(Capcom Entertainment) - Shinya Ikuta, Tomofumi Ishida, Yasuhide Sawada, Tomohiro UedaGears of War(Epic Games / Microsoft Game Studios) - Michael Capps, Ray Davis, Tim Sweeney, Daniel VogelRockstar Games presents Table Tennis(Rockstar San Diego / Rockstar Games) - Ted Carson, Eugene Foss, Wil Paredes, Steve ReedWii Sports(Nintendo) - Takuhiro Dohta, Takeshi Miyamoto, Keizo Ohta, Kenta SatoVisual ArtsFinal Fantasy XII(Square Enix) - Isamu Kamikokuryo, Hideo Minaba, Akihiko YoshidaGears of War(Epic Games / Microsoft Game Studios) - Jerry O'Flaherty, Chris PernaOkami(Clover Studio / Capcom Entertainment) - Naoki Katakai, Kenichirou YoshimuraThe Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion(Bethesda Game Studios / 2K Games/Bethesda Softworks) - Matthew Carofano, Christiane Meister, Istvan PelyViva Piñata(Rare / Microsoft Game Studios) - Ed Bryan, Ryan StevensonWritingBully(Rockstar Vancouver / Rockstar Games) - Dan Houser, Jacob KrarupDreamfall: The Longest Journey(Funcom / Aspyr Media) - Dag Scheve, Ragnar TørnquistSam &amp; Max Episode 1: Culture Shock(Telltale Games / GameTap) - Brendan Ferguson, Dave Grossman, Steve PurcellThe Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion(Bethesda Game Studios / 2K Games/Bethesda Softworks) - Ken RolstonThe Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess(Nintendo EAD / Nintendo) - Kyogoku Aya, Nate Bihldorff, Mitsuhiro TakanoNew StudioGastronaut Studios(Small Arms) - Jacob Van Wingen, Don WursterIron Lore Entertainment(Titan Quest) - Paul Chieffo, Jeff Goodsill, Brian SullivanNaked Sky Entertainment(RoboBlitz) - Joshua Glazer, Tian Mu, Sam ThibaultReady At Dawn Studios(Daxter) - Didier Malenfant, Andrea Pessino, Ru WeerasuriyaWadjet Eye Games(The Shiva) - Chris Femo, Dave Gilbert, Peter Gresser, Ian SchlaepferAbsolutely no surprises there, especially when viewed through the lens of the North American/European-dominated IGDA membership. But that's another post, for another day. Don't worry, it's coming.But on a related rant, you can get a non-insider's view on the GDCA atFiring Squadwho interviews the Academy of Interactive Arts and Science's President Joseph Olin. The article makes a nod to the Choice Awards about halfway down. From my reading, I think Olin implies that the Choice Awards are the Golden Globes to their AIAS Oscars.Well, to counteract, comparing the AIAS awards with the Choice Awards is like comparing apples and oranges. Both the Globes and the Oscars areUSawards, voted for by people in theAmericanAcademy of Motion Pictures. Who are citizens of theUSA. The GDCAs have been nominated this year by people from Singapore, from Britain, from France, from Hong Kong, from Venezuela, from Belgium, from Canada, from the USA, and so on. From 25 countries fromaround the world. These are different awards, with different scopes, and I feel it's farfarmore important to recogniseinternationalcontributions rather than those from just one region. It is, in fact, a GLOBAL industry. At least we try.Off soapbox. Grumble.
It was a long time coming, but theEvery Extended Extra, Rez, Space Channel 5 and Sega Rally developerTetsuya Mizugucihas returned to me with some gleaming, sparkly jewels of insight into how he makes games. All questions were written by the gamesblog faithful, so read on to see what he's got to say about raves,synesthesiaand Michael Jackson.Tell me about EEEEvery Extended Extra is a very simple game. It's a musical experience. You explore by yourself and set off a chain reaction of explosions, and the explosion of sound goes to music. It's very speedy and fun.Do you compose music yourself or do you have an active interest in music as a hobby?I've been influenced by music. I don't make music myself, but I really love music. I want to make entertainment using music elements and original sounds. It's taken a long time to get the kind of technologies in the game industry where music can be used best. Apart from a few racing games, arcade style, music has tended to be background music.Do you have plans to produce more music?I hope so. To make music, to produce music it's really different from making a game. But when I listen to music I always feel something, an inspiration, for the next ideas, for the next game.What is your stance on videogames as art, as your title Rez is frequently cited as the best example of a game as art?The game is a new kind of art form. I use "art form" to describe them. They're not art, they're an art form. They give you many ways of expression. They're sensory, with visuals and sounds, and many elements of interactive process. We need an artistic approach or point of view when we make games, always. They're an art form.I've heard that your first visit to a Rave changed your life, and presumably your clubbing experiences were an influence on the music and aesthetics of Rez. Has your taste in music changed over the years? Has it affected the development of any of your projects?My favourite music changes, but essentially it's the same. I seek the sounds and the role - all music has a role - to play with, to interact with.When I went to my first rave 13 years ago, it was a great era for techno music. It was a new style. Techno, House, Hip Hop; they have a deep relationship with the evolution of technology. With a synthesiser you could play around with the different types of sounds you could create.Hi-res sounds were very minimal then, and I thought the minimal architecture fit with game structure. There was a real reason to use the technology of the game to explore these sounds. But now we're getting new technologies. The sounds that are created - organic sounds, 5.1 - these are gorgeous sounds. We can make larger experiences with these sounds.Since the stated goal of Rez was to "experience Synesthesia", what do you think the potential for more direct-experience, action (as in body action) driven gaming is?Synesthesia is an abstract concept. My conception of it is that we need everyone's imagination to play games. You want to play something you feel.You need to make enough fuzzy space in a game for the people who play it. If you make the details too real, there's no space for the player to feel. Maybe this is the state of art: a game can be entertainment, but feeling something is art.What do you think of the Wiimote?It's fun. I think that motion is one direction of the gaming world. I was in the arcade recently, and I saw people having fun, with sensors, with motion, with action. It is one direction, a future direction.What's the full story behind Michael Jackson's appearance in the Space Channel 5 games?We were in the middle of production of Space Channel 5, in 1998 or 1999. I got a call from the US from my partner (the exec producer of Space Channel 5), and he said, "Oh, Michael wants to act in Space Channel 5." I said, "Who's Michael?" "Whois Michael Jackson?," he said. "TheMichael Jackson, therealMichael Jackson!"My partner had shown him the 60-70% complete version, when it was almost at the end of the game. We had one month to finalise. But Michael wanted to do something so we suggested that if he was OK with it, we could programme the people in the game do the Michael Jackson dance when taken over by the aliens He said yeah. We initially had five aliens who danced. One of them became Michael Jackson.Was he pleased with the result?Yeah.There was some negative publicity surrounding the microtransactions on Lumines Live. Has this dissuaded you from developing downloadable content?Downloadable content is a trend that has just started. The main argument in terms of micro-transactions is that we can't stop going in this direction. People are currently buying content online. It will be popular, like customising. You can download something and change it yourself. It's a new fun element.Which games are catching your eye at the minute and why?I play Sudoku on the Nintendo DS for ten minutes a night. It's to refresh. Sometimes I play Wii sports, which is fun. That's it!Finally (and this was the most-asked question), will Rez be coming to a next-generation consoles?That's a no comment. Sorry!
Hold your jaw before you read. Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, has posted a not-inconsiderably long chunk of"thoughts on music"in which he offers three alternatives for the music industry to move forwards in its move to the online world. And his favoured solution is not to protect music any more.1) keep on with DRM. Apple keeps winning.Through the end of 2006, customers purchased a total of 90 million iPods and 2 billion songs from the iTunes store. On average, that's 22 songs purchased from the iTunes store for each iPod ever sold.Today's most popular iPod holds 1000 songs, and research tells us that the average iPod is nearly full. This means that only 22 out of 1000 songs, or under 3% of the music on the average iPod, is purchased from the iTunes store and protected with a DRM. The remaining 97% of the music is unprotected and playable on any player that can play the open formats. Its hard to believe that just 3% of the music on the average iPod is enough to lock users into buying only iPods in the future. And since 97% of the music on the average iPod was not purchased from the iTunes store, iPod users are clearly not locked into the iTunes store to acquire their music.2) Apple licenses its FairPlay DRM system (which the record labels obliged it to develop). Nope, ain't gonna happen:However, when we look a bit deeper, problems begin to emerge. The most serious problem is that licensing a DRM involves disclosing some of its secrets to many people in many companies, and history tells us that inevitably these secrets will leak... Apple has concluded that if it licenses FairPlay to others, it can no longer guarantee to protect the music it licenses from the big four music companies. Perhaps this same conclusion contributed to Microsoft's recent decision to switch their emphasis from an "open" model of licensing their DRM to others to a "closed" model of offering a proprietary music store, proprietary jukebox software and proprietary players.3) Get rid of the DRM.Imagine a world where every online store sells DRM-free music encoded in open licensable formats. In such a world, any player can play music purchased from any store, and any store can sell music which is playable on all players. This is clearly the best alternative for consumers, and Apple would embrace it in a heartbeat. If the big four music companies would license Apple their music without the requirement that it be protected with a DRM, we would switch to selling only DRM-free music on our iTunes store. Every iPod ever made will play this DRM-free music.Why should they, though?The simplest answer is because DRMs haven't worked, and may never work, to halt music piracy.We'd have liked to have noticed this while we were working on this week's front page for the printed Technology section; for some reason Steve (we just call him "Steve") didn't call us as he normally does before putting out 2,000-word manifestoes about the future of digital music. Oh well - you'll have to read about how the music companies view it.Reaction?There's plenty. Nick Carr, one of the columnists in the section, has asimilar taketo my own: that much of the drive here is to get the European countries that are trying to prise open FairPlay, or get Apple to license it, to stop doing that and start asking the record companies - many of whom, Jobs points out, are European - why they insist on DRM:For Europeans, two and a half of the big four music companies are located right in their backyard. The largest, Universal, is 100% owned by Vivendi, a French company. EMI is a British company, and Sony BMG is 50% owned by Bertelsmann, a German company. Convincing them to license their music to Apple and others DRM-free will create a truly interoperable music marketplace. Apple will embrace this wholeheartedly.And besides embracing it, would breathe a big sigh of relief.Meanwhile, style points (which any Guardian sub would have pointed out): he saysThe solution was to create a DRM system, which envelopes each song purchased from the iTunes store in special and secret software so that it cannot be played on unauthorized devices.I think the labels wanted Apple to envelop the songs in DRM, not "envelope" them. Has he been too long reading ourletters page?
All those years the videogame industry has spent cultivating an image of edgy and irresponsible danger seem to be in jeopardy. Yesterday I mentioned the study undertaken by Konami and West Virginia University, which found that Dance Dance Revolution helped to combat childhood obesity (morehere). Now, researchers at The University of Rochester have published a paper in Psychological Science which suggests that playing fast-moving action games can improve visual acuity and peripheral vision. It may be good news for those who have suffered impaired vision due to visual cortex damage,accordingto a report in the Democrat and Chronicle News.Interestingly, the results aren't permanent and require regular 'topping up' with fraught Unreal Tournament sessions. I wonder if patients will soon be able to head into Game clutching a prescription slip? Will we getKillzoneon the NHS?
Yep, Rockstar has officially confirmed that Manhunt 2 is in development for PS2, PSP and Wii - Nintendo hasapparentlybeen courting Rockstar for months and until now it's been assumed that the manufacturer was after GTA. Now it seems they had darker ambitions. For those who've lived in an Amish commune for the last five years, Manhunt put the player in the role of an ex-con who is baited into murdering a series of gang members and riff-raff for the pleasure of a sadistic voyeur. It is just about as far from Wario Ware as you could possibly get.The Playstation versions are being developed by Rockstar's new London studio (although Leeds might have bagged the PSP port) - both under the watchful eye of Rockstar North. The Wii translation is in the hands of Rockstar Toronto, previously responsible for Warriors.The title already seems to have along and colourful history. Originally thought to be in development at the Rockstar Vienna studio, the office closed last year leading internet pundits down a cul-de-sac of speculation. It's not clear whether this version builds on any work completed in Vienna or if it's a fresh start. However, the estimated summer 2007 delivery date would seem to suggest that at least some of the code has been salvaged."With Manhunt 2 we have tried to create a game that stays close to the original concept of chilling suspense and stealth, whilst pushing the game design and storytelling forward," says Rockstar chief, Sam Houser. The emphasis on stealth and 'chills' rather than snuff movie murder would seem to confirm speculation that the title will move away from the outrageously provocative nature of the original. Rockstar, it seems, is keen to exploit the brand while avoiding the onslaught of right-wing protest and threatened litigation.Still, Manhunt on Wii. Bet that one won't come out in many family parties. "Go on Gran, suffocate the drug dealer!"
There's a very rough rule of thumb that the less you pay for a computer printer, the more you will pay for inks: well, the manufacturers have to get their money one way or another. The trend over the past decade or so has been towards cheaper and less functional printers and more expensive inks, but Kodak is going to try it the other way with photo printers."Kodak's ink will sell for about $25 when the printers hit stores in March. That's far less than the $60 to $80 it typically costs for replacement ink for photo printers," according toUSA Today.Accordng to Kodak marketing director Bob Ohlweiler, the company will put more ink in its cheaper cartridges and still make money. However: "Kodak's first two printers initially will be sold exclusively at Best Buy and Kodak.com, for $149 to $199."The story doesn't say if (a) the cartridges will be transparent; (b) you can buy colours separately; and (c) they are not "chipped" -- all features worth seeking out.The story has an interesting sidebar on inkjet printer market shares, according to IDC. The numbers are Hewlett-Packard 41%; Epson 18%; Canon 17%; Lexmark 13%; Dell 6%.
In the "What are they thinking?!" category, PC manufacturers Dell have suggested that they may make a move into the already-crowded handheld gaming market, according to rumours atMCV. The company has recently made significant moves into the PC gaming scene, with the release ofgaming rigsand the acquistion of heavyweight (in more ways than the descriptive) game PC manufacturerAlienware.Now I'm not a business analyst, but surely such a venture would be madness? Over the decades of handheld game consoles, Nintendo have dominated the market like an interactive colossus, overpowering the weak efforts of even the most steady hardware manufacturers.Why is everyone trying to get in on gaming all of a sudden?
Laptop manufacturers could be on the cusp of replacing hard drives with flash memory, according to theFinancial Times. The story claims that a huge spending spree by Toshiba may help lower prices to the point where flash will be low enough to consider it as a replacement for more delicate HDD systems:While it is highly damaging to short-term margins, the collapse in prices may bring forward to this March a critical pricing point where the per-gigabyte cost of flash memory is only twice that of 1.8-inch laptop-sized hard-disc drive memory.Yoshiharu Izumi, senior electronics analyst at JPMorgan who expects flash usage to expand rapidly in a wide range of consumer electronics devices, said: "Falling prices of Nand flash memory will transform the laptop PC market, with flash memory increasingly replacing hard-disc memory."The report rightly points out that flash isn't really that great for desktop systems, where users are used to having far greater space. But although flash has a lot of advantages over a hard disk drive, there are also other, social, trends to consider - such as whether laptop users are already busting for bigger capacities rather than higher expense.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
There's a powerful new HTC Athena/T-Mobile Ameo mobile phone coming (5 inch screen, 8GB hard drive) and the YouTube video provides a bit of a teaser. There's alsoa Web sitewith a countdown clock. Which is fun, but doesn't make a lot of sense when there are already photos and specs at places likeMS Mobiles, does it?Oh, lots more photoshere.
I've been very busy the past few days creating my perfect Mii, which is my excuse for not posting anything since last Thursday. But come on - when opportunities to have my Mii in 3D present themselves, how can I think about work?Headhereto access the eBay auctions. You're paying forthe artist'stime and effort. Looking at the current auction prices, her energies will be well-rewarded.Bring on the 3D printers!oops, I forgot to mention thatWonderlanddirected me there!
Thenewsthat the Wii is outselling the PS3 by nearly three to one in Japan is not a major surprise considering the price difference and the fact that Zelda is just a little bit more enticing than Blu-ray. The figures show that 400,000 Wii's were sold in January, compared to 150,000 PS3's. Perhaps the only consolation for Sony is that 360 sales are as sluggish as ever in Japan.But are we reading too much into all this? The PS3 has an uninspiring launch lineup, a patchy online service and is very expensive. The Wii is cheap(ish), easy to use and has one or two must play games. But fast forward 18 months and things will be very different. The PS3 will have the big gun franchises available, hopefully with a solid online backup, and will be a lot more affordable. Throw in the continued penetration of hi-def TV and the subsequent interest in Blu Ray/HD-DVD and the sales gap between PS3 and Wii will close. The days of PlayStation dominance are over - the excellent 360 is as important a factor as the Wii - but it is far too early to write off the PS3.
Times Online, around 10 minutes into loading a page this evening...The Times unveiled its redesigned Web site today, and so far I've managed to load one page correctly. Apparently the system is being crushed to death by spiders, and no-one at the paper has quite figured out how to use a robots.txt file.This morning our Organ Grinder blog asked:Does the Times Online relaunch work?The first and general response was: "To judge the website you have to be able to get on it and navigate it for more than a few minutes and currently er, it doesn't actually work."Eventually someone from The Times popped up to explain:There are about 400,000 pages on the site, and this morning, they all changed simultaneously, which meant that every search engine spider came to visit us. Along with the extra traffic from promoting the site in the paper, we're getting about five times normal traffic. Obviously our plans for coping with that traffic weren't effective and people coming to the site (including us in the office) are finding it very slow. Sorry about that.And yes, we've got those pages where the css has failed and you get all the content spread out in diagonal lines. I've been moderating some of the comments on the site, and some people seem to think that's our redesign. We're not that avant garde. Once you hit reload, it goes away, and once the servers are healthier, it should go completely.This photoshows what it's like at the moment, from a user's point of view ;-)I gave up waiting for a page to load after 10 minutes, but I did notice a couple of things about the site. (1) It's lime green, which isn't Microsoft's shade, but green is green. (2) The search is "Sponsored by Windows Live". (3) It uses breadcrumb navigation, just like Windows Vista.These things happen. It will probably be fine in a day or two.Otherwise, I'd be interested to know if there are any Web site speed checkers that actually work. I was able to try half a dozen examples while waiting for one page to load. Clearly checkers that claimed The Times took less than a second to load were not reporting a useful figure.....PS. Yes, we know Comments are slow, but we're working on it!
Nokia has beenenjoying press speculationabout the future of its N-Gage brand. News sites has been reporting on a new version of the gaming handset, set to be announced this year - but Nokia has maintained for the last couple of years it will be retaining the name N-Gage only as a convenient monicker for a range of phones with strong gaming features. It does seem, however, that a new selection of N-Gage branded handsetswillbe unveiled at GDC - Gamesindustry.bizclaimsEA and Gameloft have signed up to support the platform. It's bound to be two or three N-series newbies with big screens and decent processors. We're still waiting for the onslaught of mainstream GSM mobiles with built-in 3D chipsets (althoughapparently, the N93 has 3D hardware, while 3D chipset manufacturer PowerVRclaimsto have its technology in 40 handsets). This won't be it.
I think I said it would never happen. At Konami's gamer day last Friday in San Francisco, the company showed off something like 17 titles to an appreciative crowd. Among them, two new versions of rhythm action classic, Dance Dance Revolution. DDR Hottest Part for Wii, will feature new modes, lots of music from the last four decades and a more energetic interface making full use of the Wiimote and nunchuk.But this is thefunpart - Dance Dance Revolution Universe for the Xbox 360, which apparently, 'takes dancing to a whole new dance floor'. What can it possibly mean? Together with the conversion of Guitar Hero II it is a symbol that 360 may finally be moving into the social gaming arena - about time as it does boast the benchmark in next-gen online community infrastructures. By the way, Konami and the West Virginia Games for Health project recently conducted a clinical study into 'exergaming' andfoundthat DDR "improves arterial function in overweight children". Once again, games aregoodfor you.Also from Konami's big day...On PSP, a new conversion of silly comic book Hellboy, plus Castlevania: the Dracula X Chronicles, featuring a new 3D version fo Rondo of Blood as well as unlockable 2D ports of Rondo and Symphony of the Night.On Wii, there was Dewy's Adventure from the creator of Elebits, which follows a tiny drop of water with elemental powers. Konami also showed off flight sim Wing Island and Kororinpa: Marble Mania, a marble puzzle title where the player tips the maze using the Wiimote.On DS, Honeycomb Beat, a music puzzle game from hudson, a flight shooter named Time Ace with planes from different eras of aerial combat and GoPets a social virtual pet sim (also on PC) where players can take their pets online and make friends with other gamers.Quite a line-up, with handheld consoles particularly well-represented. There's a full list and more detailshere.
Last week, I asked Creative Assembley to talk about strategy games. Today, Simon Benson, producer of PS3 launch title, MotorStorm, discusses the driving sim, focusing on his own highly important example. Alongside Resistance it is one of the key original titles in the line-up. Already released and well-received in Japan (albeit without the online mode), MotorStorm is an intense offroad racer, featuring huge multi-route circuits, an array of vehicles and punishingly realistic physics. What does it tell us about driving games in the next-gen era?In what key ways do you feel Motorstorm differs from previous generation racers - what new elements of the game do you think hint at the future of the driving genre?I think we've managed to be highly innovative within a genre that isn't known for it, and in several categories including technology, design, aesthetics and audio. For example, the AI required for seven radically different types of vehicle to compete together simultaneously and also to continuously entertain the player is unprecedented, and hints at a big future for artificially intelligent drivers. This is also a major design / achievement, and with our design team working with technicians to create the tools they need to be hands-on, it has also partially reinvented the role of the game designer.Our approach to the worlds we've created - where we 'overlap' reality/simulation with entertainment, mean that the surfaces and materials the player interacts with are now critically important. The persistent, deforming landscapes mean that the player has a sense of 'leaving their mark' on the world which they have seen glimpses of in other genres but never fully experienced in racing. You should expect a raft of titles to mimic this approach in the future, keeping us on our toes for future work.Also, the graphical advances in the game - such as real-time shaders, new lighting effects, vehicle detail and character animation, all raise the bar for what players should expect from the genre in the future.How are driving games going to change over the next couple of years? How do you feel developers are going to make the most of next gen technology?Like a lot of fans, we're hoping that 'next-gen' (which is now 'current gen') doesn't just mean 'more polygons and shinier graphics'. We're known for stunning visuals at Evolution Studios and of course this is one of our major concerns, but it's vital for all genres of games that these next few years see us exploit the technology in experiential as well as visual ways.Central to this is physics - or to put it simply a focus on the 'feel' as well as the 'look'. By playing around with the physical properties of avatars, worlds and objects, we unite the way something looks with the way the player interacts with it. I think this will form the core of what developers will offer in the latter part of the 2000'sHow do you feel the whole concept of online multiplayer racing is going to develop in the 'always on' broadband era? I like the way, for example, that Ridge Racer seems to seamlessly merge the offline and online experiences - do you see this as an important trend?For several years, online has been seen as the biggie - and it still hasn't fully materialized in the predicted way. However, you do get the sense of 'no really, this time it is happening'. This is due to the online connectivity of the console as opposed to the PC. For years, the console has been synonymous with affordability and ease of use, and this ethos is extending into the online space. However, it is critical that we don't over-focus on 'the rise of the network society' even now.Making the difference between online and off as invisible as possible is (as you say) also important as it removes the barriers to entry - put simply a lot of people are intimidated by the online frontier.Downloadable content is clearly going to become vital. How will Motorostorm use this feature, and how do you think developers will be exploiting it a couple of years from now?We're right in the middle of this - our 'DLC' team is hard at work on a series of packs to offer the player. As such we can't specifically confirm a lot of what we're doing but we have made it our aim to raise expectations amongst players as to what they should expect - both for free and at a cost. Think new stages, new gameplay modes, new options, new vehicles, new liveries and more.As for a glimpse into the future - well, this is the time when people like to talk of DLC removing the publisher and distributors and retailer, and having a direct relationship between the developer and player. I'm afraid this is grossly idealistic, especially in the short-term, and implies an 'Us and Them' relationship that might exist in some instances, but not in ours. In our industry publishers offer a range of services to developers in exchange for a high charge, (usually retention of IP): legal support, localization, marketing and many others. We'll always need these services regardless of the media delivery mechanism.Do you think we'll see the emergence of new racing game genres/sub-genres as a result of powerful new games technology? If so what?I think MotorStorm is exactly one of these new sub-genres with the setting, the vehicle range, the emphasis on entertainment and many other areas. Predicting what else will arrive is difficult, not to mention commercially naïve. I guess we can say that there will be a bigger split between simulation and entertainment, and a sub-division of the market into fans of these different approaches.Conversely, do you think any driving game styles will be lost in the near-future?I think people are realising that games which expect the player to simultaneously steer and aim weapons is messy and doesn't cut it - these might die out. But the sensation of moving forwards extremely quickly whilst trying to keep control is a primal and thrilling one, and it won't go away.Obviously realistic physics has been a part of the driving game for several years, but where can this element go in the next-gen era? What's going to be the next level in this area?Again, this is an absolutely vital area and has been ever since the first 'Need for Speed' game really showed what it was going to deliver. So it's been around for a while but is only just hinting at the ultimate aim - fully interactive virtual worlds where everything has correct, consistent properties and can be exploited to create memorable experiences. It is at the heart of what game scholars call 'Emergent Gameplay'. Developers tend to call it the 'sandbox' approach.User-generated content is a big buzz-phrase at the moment - will this have a bearing on the driving genre? how?I think it always has - for years there have been level editors, livery design tools, and route creators. These will continue to exist and be improved upon. As games go online they will need to allow people to carve out an identity and all of this will impact upon driving games.This is an area where we differ from a lot of media - where there is a wonderful 'shared relationship' between the developer and 'user'. The Sims really broke this open, and the web shares this approach and is really starting to run with it. I can see interactive TV latching onto it soon too.It poses a lot of questions in terms of individual security, copyright and shared IP, legal ramifications etc - but none of these will hold it back in the long term.Now that you are experienced PS3 developers, how much more do you feel there is left in the machine for you to exploit? What's it going to take to really exploit the hardware?This is very difficult to predict - precisely because it is a prediction, albeit informed. All we can do is look for precedents, and if you look at the difference between our first WRC title and the last (WRC Rally Evolved, from 2005), you'll see some staggering improvements. So our gut feeling is that, despite some worlds-first content in MotorStorm, we're going to find a lot more to do with PS3 on our future projects.It isn't PR bluster or kow-towing to the publisher: this hardware is astonishingly powerful.In five years time, what will an Evolution driving game look and play like?There's a question that could come back to haunt us! Again, there were 5 years between WRC 1 and Rally Evolved: so if a similar pattern emerges then you should expect surprisingly massive improvements in the visual field and even more in-depth, involving gameplay mechanics, plus a fairly massive redefinition of online console play. Some of our technicians focus almost exclusively on optimization (looking to do existing things more efficiently to free up the power and space for cool new stuff), and are already embarking on more streamlined performance.However, it is only 5 years. It won't be VR headsets, and the Holodeck might take a little while longer.
