Microsoft has just released prices for the Windows Anytime Upgrade offerings for Windows 7 -- table above -- and it looks as though they're priced to put you off buying them. Possibly worse, the Windows 7 Family Pack -- which lets you install the same copy of Windows 7 Home Premium on three different PCs for about $150 -- will not be available in the UK this year, because it works as an upgrade.The Windows Anytime Upgrade (WAU) system is great, in offering users a painless way to move up from one version of Windows to another. Usually, of course, it's not of much interest, because everybody knows the cheapest way to get any version of Windows is to buy it pre-installed on a PC, preferably as standard.With Windows 7, however, it had a new appeal. Netbook manufacturers want to offer the cheapest version of Windows 7, which is Windows Starter, to keep retail prices down. The obvious solution for those who want a more capable version: buy a Starter machine and use the WAU.But I'd guess that Microsoft has just about killed that idea with its pricing schedule. Going from Windows 7 Starter to Home Premium will cost £69.99, while Starter to Pro will cost £119.99. By all means pipe up if you think that sounds attractive, but my guess is that the viable market prices for upgrades would be £49.99 and £89.99 max. (For comparison, the US prices are $80 and $115.)It would probably be in Microsoft's interest to offer lower prices, but it may be hamstrung by its deals with PC manufacturers. In other words, WAU prices are intended to encourage users to buy the Windows they want directly from the PC manufacturer. Cheap upgrades might encourage people to buy the lowest version they could get, then use WAU. This would divert cash directly out of PC manufacturers' pockets and straight into Microsoft's, which is not something it's generally willing to do.It could, for a start, have the PC manufacturers complaining to the US Justice Department, which has a judge and numerous staff supervising everything Microsoft does to make sure it plays absolutely fair. And in recent years, Microsoft has repeatedly bent over to try to avoid judicial pressure, even when dealing with people who are clearly incompetent.An alternative would, of course, be to accept that Windows prices are now too high, given the general decline in PC prices. What was a reasonable proportion of £2,000 is not a reasonable proportion of £200. But the shareholders wouldn't like that.Microsoft has reduced some of its prices over the past couple of years, with Windows Vista Home Premium falling from $259.99 to $239.99 and then, with Windows 7, to $199.99, but I doubt whether many people have noticed. And the only attractive thing about the $199.99 "suggested price" is that you might feel you're getting a bargain when you get a somewhat limited copy (locked to one PC, with no manual, no CD, and not much support) pre-installed "free".
Apple has released an update for the iPhone which it says protects it from the vulnerability, revealed yesterday, that could let hackers take complete control of the phone, including reading its contacts and calendar details.Although there is no formal announcement by the company, an update for the iPhone has appeared on users' computers. The phone can only be protected from the weakness by synchronising it with the owner's computer; unlike other phones, Apple is not allowing network operators to update the phones "over the air". However as the update is 230MB in size, that may be seen by owners - and network operators - as a blessing.Two security researchers,Charlie Miller of Independent Security Evaluators, and Collin Mulliner of Fraunhofer SIT demonstrated the hack yesterday by taking over a reporter's iPhone at the Blackhat conference in Las Vegas via a single specially-crafted text message.Miller told BusinessWeek: "You might go to the Web site for your bank on the iPhone browser and I could theoretically see you enter your user name and password," Miller says. "I could see the data in your applications. I could have complete control of the phone.""The problem here is a systemic one," Miller told BusinessWeek. "It has to do with the fact that phones have to accept text messages and that they always have to process the data that comes with them."Apple acknowledges that the pair told it about the weakness in its notes accompanying the details of the update (http://support.apple.com/kb/HT1222), confirming that they reported the issue, though it does not acknowledge how long ago.Miller and Mulliner say that they told Apple about their discovery of a memory flaw in the iPhone's handling of text messages a month ago. The company has not said how long it has known of the flaw, but it is highly unlikely that it was able to work out the details of the flaw in the short time since the flaw was made public.An Apple spokesman said: "We appreciate the information provided to us about SMS vulnerabilities which affect several mobile phone platforms. This morning, less than 24 hours after a demonstration of this exploit, we've issued a free software update that eliminates the vulnerability from the iPhone.  Contrary to what's been reported, no one has been able to take control of the iPhone to gain access to personal information using this exploit."It is likely that almost all iPhone owners will have updated their phones within the next week because the phones are so closely tied to their computers for synchronisation of calendars, contacts and music.A similar flaw was found in Google's Android oeprating system for mobile phones, but the company says that it has now been fixed through action by the carriers.Microsoft said that it is working on an update for its Windows Mobile operating system - now renamed Windows Phone - and that it will distribute it once it is ready.
Videogame playersmay be more diverse than ever, but for game characters the digital realm is still very much a white man's world. A study published this week looking at gender, race and age has found that female and minority characters are severely under-represented.US researchers examined the top 150 games from March 2005 to February 2006, including titles such as Doom 3 and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. They discovered that 85% of characters are male, compared to just 49% of the US population. The figure rises to 90% for player-controlled characters.Black, Hispanic and Native American characters also fail to reflect their real-life counterparts, and mainly appear in sports games or titles that reinforce racial stereotypes, such as 50 Cent Bulletproof. Turning to age groups, children and the elderly are almost non-existent in games, with adult characters making up nearly 87% of the total.Previous studies have examined questions of representation in games, but this new research is the most comprehensive so far. The findings also take sales data in to account by weighting the most popular games as more important, under the assumption that they have a larger effect on players.Dmitri Williamsled the research,published in the journal New Media &amp; Society. He suggests that media under-representation can be an indicator of social inequality."In television, it was always a landmark moment when some minority or disenfranchised group appeared on the screen for the first time," he said. "That kind of visibility is really the first step toward leading to public consciousness and equal treatment. These cultural markers matter."The disparity could be due to a lack of diversity in game developers. "Many have suggested that games function as crucial gatekeepers for interest in science, technology, engineering and math," said Williams. Without suitable characters to relate to, under-represented groups may be less likely to work in the games industry.Emma Westecott, a games research fellow at theNewport School of Art, Media and Design, agrees. "The lack of opportunity for identification through role models leads to self-censorship," she said. "Many young girls simply don't see gaming as being a feasible career choice."Although female players represent 38% of all gamers, only around 11% of developers are women.Women in Gamesis an organisation intended to address the games industry's gender imbalance. Westecott, who sits on the group's steering committee, thinks that game publishers may be to be blame."The tendency towards stereotypical action heroes displays a certain conservatism on the part of the publishers and their marketing departments," she said. Meanwhile, developers are making "massive efforts" to attract a diverse workforce, and some indie and art-game makers are bypassing publishers in order to create more experimental games.Videogames no longer occupy a niche.They are now big business, enjoyed by people from all parts of society. Isn't it time the games reflect that? Do you think women and minorities are under-represented in games?
Final Fantasy VII (PlayStation, 1997)Generally considered the finest Final Fantasy, if not the finest role-playing game ever made, Square's five-disc epic won the hearts of many a gamer thanks not just to its addictive gameplay and captivating storyline, but also by setting a new high watermark in terms of presentation – the FMV cut-aways, graphics and soundtrack were the first to really make the most of the PSX's potential. Final Fantasy veteran Nobuo Uematsu returned for the seventh instalment of the series, and crafted a wonderfully evocative soundscape using MIDIs, rather than pre-recorded music to save discspace, lending the soundtrack its own unique feel.Aeris' themeis one of the most enduringly popular pieces in the game – though be warned it may conjure some difficult memories of what can only be referred to as That Time Your PlayStation Made You Cry.Mega Man 2 (NES, 1988)The Mega Man series has become legendary among gaming nerds for its consistently excellent soundtracks, right through it's 8-, 16- and 32-bit incarnations. Composers Manami Matsumae and Yoshihiro Sakaguchi, working under pseudonyms at the time, managed to create a remarkably diverse set of pieces to accompany the game's different levels. Only a brief Google search is required to see how, 20 years on, music created for a  system with only rudimentary sound capabilities is still loved today. Thisamusing YouTube videofeatures the main theme from Mega Man 2, one of the best aural offerings of the series.Killer Instinct (SNES, 1995)Killer Instinct was an eminently forgettable (though much-hyped at the time) SNES beat-em-up that aimed to cash in on the burgeoning popularity of the Street Fighter and Mortal Kombat series. It borrowed heavily from both franchises, but failed to make anything like the same impact. One interesting aspect of the game which allows us to retrieve briefly from the dustbin of gaming history was its soundtrack, curiously released as a CD and bundled along with the game cartridge. While it may not have the iconic status of some of Street Fighter's more memorable themes, the investment in the composition of a proper soundtrack lead to some fantastic pieces. Dated and cheesy, sure, butthis example in particular, The Instinct, even when rendered through the SNES's sound card, is a real cut above you're average 16-bit offering.Wipeout (PlayStation, 1995)Wipeout was one of the more memorable racing games available on the original PlayStation, and though the series may now have less notoriety than that of say Ridge Racer or Gran Turismo, the fact that the game was included on one of the system's bundled demo discs meant most gamers will have played at least one level at some point. Set in the future, racing small pointy space ships around neon tracks at breakneck speeds, the most memorable aspect of the game was the soundtrack, featuring songs byLeftfield, The Chemical Brothers and Orbital. The use of dance music complimented the adrenalin pumping feel of the game perfectly. Bear in mind as well that, at the time, it was still an incredible novelty to hear CD quality music coming out of your games console.Super Mario Bros (NES, 1985)A bit of a cop-out perhaps, but the Super Mario series stands head and shoulders above any other in terms of consistent use of catchy, fun in game music.  It takes something special for a tune not to get irritating despite hearing it hundreds upon hundreds of times. It takes something really special for that tune to be so loved that 25 years on people are still paying homage to it around the world. Composer Koji Kondo has worked on all the games in the series, but the original and the best, theSuper Mario Bros main themestill stands out as a true gaming classic and never fails to bring a smile to my face.
Have you noticed that the days are getting shorter? It's not just the seasons, though (unless you're reading this in the southern hemisphere, in which case I envy your lengthening day, of course). It's happening on Twitter too.Wheresearch.twitter.comused to stretch back months (allowing one to discover all sorts of embarrassing tweets), now it only seems to go back a couple of weeks at best - and for some things, only days.You can guess why. Twitter is at present close to a zero-revenue company which has limited funds, and some of those got used up buying Summize - the company that had the idea of archiving tweets for searching first. So maybe it's not bothering to spend extra money buying more storage. (Or maybe, as we'll see, it is - but it's just putting a limit on how far back it will show results. For now.)And at the same time the company is growing like Topsy. It's getting bigger and bigger and nothing seems to stop it. Not even Facebook has beenasked by the US State Departmentto postpone a scheduled piece of maintenance so that people in Iran could protest.(Added to which, don't you think that if the online form of protest during the Iranian election had not been in the form of tweets, and instead in a giant Facebook group, that it would have looked absurd and bathetic? It would probably have degenerated along the lines of "Moussavi has thrown a sheep at you!" within hours. Instead with Twitter it had a peculiarly furious dignity.)But Twitter's search is an increasingly valuable archive - not just to tap its real-time content for the present day (thoughGoogle's high-ups love that), but also to see how peoples' thoughts have developed. Academics are using it forresearch to see how ideas get bounced through the medium, and what sort of information people like to pass on. (Turns out it's almost always links to things. Gossip, in short, always has an origin, even if it doesn't have a destination.)Now, the people behind Twitter have remained consistently quiet about how they're going to start making money from their brilliant baby. I'm not surprised: there are literally dozens of ways that they could do it, and the only mistake would be to choose the wrong one in the first place and put too many people off. Charge for use? Probably would turn away most people. Charge for using it via the API (as Isuggested last year)? Could work, though as the API is actually 80% of its use, quite how you'd implement those charges is increasingly hard to see - would the companies offering applications that let you post to Twitter charge you, or would it need thoseunicorns of the web, micropayments?Alternatively, what about charging forverified accounts? Or forcommercial accounts?Or how about charging for access to deeper search, perhaps going back further than at present? Or access to trending topics?There are so many choices that it must be hard for the Twitter team to know. One benefit of charging for search: they could start paying for more storage. (Though I suspect that actually they are archiving everyone's tweets, ready for a day when they can make access to them paid-for.) You can imagine a "freemium" service: the bigger the subscription you pay, the more detailed the search you can get, and/or the more API calls you can make. Some people would love to be able to get past the present limits on API calls, which can limit how much you can post.But whatever it's going to be, Twitter doesn't have long to figure it out. The URL shortening service bit.ly says it's going tocreate a real-time news service(based on the links pinging around Twitter, for which it's the default shortener). An interesting idea, sure, which has led people to wonder if Twitter will buy bit.ly (why else invite it to come closer?) so that then it will know what everyone's saying about everything, and also what they're linking to. They'd become like Digg, but without the annoying podcast.The trouble though is that Digg is quite famously one of those zero-billion-dollar companies. Lots of people go there, and it can cover its costs, but you can't see it ever heading in its own right to a stock market flotation.Twitter plus bit.ly - or even bit.ly given Twitter - might be a more reliable place to go to find out what's really interesting online: in the past couple of days, Twitter has had the news about the ETA bomb blasts in Spain before the main news has, and so replaced many peoples' normal breaking news services that one person contacted me breathlessly today to point out thatBobby Robson's deathhad been first onTV news, not Twitter.Of course, they told me this via Twitter. Which only goes to point out two things: it's becoming a default medium, and that it's now being viewed as surprising if it gets beaten.If all that goes away - which is always possible - then we'll all feel the loss, I think. Which is why more than anything, I wish that Evan Williams would figure out how the hell he's going to make Twitter cover its costs. The waiting is just agony.
If you're following@FirefoxCounteron Twitter then you'll have noticed that the Mozilla browser organisation is seeking publicity for a remarkable achievement: it will soon have been downloaded a billion times. This will be celebrated at a new site,onebillionplusyou.comTheSpread Firefox siteis appealing for photos. It says:We want to show everyone how global and diverse our community has become. So we're asking for photos of you, our community members, to display on our Billion Downloads campaign page. We'll be launching the campaign site soon, but we want to have lots of photos ready for the launch.There are roughly a billion PCs in the world, but this doesn't mean everyone uses Firefox. The number is made up of downloads of all versions, bumped up by the fact that in earlier days, redownloading the whole browser was the only way to upgrade.Mozilla also appreciates that it has a big opportunity to increase what it calls "engagement and retention". As of 2007, only about 25% of Firefox downloads resulted in people actively using the browser 30 days later.Still, according toStatCounterFirefox has made impressive inroads into Internet Explorer's market share, which was around 70% just a year ago. The current score is roughly 60% IE against 30% Firefox, and Firefox's market share is said to be noticeably higher in Europe.Indeed, on current trends, Firefox could even overtake IE in Europe. No doubt this would come as a shock to the European Commission, if it were ever to find out.
Gary McKinnon'scase against extraditionhas focused on fears that the 43-year-old hacker, who has Asperger's syndrome, could be incarcerated in a US "supermax" prison for up to 60 years.His barrister, Edward Fitzgerald, said McKinnon could suffer a psychotic breakdown or become suicidal if he faced trial or imprisonment in the United States.McKinnon, in an interview on Radio 5 Live, said he did not believe he would get a fair trial if he was extradited on charges of hacking into 97 computers, including those of Nasa and the Pentagon, and causing damage costing $700,000 (£430,000).McKinnon said: "There is no way I would get a jury of my peers in America. I would be tried in Virginia and lots of people in Virginia work for defence contractors. I'm accused of damaging defence computers."He would be likely to be taken away in chains on arrival in the US and held in prison awaiting trial.In an affidavit to the high court, Joel Sickler, head of justice at the Justice Advocacy Group in Virginia, said the US bureau of prisons had a "well-known and terrible track record of delivering on any type of healthcare required by an inmate, especially those with some form of mental impairment".Although the US department of justice has assured the Home Office McKinnon would be properly treated, conditions in supermax prisons are notoriously severe. They provide the highest level of security and are reserved for murderers, gang-related prisoners and those perceived to represent a threat to national security.In maximum security all prisoners have individual cells with sliding doors controlled from a central control room, with prisoners being allowed out of their cells for one hour a day, and food being provided through ports in the doors. When out of their cells, prisoners remain in the cell block. Restraints and escorts by correctional officers are used for movements outside the cell block.
The British computer hacker Gary McKinnon failed today in his latest legal attempt to avoid extradition to the US where he could face a sentence of up to 60 years in a high-security prison.The high court dismissed two claims for judicial review, dismaying McKinnon's family and supporters. Janis Sharp, his mother, said: "We are heartbroken. If the law says it's fair to destroy someone's life in this way, then it's a bad law."McKinnon's lawyers said he would appeal against the decision while his mother asked Barack Obama to intervene.Standing outside the high court, Sharp made a direct address to the US president. "Stand by us and make this world a better place, a more compassionate place," she said."Obama wouldn't have this. He doesn't want the first guy extradited for computer misuse to be a guy with Asperger's, a UFO guy. He wouldn't want this."The high court decided to uphold a refusal by Keir Starmer, the director of public prosecutions, to sanction a trial of the 43-year-old "UFO eccentric" in Britain.It also ruled that the former home secretary Jacqui Smith had taken into account McKinnon's Asperger's syndrome condition when considering the US extradition request.McKinnon's lawyers had argued that extradition would lead to "disastrous consequences" for his health, including possible psychosis and suicide.Lord Justice Stanley Burnton and Mr Justice Wilkie in a 41-page ruling said extradition was "a lawful and proportionate response to his offending".The home secretary, Alan Johnson, said he would abide by the ruling. "It would be illegal for me to stop the extradition of Gary McKinnon, which the court ruling has made clear," he said."Mr McKinnon is accused of serious crimes and the US has a lawful right to seek his extradition, as we do when we wish to prosecute people who break our laws."He added that it was open to McKinnon to seek to appeal to the House of Lords.McKinnon's solicitor, Karen Todner, said she would lodge an appeal against the decision within 28 days and, if possible, take it to the new supreme court and even to Europe.Whether a further appeal will be allowed will be decided at a later date. Burnton said it was a matter that should be dealt with "as expeditiously as possible", probably in September.Todner described the ruling as "hugely disappointing", but she said the legal team would not be giving up. "Alan Johnson still has the power to act. We have 28 days to review the judgment and we will continue to explore every legal avenue until we achieve a just and proper result."After the decision, Sharp said: "Our hope still lies with the government. What evidence do Gordon Brown and Alan Johnson need to understand what extraditing Gary would do to him, let alone us?"Gary would not survive and I would not see my son again. All to oblige the Americans? If Gary's was such a dreadful crime, he should have been prosecuted and sentenced here years ago."Instead he's been left tortured by fear for seven years. Compassion can and must now prevail."McKinnon has admitted hacking into the computer systems of the US defence department and Nasa, but his supporters argued his obsessions led to his misguided hacking activities from his flat in Wood Green, north London, and that he should be tried in Britain.TheFree Gary campaignhas won the support of more than 100 MPs and received vociferous backing from the Daily Mail and celebrities such as as Bob Geldof, Chrissie Hynde, Barry Norman, Jilly Cooper and Julie Christie.The government's independent reviewer of anti-terrorist legislation, Lord Carlile, intervened to say that prosecuting McKinnon in the US would be "cruel and unconscionable" because of his medical condition.Gordon Brown's wife, Sarah, met McKinnon's mother to express her concern, while the prime minister last week said: "Anybody who looks at this must be sympathetic to someone who suffers from Asperger's syndrome."McKinnon admitted hacking into 97 computers, leaving a message in US military systems saying: "I will continue to disrupt."The US government said repairs cost $700,000 (£430,000) and the Crown Prosecution Service said his hacking activities were not random experiments in hacking but a deliberate effort to breach US defence systems in 2001-02.McKinnon challenged Starmer's decision not to put him on trial in Britain. The hacker argued that extradition would have disastrous consequences, including possible psychosis and suicide because of his autistic spectrum medical condition.McKinnon has spoken about his fears, saying that he wakes every morning "feeling as though someone has taken a sledgehammer to my chest during the night".His lawyers argue that extradition arrangements between Britain and the US are imbalanced. Figures released this week to the Liberal Democrats in response to parliamentary questions reveal Britain has extradited twice as many criminal suspects to the US as those who have gone the other way.Suspects in the US are 20% less likely to be extradited than those living in Britain. Critics say this indicates Britons have "second-class status" when it comes to being sent for trial in the US.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Ok, the vast majority of games have little in the way of moral choices. Do you get – or even want? -  the chance to stop bombarding insurgents from your copter in Modern Warfare? Not a chance. But some games at least try. Bioshock offered you the chance toharvest or rescuethose Little Sisters.  Fable 2 let you cause havoc in Albion. But are these really moral choices?Valvewriter Chet Faliszekthinks not.There's never a real moral choice you're ever making in a game, because you're never going to have to live with that choice. We do things in our game to get you to behave better, to make you play together, to have this interaction in a game, but I don't think those are moral choices. I don't think games allow you to make moral choices. Games allow you to be evil, to do bad things. In Grand Theft Auto, I'm going around running people over, and guess what, I'm not doing that in real life.So if moral choices never occur in games then what about Bioshock, Fable and the rest? Faliszek argues any seemingly moral decisions made in these games are actually simply strategic choices.I don't think they have real moral choices when I think of that. They have something else, like strategic choices, choices inside their world, but to me a moral choice is something that would live outside of a game. I don't see that.What do you think then? Are all gaming moral choices really just about strategy? Or have you made a moral choice in a game that has affected you when you stopped playing? And no, playing the classy, but injured, left back and losing the Cup Final in Champ Manager probably doesn't count.
A "serious memory corruption bug" in the iPhone can make it vulnerable to being taken over by a single specially-crafted text message, security researchers showed today.So if you get a text message that consists of a square on your iPhone - perhaps you should worry. Or, much more likely, it's a prank from a friend trying to freak you out.The Black Hat conference in Las Vegas saw a demonstration by Collin Mulliner and Charlie Miller, who are independent security experts, who proved the weakness bytaking control of an iPhonebelonging to CNet's Elinor Mills.Mills described it thus:While I was talking on the phone to Charlie Miller, his partner, Collin Mulliner, sent me a text message from his phone. One minute I'm talking to Miller and the next minute my phone is dead, and this time it's not AT&amp;T's fault. After a few seconds it came back to life, but I was not able to make or receive calls until I rebooted.The researchers told Mills that "an attacker could exploit the hole to make calls, steal data, send text messages, and do basically anything that I can do with my iPhone".How many iPhones are vulnerable? All of them. How many will be affected? Ah, that's a lot harder. Not the majority. Not even a large minority. It depends on whether Apple can fix the problem before the malicious hackers out there figure out how the hack is done.But as Dwight Silvermanpoints out,  it's not doomsday - not by a long chalk. Even once they've figured out what the hack is, the hackers would have to know what phone number to send the Evil Text Message to (that is, know it's an iPhone); and figure out how to get it automated. And what they'd want to do once they had. Grab all your contacts? Wow, that could be good - if they can only figure out Steve Jobs's number.Silverman reckons (and it sounds reasonable) that Apple, which has been informed about the flaw for more than a month, has about two weeks before someone does figure this out...And then later in the session, twootherresearchers step up and say thatpretty much any GSM phone is vulnerableto maliciously crafted text messages. Oh, hell.As a result, [they] could send phones hidden commands, profile phones, or even exploit vulnerabilities that remotely disable a targeted phone's ability to send and receive calls or text messages.Based on the behaviour of the phones they tested, they were able to create several kinds of automated attacks for various phone models, and determined a method an attacker could use to silently connect to mobile phones and retrieve information that permits the attacker to identify the make and model of phone, and other profiling information.Still, there's good news and bad news:The researchers are currently working with all major carriers and phone manufacturers to fix the problems, but warn that it may take some time before the vulnerabilities have been patched.It all goes to show - you can't be too careful.
There's no shortage of choice if you want to search the web, but most people stick with one, or at most two. In the US, the most diverse market, the research company Compete gives the rankings asGoogle74%,Yahoo16%, Microsoft'sBing6%,Ask2% andAOL(powered by Google) 1%.That leaves about 1% for the rest to squabble over, though that still translates into 100m searches in one month alone – and that's only in the US. Worldwide, in the past quarter Google has more than 80% of searches, while Yahoo and Bing have 9% and 5% respectively, a situation Microsoft hopes to change next year.But there are many other search engines for the web.Altavista,ExciteandLycos– ancient names from the 1990s – collectively still have about 0.1% of the market globally.It's the new names, though, that are raising interest.Cuil, launched by ex-Googlers to great fanfare in July 2008, has gained little traction since.Wolfram Alphadescribes itself as a "web resource" whose aim is to "make the world's knowledge computable" – in effect, be a search engine that can be accessed by computer programs rather than humans. Other specialist search engines includeScour,Clusty(which "clusters" results), and, for those who want a visual presentation,Kartoo. Nationally,Yandexin Russia andBaiduin China far exceed Google for market share, but are almost unused outside those countries.However, there is one "search" that Google covets more than any other: Twitter's. Though thearchiveof what has been said on the fast-growing message service now barely stretch back a fortnight, Google executives have repeatedly expressed a desire to integrate what Twitter knows about current events into their search engine. Rumours of a linkup persist; it will be interesting to see whether the Microsoft-Yahoo tie-up prompts Google into a similar marriage with Twitter.
Strive Masiyiwa has become an expert at walking the fine line between business and politics. He had to. The man once picked by Time magazine as one of its 15 "global influentials" – he regularly rubs shoulders with Nelson Mandela and former UN secretary general Kofi Annan in his charity work, and was picked by the Rockefeller Foundation to join its board of trustees six years ago – started his working life in Zimbabwe after the civil war and still has thousands of employees there, despite not having returned to the troubled country for nine years.As founder and chief executive of Econet Wireless he has pursued his ambition of creating a truly African multinational business, spinning a web that spans seven countries, more than 25 million customers and generates an estimated $3bn (£1.8bn) in annual revenues. He has fought his way through Africa's often tangled legal jungle and had the security forces on his tail – more often than not sitting outside his house.Next week his legal team will enter a courtroom in the Netherlands to mount the next challenge: throwing a spanner in the works of what could potentially be one of the biggest deals in African history, the $10bn sale of rival mobile-phone operation Zain.In the offices of his London advisers, the softly-spoken Masiyiwa, who lives in South Africa, is reticent about criticising the Zimbabwe government. "To be fair, over the years I know there are people within the establishment who still are very antagonistic to me, but it is fair to say the administration and the president have come to understand that I am just a businessman and we have been allowed to run our businesses. We don't get in their way and they don't get in our way."However, being seen as a businessman and not a political agitator has taken time, especially given how Masiyiwa started his business. His parents fled what was then Rhodesia when Masiyiwa was about seven, as part of the black diaspora caused by Ian Smith and his minority white group's declaration of independence from Britain in 1965. Purely because his parents' neighbours in their new home in Zambia were Scottish, he found himself in an Edinburgh boarding school with their son.His intention was to go back to Zambia and fight along with the guerillas across the border in the civil war. But when he returned and met his cousin, who ran a training camp for the Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army, which would eventually became Robert Mugabe's Zanu-PF, he was told the war was essentially won and what the country would need was people who could run it.Instead of a rifle, he was given a letter for the British Council that would help him get funding for a university education in Britain.On graduation, he worked for the Zimbabwean phone company, ZPTC, then, armed with a bank loan wrung out of Barclays only after he ceded to the branch manager's demand that he trade in his pride and joy, a flashy Volkswagen Golf known throughout Harare, for a "bakkie" – South African slang for a pick-up – he created his own engineering firm, which was soon hoovering up lucrative government contracts.ChallengeBut in the early 1990s it became clear mobile phones were going to be the next big thing, so he approached ZPTC with plans for a wireless joint venture. They said no, adding that if he tried to do it alone it would violate their monopoly. Thus began a protracted fight that resulted with Masiyiwa losing in the Zimbabwean supreme court. The judgment made it plain that, if he had the nerve, he could challenge Zimbabwe's own laws in the constitutional court."The day we filed the case, every single contract we had with any government organisation ended," he says. "It was really a bad day and it just got worse. I got to the house and there were three or four cars outside and I said to my wife 'Who are those guys?' and she said 'They are central intelligence and police and have searched the house looking for weapons … they said they're going to be with us for quite a while'. They were with us for three years."He sold his engineering business, and rolled his court case into a new company he called Econet. The court ruled in his favour 11 times before he got his licence to operate in Zimbabwe. Despite ZPTC launching its own network while Masiyiwa was stuck in court, within six weeks of launch Econet was the market leader.Masiyiwa left Zimbabwe with his family in 2000 for South Africa. Part of the reason it would be unwise for him to return is almost certainly linked with a decision he took that same year to make a personal loan to the owners of Zimbabwe's three independent newspapers, including the Daily News, which was later shut down by Mugabe's regime.Masiyiwa maintains that the real reason he moved to South Africa was to realise his dream of creating a truly multinational African business: "This is the space we have been trying to fill, to pioneer the development of African companies that have a global outlook. South Africa was the only place where there was an outlook about building businesses that go to other countries."Most major telecoms companies have "had a pop" at Africa. Vodafone and Orange are still there, India's Bharti is tying up a deal with South Africa's MTN, while Essar is looking at investing in UAE-based Dhabi Group's businesses in the region. All this movement has made Econet look quite attractive and Masiyiwa admits: "I probably get an offer to buy us out, on average, twice a month."Seeking to head the other way is Kuwaiti mobile phone operation Zain. Its bosses want to get out of Africa and last month French conglomerate Vivendi suggested spending $10bn on a stake in the business. Those conversations have since "gone cold", in part because of the French need to go on holiday in August, but they could also be utterly derailed by Masiyiwa. Which takes us to that courtroom in the Netherlands.In late 2000, Masiyiwa led a consortium that won a licence to operate a mobile phone network in Nigeria. Econet had 5% and claims it had a right of first refusal to buy out the rest of the network in the event of any bid emerging. A bid did emerge from a company called Celtel, but a series of legal obfuscations blocked Econet from ever getting the chance to bid.Celtel was subsequently acquired by Zain and the fast-growing Nigerian mobile phone business now accounts for about half of all its roughly $1.7bn African profits. In court, Masiyiwa's lawyers are arguing he should be allowed to buy back Zain's Nigerian business at the price set in 2006, in effect blasting a hole straight through Zain's plans to sell its whole African operation with Nigeria as the jewel in its crown.CompassionateAt any point in the protracted Nigerian "campaign", Masiyiwa could probably have bought himself out of the problem, but he has risen to prominence not just because of what he has done but because of what he won't do. One of the central tenets of Econet Wireless is "zero tolerance for corruption", rooted in Masiyiwa's Christian faith which has also seen him use his fortune to help 26,000 orphans get an education through the Capernaum Trust he set up with his wife. He has also helped the Nelson Mandela foundation to get started, is on the board of trustees of the Rockefeller Foundation and works with Kofi Annan's Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa and the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation to try and use agriculture to deal with hunger on the continent."Christianity is a value system that calls on me to be compassionate, it calls on me to help the weak," he says. "I generate a lot of money for me and my shareholders and people who have been associated with me, but that cannot be an end in itself."
Things have been a little pressured in the games world. There's been discussion about "casual gamers", and whether they'll be too casual - and so not be there when things get tight – if, say, you have a world recession.And now there'sgloomy newsfor games console makers. Well, there's a recession on. But it starts to look like it's not only the casual gamers who are all tapped out. Everyone's not playing.Sony reported a  ¥37bn (£238m) loss as sales of the PlayStation 3 console and PlayStation Portable plummeted: its gaming division had a poor quarter with sales of the PlayStation 3 console falling to 1.1m from 1.6m last year. Sales of its handheld version, the PlayStation Portable, plunged from 3.7m to 1.3m.OK, how about Nintendo?Sony's main rival in the videogaming sector, Nintendo, reported a 66% fall in quarterly operating profit amid a slump in demand for its Wii game console.Aw, no! Oh, yes.Like other Japanese manufacturers, Nintendo has seen overseas earnings hit hard by the yen's rise against the dollar and the euro. Its first-quarter operating profit of ¥40.4bn compares with a ¥119.2bn profit last year.That's a 40% fall in revenues, and 60% drop in profits. (It blamed currency fluctuations.)Then again,Nintendo expects to sell 26m Wii consoles and 30m DS consoles worldwide this year, with analysts predicting a boost in sales when the firm releases new software titles in the run-up to Christmas.Which isn't too shabby.But lest you think that this is something purely limited to the Japanese console makers - which have been hit by the rising yen (it's all due to the yen carry trade unwinding, you know) - there was also bad news from Microsoft last week.Now, this has to be seen in thecontext of falling revenuesandprofitsfor Microsoft - its first ever across a year. But the Entertainment and Devices division had a bad quarter, and a bad year.As gamesindustry.bizpoints out, in its most recent quarter the E&amp;D division (home to the Zune - ah, the Zune! - and Xbox) saw revenues fall by 25%, and its Xbox and PC games revenue fell by 3% - though Xbox shipments actually increased from 8.7m to 11.2m from fiscal '08 to fiscal '09 (Microsoft's financial year ends in June). It blamed price cuts for the fall in revenue.But when you add that tofour months of falling sales for games in the US(down by 31%) then you do wonder if it's the recession, or the lack of big games (often blamed). In the US, sales for consoles and games in June were down 31% year-on-year - though that of course is comparing it to last year when you had GTA IV, Mario Kart Wii and Wii Fit.Venturebeatwondersif people are feeling cash-stretched and moving to free games online - or whether they're just becoming more online, and playing the free games there.Any way up, it can't be a good time to be a console maker.
If you're the kind of guy who gets his kicks from killing Koreans, atomising aliens and blowing up beautiful islands in pursuit of "total domination", your country needs you.The government'sAtomic Weapons Establishment(AWE) at Aldermaston in Berkshire isadvertising for a "virtual reality specialist"to use "serious gaming" to help train nuclear weapons scientists. One of the qualifications required is experience of computer games with good graphics like Crysis, the job advert says.Crysis, marketed by the California-based company Electronic Arts, is a "first person shooter" game in which players become part of an elite group of US soldiers on a mission to an island in the South China Sea. They rapidly become embroiled in a bloody battle with North Koreans, then monsters from outer space.Players have access to a daunting arsenal of deadly high-tech weapons, and wear a futuristic "nano suit" to make them more lethal. In the latest version, Crysis Warhead, they help Sergeant "Psycho" Sykes, find "unique and all-new environments they can explore and blow up", according to a blurb for the game.However, computer gaming experts question the wisdom of seeking out war games enthusiasts for a nuclear bomb factory.Mathias Fuchs, the leader of a creative games programme at the University of Salford near Manchester, warns that AWE may get more than it bargained for.The rule-breaking and "creative craziness" characteristic of gamers might not make them ideal candidates for working with nuclear warheads, he said. When his students were asked to design a game to encourage interest in Manchester Art Gallery, they came up with ascenario based on a virtual art theft."The anarchic approach to objectives may turn out to be very surprising to Aldermaston if they get gamers involved," Fuchs told the Guardian. "A mathematician or a physicist might be more useful."Computer simulations are being increasingly used as training tools by the military in the UK and the US. Submariners, for example, can pretend to launch nuclear-armed Trident missiles, and practise dealing with fires and other emergencies.John Ainslie, the co-ordinator of theScottish Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, argued that the world would be a lot safer if nuclear scientists stuck to virtual reality. "The trouble is that instead of killing cartoon North Koreans, they are fashioning weapons that could actually wipe out the whole country," he said.An AWE spokesman insisted that it had no interest in the content of Crysis. "We are simply interested in the expertise behind the software tool used to create it," he said. "This type of software has applications for creating virtual reality environments which can be used for safety and incident response training."
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Most people think that Microsoft got by far the better end of the deal with Yahoo - partly because Yahoo didn't get an upfront payment. Still, theNY Times reports that the advertisers are happy. Well, if they're happy, then surely everyone is?&bull;Temperature data wants to be free. That's the arresting title of a post on Slashdot which points out - as we have from time to time at the Free Our Data campaign, but it's been hard to maintain the focus - that the UK government's Hadley Centre and University of East Anglia have refused access to the data used for their global climate averages and scientific studies. Until a copyleaked. To editorialise for a moment, not making the data available only helps the unhinged people who think there's a coverup over climate change calculation. This is one dataset which should be made freely available. Is it publicly funded? Yes. Why then keep it out of view of the public?&bull; We've gotanother Technology supplementout. Oh yes. Read it in full (or buy the physical thing and read it in the bath, though not shower.) I'd just like to commend two headlines from the physical version: "Evony and irony" on one of theletters(about our Evony story) - come on, that works onsomany levels - and "Storm in an AT&amp;T cup", over theblocking earlier this week of 4chan by AT&amp;T. You think there's no need for sub-editors? Think again.&bull; And another story from the section to mull over:Do you need a TV licence to watch TV on your computer?The answer's not obvious.
My problem is the converse of Mweni Chibwa's last week: I need to protect access to a USB memory stick containing confidential correspondence, without having to protect each file separately.Alan CrawThe simplest solution is probably to buy a USB thumbdrive that includes password protection. There are lots of ways to protect existing files, but they often require you to reformat the USB drive, or they work with software on the hard drive, or they need admin level access to the PC, or they have other problems.The open source Truecrypt usually figures in my answers about encryption. In this case, you can use it withTCExplorer, which has been written to overcome the requirement for administrative privileges. A simpler option may beRohos Mini Drive software, which is also free. I haven't used it, but the specifications indicate it does exactly what you want: it creates a secured volume on a guest computer if you click the Rohos icon on the USB Flash drive and enter a password.
Claranet (clara.net) says it wants to help the environment by reducing the number of paper invoices and cheques. I am not comfortable with giving it my credit card details but have been told the only way to avoid the £10 charge is to do this. Is this legal?Liz StevensI am not a lawyer, but BT won a case against Dennis Andrews, a Nottinghamshire pensioner who disputed its similar £4.50 charge. It looks as though Claranet is simply following what a lot of companies are doing. Apparently, there was an item on the BBC's Watchdog programme, but this seems to have had more to do with whether the charges were reasonable, not their existence – and £10 does not sound reasonable to me. There's a copy of the protest letter on thePenalty Charges Forumbut the Watchdog link no longer works and Google can't find the original.Ultimately, the most effective response is for you to switch suppliers, so tell Claranet that's what you plan to do. If that doesn't get their attention, nothing will.In any case,Money Saving Expertwarns against putting any recurring payments on a debit or credit card, because "you can't cancel them. Only the company you're paying can do that!" Instead, offer to pay by standing order or by direct debit.
I use Yahoo's webmail with Windows Vista, Firefox and NoScript. This works well, but I get a pop-up window a number of times each session, and it's an always-on-top window. The program asks for permission, but if I agree my virus/spyware programs refuse it. The two sources of this pop-up seem to be ad.bluelithium.com and ad.yieldmanager.com, from servers run by Yahoo.Chris WigzellOn the net, "free" webmail actually means "paid for by advertising" but you can try installing another Firefox add-on,Adblock Plus. Yahoo uses "ad matching", which is also known as "behavioural advertising": it tracks what you look at and provides more targeted adverts. If you regard ad.yieldmanager as spyware then you can use software such as ATF-Cleaner and SuperAntiSpyware to stop it. See theElder Geek sitefor an example.
Personal Computer World has been my tech bible over the last two decades for learning about computing. Where do I turn now to get my monthly fix?Tim HeeleyPC Prois my favourite read (and, to declare an interest, I've written for it), while the fortnightlyComputeractiveis friendly and very easy to read.PC Advisoris also worth a look.
Microsoft's MSN Video site is extending the length of some of the programmes it streams in the UK, having agreed content deals with BBC Worldwide (the BBC's commercial subsidiary) and All3Media. In a pilot project, MSN Video will offer 350 hours of free content, supported by advertising. More programmes will be introduced as the service gets established.There are more than a dozen BBC series in the pilot, including The Young Ones, Mock The Week, That Mitchell And Webb Look, What Not To Wear, and Hotel Babylon. The All3Media offerings include Peep Show, Shameless, 10 Years Younger, How To Look Good Naked, and several series featuring Derren Brown.Update: Today (Monday 3 August) the service went live athttp://www.msn.co.uk/videoplayerProgrammes come in both WMV (Windows Media Video) and Flash formats, to cater for both PC and Mac users. The streams are optimised for 512kbps broadband, to reach a wide audience, and do not have DRM (Digital Rights Management) copy protection. However, they will not be available to users with IP addresses outside the UK.The pilot project will not use Silverlight, and will not be available on mobile phones or Xbox games consoles. "We're starting small," says MSN UK's Rob Crossen. "This is really concentrating on the PC, but the cross-platform opportunities are obvious, and there to be taken."Crossen says MSN UK reaches about half the UK's broadband audience, and is second only to the BBC. "We've learned to understand the different audiences and their different requirements," he says. "We're aiming to be one of the most popular services in VOD [video on demand]."Crossen also says Microsoft has already sold all the available advertising slots.There's clearly a market for TV's back catalogue, as shown by the huge success of the Hulu web site in the US. This service -- owned by Disney, NBC Universal and News Corporation -- has not been available in the UK, but is expected to arrive in September. Hulu offers more than a thousand American TV series, and is expected to add UK programmes as well.In general, users are attracted to very large content libraries with the widest possible range of choices. This suggests that while regular MSN UK users might well enjoy its limited selection of TV offerings, it will be swamped by Hulu.MSN Video doesn't have to make much of an investment to provide its UK service, and it's using the infrastructure that it already uses to deliver shorter clips, typically up to about 10 minutes. There's no reason not to offer longer clips now broadband is widely available in the UK. However, it seems very unlikely that MSN Video will have the sort of impact that the BBC's iPlayer has made as a catch-up service, or that Hulu will make, if its UK site resembles its US service.MSN Video is probably offering too little, too late.
Paperless paymentsClaranet(clara.net) says it wants to help the environment by reducing the number of paper invoices and cheques. I am not comfortable with givingit my credit&nbsp;card details but have been told the only way to avoid the £10 charge is to do this. Is this legal?Liz StevensJS:I am not a lawyer, but BT won a case&nbsp;against Dennis Andrews, a Nottinghamshire pensioner who disputed its similar £4.50 charge. It looks as though Claranet is simply following what a lot of companies are doing. Apparently, there was an item on the BBC's Watchdog programme, but this seems to have had more to do with whether the charges were reasonable, not their existence – and £10 does not sound reasonable to me.There's a copy of the protest letter on thePenalty Charges Forumbut the Watchdog link no longer works and Google can't find the original. Ultimately, the most effective response is for you to switch suppliers, so tell Claranet that's what you plan to do. If that doesn't get their attention, nothing will.In any case,Money Saving Expertwarns against putting any recurring payments on a debit or credit card, because "you can't cancel them. Only the company you're paying can do that!"  Instead, offer to pay by standing order or by direct debit.Which magazine?Personal Computer World has been my tech bible over the last two decades for learning about computing. Where do I turn now to get my monthly fix?Tim HeeleyJS:PC Pro is my favourite read (and, to declare an interest, I've written for it), while the fortnightly Computeractive is friendly and very easy to read. PC Advisor is also worth a look.Yahoo pop-upsIuse Yahoo's webmail with Windows Vista, Firefox and NoScript. This works well, but I get a pop-up window a number of times each session, and it's an always-on-top window. The program asks for permission, but if I agreemy virus/spyware programs refuse it. The two sources of this pop-up seem to be ad.bluelithium.com and ad.yieldmanager.com, from servers run by Yahoo.Chris WigzellJS:On the net, "free" webmail actually means "paid for by advertising" but you can try installing another Firefox add-on,Adblock Plus. Yahoo uses "ad matching", which is also known as "behavioural advertising": it tracks what you look at and provides moretargeted adverts. If you regard ad.yieldmanager as spyware then you can use software such as ATF-Cleaner and SuperAntiSpyware to stop it. See theElder Geek sitefor an example.ProtectingthumbdrivesMy problem is the converse ofMweni Chibwa's last week: I need to protectaccess to a USB memory stickcontainingconfidential correspondence, without having to protect each file separately.Alan CrawJS:The simplest solution is probably to buy a USB thumbdrive that includes password protection. There are lots of ways to protect existing files, but they often require you to reformat the USB drive, or they work with software on the hard drive, or they need admin level access to the PC, or they have other problems.The open source Truecrypt usually figures in my answers about encryption. In this case, you can use it withTCExplorer, which has been written to overcome the requirement for administrative privileges. A simpler option may beRohos Mini Drive software, which is also free. I haven't used it, but the specifications indicate it does exactly what you want: it creates a secured volume on a guest computer if you click the Rohos icon on the USB Flash drive and enter a password.Backchat• E Jones has responded to16 July's answer on mail2web, saying: "I have used it for years while travelling with no problems at all. Gmail by contrast appears to have some security "issues" as I have had at least one automatic acknowledgement sent back showing my password in the message! I reported it but got no response."
If you're like most people, your hard drive space is rapidly running out. When it's full, what are you going to do? You could just replace your internal hard drive if you don't mind cracking open your PC, or start a collection of external drives – which will all need their own power socket and desk or floor space. Wouldn't it be great to have one compact unit that can house several hard drives, and offers terabytes of storage space you can expand at will? Enter Drobo.Now in its second incarnation, Drobo is basically an SATA hard drive enclosure, with some nifty tricks up its sleeve. Many PC owners have used RAID (redundant array of inexpensive disks) setups to offer some kind of protection against data loss, but these systems usually demand identical hard drives with identical capacities. Drobo will happily use any size SATA drive you want.Drobo has four bays for your SATA drives. If your data needs aren't too intensive you could just fill the bays with, say, 250GB drives. But Drobo is hungry for as much space you can afford. Drobo spreads your data over the drives you've installed, keeping track of every byte of data and space storage space. When one of your drives approaches its capacity, Drobo alerts you so you can pop out the smallest drive and insert a new one. A visual alert, in the shape of a row of blue LEDs along the bottom of the faceplate, indicates how much hard drive space you have used. Three blue lights means 30% full, six lights 60%, and so on.Drobo communicates with you via a series of traffic lights on the main unit. Green across the board shows you your Drobo is healthy and needs no attention. Amber means one of your drives will need attention soon; red, that you must take action now before you run out of drive space, or that the drive is about to fail. The redundancy that Drobo automatically builds into the system should mean you never lose a piece of data again.I tested the Drobo with my Mac Pro and formatted the drives I installed using Apple's HFS+. I was surprised at how soon the four drives were ready to receive data. I used several capacity drives from 1TB to a couple at 250GB. In the past, I had used desktop NAS devices with fans that sounded like my vacuum cleaner. The Drobo isn't silent, but it's not intrusive. In an office setting you won't hear it of course, and even in the relative quiet of my home office, it didn't bother me.You don't need the accompanying software – the Drobo Dashboard – but installing it does give you more of an insight into how your memory store is performing. I connected the Drobo using FireWire, but USB 2.0 is also available, as&nbsp;is the DroboShare – a £110 unit that enables you to connect two Drobos over a gigabit Ethernet connection.I found that I was more relaxed about my data storage and backup after only a few days of using the Drobo. Having suffered hard drive failures in the past, the thought that Drobo would tell me – with a red light – that a drive was about to fail, but more importantly that the data would be safe on another of the installed drives ready to be rebuilt once I had replaced the dead drive, was somewhat of a revelation.I did think that they could have done better with the styling. The black plastic casing is imposing, and with no other colours available, the drive will either fit with your existing setup or it won't. I didn't like the glossy front plate, as sunlight obliterated all the lights on the front of the Drobo until I repositioned it to avoid the glare.For most users, trying to set up a working RAID installation will be akin to learning brain surgery in an afternoon. Data Robotics clearly understood this when it designed the Drobo. Businesses have struggled with RAID setups for several years, as there really wasn't anything else they could use for high capacity storage with redundancy. But now that even home users need to store terabytes of data, and wouldn't go near RAID in a moth of Sundays, an out-of-the-box solution was the logical next step.There are other devices that are similar to Drobo, but none have its ease of use – you don't even need to install the software if you don't want to. Plug it in and it gets on with taking care of your data storage and backups. Performance was superb over FireWire 800, but if you only have USB 2.0 on your PC, then moving large files could be time-consuming. Watch out too for data rebuilding if one of your hard drives does fail. This could take several hours to complete.I would have liked the ability to connect to my network wirelessly, and for it to put a smaller hole in my credit card (it's around £320 on Amazon). But those niggles aside, the Drobo is a great piece of kit that solves a problem that more of us are coming up against as our data stores expand at what appears to be an exponential rate. If you're a home- or small-business user pushing the maximum capacity of your existing hard drives, and dread the forthcoming upgrade, Drobo is a breath of fresh air.Pros:Fast set up and formatting, idiot-proof upgrading, piece of mind data backupCons:No Ethernet on main unit, expensive, average read/write performance using USBdrobo.com
Officially, yes – depending on what you watch. The law states that anyone watching or recording TV programmes as they are broadcast must have a licence. It really doesn't matter if you use a TV, a computer or a mobile phone – if it's live, you have to pay. Catch-up services such as the BBC iPlayer or 4oD fall under different rules and don't require a licence.But how doesTV Licensing, which collects and enforces licence fees on behalf of the BBC, know when a PC is receiving a live broadcast? Have the mysterious detector vans been fitted with some new kit?TV Licensing is very secretive about its detection methods, fearing that disclosing too much could help potential evaders. In aFreedom of Information request last yearthe BBC refused to reveal the technical equipment used by its vans, stating it "relies on the public perception that the vans could be used at any time to catch evaders".This lack of information has only encouraged speculation. A common theory is the vans can pick up a signal transmitted by components from within the TV. To receive a broadcast, the TV must be tuned to the correct frequency, which is generated by a local oscillator. TV Licensing could potentially use this signal to find licence-dodgers.Whatever the method, it can't be used&nbsp;to detect unlicensed computer use, as TV broadcast over the internet doesn't generate a TV signal. TV Licensing admits it has no separate strategies for catching those who watch online, and while it has caught people watching TV illegally on something other than TV sets, it won't provide records of the equipment used. Is there a danger that people will ditch the set and go online in order to avoid paying? TV Licensing doesn't think so.A spokesperson said: "It is clear more people are beginning to watch TV online, in addition to watching on their TV sets. But while we do constantly review our enforcement methods to keep pace with technological change, the reality is that more than 97% of UK households have TV sets which need to be covered by a licence, and evasion remains low, at 5.2%."The licence fee is safe for now then, but this could change. According to the BBC Trust, which publisheda review of TV licence collectionthis March, 40% of students in halls of residence use a laptop as their main way of watching TV. While this may just be due to the nature of student living, it could indicate the beginnings of a change in the nation's viewing habits – and the need for a new form of licence-fee enforcement.
The hive minds of the internet had one of those moments of temporary insanity when it was reported that the US telecom giant AT&amp;T was blocking the internet forum and net meme generator 4chan.Tech blogs and news sites seemed to be overwhelmed with the prospect of the pranksters at 4chan taking on AT&amp;T, which after being broken up in the 1980s has slowly rebuilt itself into a telecom titan. While press officers slept, on Sunday night, AT&amp;T was accused of censorship and of "firing one of the first shots in the net neutrality war"First, we probably should try to define "net neutrality". The digital legal expertLawrence Lessig describes the ideaas this: "Net neutrality means simply that all like internet content must be treated alike and move at the same speed over the network."US telecommunications companies objected to the idea that the government should tell them how to run their networks and said in the early days of the debate that if net neutrality became a reality they would have no incentive to upgrade their networks.Flash floodReturning to the showdown between 4chan and AT&amp;T, the telecom giant, 4chan's owner Christopher Poole and othersclarified the situation. The site was being attacked using a SYN flood or ACK attack, which resulted in meaningless traffic to and from 4chan that was overwhelming sites on AT&amp;T and other network providers. These temporarily blocked certain internet addresses from 4chan to prevent disruption to their own customers.Even Poole said: "In the end, this wasn't a sinister act of censorship, but rather a bit of a mistake and a poorly executed, disproportionate response on AT&amp;T's part."The threats to the freedom and freedom of speech on the internet are legion, and AT&amp;T is the evil empire that netizens love to hate.A whistleblower implicated AT&amp;T in the NSA's domestic surveillance programme, and the company has been a lightning rod in the net neutrality debate.The former AT&amp;T chief executive Edward Whitacre once saidGoogle should not be given a "free ride" on his network (http. He quickly clarified his stance, saying if network providers started blocking or slowing access to sites, customers would vote with their feet and find new ISPs. However, his "free ride" comments helped stoke the net neutrality debate, and it, not his clarification, has become accepted wisdom as AT&amp;T's position.Current US policystates that companies cannot "favour any lawful internet applications or content over others".It tookAT&amp;T until midday on Monday to clarifyits position , when it said: "This action was in no way related to the content at img.4chan.org; our focus was on protecting our customers from malicious traffic."So, the blocking of certain 4chan IP addresses had nothing to do with net neutrality. AT&amp;T and other ISPs blocked those addresses to protect their own customers. Not many people would consider an attack against a website as a lawful internet application, and it would be difficult to argue that network operators should be prevented from blocking malicious traffic disrupting their network.Ian Paul wrote at the PCWorld website: "Even if it turns out AT&amp;T's decisions were legitimate, the appearance of censorship raises the contentious issue of network neutrality – the belief that ISPs should not be allowed to block or slow down traffic to any website." (http://bit.ly/atandt9)However, this incident was about a cyberattack and had nothing to do with censorship. If a website is the source, intentional or otherwise, of malicious traffic it should be acceptable to block it until the problem is solved.Lost in translationNet neutrality isn't just a US issue, but in the UK, it definitely isn't the telecommunications buzzword that it is in the US. Some US providers looked to tiered services to provide greater revenue, but tiered broadband packages and bandwidth caps are the norm in the UK.In the UK, some ISPs have been crying foul over the load on their networks due to video-on-demand services such as the BBC's iPlayer, and broadband providers are looking to manage traffic and high-volume customers. Network neutrality might become a bigger issue as high-bandwidth applications strain ISPs networks.Censorship, the concern at the heart of the network neutrality debate, is a serious issue, but crying wolf without all the facts doesn't do net neutrality advocates any favours.
Charles ArthurOrdnance Survey's proposed business strategy has been strongly criticised by the government's Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information (APPSI), the body that advises ministers on how to encourage wider reuse of public sector data.Separately, OS has finally released an almost unredacted version of its internal report comparing international funding models for mapping agencies – but has declined to name the "internationally recognised expert" who checked it, saying the person wants to remain private.Thesix-page APPSI responseto the OS's proposed strategy, which was announced in May, is – in the context of civil service documents – most uncompromising.APPSI challenges the government's assertion that a paid-for licensed business model is the "most effective" one for OS to "increase the availability of geographic information to the wider UK economy and society whilst maintaining the quality of OS data". It responds that "the bulk of APPSI members have supported the [contrary] argument that UK plc might be better off if data was licensed at purely marginal cost (as recommended in the Office of Fair Trading's CUPI study and the Cambridge study [carried out for the Treasury])."The panel calls on the government to publish the basis for its conclusion so people can satisfy themselves "the decision was made on sound grounds, and minimise unfruitful debate". This challenge is echoed by the Free Our Data campaign, which has long suggested that the UK economy would benefit by making OS, and much other non-personal government data, free for reuse.APPSI adds: "Some members remain puzzled why it is appropriate for the bulk of government information (eg all official statistics) to be made available at marginal cost whilst some other information is charged for. They suspect that this arises simply from being a legacy issue or because of ... the state of the nation's finances." Though APPSI does not suggest that this needs to change, it sets out principles – including the ability to re-use OS data to compete with the organisation – that should be applied but presently do not seem to be.Separately, OSresponded, at the end of the last possible day under Freedom of Information Act rules, to Guardian Technology's request for a copy of its internal report on funding models. Almost all the data redacted in the first version has now been released – but nothing seems to back up the statement in May by Sir Rob Margetts, OS's chair, that it showed that moving to a free data model would in the first five years cost "between £500m and £1bn". Guardian Technology will seek to ascertain the basis of Margetts's claims, and any more information about the identity of the expert who checked the study – such as, for example, whether they are an employee of Ordnance Survey.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog: freeourdata.org.uk/blog
Several times in this column I've lamented the fact that while movies and videogames are merging in terms of technology, there is still a creative chasm between them. Films based on games are almost always staggeringly awful, while games based on films are happy to return the compliment. Now there may be an answer.This month, the French publisher Ubisoft announced a series of three live-action short films as prequels to the time-travelling adventure Assassin's Creed 2. Speaking at last week's Comic-Con in San Diego, the Ubisoft Montreal chief, Yannis Mallat, claimed the films have been made with the same production values as a Hollywood blockbuster, while bringing in technology from the game series. For example, the game's 3D engine was used to create the "green screen" CGI backdrops in the movies.There are two interesting things going on here. First, there's the use of short films. From a storytelling standpoint, perhaps Ubisoft has realised game-derived narratives work best in bite-sized chunks; this is, after all, how plot is delivered within the games themselves, and it suits the kind of action-orientated, highly visual concepts that underpin good interactive entertainment. With this format, the publisher can easily use online distribution channels to reach fans, who are used to consuming short-form media in this way via YouTube and Joost, for example.The other interesting element is Ubisoft's determination to keep a vice-like grip on its IP: the Assassin's Creed films are being created at Ubisoft Digital Arts, the company's own digital production house, as well as Hybride Technologies, a visual effects studio bought by Ubisoft last summer.Similarly, Microsoft has announced a series of anime shorts based on the massively successful shooter Halo. They will be a creative conjunction between Japanese animation legends including Mamoru Oshii (Ghost in the Shell) and Shinji Aramaki (Appleseed) and Microsoft's 343 Industries, the team responsible for managing the Halo brand. Microsoft had its filmic fingers burned three years ago when plans for a major Halo movie fell through – it clearly wants to keep things in-house. EA did something similar last year, producing an animated movie based around its sci-fi horror game Dead Space with Film Roman, the animation house behind The Simpsons.Clearly, the games industry is waking up to the fact it doesn't have to hand over its brands to the movie moguls. Whether or not this leads to better content remains to be seen, but at least it'll mean the end of crushingly disappointing wannabe blockbusters based around beloved games. Until the next Tomb Raider flick gets greenlit, anyway …
Spinvox insisted this week that it is "close to securing" a new round of funding, having apparently used up much of its previous $100m funding, raised in March 2008 – out of a total of $200m raised since 2003.The company's PR, James Whatley, also posted a robust defence of its systems for translating voicemails to text – the basis of its business – while acknowledging that the company does use people in overseas centres to translate calls. Whatley insisted that "we have extremely high security standards" but said humans only listen to messages if "the [automated translation] machine needs help" and that messages posted on Facebook by workers from an Egyptian call centre were from a site that did not meet "stringent standards" in training, and was not used for live work.Whatley declined to say what proportion of translated calls are listened to by humans, claiming that this information is too commercially sensitive.He also insisted that the transmission of the voicemails to locations outside Europe did not break the Data Protection Act – because the information about the owner of the message is not transmitted. That does not, however, prove that personal information is never shown to call centre staff.Christina Domecq, chief executive of Spinvox,told Moconews(part of the ContentNext Media network, which is owned, like the Guardian, by Guardian Media Group) that the credit crunch and expansion in Latin America were putting new financial pressure on the company, but staff were told 70% had accepted an offer to take stocks in lieu of salary as the company faces what seems to be a prolonged cash crunch. Domecq told Moconews the company would have positive cashflow and scale from a capacity of 30 million up to 100 million users "within 90 days".But there is growing evidence online suggesting Spinvox's cash problems are caused by the cost of using humans, which do not scale as rapidly and as cheaply as a machine. Commenters on a number of blogs say it uses an application called "Tenzing" that agents in call centres use "to listen to, rewind and transcribe" messages. It is said to have predictive text capability and be used at centres in India, South Africa and Ireland.Money woes may not be the only problem. Google is trialing a new service called Google Voice – which will offer a voicemail transcription service.
Travel in picturesGoogle's Street View has a new feature which lets you navigate between similar user-contributed photos.Write to typeThe IrisNotes battery-powered wireless pen can capture handwritten notes in 22 languages including French, German and Spanish.http://bit.ly/irisnotesSplit StickQuirky has launched a "double sided" USB memory stick with two 2GB drives so users can keep their personal and business data separate.quirky.com/products/6Cricket widgetThe England and Wales Cricket Board is offering an Adobe AIR application to keep people up to date with the news.http://bit.ly/ecbappChuck the Eco DuckThe radio station Fun Kids has signed up Chuck to help make environmental issues fun and entertaining for the under-10s.funkidslive.comThe Invisible FestivalThe 100% mud-free, crowd-free and free-free virtual festival will be held on 8-9 August via Spotify.invisiblefestival.orgBabylonian mobileUkraine-based designer Andy Kurovets has come up with Nibiru, a Babylonia-style phone. Only a concept, but …http://bit.ly/nibiruCan ad men behave?The US's leading advertising associations have published seven principles&nbsp;to&nbsp;self-regulate online behavioural advertising.http://bit.ly/adprinciplesJack Schofield
We haven't heard much recently about so-called virtual worlds such as Second Life, in which you move around with your own avatar. Critics must be hoping they have disappeared up their own ether. Actually, they are booming. The consultancy kzero.co.uk reports that membership of virtual worlds grew by 39% in the second quarter of 2009 to an estimated 579 million. Not all these members are active but I can't think of anything, anywhere, that has grown so fast in the recession this side of Goldman Sachs bonuses.There's another curious thing: Facebook and Twitter are lauded to the skies, but neither has found a way to make money – whereas virtual worlds such as World of Warcraft, Entropia Universe, Habbo Hotel, Club Penguin and Second Life are all profitable because their business models are based on&nbsp;the digital elixir of subscriptions and micropayments, a formula that other websites, including newspapers, would die for. Twitter makes the noise, Second Life makes the money.If you think virtual worlds are a passing fad, look at the figures. Almost all of the 39% growth came from children. Girls used to grow up with their dolls; now they are growing up with their avatars. This goes largely unreported because the users don't read newspapers, but as Kzero reports, poptropica.com – aimed at five- to 10-year-olds – has 76 million registered users. If you move up to 10- to 15-year-olds, users rival the populations of countries – led by Habbo (135 million), Neopets (54 million), Star Dolls (34 million) and Club Penguin (28 million). It starts tailing off among 15- to 25-year-olds – apart from Poptropica (35 million) – but it underlines the likelihood that as youngsters get older they will be looking for more sophisticated outlets and for ways to link existing social networks such as Facebook or MySpace to more immersive virtual worlds. The telephone was a one-to-one experience; email linked friends and colleagues; Facebook extended this to friends of friends but virtual worlds offer – as Twitter does in a more constrained context – the opportunity to link with anyone on the planet sharing similar interests.Second Life, once the posterboy of virtual worlds, is consolidating as it tries to make the experience easier and less crash-prone while moving adult content to a separate zone. Only a small fraction of its 19 million registered users are active, but it is still the creative laboratory of the genre. Corporations find it useful for holding international meetings or to recruit staff and educationalists are doing lots of interesting things including language teaching. But Second Life may not end up as the preferred platform as new business models take advantage of the rapidly improving technological developments elsewhere.In order to get a more streamlined experience, most of the new virtual worlds don't allow users to make their own content. Twinity, which has just raised €4.5m in new funding, has a virtual version of Berlin and Singapore (with London still in the pipeline): you buy existing apartments or rent shops but can't build yourself. Bluemarsonline.com – still in testing mode – promises much better graphics and more realistic avatars at the expense of not allowing members (as opposed to developers) to create their own content.One problem of virtual worlds is that you can't go from one to another. But evolver.com enables users to move creations across worlds and OpenSimulator lets you create a virtual world on the hard drive of your own computer, linking to other compatible ones, such as Second Life, if you choose. With technology moving so fast and a whole generation growing up for whom having an avatar is second nature, virtual worlds have nowhere to go but up. Only they won't be virtual worlds – just a part of normal life.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Could netbooks be replaced by smartbooks? Yes. But will they? Maybe. The smartbook name has been adopted by companies working with ARM (Advanced Risc Machines), which developed the core processor used by most smartphones. The general idea is to run smartphone software such as Google's Linux-based Android and Microsoft's Windows CE (AKA Windows Mobile) on portable computers with 7in-10in screens.These could be netbooks or touch-operated tablets. Apple, which sells ARM-based devices such as the iPhone and iPod Touch, has been widely tipped to produce the latter.Smartbooks are designed to work with online applications rather than traditional desktop software – one of the ideas behind netbooks. As we know, things turned out differently. Suppliers such as Acer, Asus and MSI were keen to sell netbooks running Linux-based systems with consumer-friendly front ends but these models failed in the marketplace.When users were given the option to buy much the same hardware at a higher price running Microsoft Windows XP instead, the Linux versions went from 100% of the market to around 5%.Buyers also drove the netbook market towards larger screens. These grew from 7in in the original Asus Eee PC 700 to today's 10-12in models. Netbooks are now much like laptops, except with less memory (1GB) and Intel Atom processors, which are less powerful but provide longer battery life.Smartbooks could do better for four reasons: 1) they could appeal to people who like smartphones but want a bigger keyboard and screen; 2) they should be acceptable to the mobile phone network suppliers that already support smartphones; 3) they offer better battery life than netbooks; 4) they should be cheaper than netbooks, with $199 being the target price.Bob Morris, ARM's director of mobile computing, thinks there's a big market at what he reckons is an "impulse buy" price. "To me, it's basically going to be the bottom floor of computing – it's the general consumer, it's the masses in China – and from that we can push up," he says. "It's simple, and I think the general consumer is going to buy into simple when it hits the right form factor."Mind you, Morris also predicts that Microsoft will make Windows available on the ARM chip, which he says is a business issue, not a technical one.The smartbook idea makes sense, but there's nothing new about it. Companies have been trying to sell this type of product for 28 years, without much success. The list includes notepads such as the Epson HX-20, Tandy 100, Cambridge Computer Z88 and Amstrad NC100, the WebPad project, and various oddball devices such as Netpliance's i-Opener. Microsoft and its hardware partners have had several goes, including WebTV set-top boxes, PC companions such as the Compaq Aero 8000, and Origami tablet designs such as the Samsung Q1.The closest to a success story was the Psion Series 5 – the larger Series 7 was the original NetBook – but sales were tiny.Still, if you like the idea of a smartbook, you should soon have several to choose from. The first to reach the UK is Datawind's UbiSurfer, for "ubiquitous surfing". It's an ARM-based netbook with a 7in screen, a Linux operating system, and 1GB of Flash storage.The UbiSurfer also comes with a Vodafone sim installed, and the price includes 30 hours a month of free web surfing for one year, via GPRS, in the UK.The fact that the smartbook idea has been tried and failed doesn't mean it will fail again. So maybe its time has finally come.
For the past 40 years, the whole of modern electronics – not just computers, but games consoles, mobile phones, MP3 players, digital cameras, personal video recorders and so on – has been driven by Moore's law: the observation in 1965 by Intel's co-founder Gordon Moore that manufacturers can put roughly twice as many transistors on a chip every two years. This has produced a stream of smaller, faster and cheaper chips, advancing at an exponential rate. But Moore's law could soon come to an end. And not because, as frequently predicted, we've run into insurmountable technical problems – but because chip factories cost too much to build.We have not got to that stage yet. Intel is spending $7bn (£4.2bn) upgrading its seven US chip fabrication plants (AKA fabs), and last Friday, Global Foundries started building a new $4.2bn fab in Saratoga County, New York. It will not be in operation until 2012, but the semiconductor industry has to invest during recessions to be ready to supply boom markets.Not cheap as chipsGlobal Foundries is one answer to the affordability problem. It's a spinoff from the chip giant AMD, which so far is its only customer. But it's also a collaborative investment that will serve as the focus for collaborative research and development. New York state put up a $1.2bn incentive package to encourage Global Foundries to bring 1,400 high-paying high-tech jobs to the region. The government of Abu Dhabi is also investing up to $6bn over the next five years, both in the new Fab 2 and AMD's current fab in Dresden.Global Foundries also has alliances with IBM – which has a $2.5bn chip plant nearby in East Fishkill, NY – and several other companies. "We don't believe any more in a home-grown R&amp;D model," says a spokesman, Jon Carvill. Rather than just serving AMD, the new strategy is to target the 20 largest companies who need leading-edge chip technologies in high volumes. "There's very little competition in that part of the market," says Carvill. "For those customers today, there isn't any choice: there's only TSMC [Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company] that can meet their needs. We're going to offer an alternative."Carvill is confident the "silicon foundry" approach will enable AMD to keep on competing with Intel, the world's largest chip manufacturer, as circuitry shrinks from today's 45 nanometres (billionths of a metre) to 22nm and beyond. (The Intel 8088 chip, used in the IBM PC in 1982, had 3-micron – 3,000nm – circuits.)However, the latest of many predictions of the death of Moore's law concerns the economics rather than the physics. Len Jelinek, chief analyst for semiconductor manufacturing at iSuppli, has predicted that when we reach 18nm, in 2014, the equipment will be so expensive that chip manufacturers won't be able to recover the fab costs.This isn't really a new idea either. Mike Mayberry, vice-president of Intel's research and manufacturing group, points out that Arthur Rock, one of Intel's early venture capital investors, came up with Rock's law – the cost of a chip fabrication plant doubles every four years.However, unlike Moore's law, Rock's law has not worked out well. Inan article published by the IEEE, Philip Ross argued that fabs should have cost $5bn in the late 1990s, and $10bn in 2004. Global Foundries' new fab may sound expensive at $4.2bn, but that's an order of magnitude less than $40bn.Which is not to say there aren't potential problems in the semiconductor world. Gartner Research's vice-president, Bob Johnson, points out that apart from Intel and Samsung, who can afford to build this sort of fab for themselves, most companies are likely to move to foundries. "By allowing companies like AMD to share costs, the foundry model has addressed that [cost] issue very nicely. But with fewer fabs going up, the amount of chip-making equipment sold will not be as high as it was," he says.Watch out for wafersYou can see why this would ring alarm bells at the companies that Jelinek is tracking. They're looking at diminishing sales of increasingly complex and expensive equipment – machines that can cost more than $20m each.Johnson also points out another reason for rising costs: "When you start integrating features to create a chip that does more, it's not just fab costs, it's design costs. It can cost more than $50m for a complex chip, and a large proportion of that is software to run the darn thing. I don't think it will kill the rate of technology advance in the next few years. What it may mean is that the price reductions that people are used to seeing are going to level off a bit."One way round that problem would be to make chips on bigger discs, called wafers. And if the chip manufacturing industry moves from today's 30cm wafers to 45cm, that will require a huge investment in new equipment. However, Jelinek thinks that the move to 45cm could be put off until 2017 or even 2018.Of course, big fabs making chips on big wafers also need big markets: they're only cost-effective when they're running close to capacity. As Intel's Mayberry says: "Bigger and inefficient isn't necessarily better, and if your products are boring, it doesn't matter how efficient your factory is."Splitting the AtomThere's also the question of how many people really need the latest and greatest technology. Paul Jackson from the research company Forrester says Intel's biggest problem isn't producing the next generation of chips but that "the Atom has done fantastically well". Sales of Atom-powered netbooks seem to show that, for many purposes, a smaller, cheaper and less powerful chip is good enough.Mayberry has doubts. "I'm also old enough to remember when people said the Intel 386 chip overshot the market because no one could type that fast," he grins. "Then I got a copy of Microsoft Word, and you know, that was really slow! Today, for many tasks, it doesn't matter which computer I use, but for some tasks, even my quad-core processor is not as fast as I'd like. There are uses that will continue to drive the need for more and more performance."Nonetheless, there will come a point when semiconductor manufacturing does approach a limit: when transistor gates are only a few nanometres long. Atoms and electrons are not getting any smaller.But the inventor and futurist Ray Kurzweilhas arguedthat the application of Moore's law is much wider than the semiconductor industry. He says: "Moore's law was not the first, but the fifth paradigm to provide accelerating price-performance". The phenomenon can be applied to successive waves of machines built using valves, discrete transistors and microprocessors. In the future, something else may take over.Kurzweil reckons that the next stage is that chips will be built in three dimensions. This is something that Mayberry – whose job it is to make sure Intel has the technology to track Moore's law – is working on. But as he says, the future is uncertain. "Whatever I predict today, 10 years from now, I'll be surprised: the world will be different. I'm happy with that."
Steve Ballmer, the Microsoft chief executive, believes Google will try to getthe software giant's search advertising deal with Yahooblocked – while workers have been warned of redundancies as the two companies integrate operations.Microsoft and Yahoo have their sights set on catching the runaway search-advertising market leader Google with their 10-year global deal.In the tie-up, Microsoft's Bing search service will be integrated across both companies' websites, while Yahoo will handle global search ad sales.Ballmer, who failed to push through a deal to buy Yahoo's search business for $1bn (£610m) last year, said he expected "aggressive" lobbying by Google when the deal was scrutinised by regulators across the globe."We suspect we will face opposition from the competitor [Google]," he said on a conference call alongside the Yahoo chief executive, Carol Bartz. "The case of us coming together will provide more competition, not less. [However] we expect our competitor to be aggressive."Microsoft and Yahoo intend to file the deal document, of more than 100 pages,  to anti-trust authorities in the US and Brussels, as well as other markets, next week. The companies hope to close the deal early next year.Ballmer indicated that the deal might find regulatory clearance easier with the European Union because, he claimed, Google had as much as 92% ad-search market share across the continent – compared with about 70% in the US. In Europe Microsoft and Yahoo's combined search-ad market share fell well short of their 25% to 30% figure in the US, he said.Bartz said, for Yahoo, the deal was attractive because it included a high-level payment of "traffic acquisition costs" (Tac), amounting to 88% of search revenue generated on sites owned or operated by Yahoo over the deal's first five years, although without an up-front cash payment."A big cash payment upfront doesn't help from an operating standpoint," she added. "What we wanted was a significant Tac rate so we would have the revenue to support our expenses line to invest in the business."Ballmer, admitting there was "no question" the deal was at a much higher Tac rate than last summer's negotiations over the acquisition of Yahoo's search business, said that establishing the joint operation across the two companies over the next few years would cost Microsoft "a couple of hundreds of millions".One of the pay-offs, he added, was that the partnership would enable Microsoft and Yahoo to develop a superior search algorithm to Google.Bartz said Bing would be integrated across Yahoo in three to six months after the deal was closed – on Yahoo the search function would appear as "powered by Bing". Complete global integration with the resulting financial benefits were not expected for up to two years, she added.Some Yahoo search employees would move to Microsoft, some would move to the company's display ad division, but there would also be cuts, according to Bartz."Unfortunately there will be some redundancies at Yahoo," she said, adding that the process of laying off workers would happen over the next two and a half years.She said that once the partnership was up and running it would generate an operating income of $500m a year. With Microsoft focusing on developing search technology, Yahoo estimates it would save $200m a year in capital expenditure."The deal won't happen overnight. We will work with regulators and broadly anticipate closing the deal in early 2010," said Bartz."This deal will create a significant competitive alternative in search. A combination of Microsoft and Yahoo ...  puts the choice back into the hands of consumers, advertisers and publishers who are increasingly anxious about the influence of a single player," she added.A spokesman for Google said: "There has traditionally been a lot of competition online, and our experience is that competition brings about great things for users. We're interested to learn more about the deal."•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
You'll have noticed that Microsoft is now going to be powering Yahoo's search. Well, it will be once the deal is done.To celebrate, the two companiesset up a joint website to announce it. And hey, just so that things look tickety-boo, they stuck some stock photos at the top of the page. Because, you know, a corporate announcement justdoesn't look rightunless it's got a picture of a man pointing at a screen and a woman happily receiving a pile of papers from a man.Now, please, let's have your captions. We've hotlinked the photos; now tell us what the people in them are saying. Relevant to Microsoft, Yahoo, Google, search and advertising, please.For example, No.1:Her: "oh, great! thanks for those search results - I'll type them into the results window right away."No.2(OK, even I'm at a loss to know what the connection between a happy mother and daughter - childminder and girl? - is to Yahoo/Microsoft.)No.3Him: "According to that book by my keyboard, this answer is wrong. Someone on the internet iswrong."Oh, come on, you can do far better. Have at them.
You probably think you know the world's biggest software company pretty well. Microsoft is Windows and Office; Microsoft is the billionaire Bill Gates and the chest-beating chief executive, Steve Ballmer. Microsoft is loved; it is hated; but above all, Microsoft is big.Last week, however, things shifted just a little. It wasn't that the company rekindled its infatuation with the search engine business, with reports suggesting it was trying (again) to close a deal with Yahoo. Nor was it the way the company capitulated in its long-running arguments with the European Union by announcing plans to help customers download other web browsers to Windows PCs.The real change? Microsoft got smaller.Historical lowLike most businesses, Microsoft's revenues for 2009 were lower than the previous year. Unlike other companies it was more than just a symptom of the recession – it was a moment in history. The announcement marked the first time in its 34 years Microsoft had seen its business shrink from one year to the next.Data from the company's files show that Microsoft has enjoyed continuous, unalloyed growth, mostly at a remarkable pace [see graph, right].During the company's golden years, it gained a formidable grip on the computer market and its revenues grew between 30% and 50% each year. Even when the Microsoft juggernaut slowed down after 2000, it didn't stop: revenues continued to grow by an average of 13% each year, turning it from a significant organisation into one of the planet's most powerful corporations. It was one of the fastest-growing businesses in history – going from revenues of $347m in its first year as a public company to highs of $60bn last year."Microsoft has always seen itself as a growth company," says Matt Rosoff of the independent analyst firm Directions on Microsoft."There were some calls from Wall Street earlier this decade for Microsoft to reposition itself as a value company – to stop investing so much in research and development; stop trying to compete in new areas like game consoles and search. They've resisted that pressure and said they still believe there are significant growth opportunities."But if growth is so much a part of the company's DNA, what happens when it disappears?Commenters onthe Mini-Microsoft blog– a site run by an anonymous Microsoft manager that has become a chatboard for employees to discuss the company without divulging their identity – generally agreed that it was seriously bad news."I'm glad I got laid off in January," said one commenter. "I see clearly now that Microsoft has truly jumped the shark and is a company in a long, slow decline."It isn't an entirely new situation, however. While revenues have never dropped before, it has had to deal with dips in profit. There have been lean years (2006) and there have been unprofitable ones: 2001 and 2002 saw Microsoft make its first losses as the planet struggled to come to terms with the dotcom bust and the attacks in New York and Washington in 2001.Microsoft had been planning for the downturn, according to Warren Wilson, a senior analyst with Ovum. "I think they've seen it coming for some time: it's the worst recession since the Great Depression, and I think Microsoft has watched its customers struggle and has watched the impact building," he says.And although Ballmer has been markedly downbeat about the prospect of the economy lifting, few insiders are publicly suggesting that 2010 will be worse. "They're looking at a very robust wave of product launches over the next year, starting with Windows 7, Windows Server in the months after that and Office 2010 next year," says Wilson. "I think they have a feeling that the worst is behind them – that they've weathered the worst of the storm."But does the global downturn explain everything that is going on at the company? It's certainly true that, despite the gloom, many of Microsoft's biggest rivals aren't faring so badly. IBM saw revenue drop too, but its profits rose because of cost-cutting. Google's ship remains steady in the face of an advertising slowdown, while Apple seems to be ignoring the recession almost entirely, merrily posting blockbuster profits thanks to the iPhone.This is the sort of thing that worries Mini-Microsoft's commenters – and while they could easily be accused of over-reacting (after all, Microsoft is still a business with almost $60bn in revenues for 2009) the comments betray that there is a serious psychological impact to suddenly being on the back foot after so many years of having the Midas touch.It pays to be paranoidWilson thinks that employees should take comfort in the company's ability to succeed under pressure over the years."I think it's an unprecedented situation, they did as good a job as anyone in the industry of anticipating it," he says. "One of the reasons they've done as well as they have for as long as they have is because they stay paranoid, despite their position at the top of the software industry.Rosoff agrees that things will bounce back, ultimately believing that Microsoft's size may prove to be its biggest strength, rather than a weakness."When things start to rebound, they could be poised to rebound faster than everyone else – just like they fell faster this time. They have enough breadth that if the economy starts to pick up in China, it could help them sooner than it could help a company like Apple, which is very focused on the US."But what if next year doesn't improve enough? Will this inglorious moment in Microsoft's history prove to be enough of a shock to the system to change things? Probably not, he adds."I think they're likely to continue to keep doing what they have been doing: I don't think this is going to be a catalyst. If they were to continue to suffer revenue shortfalls after the rest of the economy recovers, that would be bad. If they ever suffer a loss, that would be pretty catastrophic."
Worldwide search engine share July 2009 global: Google far ahead of Bing or Yahoo. Source: StatcounterSo Microsoft finally got the piece of Yahoo it really wanted. It's going to power Yahoo's search and Yahoo's ad team is going to sell the advertising on it - though Microsoft's AdCenter system is going to handle the self-service advertising sales (and self-service is a huge part of ad sales for search engines, at least with Google; expect the same to happen with Yahoosoft).It's a 10-year deal. That is enough to comfort the markets. But it should have people inside Yahoo shivering. As BusinessWeekputs it, "Yahoo gives in to Microsoft, gives up on search".That's not of course how it's being presented on thejoint pageat the bizarrely-named "choicevalueinnovation.com" website. (Does that mean we have to choose between value and innovation?) According to the pair, it isan agreement that will improve the Web search experience for users and advertisers, and deliver sustained innovation to the industry.How's that?In simple terms, Microsoft will now power Yahoo! search while Yahoo! will become the exclusive worldwide relationship sales force for both companies' premium search advertisersOh, sure, premium search. Expect this: premium search will be a shrinking part of advertising, both in number and in value. More and more it is going to be done through self-service systems. The reason: automationscales. Humans are pricey; machines keep  getting cheaper all the time.The problem for Yahoo though is that it's now going to be simply a front page - but what happens to everything built on it? What happens (as Simon Willison, a developer at the Guardian, asked) to third-party products built against Yahoo's search API? They'll now build against Bing's API - if they decide to stick with Yahoo. But why would they? Is the Flickr API or Yahoo Pipes going to be the next thing to get absorbed, or cast off by Yahoo as it struggles to contain costs?Yahoo was already in trouble given that Microsoft hadpassed it for search share a couple of times in June and July in the US- although worldwide, ithasn't quite passed it. Note too that Google sits right up there with about 90% of worldwide search share, according to Stacounter. Together, Yahoo/Bing had about 8% share. There's no going back now; Yahoo isn't, in 10 years' time, going to wake up and decide that it doesn't like Microsoft's search after all, and re-build a new search engine. All that money Yahoo ever spent on search has just been flushed down the toilet.Look at what happened to AOL: Google got to power its search (because AOL was always about content, not finding content). This week, Google sold back the 5% stake in AOL thatit bought for $1bn in 2005, beating Microsoft to the deal; Google bought it then so that it could grow its market share. At the time I wrote that the importance of that was to make sure that Google didn't suffer the same fate as Netscape had.Three and a half years later, AOL is being spun off by Time-Warner, so Google has had to sell back the shares. And now AOL gets to be ... the company that doesn't have any value: Google lost about $750m on the shares - but you can be sure that its own value has grown far, far more.At Yahoo, Microsoft, meanwhile, gets to take over the underlying process that we all know is key.Is the revitalised, expanded Bing going to start stealing from that 90% share? Ignore the advertising angle, because people aren't going to come to a search engine just because the advertising's better there. The question is, willyougo there? Do you go there? Do you use Yahoo's search? Most people don't."Unfortunately there will be some redundancies at Yahoo..." says Bartz. "But it's over the next two and a half years... So there will be redundancies but it's all in the future." The suspicion is that Yahoo, like AOL, is going to find itself hollowed out. Bartz in the phone call emphasised that, freed of the tedious binds of having to run a search engine, Yahoo can focus on "mobile".Um, sure. As the analyst Michael Gartenbergput it succinctly(yes, &lt;140char):Q:What do you get when you cross Yahoo with Microsoft?A:Microsoft.Can you see any future for Yahoo? If so, do tell how.
A Chicago lettings agency is suing a former tenant for at least $50,000 (£30,000) after she complained on Twitter about mould in her apartment.Horizon Group Managementfiled the lawsuit against Amanda Bonnen on Monday in response to what it claimed was her "false and defamatory" message on the microblogging site.The tweet, posted on 12 May onBonnen's since-discontinued account @abonnen, said: "Who said sleeping in a mouldy apartment was bad for you? Horizon Realty thinks it's okay."In its suit filed in the Cook county circuit court, the company claimed her post "maliciously and wrongfully" condemned her apartment and their service. It said the tweet was published "throughout the world" and severely damaged its good name.Jeff Michael, whose family runs Horizon,told the Chicago Sun-Times: "The statements are obviously false, and it's our intention to prove that."He said the company never had a conversation with Bonnen about the post and never asked her to take it down. "We're a sue first, ask questions later kind of an organisation," he told the paper.The lawsuit has provoked a backlash against Horizon on Twitter and the wider blogosphere.Horizon Group managementhas become one of the most searched and discussed subjects on Twitter, with posters criticising the company for its legal action and arguing it had made a major PR blunder.Twitter usercharlesthomas wrote: "So Bravo to you, Horizon Group Management! You damaged your rep far more than @abonnen ever could."Another poster,jvandeboom, tweeted: "What a PR failure by Horizon Group Management ... Makes me believe the mould claims even more."Many say that since Bonnen's Twitter account had just over 20 followers before it was deleted, Horizon has generated far more bad publicity for its service than her tweet ever could have done.The overwhelmingly critical response led the company to issue astatement defending its legal action. Michael denied that his comment about suing first and asking questions later was meant seriously."I would first like to take this opportunity to apologise for tongue in cheek comments that were made previously regarding our approach to litigation. This statement is not in line with our philosophy towards property management and was taken out of context."He said the company's legal action followed a class-action lawsuit filed against it by Bonnen for allegedly violating Chicago leasing rules by not paying tenants interest on security deposits and failing to provide warnings about overloading porches. Michael said Bonnen's lawsuit was "completely baseless".The statement acknowledged that her apartment "was one of several that experienced an overnight leak during roof repairs in late March 2009 caused by an error made by an external contractor". He said all tenant grievances in respect to the problem were "quickly and amicably resolved, except Ms Bonnen's".
Is this how your iPhone will look once Apple's taken enough of the apps off?In the wake of Apple's rejection of the Google Voice app for the iPhone - and with Spotify's application hanging in the balance - there's now a blog where would-be developers can go and look up what sort of things arouse Apple's ire.TheApplication Submission Feedback blog- actually a Tumblr blog, which is a light-touch form - simply lists the sort of things that can get you banned before you're out of the gate.Such as getting your "Lite" (free or cheap) version to upsell usersto the fully-featured version: a Free/Lite version has to be feature-complete in itself, and can't refer to features that the full one has. That is, you can't have greyed-out elements in a menu suggesting you buy the grown-up version.And "Avoid public figures and celebrities" (we usually do) - so something that morphed photos to make them look like the iconic Obama posters wasn't allowed.So far not mentioned is "don't use functions that would really bug Apple and especially its network carriers" - though that seems to have been the reason behind the banning of Google Voice. More and more people are repeating the line that it was AT&amp;T that put the kibosh on the Google Voice plan.This, even though Google Voiceisavailable on the BlackBerry on AT&amp;T, asOm Malik pointed out: why would AT&amp;T ban Google Voice on the iPhone but not the BlackBerry? He then checked with AT&amp;T, which said "We can't say anything and Apple is the only one who can talk about the App store."Mm. The murkiness of the App Store approval process - which is moving from simply murky and random to really quite disturbing - may be turning into the best piece of marketing that Google's Android has ever had.Update: there's a rather scary - not for content but for implication - rough transcript of aphone call from Apple to the developer of Voicecentralwhich let you access Google Voice messages. Apple told it the app (which had beenapproved in April) was now being withdrawn because "it duplicates features of the iPhone". To no avail did the developers point out that other apps do that too.As they say, "there's no app for that". Hell, if Apple makes it hard enough maybe other handset makers really will have a choice - and even the US carrier Verizon, whichaimed to preview an app store yesterday, might have a chance.Oh, and another data point: a developer called Justin WilliamssaysWith the latest app rejection being Google Voice, I am one step closer to selling off my iPhone products and focusing entirely on the Mac once more. I can't help but feel that I've wasted the past 9 months of my life building on a platform that is so hostile and anti-developer.Caveat censor...
Technology editor Charles Arthur is in the driving seat for this week's programme – everyone else on the Tech Weekly team is either living it up, having babies, or studying.  Someone has to do all the work …In this podcast, Charles meets Ray Sangster, the Europe, Middle East and Africa chief of Flip Video – the company that makes the iPod-sized video cameras. Ray discusses why Cisco Systems wanted to buy the company, and the competition Flip has from video-enabled mobile phones such as the iPhone 3GS.We also hear from James Strong, the founder of Atomic Floyd – maker of high-specification headphones. Charles hears how headphones are often the forgotten element when people buy expensive gadgets, and why their precision earpieces are stainless steel (to do with sound leakage and size, apparently).All this, and Bobbie Johnson brings us this week's tech news from his holiday lilo. Possibly.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Yes Modern Warfare 2 will probably be excellent, especially if you can hold your own in the frenzied multiplayer. But for me the most exciting release this winter isBorderlands. This first person shooter with role playing overtones sounds highly impressive. It combines shooting and action with an open world and lots and lots of loot. Diablo fans will be very pleased. However, Randy Pitchford of developers Gearboxis nervous about facing upto Modern Warfare 2.When people take risks and it's not rewarded, in the case of Mirror's Edge, it's makes it harder for others to be comfortable taking risks," said Pitchford. "Yeah, I'm terrified. And [Borderlands is] an original brand, too, so it's even more risky.I'm not sure Mirror's Edge is the best example. Interesting art design aside it was a slightly above average game at best. Borderland should – hopefully – be a lot better. Pitchford is hopeful.There are those of us that play everything and we're begging for fresh stuff, so I'm hoping that helps," he added. "And if it's good, it'll get noticed.What do you think then? Will Modern Warfare 2 be the only game for you this October/November? Or will the more original likes of Borderlands also get a look in?
Email 'n Walk(59p)Picture the scene. You're walking down the street, typing an email into your iPhone, oblivious to passersby. Then what happens? You bump into an angry man with a throbbing forehead vein and fist with your name on it, that's what. The resultant thumping is, really, no more than you deserve. How do you avoid such unpleasant encounters and still stay in the loop? You get Email 'n Walk, which was developed by Phase 2 Media. It turns on your iPhone camera, and gives you a moving preview image of the pavement and overlays this with a semi-transparent email. This means you can look through your iPhone at the street, oncoming fists, etc, while you type. I don't know how I got through the day unscathed before this app existed.Ocarina(59p)When I'm bored and surrounded by straphangers on the tube, there's nothing I like more than to pull out my iPhone and blow some soothing music into it, you know? And thanks to Smule, which has developed an application called Ocarina, I can. What, you'll be forgiven for asking, am I on about? The ocarina is an ancient, flute-like instrument. This app enables you to simulate the sounds of an ocarina by making your iPhone sensitive to breath, touch and movement, enabling you to stage impromptu  recitals on  public transport or under your own duvet. There are YouTube performances and links to scores that help you to learn how to play the iPhone Ocarina. Thanks to them, I've got my reading of The Wheels on the Bus down: I'msogoing to win the next series of Britain's Got Talent.Ocado on the Go(free)When I'm bored and surrounded by straphangers on the tube and I've had enough ocarina, I think – I know, I'll do the shopping. Ocado is very different from the ocarina. The latter is a musical instrument, the former is  an online supermarket service. True, Tesco also has an iPhones app, but I don't roll that way: Tesco is a baffling ordeal, Ocado has nicer delivery men and a database of 18,000 products, many of which will be delivered to my door just as I reach&nbsp;home.Sky Remote(£1.79)And once you've unpacked your shopping (when will there be an app to do that, you feel me?), you'll settle down in front of the telly. If you're clever, you'll have spent some of your downtime on public transport programming your Sky Plus box at home by means of this app. It allows you to record programmes on your TV by means of your iPhone. Technologically ingenious. This would be wonderful . . . if I had Sky Plus.Dual Level(59p)This application turns your iPhone into a spirit level. Handy if you're putting up shelves, but not if you want to play ocarina. If only there was an app to turn my spirit level into an iPhone. So far, sickeningly, there isn't.Starmap(£6.99)Conceived by an astrophyscist, used by a dummy: this app is like having a pocket planetarium. Starmap uses professional star catalogues and ephemeris algorithms (whatever they are) for its calculations and helps you find constellations, planets or shooting stars zones. There's a more expensive version for professional astronomers.Shazam(free)Sitting alone in a bar and thinking that, all things considered, you don't want to go up to the snooty asymmetrically fringed booze jockey and ask them what the song on the PA is? Who needs the dismissive response: "It's the Ting Tings, grandad, innit"? Thanks to Shazam, you can hold your iPhone – or any other phone to be fair – up to the speaker and it will identify the track for you without the withering putdown.Children's Classics(free)This offers a handful of titles&nbsp;including Heidi, The&nbsp;Adventures of Tom Sawyer, Anne of Green Gables and Aesop's Fables. The selection of stories isn't so much a draw as the app's use of the iFlow reader. This works like a teleprompter with text scrolling smoothly as you read. It thus ingeniously gets around the annoying problem of having to change pages. The scrolling responds to very slight tilting motions as you hold your iPhone in your hand and so acts as a kind of bedtime autocue. The only problem is that there are no pictures for the under-fives.Virtual Families(£2.39)When you're bored with your real family (and you know you are), try this app: it gives you the chance to start a new family that doesn't mouth off or cost you money. The app provides a little house into which you put the tiny person you've adopted. You then marry them off and get them to start popping out kids. The game is like a less sophisticated version of The Sims. You can give your family positive feedback with a "praising glove", or smack them with the "scolding glove" when they . . . well, whenever you feel like it really. Unlike actual families, there is a place for casual sadism in the virtual version.Purity Ring(59p)What do you mean you haven't taken the purity pledge? Repent in flames, heathen slut-whore! Thanks to this new app, your iPhone will display a purity ring on the screen, signalling to the world that you don't want sex until you're married. Your virtual ring spins on an infinite loop, until such time as you decide to get it in on. But first, this Christian app will ask you to take the pledge: the app asks you to choose your gender before you're asked to confirm that you're pure and happy that way. Just the thing to make it clear to the world that you're unavailable for booty calls for the foreseeable. It has made me feel unsullied for the first time in decades.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday 30 July 2009In a report below about iPhone applications we quoted Steve Jobs, the founder and CEO of Apple, saying "iPhone is off to a great start – we hope to sell our one-millionth iPhone by the end of its first full quarter of sales – and our new product pipeline is very strong." That statement was not made earlier this month, as we said: it came from an Apple press release dated 25 July 2007. On 21 July Apple said it sold over 5.2m iPhones in the third quarter of 2009.One day, Lance Stewart was trying to get out of Oxford Circus tube station in a hurry. "I got off the train and suddenly found myself behind a huge crowd of people blocking my way to the exit. I was just an average Joe in the rat race getting frustrated by being stuck behind the crowds."Then Stewart had a brainwave. What he needed was to get the jump on the crowds by knowing which carriage he should board to arrive at the platform exit. If he somehow knew, for every station platform on the London Underground network, which carriage would arrive at a station next to the platform exit, he would never be stuck behind foot-dragging tourists again.And then he had an even better idea. He would put all this information into the form of an iPhone application for other commuters. He would sell it to them and quit his job working for Virgin. Only one problem: there are more than 700 platforms at London Underground's 268 stations. "At first I hired somebody to go round the stations compiling the data, but they didn't do a very good job, so I did it myself." He then approached an apps developer with his idea. "I know nothing about creating an app – I didn't even have an iPhone at the time. I just had the content."Tube Exitshas been a popular iPhone app since its launch on 16 June. It comes in two versions: one is free but only gives you the information for the Underground's busiest 12 stations, the other costs £1.79 and covers the whole network. "The idea was that it was the price of a zone 1 ticket, but you could use it again and again." Has the app made the 33-year-old Australian rich? "Nah. It's covered my costs, which were about £3,000, but it certainly isn't a retirement plan." That said, Stewart is now developing a similar app for the Paris Metro and sees no reason why his original idea can't be applied to other metro networks around the world. I point out to Stewart that his isn't a new idea: there used to be a little booklet giving London Underground users the same information. "The great thing about my app is that it can be changed really quickly when users report errors," counters Stewart. "I made a mistake about how to get out of Temple station and have now corrected it. I can revise and revise until it's perfect."Tube Exits is just one of an estimated 100,000 apps that will exist by the end of this year. Apps are mobile applications designed to be used on smartphones such as iPhones or BlackBerrys or devices such as the iPod Touch. Ilja Laurs, chief executive of GetJar, a leading independent application store, told the MobileBeats conference in San Francisco earlier this month that apps could be bigger than the internet by 2020. Some 65,000 apps are currently available for Apple's iPhones from the corporation's App Store, which marked its first anniversary earlier this summer. But in that year, the apps industry has grown exponentially – the total number of Apple's App Store downloads recently passed the 1.5bn mark.The App Store's success is reportedly a surprise to Apple, but presumably an even bigger and nastier one to competitors such as Research in Motion (who make BlackBerrys) and Nokia (the world's biggest mobile phone maker). The App Store's staggering success has led nearly every maker of a smartphone operating system to mimic Apple's business model: make it very easy for smartphone users to buy or freely download software created by from third-party developers.At the moment Apple has something of a stranglehold on apps: Tube Exits is typical in that it can only be used on Apple mobile hardware (ie iPhones and iPod Touches). Apple has even won, if unwittingly, the battle of nomenclature: apps could have just as easily been called programmes or software but instead they are called apps, echoing the corporation's first syllable and thus stressing their seemingly umbilical link to one particular supplier of smartphone hardware.What are apps? Some are games (such asWho Has The Biggest Brain?, which was played by 25 million people on the internet before being launched as an iPhone app, and its rival The Moron Test), some are silly (one allows you to download the image of a fan on to the screen of your iPhone, the aim being to make you feel cooler), some are edifying (one app consists of an audiobook of Hegel's Lectures on the Philosophy of History, whose text scrolls on the phone's screen as you hear it read aloud). Among the most popular is a now venerable one callediBeer, which transforms your iPhone into the simulation of a beer glass. Tilt it to your mouth and you seem to be drinking beer. There is even a way of seeming to pour virtual beer from one iPhone to another. And they say technology is all about progress.In the first few months of the App Store, amateur software developers made tens of thousands of pounds each from fatuous software downloaded by iPhone-owning hipsters with, or so you might think, more money than sense – and far, far too much free time. Thus, Kostas Eleftheriou, 25, spent a week developing theiSteamapplication, allowing iPhone users to scrawl messages on the virtual steamed-up screen of their phone, complete with droplets of condensation and squeaky sound effects – and made £40,000 from sales. Joel Comm developediFart, which in its first few weeks earned him £5,000 a day. It allowed you to use your iPhone to make farting noises. Classy.More recently, the most popular apps are those that enrich the users life in rather more sophisticated ways – or at least take the edge off some of life's (admittedly petty) problems. Hence, then, the success of an app such as Tube Exits or the free appUrbanspoon, which uses GPS to provide you with a list of restaurants near where you happen to be. It also allows you to check reviews of the restaurant before booking. Now, you can use an app to do the shopping, play a musical instrument or type an email as you walk along the street without&nbsp;getting (justifiably) filled in by oncoming pedestrians – see panel overleaf. Annoyingly, there was also, for a while, an app that enabled you to find train times while out and about. But, if you go tothe website,you'll find only this message from the nameless developer: "I'm afraid National Rail Enquiries have asked us to take down our site, as we are using their resources server without permission." Shame.What's especially striking about apps is how quickly they have become moneyspinners for Steve Jobs, founder and CEO of Apple. When the iPhone was launched, there were many sceptical voices. It was too expensive, too readily nickable, too much of a triumph of what techies could do over what customers wanted to be for it to be a success. Apps have changed all that. Apple's net revenue from apps – it takes 30% of each app sale – could overtake YouTube in 2010, says James Mitchell of Goldman Sachs. But, in a sense, that is not what is really important to Apple. What's really important is the sales of hardware these products generate. The iPhone, after all, is the major reason Apple's App Store exists in the first place. And they are selling well. Earlier this month, announcing recession-bucking quarterly revenue figures (up 12% on the same period last year, and generating record profits of  $1.23bn), Jobs said: "iPhone is off to a great start – we hope to sell our one-millionth iPhone by the end of its first full quarter of sales – and our new product pipeline is very strong."Bizarrely, given Apple's success, the California technology giant declined to be interviewed for this article, but analysts such as Jack Gold at J Gold Associates point out that apps have made iPhones and iPod Touches more desirable than initially seemed likely. "It's a great thing for Apple, and has established a whole ecosystem around the iPhone," says Gold, "but I'm not sure how much money the developers selling applications on it are making." Indeed, this is the most resonant aspect of the story: people such as Lance Stewart with a clever idea can get their apps developed in a cottage-industry milieu, but it is still the Apple empire that benefits most from their work and that seems zietgeisty and counter-cultural by association. Some 90% of apps don't make profits for those who create them. Apple would not tell me how much money it makes from its App Store.Many apps are free. They seem, then, to demonstrate the truth of thefreeconomics thesisdeveloped by Chris Anderson, editor of Wired magazine, whereby consumers will have less and less cause to dip into their pockets to pay for product since the price is borne by advertisers. And this has happened with apps: advertising – to which apps users are exposed – bankrolls both Apple and the developers. That said, a recent survey found that most free apps don't make any money. Why? Because 54% of free apps have fewer than 1,000 users and as a result advertisers don't care to have their wares displayed before such meagre audiences. What's more, a large proportion of apps are bought or freely downloaded and then hardly ever used. Apple's business model seems to rest precariously on faddy customers' tastes.Apple is ruthlessly astute in protecting its business model. Right now, it is considering whether to allow Spotify, the Stockholm-based music streaming service, to run an app on iPhone. It is a tricky issue for Apple because what Spotify plans to offer iPhone users – an unlimited on-demand music service – competes with Apple's own iTunes.Simon Oliver's story typifies how app development has fostered creativity. Oliver dreamed of being a video games developer, but never managed to succeed in a cut-throat, heavily competitive market. Then he realised that he could design games as iPhone apps: the entry costs were lower and the competition less intense. He developed a game calledRolando, posted it on YouTube and was as a result approached by a games company, Ngmoco, which develops games apps for iPhone. Oliver says that the low barrier to entry means "that almost anyone with an idea can get their content out there".Games apps, though, don't dominate the App Store. "There has been a shift since the App Store launched just over a year ago," says Stewart. "Originally the most popular were games devised to fill up the empty minutes of our lives or daft apps like the one that fogged your screen. Now, more and more, the successful apps are ones that actually improve your life or iron out real-life wrinkles." At this point in the interview, Stewart yelps loudly. He has just been informed by hisECB (English Cricket Board) appthat Australia have lost another wicket in the test match. Whether that app has helped him with his life is a moot point.But Stewart makes a good point: lifestyle apps are the new thing, and perhaps the only thing that will make the fad for apps endure. One indication of how apps are mutating came the other week on Top Gear, when Stephen Fry disclosed that there was a new app for cruising gay men. CalledGrindr, it uses GPS technology to determine your exact location and gives you data on other cruising gay men nearby. "Guys into other guys are just a quick download away," says the blurb for Grindr. If you're new in town, the blurb adds, Grindr can help you find Mr&nbsp;Right or Mr Tonight. Hopefully it also helps you to give wide berths to Mr Wrong and Mr Never.It's not just libidinous gay men who are finding that iPhone apps can appealingly finesse their lifestyles. The Catholic church has an app called iBreviary, which "allows the believer to pray simply via an intuitive interface", according to a communique from the Vatican's Council for Social Communications. iBreviary, which is free, is updated with prayers each day. There is also an app that keeps its users updated with the pope's recent speeches, so if the pope condemns gay social networking apps such as Grindr, they will probably be the first to know.My favourite religious app isiBlessing, which is billed as "keeping you kosher via iPhone" and tells you the correct prayer to recite in Hebrew over a particular dish. Another Jewish app called Siddur uses the same GPS technology to give prayer times. I also like two Islamic apps: Ela-Salaaty reminds Muslims when to pray, whileFace Makkahalso uses GPS to tell you where Mecca is in relation to you, so that you can kneel in the right direction during prayer. The same GPS technology is also behind an app that enables you to find local marijuana suppliers. The $2.99 application, using information from theiMedicalCannabis.orgwebsite, aims to help people locate legal medical suppliers in the US.Apps have often crossed the line between the sacred and the profane. There was a free app calledBeautyMeter, which let users upload photos of themselves that were then rated by others. It was removed by Apple when the image of a topless and mostly bottomless 15-year-old girl appeared on the app last month. Apple also acted quickly to suppress Baby Shaker, an app that, for 99 cents, featured the image and sound of a crying baby. You shook your iPhone and the drawing of a crying baby would be replaced by a calm and silent one. "Not only are they making fun of shaken baby syndrome but they are actually encouraging it," said Marilyn Barr, founder of the National Center on Shaken Baby Syndrome. "This is absolutely terrible."Then there was an app called I Am Rich designed by satirical German developer Armin Heinrich. Once downloaded and activated, it displayed a glowing, red "ruby" on the user's iPhone screen – an enduring testament to the owner's lack of taste and their excess of wherewithal. Heinrich wrote in his App Store description: "The red icon on your iPhone or iPod Touch always reminds you (and others when you show it to them) that you were able to afford this . . . It's a work of art with no hidden function at all." Reportedly, eight customers paid $999.99 for I Am Rich, before Apple decided to withdraw it from the store.How will apps evolve? Michael D Cohen, founder and CEO of the Cohen Research group, argues that the quality needs to improve. Many, he says, are poorly made and therefore disposable. "Low prices lead to poor-quality applications, limited applications, and others that are in such poor taste they hurt the Apple brand and everyone who is developing for it."It's striking that one of the most talked-about stumbling blocks for the future development of apps is Apple itself. Apple's App Store has been described as being like a bucket. It needs to become more like an online supermarket, says Cohen, so customers can wander down aisles and select what they want, rather than stumble across it by accident.Another problem is that many apps may be provided in future by other forms of hardware, thus depriving Apple apps of their USP. This is certainly the line taken by Google, which expects to be offering similar apps through its browser in future. Google's engineering vice-president Vic Gundotra told the MobileBeats conference that the App Store trend is just a fad.But Google would say that, wouldn't they? And the two technology giants are currently facing off over an app called Google Voice, which allows users to send free text messages and make cheap calls using Google's own number. Apple has banned the Google app from its&nbsp;store.The worry, though, for Apple, is that Gundotra could be right and that its App Store is just a fad rather than a sustainable business supporting the iPhone platform. It's a point that applies similarly to Twitter. Both could be fun fads that will be over by this time next year. Among those who will be hoping this isn't true is Steve Jobs. But, for once, he won't have the last word on this. After all, the success of his iPhones depends massively on the success of apps, and thus on the creativity of people who aren't actually on his payroll.
German government plans to ban violent videogames will have to be put on hold, after a successful internet petition by German gamers.The e-petition, hosted on the official forums of the Bundestag, the German parliament, has passed the 50,000 signatures necessary to force a government review.Last month the country's 16 interior ministers asked the Bundestag to ban the creation and distribution of games involving violent acts against human or human-like characters.Government criticism of videogameshad been growing since a school shooting in March was linked to online-shooter Counter-Strike.Officials had hoped to bring in a ban before federal elections in September, but the level of online opposition means the Bundestag must now examine and discuss gamers' demands. With more than 67,000 signatures, the e-petition calls for a ruling against the ban of violent videogames and an increased focus on keeping such games out of children's hands. German gamers also want more government promotion of the videogame industry.Even with the review, the ban may still go ahead. Last month a petition against internet censorship reached 130,000 signatures, but the law still passed in a modified form. If the videogame ban shares a similar fateit could force German-based developers such as Crytek, creators of Far Cry and Crysis, to leave the country.Any German citizen may submit a petition to the Bundestag, either in writing or online, and have it published on the official forums to allow discussion and gather support. Any that reach 50,000 signatures in under six weeks will then be read and discussed in parliament.The UK Government hasits own e-petition website, but there is no requirement for discussion in the House of Commons.Instead, any petition with 500 signatures is passed on to officials at Downing Street or the relevant Government department for response. The current leading petition,with nearly 70,000 signatures, calls for Prime Minister Gordon Brown to resign.
