Eleven people were today charged in the US in connection with the theft of more than 41m credit and debit card numbers in the country's biggest case of identity theft.It is believed to be the largest hacking and identity theft prosecution by the US Department of Justice. Charges include conspiracy, computer intrusion, fraud and identity theft, and involve the breaching of nine major US retailers' computer defences.The indictment, returned by a federal grand jury in Boston, said the suspects had hacked into the wireless computer networks of retailers including TJX Cos, BJ's Wholesale Club, OfficeMax, Boston Market, Barnes &amp; Noble, Sports Authority, Forever 21 and DSW.Three of those charged are US citizens; three are from Estonia, three from Ukraine, two from China and one from Belarus."While technology has made our lives much easier, it has also created new vulnerabilities," US attorney Michael Sullivan said. "This case clearly shows how strokes on a keyboard with a criminal purpose can have costly results."Sullivan said the alleged thieves were not computer geniuses, just opportunists who had used a technique called "wardriving", which involves cruising through different areas with a laptop and looking for accessible wireless internet signals.Once they had located a vulnerable network, he said, they installed "sniffer programmes" that captured credit and debit card numbers as they moved through a retailer's processing networks.The information was stored on two servers, in Ukraine and Latvia. One of these contained more than 25m credit and debit card numbers, the other more than 16m, Sullivan said."They used sophisticated computer hacking techniques that would allow them to breach security systems and install programmes that gathered enormous quantities of personal financial data, which they then allegedly either sold to others or used themselves," said the attorney general, Michael Mukasey, in a press conference."In total, they caused widespread losses by banks, retailers, and consumers."Mukasey said the total amount of the alleged theft was "impossible to quantify at this point". He said officials still had not identified all the victims who had had credit or debit card numbers stolen."I suspect that a lot of people are unaware that their identifying information has been compromised," he warned.
Feel like 36 minutes of aural ecstasy? OK - we can't promisethat, but in thelatest Tech Weekly podcastwecanpromise to tell you about the internet in Beijing - courtesy of Prof William Dutton and Tania Branigan - as well as hear about the cutting edge technologies in place for the Olympics, with James Randerson and UK Sport consultant Scott Drawer.It's all there.
Just a quick reminder that the gamesblog has its owndel.icio.usfeed which is chokka with content that we've not got time to post about. I'm still wrangling with getting a daily blog post (which for some reason I can implement on my other blogs, but not this one), but until then, see our web-surfing trail of breadcrumbshere.A few recent items of interest: *MCV's report on theGTA scandal in Thailand*The extremely addictive multiplayer typing game,Typeracer*CNN's coverage of thelascivious side of content creationin Spore *Doh! We missed onsubmitting a character designfor Little Big Planet! *NCSoft gets the prize for most outrageous PR stunt with Richard Garriott's Tabula Rasa:gamerrrrrssss....innnnnn....spaaaaacceeee! (from Dan @ cnet) *And ars_technica's very Guardian guide tobeing a better gamer(for the world, that is)Check 'em out!
Forget Halo 3 and unreliable hardware, the Xbox 360's real legacy will beachievement points. What a genius concept. Gamers get "rewarded" - points added to their gamerscore plus that joyousachievement unlocked sound, of course - while the manufacturer gets total platform loyalty. How many gamers who own both a 360 and PS3 buy their multiplatform games for the 360 purely to get the points? Publishers should be happy too. After all how many 360 owners have bought rubbish like Avatar just to get someeasy points?As you'd expect Sony have released their own version of achievements -PS3 Trophies. Like the PS3 generally Trophies shows huge potential - showing off inHomeetc - but isn't quite there yet. Plus the rewards are not backdated so you will need to play your PS3 games again to get the Trophy. Annoying, although replaying something as excellent asUnchartedshouldn't be a chore.And the achievement concept has moved beyond the consoles. Blizzard has just announced plans tointroduce achievements across all their games, not just upcoming WoW expansion Wrath of the Lich King. As Blizzard's Jeff Kaplan explains:"Your 'WoW' score would be just one factor that will go into your Blizzard Level. And rather than call it a 'score,' we just wanted it to be like you're leveling up on Blizzard games... You'll have this Blizzard identity, and you'll be able to see things like 'Oh, this guy was great at Diablo III, but he never played Starcraft and he was mediocre in WoW. That sort of thing."Blizzard are one the few publishers who have the brand loyalty to be able to pull this off but it probably won't put the others off. In a few years time you could end up having - I don't know - an Xbox 360 gamerscore, a Blizzard level, an EA medal, a Sega star and a large collection of PS3 trophies. All you need then is somewhere to show them off - expect achievement aggregation sites to be huge. Anyway achievement points and trophies, you a fan? Or is it just a gaming fad?
Via John Naughton via our friends atDipity(the timeline people), we have a timeline of internet memes, including all your favourite ones. And if there are any missing, then you can go and add your own.Amemeis of course a unit of thinking which tends to spread through a population, given a chance. Fantastic piece of work byBK Guptaat Dipity. Has he missed any?
A hacker has been jailed for two years in Spain for revealing hundreds of private emails written by a former colleague. The emails, which were taken from the former manager's work computer, divulged details of his sex life.The hacker sent them to the manager's ex-wife, to a woman with whom he was having a relationship, and to the mayor of a council where he was working.The emails were also copied on to other people who knew the victim.A judge in Barcelona yesterday jailed the hacker, who was not named, for two years for an offence of "revealing secrets". He was also ordered to pay a fine of &euro;3,240 (&pound;2,566) as well as &euro;4,000 in compensation to the victim.The judge ruled Spanish law allowed the courts to pursue anyone who "gets access to information of a personal or family nature held on information systems or computers which are public or private".He said Spain's supreme court ruled the right to privacy "means the existence of a reserved area away from others which is necessary to maintain a minimum quality of human life".In this case, only 2% of the emails contained information "of a highly personal nature". The judge said the way in which the victim's right to privacy had been violated was the most important factor, rather than the content of the emails.The manager left the Barcelona company in 2006 and believed he had erased all his personal emails.His former colleague's motive for hacking into his computer was not made clear in court. Nor did the court establish how the hacker managed to access the emails after the former manager believed they had been erased.
Last Friday's Yahoo shareholders' meeting seemed a bit of a non-event after "corporate raider"Carl Icahndecided not to show up, and chief executive Jerry Yang romped home with 85.4% of the vote.Except he didn't. Yahoo's proxy firm Broadridge miscounted the votes. Yang only got 66.3%, with the other third being withheld. Roy J Bostock, who was also closely associated with the failed Microsoft takeover, did even worse with a 60.4% score. This compares with directors such as HP's Vyomesh Joshi (92.9%) and Activision's Robert Kotick (92.4%).Silicon Alley Insiderhas the before and after scores.No funny business was involved, and it doesn't change the result. It just means Jerry Yang et al are not as popular with their shareholders as they thought.
I recently spoke to Pete Hines,Fallout 3project manager at Bethesda. He talked levelling, canine partners and how you can be a "badass" in the game. Plus how Fallout 3 feels as big as Oblivion. Unfortunately it was a roundtable interview so I didn't have time to ask allyour questionsbut I'm chasing some answers for those now. Anyway, Fallout 3 then...How do you keep the wasteland setting interesting- both visually and from a content perspective?It's one of those things we have spent a long time on. We needed more variation than we had originally. It isn't always obvious the first time you play through either. There are a lot of nice touches such as the raiders with baseball caps who attack you on a baseball pitches. We've got a good mix of things to find in the world. Regarding visuals, it's much easier to do a beautiful setting with rivers and waterfalls and trees but there is a real beauty in the destruction of things. You come over a hill and in front of you is what used to be a highway and someone has set up a settlement under the bridge for protection. It's really interesting to see how people have tried to live on in this world. We tried to vary what you find but also give you those epic vistas.Is there still the same freedom of gameplay as in Oblivion?There are plenty of ways to solve most quests. You can play using stealth if you put enough points in. This makes it easier to find rare loot. Science points allow you to hack machines. You can really customise your experience. And then there's the whole good, neutral, evil aspect. This is based on how you deal with people in the game. Definitely go to talk to Gob, the bartender in Megaton. If you take his feelings into account you get a different experience and he will talk to you differently. How you resolve conflicts generally plays a big part in affecting your karma.How influential were the original games for you?Part of what makes Fallout great is this juxtaposition of a positive alternate 1950's view of life pre nuclear war with the reality after. Like you're in an elementary school with posters that say to "duck and cover" under your desk when the bomb falls. So clearly that didn't work! Seeing the idealistic optimistic pre-war view with the bombed out reality is really powerful.How do you make being "neutral" fun?It's all down to player choice. You can help or hinder who you want. It's finding that space in between which gives you some interesting options and seeing how that plays out. And then seeing what the reward is for your decision.Is Fallout 3 an RPG or an action game?We're definitely an RPG though we don't go out of our way to limit ourselves to one genre. There are obviously stats but we have lots of action too. Can you just run around around and shoot people like a first person shooter? Sure. This is a sandbox game and you can and do what you want. Does anyone try and fit GTA into a genre?How does the levelling work? Is it like Oblivion where the game levels up with you?No. One of our main learnings from Oblivion was that this doesn't work. We still do it in some main quest situations where you are locked in and can't come and go. But the world is what it is. You start off in the world and there will be places which are too tough to deal with and some that are easy. So you will need to come back when you are tough. We may occasionally increase the weapon of an enemy but there will be none of that jarring experience in Oblivion where bandits suddenly have glass armour as opposed to leather because you're a badass. Raiders will be raiders whatever. It was also jarring in Oblivion when you go into an area and there was a skeleton. You come back later and it's a Dread Wraith and really tough to kill. You can now go to areas and be a badass and also go to areas where you are barely surviving. If you go away and get better skills and then come back the area will be as you left it and won't have got tougher.Will casual players be interested in Fallout 3?Casual players will probably play Fallout 3 as a story-driven shooter. And you can do that. You don't need to pick locks or level up your science. That's why we don't always hammer home that the game is an RPG. It's all based on the kind of character you want to play and what you want to do.How do you attract new players while keeping fans of the original games happy?We think you can do both. One of the reasons we went out and got the licence was that we were huge fans of the original games. Fans of the originals will see a lot in Fallout 3 that will remind them of the original games. But we have never set out a goal to be better or as good as the original games - they are what they are. We're just trying to make something that is worthy of the series but also open it up to people who maybe would have liked the original games if they had been playing games 10 or 11 years ago. New players can come into a franchise at any point if it is good and fun. We found that with Oblivion.How does the companion system work?You can have two companions- one human one dog. Your dog is called Dogmeat and he is your faithful companion. You can give him stuff to do and help in combat. Your human companion depends on his or her karma and your karma. So if you are playing a good character and you come across an evil character then things won't work out. So you either need to do some bad stuff and then come back or you need to go find another potential companion.How important is the dog in Fallout 3As important as you want it to be - you can use the dog or not. We loved it in the original game and wanted him back for this. And you find yourself getting attached to him. But your relationship isn't the focus of the game. The dog can be useful for finding weapons and other items. This is stuff you could find if you went looking, but he can do the job for you. You can send him off and then if he doesn't find anything in a couple of hours he'll come back. But if he dies that's it.How close are you to finishing the game?We have release date but we're not ready to put it out yet. We're just finishing off some bug testing and final touches. We're definitely close. It will be a simultaneous release on all platforms in fall 2008.Fallout 3 is out on PC, 360 and PS3 - any preference on platform?Officially no. Otherwise I'll start getting phone calls from the two I didn't pick (laughs). The 360 is our lead platform. We've always said that. The 360 was out earliest and you have to pick a platform to start with. But the goal is par performance on all three platforms with how it plays and how it looks. With the caveat on PC that it depends on what kind of graphic card you have. Obviously the PC will have different controls than the console versions.Why are there no online options in Fallout 3 - surely co-op would be fantastic?No. Single player only. There are some games that do co-op and do it very well. But for us it takes an inordinate amount of time and focus to create this huge world where you can go wherever you want and do whatever you want. And then you have to divide that time between what is the single player experience and what is the co-op. And then to make the co-op work and work well, you know what? It's hard enough to do the single player game. So we just focussed on the single player game.What plans do you have for downloadable content?We're planning downloadable content for Xbox 360 and PC. We don't have dates yet. But it will be substantial content, along the lines of Knights of the Nine for Oblivion. So we're talking multiple hours of gameplay rather than smaller one-offs.Are there factions in Fallout?There are but not in the same way as Oblivion. There are factions that you interact with, like the slavers, but you don't infiltrate and rise to the top like in Oblivion. It's just different groups in the world and how you interact with them. It's really about you aged 19, leaving Vault 101 and how you are going to interact with this world.How does the size of the Fallout 3 world compare to Oblivion?It's a kind of apple and pear situation. It's smaller than Oblivion but we do it differently. When you come out of the sewer in Oblivion you know all the major cities from the start and you can instantly travel to any of them and start exploring around them. This makes it much faster to uncover the map. When you come out into Fallout you are one dot on the map. You have to go on foot. There are no cars. You have to explore everywhere on foot. You can fast travel to places once you have got to them but you have to walk to that corner of the map first. The game will feel Oblivion size because you can't ride a horse or fast jump right away.Fallout 3 is out this Autumn on PC, PS3 and 360. Bring it on.
In this week's Tech Weekly,Tania Branigan in BeijingjoinsAleks Krotoski,Charles ArthurandBobbie Johnsonto expose the reality of life behind the Great Firewall of China: are journalists getting full and free access, and will the level of censorship return to pre-Olympics levels after the gongs have been won and the last champagne cork has popped? Professor William Dutton from the Oxford Internet Institute joins us to discuss the future of online censorship in the most populous country in the world.In our Olympic Special, we also chat with science correspondentJames Randersonand UK Sport research and innovation consultant Scott Drawer about the technologies that could win a haul of gold for Team GB at this year's games.All this plus the latest on the whereabouts of the Google StreetView car, what's happening with the Yahoo-Icahn deal, how to cope with the digital switchover and more news from the world of technology and the Guardian's blogs.Don't forget to:•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Ars Technica'sInfinite Loopsays it has seen "an internal e-mail sent to Apple employees this evening" where Steve Jobs admitted that MobileMe was launched too early and "not up to Apple's standards." The story says:In addition to needing more time and testing, Jobs believes that Apple should have rolled MobileMe's services out slowly instead of launching it "as a monolithic service." For example, over-the-air iPhone syncing could have gone up initially, then web apps one by one (Mail, Calendar, etc.).Jobs goes on. "It was a mistake to launch MobileMe at the same time as iPhone 3G, iPhone 2.0 software and the App Store," he says. "We all had more than enough to do, and MobileMe could have been delayed without consequence." We agree with that one.MobileMe was apparently so awful it got a negative review from The Wall Street Journal's Walt Mossberg:Apple's MobileMe Is Far Too Flawed To Be Reliable. Meanwhile, Apple -- unusually, and possibly for the first time -- has beenkeeping MobileMe customers informed, at Steve Job's request, says the site.Update: Infinite Loop has now published thefull text. It doesn't add much.
· German police haveintroduced a "bullet-proof bra"for female officers, according to the BBC. · The failure of Elon Musk's latest SpaceX flight was particularly crappy for Star Trek fans:Scotty's ashes never made it to space.
Back when I first bought my Mac, I sent around an email,posted up on the blog,wrote a columnabout and asked listeners of Tech Weekly for their suggestions of games to play on my new machine. I received several useful responses, and have only just realised that I've not shared the wealth. Here are a few of the best:The Mac Gamer(from Alex McLarty)Inside Mac Games(from StatusJones)TUAW's Gaming thread(from smellavision)The Apple StoreFeral Interactive(from Edwin)If there are any more suggesstions, please do add them below!
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Intel has briefed people about its first its "many-core"Larrabeechip ahead of apaperit is presenting at the SIGGRAPH 2008 graphics industry conference in Los Angeles on August 12. Intel says:The first product based on Larrabee will target the personal computer graphics market and is expected in 2009 or 2010. Larrabee will be the industry's first many-core x86 Intel architecture, meaning it will be based on an array of many processors. The individual processors are similar to the Intel processors that power the Internet and the laptops, PCs and servers that access and network to it.Larrabee is expected to kick start an industry-wide effort to create and optimize software for the dozens, hundreds and thousands of cores expected to power future computers.This is probably going to ship hundreds of millions and generate tons of coverage, but there's a good intro with block diagrams at Ars Technnica:Larrabee: Intel's biggest leap since the Pentium Pro.Intel is in the process of taking over the market, having expanded from the time when processors came on different chips from maths co-processors, memory managers and cache RAM, and you could buy an alternative maths processor from Weitek. Now Intel supplies integrated processors with accompanying chip sets, integrated sound and grahics, and wireless modules. The specialist graphics chip manufacturers are next in line, and Intel its preparing its metaphorical tanks to invade their turf.
Here's a highly amusing piece of contra-advertising:The team atRarepointed us to thisunofficial spoof (Itotallymeant to sayunofficial) of the Halo 3 TV ad using (and I quote) "nothing more than theViva PiñataBurger King toys, some sticky-back plastic and some elbow grease." See the originalhere.It may be advertising, but it's clever. Cleverer thanother attempts at using social media in on-the-ground marketing...Cheers George!
Beware attractive Brazilian women - on Twitter at least. Fake profiles are being used to launch malware attacks, according toKaspersky Lab. Who's behind it? Not clear. But any criminal relying on Twitter's notoriously flaky uptime mustsurelybe amateurs.
Much has been made of WiiFit, Dance Dance Revolution and My Health Coach as the future of fitness. These active gaming-style applications are challenging perceptions of gaming as a sedentary, unhealthy occupation.But although these apps can make fitness more enjoyable – particularly if you're the kind of geek who gets pleasure simply from using technology – they can't really provide motivation. I predict that a year from now there'll be a lot of disused WiiFit benches languishing at the back of cupboards after the initial enthusiasm has worn off, providing hi-tech companions to the ab rollers and sets of weights.I suspect that to achieve the kind of lasting behavioural change all our doctors would like us to make, we actually don't need technology that makes the business of working out more game-like. After all, no matter how you dress it up, many people just don't like getting hot, sweaty and out of breath. Instead of using game hardware to work out, we should be using game-based motivational techniques.An example of this sort of system is the rather elegant PruHealth insurance scheme. If you take out health insurance with Prudential, you have the option of joining a gym at a preferential rate. Pretty straightforward stuff. But, crucially, it gets cheaper the more you use the gym. At certain gyms, if you go an average of twice a week over a three-month period, your gym membership is free.This system has a lot of the same mechanics as gameplay. There's a levelling-up system: going from being an "infrequent" gymgoer, through being an "occasional" one, and then to a "regular" gym user. Members can check their level online at any time, and there's a certain satisfaction in seeing it roll over.And of course there are rewards. It might not be the same thrill as scoring the Twin Blades of Azzinoth in World of Warcraft, but a monthly reduction of your gym fee from £40 to £15 is still pretty good motivation, and it comes with subtle bragging rights. Imagine the smug satisfaction, in a conversation about how expensive gym memberships are, of dropping the fact that you get yours for free because you go regularly.PruHealth's own figures suggest that this system is having an effect: 75% of those who have taken out gym membership via the insurer go at least once a week. Compare this with the 64% of Japanese WiiFit users who – according to an IT Media poll – have now stopped using it altogether.In my experience, the PruHealth motivation has been surprisingly strong. It's not so much the money – although, cumulatively, the reward for regular gym attendance is over £500 a year. The real success has been knowing how annoyed I'd feel at seeing the higher amount in my bank statement if I missed that critical level-up. Recently, having missed a few visits to the gym because I was away, I had to make up my sessions before the end of the month and found that I was going to the gym six times a week, a personal first.Unfortunately, PruHealth is now changing this system to one that's far less simple: a points-based structure in which gym fees are based on points gathered from activities including buying fresh fruit and vegetables from Sainsbury's, getting a flu jab and being a non-smoker. This complexity appeals to the role-playing geek in me, but I fear it might put many people off.&middot;Naomi Alderman is a novelist and games writer
Distributors of Grand Theft Auto yesterday suspended sales in Thailand after a teenager allegedly killed a taxi driver in a bloody frenzy, re-enacting scenes from the blockbuster video game.Police who caught the 18-year-old at the scene said he confessed to having planned the attack to find out if robbery was as easy as depicted in the violent game.Phalawat Chinno, who played the game obsessively for hours every day, bought two knives and chose his 54-year-old victim carefully as he believed he would be too old to fight back, police said.The secondary school student said the killing was a robbery that went wrong. New Era Interactive Media, the Thai distributors of Grand Theft Auto, which recently launched its fourth edition, has asked shops to withdraw copies from sale and video arcades to suspend the game."We are sending out requests ... to outlets and shops to pull the games off their shelves and we will replace them with other games," said Sakchai Chotikachinda, the marketing director of New Era.Three years ago the families of two police officers and a police switchboard operator gunned down in the US filed a multi-million pound lawsuit in Alabama against the game's makers and distributors. The victims were shot by an 18-year-old who played the game constantly.Thai investigators said that Phalawat - who allegedly spent eight hours choosing the pair of knives for the attack - had confessed to being inspired by Grand Theft Auto, which allows players to adopt the role of an urban criminal and engage in often violent and destructive, and sometimes murderous, crime sprees."He said he wanted to find out if it was as easy in real life to rob a taxi as it was in the game," the chief investigating officer, Veeravit Pipattanasak, told Reuters.Late on Saturday night Phalawat flagged down one cab, but backed out of attempting to rob the driver as there were too many people around. But he hailed another taxi and then held a knife to the throat of its driver, Khuan Phokaeng, and tried to rob him when they reached their destination in a Bangkok suburb.When Khuan tried to fight off his attacker with an iron bar concealed beneath his seat, Phalawat is alleged to have stabbed him at least 10 times.
Gamasutra has agreat interviewwith Mega Man 9 producer Hironobu Takeshita about the development process behind the forthcoming downloadable platformer. The dev team has attempted to make the game as true to its NES roots as possible, complete with simple visuals and 4bit sound. Takeshita-san says that the designers even included graphical bugs including flickering to simulate a NES processor's inability to draw more than three or four sprites at once.It's an interesting exercise, and the sort of thing that could perhaps only happen via PSN, Wiiware and/or XBLA, where the overheads are low enough to allow experimentation. It's also telling that this is not a pure 'simulation', the game is too large to fit on a genuine NES cart - it's a modern interpretation, similar to the way artists like Ladytron and John Vanderslice use vintage hardware to make entirely contemporary music.So what other 8bit games would you like to see rebooted in this way?
China's Lenovo says it will enter the netbook market in October with the "super-slim, super-small" $399IdeaPad S10running Windows XP. It also "plans to introduce netbook models designed specifically for students and educators."It looks as though it will be bigger than average, having a 10.2 inch LED screen, which is the sort of size that became hugely popular on early IBM ThinkPads. It will also have Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, an 85%-size keyboard and an Intel Atom processor. Otherwise there will be two configurations: 512MB and an 80GB hard drive, and 1GB plus a 160GB hard drive.The announcement was made from Research Triangle Park in North Carolina, which is where IBM ThinkPad announcements were made before Lenovo bought IBM's PC division. IBM used to sell very similar machines, including the excellentThinkPad 240X, but for around $2,000 or more.The IdeaPad S10 looks quite similar to theAcer Aspire One, but Lenovo has a better chance of selling netbooks to corporate users, who are still mostly ThinkPad buyers.Dell's netbook is still awaited with interest.
You will have seen them by now, frolicking by the pool, indulging in two-player DS action while trading light-hearted insults. The Vernon and Tess ad for Guitar Hero is the centre piece of Nintendo's summer TV blitz, a mainstream-targeted charm offensive that also features Zoe and Johnnie Ball tackling Sight Training, and Patrick Stewart bickering over More Brain Training with Julie Walters.So what are Mr Kay and wife doing as the televised faces of the rhythm action series? Speaking to MCV recently, Activision brand manager, Ian McCellan explained, "Vernon Kay and Tess Daly had a great fit with the game - cool, fun, energetic and very mainstream. Our primary audience are 10 to 16-year-olds and both Vernon and Tess are very well known and liked throughout this age group."What he doesn't mention is the way in which the relationship forms the focal point of the ad, not the game. It's the same with the other adverts in the series (and the earlier versions which appeared at the end of last year), all of them based around warm, playful friendships in which the handheld console becomes a social/conversational facilitator. The message is, games aren't something you slope off to do in private, they're something to be shared. They're normal.The ads are also interesting in their use of a documentary-style presentation - they appear unscripted and 'natural', as though we're peeping into private moments, as though Patrick Stewart and Julie Walters reallydoshare a love of brain training software. With the Guitar Hero one, there's an extra layer of interest - it purports to offer a glimpse, however awkward and contrived, into the married life of two attractive celebs. Add in the poolside setting, a familiar element of the paparazzi holiday snap, and you have an ad for a videogame employing the semiotics of a gossip mag expose.I wonder if this is the future of game advertising? Instead of mimicking movie trailers, which publishers have always done in the past (but which completely dehumanises the experience), perhaps it's all about actually showing peopleplayinggames. It's sort of a new area for celebrity endorsement. Sure, a while ago film ads started to capture the reactions of cinema-goers as they left auditoriums, but celebs are rarely shown properly interacting with the products they're pushing - we may see Davina McCall gabbing away to her mum about Garnier Nutrisse, but we're certainly not going to see her leaning over the sink squirting the stuff into her bedraggled hair.It says something, perhaps, that games work in this way - they form a natural and believable part of relationships, we can believe that celebs do actually play them - even Nicole Kidman. Ubisoft has caught on of course, with its Fern Cotton/Holly Willoughby ad. Will others follow?
Monday's better late than never edition of chatterbox
Two Sony news stories cropped up on Friday - both of 'em too late to cover on Gamesblog - so here they are just in case you missed them. First up, survival horror opus,Siren Blood Curse, currently only available as a series of downloads, will be released on Blu-ray disc this Autumn. The genuinely spine-tingling addition to the Forbidden Siren series takes place in a forgotten Japanese village where human sacrifice is an acceptable nightly pursuit and monsters roam the streets looking for juicy new victims (sounds like some of the villages around my home town of Frome).The game has two interesting facets: the sight jack system which lets you see through the eyes of nearby enemies (so you get to watch them hunting you down, from their perspective), and the fact that the protagonists are an American film crew, which comments slyly on the appropriation of the Japanese horror movie genre by Hollywood movie makers. It says here.Anyway, the BD version will apparently feature exclusive new bonus content, though there's no word on what that it.Secondly, innovative downloadable title, The Last Guy (pictured), will get a European release. Originally announced for the Japanese market, the game follows a mysterious event which turns most of the world's population into ravenous monsters. Your role is to guide groups of civilians to safety. The interesting bit is the use of satellite photos to create the game's environments; 14 cities have been captured including Los Angeles and London. From the press release:There are ten types of monster in all, including Insect monsters that'll hunt you down and Gatekeeper monsters that guard the exit zones. You'll encounter barricades that the monsters have built in the street; you'll need a certain number of people in your line to break through them. Rescue enough people before the evacuation boats arrive and you'll clear the stage; progress far enough and you'll unlock boss stages where the monster-evading action will be even more frantic.Yet another intriguing PSN title, then, joining the likes of Fat Princess and Flower to make a quiet yet convincing mockery of the platform's ever conservative retail software release list.
We know you pore over every corner of the Guardian each day, but just in case you were looking the other way, here are a few bits and bobs you might be interested in.· 2,000 couples have been jilted byWrapit, as the wedding list site goesinto administration. · UK defence tech giant Qinetiq hasjust bought American rival Dominionfor £53m. · Sky is reorganising to create a 130-strongmultimedia production team. · After clocking its biteat a monstrous 1.5 tonnes, scientists say you should avoid getting bitten by the great white shark.
Tom Foremski pondersBT's buyout of Ribbitand calls it an example of'blackmail innovation': where startups threaten to disrupt an industry but end up taking their cash. Fair argument - too bad he makes it not on his ownproudly disruptivewebsite, but took ZDNet's cash in order to publish it on their pages.
Are theEncyclopedia Dramaticaand 4chan's /b/ random message board a threat to civilization? I've come across Jason Fortunybefore, and if you haven't, The New York Times magazine has publishedThe Trolls Among Us, which includes conversations with Fortuny andWeev. The latter appears to take trolling a bit further than most of us would expect. Mattathias Schwartz writes:I first met Weev in an online chat room that I visited while staying at Fortuny's house. "I hack, I ruin, I make piles of money," he boasted. "I make people afraid for their lives." On the phone that night, Weev displayed a misanthropy far harsher than Fortuny's. "Trolling is basically Internet eugenics," he said, his voice pitching up like a jet engine on the runway. "I want everyone off the Internet. Bloggers are filth. They need to be destroyed. Blogging gives the illusion of participation to a bunch of retards. . . . We need to put these people in the oven!"It's scary stuff, if intended to be taken literally. And the internet obviously has its share of insane, depraved and evil users, just like the rest of "real life". But should we be taking this stuff more seriously than we (apparently) do?
Hot (ish) on the heels of theparliamentary report on the scary interwebcomes some ammo for the reactionary brigade: the BBC's reporting thatThailand has taken copies of GTA IV off the shelvesafter a kid who killed a taxi driver says it was his inspiration. The reports quotes a police captain: "He wanted to find out if it was as easy in real life to rob a taxi as it was in the game." Expect this to get some traction.
MotorolaMotoZine ZN5Following upRussell Beattie, I recently posted about thehypocrisyof open source protagonists using closed, proprietary Apple iPhones, while conceding that "the whole mobile phone business is based on proprietary handsets and lock-down contracts. It's not like a RIM BlackBerry or Danger Sidekick offered a competitive open source alternative."However,LiMo, the Linux Mobile foundation, is attempting to redress that, and now tells me that there are "seven new devices from Motorola, NEC and Panasonic Mobile Communications," which brings the "Total of LiMo Handsets Available Today to 21".The new ones are:* MOTOZINE ZN5 from Motorola; * FOMA N906i, FOMA N906i?, FOMA N906iL and FOMA N706i from NEC and * FOMA P906i and FOMA P706i? from Panasonic Mobile Communications.The catch is that the NEC and Panasonic models are only available in Japan. And while I know Motorola sells Linux-based phones in China, I'm not sure where else I'd find one.So my question for today is: have you ever seen or bought a LiMo phone, and how did you like it?
You may have heard a lot about Google's Knol recently, but you have probably never heard ofHubPages. This is a pity, because while Knol is based on the same idea – inviting users to create pages on topics they know about – HubPages looks better, reads better, and is better organised.I am being a little unfair to Knol, of course. The service was only announced in December, and opened to the general public on July 23. It will certainly improve. HubPages, by contrast, is already two years old, andSquidoo– another site based on exactly the same idea – is even older. But by learning from these pioneers, Google could have done a much better job with Knol.Most of us have compared Knol to Wikipedia: they could have called it Googlepedia. But both Knol and HubPages do two things very differently from Wikipedia. First, they identify their authors, who take full responsibility for their own pages. Second, they provide a way to make money, though I suspect most contributors won't make much.Writing knols or hubs is therefore a competitive rather than a collaborative sport. A thousand people can all create pages about the same topic and hope the best one wins.But there are also differences.Knol has a desperately dull home pagewith text links to articles about Upper Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Evolving Trends in Laparoscopic Surgery, and so on, and most of the featured articles are very academic. HubPages has a colourful invitation to "Publish your passion". It features articles about Beatles album cuts, the Top 10 Most Expensive Items On eBay, How to Identify Poisonous House Spiders, and so on. It takes a populist approach.Hubs are easier to browse than knols. HubPages uses tags to create subject categories such as Love, Health, Finance, Shopping and Business. You can also browse by author, request a hub if you can't find what you want, and chat with other hubbers in the online forum.In these respects, HubPages is more of a social networking site. If you like one of Shalini Gupta's hubs, for example, you can vote for it, leave a comment, browse her other 260 articles, download some of her ebooks, and become a fan – she has more than 600 already. She's popular partly because one of her subjects is writing hubs for profit.So far, HubPages has published more than 50,000 hubs and attracts more than 5 million unique visitors per month. It also makes more than 90% of its revenue from Google Adsense advertising, andGoogle features HubPages as a case study. For a small start-up, this is success. Can that success continue now that Google has invaded its turf?HubPages gets most of its traffic and almost all its money from Google, but what if Knol's pages appear consistently higher in search results than those from HubPages, Squidoo and similar sites? Google's search is closed and proprietary, so we have no way of knowing if it favours Knol unfairly. But we're watching.
Six years ago, Matthew Thomas wrote a short piece onWhy Free Software usability tends to suck. He's now expanded that less-than-700 word essay into a magnificent 2,400-word feature,Why Free Software has poor usability, and how to improve it.It should be compulsory reading.We've known for ages that the best way to design usable software is to do the design first, test it on real users (eg withpaper prototypesor mock-ups) and then write the code. However, it's engrained in the open source process that you code first, test later and design never -- except maybe by copying whatever Microsoft or someone else did already.We also know (from people like Jakob Nielsen) that you can learn a lot by doing usability testing with just20 real people, which is a process within the reach of many free software projects. Maybe Matthew Thomas could add or expand this point in the next version.When free software is a server-side and/or programming phenomenon, usability doesn't matter much. And while there is a vibrant commercial software business that employs usability experts and interface designers, and does proper usability testing, there will always be things to copy. But if free software destroys the commercial software business (which would be a reasonable if unlikely expectation, given the Free Software Foundation's agenda), then we could be in trouble.It's certainly possible for open source projects to do very good work on design and usability: Mozilla's Firefox is living proof. However, Mozilla is absurdly rich by open source standards. I can't think of any other projects that are pulling in something like $50 million a year. However, that's also an absurdly small amount compared with Microsoft's $60 billion a year. And it's hard to see anyone getting to that level with open source code that, in many cases, you can't even give away.Update: There's an interesting discussion atSlashdot, where FooBarWidget puts the coder's view a couple of times. The short version:And which craftsman works for you for free? If a craftsman gives something to you for free, do you expect him to do more work for you for free?If you're paying me, I'll listen. If not, it's up to me to decide whether I want to care. I also gave you the choice to do it yourself, or finding someone else to do it for you. A choice that you didn't have in the first place.
I wrote apiece for Comment is Freeon Thursday about the report by the Select Committee of MPS for Culture, Media and Sport (who basically look at what the Department of C,M, S does or doesn't do and critiques it). That did involve some reading ofthe report itself, which is of course online.But - reading? It's so 20th century! So now, for those who need theblinkversion, here is aWordlecloud of what it's about.Normally I don't think tag-style clouds tell you much about something, but in this case I think it's quite telling.
In aspeculative storylasting just seven sentences, the Daily Mail tells us about the impending iPhone nano - possibly with a touchscreen on the front and scrollwheel on the back. Who is the unnamed "industry source" behind the prediction? Judging by the canny use of the phrase "the iPhone 3G has been the fastest-selling phone ever in the UK", it sounds like a flack from O2 doing everything possible to keep their message in the papers. Job done?Update:It's incensed Techcrunch UK's Mike Butcher so much that he thinks this sick filthshould be banned... fromTechmemeat least.
From build-it-yourself to pay-as-you-go, Ikea has become the latest retailer to offer a mobile phone service to shoppers.Flat-pack enthusiasts can sign up to an Ikea-branded service from Friday, when the Swedish furniture chain offers a mobile phone package to members of its loyalty programme. All 9,500 Ikea staff in Britain will be presented with a handset and &pound;5 worth of free calls.Ikea is teaming up with German-owned mobile phone group T-Mobile, the network supplier on which the retailer will piggy-back in a replica of similar deals struck by Asda, Tesco and Carphone Warehouse. Shopping chains with a heavy footfall - Ikea's loyalty scheme has 1.4 million members - are launching their own mobile phone services with the enthusiastic backing of network owners who are keen to use capacity otherwise wasted. The best-known example of a piggy-back deal, known in the industry jargon as a mobile virtual network operator (MVNO), is the T-Mobile-backed Virgin mobile venture, which has 435,000 customers.As with other MVNOs, Ikea stressed the simplicity of its service, which does not have fixed monthly payments and requires an initial &pound;10 airtime purchase. The retailer said the service is tailored for an environment where "every penny counts".Mobile phone companies are creating MVNOs in ever greater numbers as they look to raise revenue through wholesale deals. Vodafone has pushed the model into new territory by launching virtual networks that cater for Britain's immigrant population - a market worth an estimated &pound;500m a year. It is backing Lebara Mobile, which offers sim cards that allow customers to make cheap international calls to Africa, south-east Asia, India, South America and eastern Europe. Orange is understood to be close to an agreement with Lycamobile to establish an MVNO with a similar target audience.Vodafone has stepped up its sales drive and signed up with Asda and Carphone Warehouse to support their services.
Once it was an innocent trickle from a small plastic water pistol or a water-filled balloon. Then came the water-fight arms race with its Super Soaker pump-action shotguns, 12m firing ranges and nine-litre backpacks. And it all went really nuclear when social networks were deployed to create "splash mobs".The water fight's graduation from summery fun to riot was sealed last week when 250 people gathered for a splash mob at Kensington Gardens in London. The Facebook-organised jape got out of hand when one man attacked a woman who dowsed him in coloured liquid, passersby were "accidentally" splashed and horse-riding children were injured after being thrown from their mounts.While some participants complained the police overreacted in arresting nine people, you could understand the authorities' wariness: earlier this month Frederick Moody Boateng, 18, was stabbed to death in London after a row thought to have been triggered by a water fight earlier that day.Just as Halloween has become a horror show of extortion and menaces with masks and fireworks, so summer is marked with increasingly aggressive exchanges of water fire.While seaside towns such as Newquay have long endured a tradition of bank holiday water fights - one year police confiscated more than 100 water pistols in the Cornish resort - watery violence is now breaking out in almost every city. In Leeds in May 350 people wrecked the city's Millennium Square garden after gathering there for a showdown with water pistols and buckets.Social networking has undoubtedly helped the trend. Facebook lists more than 500 water fights, from a "night of mayhem" with the "Shaving Cream and Water Fight: Part II" party to a planned fight outside Sainsbury's in Ilford that has so far attracted nine guests.Water fighters may argue that this kind of gaming is at least real-world fun involving exercise - and all fuelled by a liquid that isn't alcohol. Some organisers also responsibly publish rules of engagement such as don't use coloured liquids, don't spray passersby and pick up litter.You don't have to be aquaphobic to realise, however, that just like all those Facebook parties gone awry, open invitations are asking for trouble.
We don't have room in print for all your letters and blog pingbacks, but do here. Twitter and crime maps figured large...TWITTERING&gt;&gt; Why maroon such a cool article on the cover of a section labelled "Technology"? Why not put it in a mainstream part of the paper? Surely Twitter is funky enough for that!johnwelsh.wordpress.com&gt;&gt; Twitter, despite its issues, has a loyal following – but for the first time I am hearing discontent among the ranks. Overnight, the activity on identi.ca and Pownce has increased, with users suggesting that this kind of a problem will cause them to leave for alternative microblogging sites. Many people have spent months building up their followers and people they are following, only to find that work vanish. It raises the question of how far loyalty will go. I can't see vast numbers of Twitter users abandoning the site immediately, but this issue has encouraged people to consider alternatives. If the tool you are relying on remains unreliable, it is only natural for people to eventually get tired of the problems and shift.tigertwotiger.co.uk&gt;&gt; Twitter's problems over the last few months have been managable for all users, but you wouldn't believe that from some of the bitching and moaning I've seen. The service is free to its users. At the end of the day, it's not life or death matter when twitter is down; the service is just cool, a nice to have. I hope the folk at TwitterHQ find an equally cool way to turn Twitter into a cash cow. Then I might expect reliability.fahrbotz.comMOUSE AND TOUCH&gt;&gt; the mouse may be an endangered species. If so, I for one will not be upset to see the end of the bloody trackpad on the laptop.bobpiper.co.ukCOMPUTER LIABILITY?Bruce Schneier's comparison of personal computers with the motor industry is very apposite. The state of the personal computer industry today is comparable with the state of the motor industry 100 years ago: then, people bought engines and personally tweaked them or got a specialist to build them into whatever vehicle was desired. It took Henry Ford to recognise the demand for finished motor vehicles - and the car industry was born, together with warranties. Today, consumers buy their computers and software separately. Soon, people will recognise that the computer and the internet is nothing more than an engine that can power flexible 'internet rich' applications (take a look at iTunes with its integrated store, without a web browser in sight). It needs a Henry Ford (or several) of the 21st century to do this; the personal computer will change beyond recognition, and warranties will be possible. This is something Apple has recognised, but they were before their time. Julian Luttrell, CambridgeYOUCHOOSE (TO DESTROY)&gt;&gt; it's moving beyond just being a viral marketing campaign for Blendtec, because of the audience they get (both quantity and quality), other brands are lining up to have their products destroyed... So bye bye, new 3G iPhone...feedingthepuppy.typepad.comSKYPE PHONEIn his review of the Skypephone, Don Dolan overlooked one of its 3 functions. Not only is it an ordinary mobile on the 3 network, and a phone that can communicate with other Skype users on their computers or Skypephones (by making and receiving free Skype calls), but it also functions as a mobile broadband modem. I bought a Skypephone before going on holiday earlier this month, principally so that I could get online while in Cornwall, where it worked a treat - not even needing its USB cable but using Bluetooth to communicate with my Apple laptop. John Collins, LondonARGS&gt;&gt; As a result of our current concatenation of calamities, future thinking and what-if scenarios have suddenly become the thing to do. Witness a CNN Special titled "We Were Warned: Out of Gas," sent my way by alert WWO fan Diane. The behind-the-scenes commentary, however, is more interesting and real to me than the Hollywood-style cinematic premise. The revolution will not be telescripted; it's already begun.wwolives.wordpress.comFREE OUR DATA (CRIME)Here's a couple of items which may help the argument for releasing police data: (Met keeps crime stats under lock and key, July 17.) 1. About 3 - 4 years ago I worked temporarily in Bury MBC's Housing Department. There was a man in the Chief Executive's department who had a GIS containing 3-years-worth of police crime data. He could rustle you up a map of recorded crimes, varying by type and date, for any local area you chose, on request. So it can't be that difficult to do it. 2. In the early 1970s I was Area Housing Manager at Speke in Liverpool. My office was in the middle of this Council-built area some 6,000 houses and flats and the local police station was just across the street. This was long before we had computers for anything except (batch processed) rent accounting and it was before "defensible space" became an idea in good currency amongst urban designers. Following a disturbing interview with a widow with three children whose chronic poverty had been made even worse by being burgled 5 times in 6 months, I enlisted the help of the station sergeant. I gave him a 1:2500 plan of the estate and, at my request, he went through the station's day book for 6 months past, putting a red felt-tip dot against the address of each recorded burglary. He returned the plan to me, saying "I've done what you asked and it looks like a bad case of measles, but I'm none the wiser." As soon as I saw the plan I was immediately the wiser. The "measles" were overwhelmingly clustered around particular styles and types of dwellings, and the 3-storey walk-up open-plan flats, where the widow lived, were many times more likely to be burgled than (say) the semi-detached houses. I subsequently extracted £30,000-worth of additional fencing from my bosses to enhance security. (Quite a lot in 1974.) The point of the story is not that I was cleverer than the police sergeant; I'm sure I wasn't. The point is that a policeman's eyes see a residential area one way, and a housing manager sees it another. Who knows what might be achieved if lots of people could see the data and bring their distinctive perceptions and intelligences to its analysis and interpretation? Don Simpson, RochdaleHeather Brooke claims that the use of GIS in crime fighting hasn't made its way into the UK (Met keeps crime statistics under lock and key, July 17). She should check the wide range of case studies from around the country being presented at the 6th National Crime Mapping Conference in Manchester next week -uk-cmc.org. There is a marked difference between the police using GIS internally to map crimes, and the provision of similar information to the public via the Internet. Publishing crime statistics to the public is a complicated process, and the suppression of victims' identities has to be of paramount importance. Heather's implication that street level mapping is easily available in the US is misleading, as it is available for Chicago but not everywhere. Indeed, street level mapping is clearly inappropriate for sparsely populated rural areas where there are few residents per street or even per postcode, risking the identity of the victim. If Heather had looked beyond London, where she noted the absence of online crime mapping, to other areas, she would have found that incidents other than property crimes are indeed mapped and published. The residents of the West Midlands, for example, are able to view crimes by category, such as assault or robbery, atmyneighbourhood.info. It is essential that the police communicate accurate statistics to the public in an easy to understand format. In many cases, the public's perception of crime is worse than the reality and an online map can offer reassurance. This will not always be the case, which is why crime statistics should always be displayed alongside supplementary information about preventing crime and building safer communities. Ben Allan, Managing Director, Dotted Eyes Ltd, Bromsgrove[Heather Brooke emphatically did not say that crime mapping hadn't reached the UK; one of the people she quoted said this, though in the context of geographical information systems for crime-fighting - Tech.Ed]CORRECT OUR DATAI support your campaign "Free our Data". However, it's a good idea to check the data is accurate - Information = data + meaning. You illustrated the article on re-use of council data with an incorrect picture / caption: Plymouth is a Unitary Authority and has not been part of Devon for more than 10 years; it does not necessarily follow the same data policies as Devon County Council, who you commended. John Kanefsky, Morchard Bishop, Devon
Novell-developer Michael Meeks is one of the people paid mainly to work on improving OpenOffice.org, and he talked with Andreas Proschofsky for derStandard.at at the recent GNOME Users and Developers Conference (GUADEC) in Istanbul. Theinterview is online, but some snippets provide an amusing contrast with the OO hype.derStandard points out that OO.o copies Microsoft Office 2003 but that user interface has moved on with the ribbon. Meeks says:I think we substantially have to improve and rework our user interface and there is a plan for that. But the problem with the current UI really isn't ribbon or not ribbon in my view. The current one is using a very inflexible widget toolkit called VCL and that is really something out of the Mid-Nineties - it's a disaster. It hasn't been improved substantially since then. So we are doing a whole lot of work to improve the widget toolkit inside OpenOffice.org, to introduce layout and that's being funded by Novell and driven by us.Another problem is that OpenOffice.org doesn't have enough developers, and Sun (which bought the failed Star Office code and made it open source) is cutting back. Meeks says:In terms of them reducing contribution: Yeah I think they still have a bunch of engineers on OpenOffice.org - but they are fewer than they were, it's clear that they are redeploying people internally. And that's fine, Sun can do with it's resources as they like, you can't criticize that per se. But the sad thing is their failure to build a community around it, getting other people involved. And that's tied to Sun owning OpenOffice.org. It's a Sun project. They own all of the code, they demand ownership rights, and that just really retards developer interest. I mean: Would want to work cleaning someone else's gun?Later, Meeks says:If OpenOffice.org would start to become more of an open project, we would be happy, that would end our beef with Sun substantially. And it's so tantalizing to see them go so far, put all this effort in, have all this meetings and just get not quite there. With all this ridiculous restrictions, the unclear legal situation about ownership. It can't be bundled with OpenOffice.org unless Sun owns it. And that's a shame. If you control yourself an open project and you are deliberately excluding all these things on the basis of your own proprietary interest you begin to wonder how open OpenOffice.org really is.To some extent, you can get round the problem of dealing with Sun by shipping code as extensions.Meeks: Sun is actually trying to push the problem off to plug-ins, by not requiring copyright assignment there. So the software ships pretty broken and in order to actually open your document you have to be online and download this thing from the public extension repository. And the OpenOffice.org user experience is already bad enough without anyone saying "your are going to have to install this, go to this webpage, look at our advert and then download it".derStandard.at: Which parts are you referring to?Meeks: Interestingly there are several pieces which are deliberately not installed by default to drive traffic to the plug-ins-site. There is this thing called "report builder", which is really a key part of the database thing. So as you get where it should be it says "There is something which isn't here, why don't you get it from the plug-in repository" and that's just an appalling user experience, there is no need for that, it doesn't offer you any efficiency wins.I think the general implication is to stop bothering with OpenOffice.org and instead go toGo-OO, which is producing a version via "a developer run meritocracy". This is more compatible with Microsoft stuff, but Sun and IBM -- unlike their big customers -- aren't really in favour of that, are they?Anyone tried it?
Dell has launched a range of colourful hardback book-sizedStudio Hybriddesktop PCs aimed at conscientious consumers: they are "Dell's greenest, most power-efficient consumer desktop". As usual with this type of thing, they are based on Intel mobile technologies. Features include HDMI and optional Blu-ray drives.US prices start at $499 (pus $35 shipping, plus taxes) for a system with Vista Home Basic SP1, no monitor and only 1GB of memory (a chunk of which will be snaffled by the graphics chip). Blu-ray costs a hefty $250 extra. And although Dell offers TV/DVR options, these are actually on USB sticks, not built in.UK pricesstart at £529, including VAT and shipping. For some reason, the UK company has decided to upgrade the processor, hard drive (250GB), RAM (3GB) and operating system (Vista Premium) of the monitor-free version, which inflates the price, but it still wants another £30 for a coloured sleeve. Worse, taking the Customise option doesn't let you downgrade the spec, or opt for "No keyboard". Rip-off Britain strikes again? I expect £399 versions will appear when the initial rush dies down....Correction!UK prices start at £399, reports CSClark in a comment below. And he has a link, otherwise I probably still couldn't find it....The systems measure 196.5mm x 71.5mm x 211.5mm (with sleeve) and weigh 2.18kg with the (optional) stand.Any takers?
William Patry, who has run the William Patry Copyright Blog for the past four years, hasshut up shop. Who he? The site used to say that he was:Senior Copyright Counsel, Google Inc. Formerly copyright counsel to the U.S. House of Representatives, Committee on the Judiciary, formerly Policy Planning Advisor to the Register of Copyrights, formerly Law Professor, Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law; author of numerous treatises and articles (including one on fair use with Judge Richard Posner), including the new treatise on "Patry on Copyright," published by Thomson/West. The views in this blog are strictly mine and should not be attributed to Google Inc.And that was a main part of the problem. He'd started a personal blog and found that people were picking things up and saying: "William Patry, Google's Senior Copyright Counsel said," or "Google's top copyright lawyer said... ." He says:There is nothing I can do to stop this false implication that I am speaking on Google's behalf.Oh yes, and then there's the web's legion of idiots, from which everyone suffers. Patry says:On top of this there are the crazies, whom it is impossible to reason with, who do not have a life of their own and so insist on ruining the lives of others, and preferably as many as possible. I asked myself last week after having to deal with the craziest of the crazies yet, "why subject yourself to this?" I could come up with no reason why I should: My grandfather chose to be a psychiatrist, but I chose a different professional path, one that doesn't obligate me to put up with such nonsense.Finally, he says: "The Current State of Copyright Law is too depressing." You could pile up a list of stupid legal opinions from the Supreme Court downwards, but Patry says (in abbreviated form):I believe very much that in proper doses copyright is essential for certain classes of works, especially commercial movies, commercial sound recordings, and commercial books, the core copyright industries. ... But in my view, ... we are well past the healthy dose stage and into the serious illness stage. ... Copyright law has abandoned its reason for being: to encourage learning and the creation of new works. Instead, its principal functions now are to preserve existing failed business models, to suppress new business models and technologies, and to obtain, if possible, enormous windfall profits from activity that not only causes no harm, but which is beneficial to copyright owners.Under the circumstances it's hard to argue. Unfortunately, Patry's withdrawal means he has also removed all the previous posts, reducing the whole thing to one goodbye.On the other hand, rather than wasting his time casting pearls before swine, he reckons he'll write a $30 book. That will reach a more intelligent audience and will probably last longer.
In a world of 6.6 billion people, it does seem hard to believe. The theory of six degrees of separation contends that, because we are all linked by chains of acquaintance, you are just six introductions away from any other person on the planet.But yesterday researchers announced the theory was right - nearly. By studying billions of electronic messages, they worked out that any two strangers are, on average, distanced by precisely 6.6 degrees of separation. In other words, putting fractions to one side, you are linked by a string of seven or fewer acquaintances to Madonna, the Dalai Lama and the Queen. The news will come as no surprise to film buffs who for years have been playing the parlour game Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon, in which they link other actors to Bacon in six films or fewer.Researchers at Microsoft studied records of 30 billion electronic conversations among 180 million people in various countries, according to the Washington Post. This was 'the first time a planetary-scale social network has been available,' they observed. The database covered all the Microsoft Messenger instant-messaging network in June 2006, equivalent to roughly half the world's instant-messaging traffic at that time.Eric Horvitz and fellow researcher Jure Leskovec considered two people to be acquaintances if they had sent one another a message. They looked at the minimum chain lengths it would take to connect 180 billion different pairs of users in the database. They found that the average length was 6.6 hops, and that 78 per cent of the pairs could be connected in seven steps or fewer. But some  were separated by as many as 29 steps.The researchers wrote: 'Via the lens provided on the world by Messenger, we find that there are about "seven degrees of separation" among people.'Horvitz told the Post: 'To me, it was pretty shocking. What we're seeing suggests there may be a social connectivity constant for humanity. People have had this suspicion that we are really close. But we are showing on a very large scale that this idea goes beyond folklore.'A 'degree of separation' is a measure of social distance between people. You are one degree away from everyone you know, two degrees away from everyone they know, and so on. The concept was popularised by John Guare's 1990 play, Six Degrees of Separation, which was turned into a film starring Will Smith, Stockard Channing, Donald Sutherland and Ian McKellen. One of the characters says: 'I read somewhere that everybody on this planet is separated by only six other people. Six degrees of separation between us and everyone else on this planet. The President of the United States, a gondolier in Venice, just fill in the names. I find it extremely comforting that we're so close. I also find it like Chinese water torture, that we're so close because you have to find the right six people to make the right connection ... I am bound, you are bound, to everyone on this planet by a trail of six people.'Then in 1994 students at Pennsylvania's Albright College invented the game Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon, in which the challenge was to connect every film actor to Bacon in six cast lists or fewer. Bacon thought the joke would die out, but when it didn't he launched a website,sixdegrees.org, bringing together people interested in helping good causes. He said: 'I thought it was definitely going to go the way of eight-track cassettes and pet rocks. But it's a concept that has sort of hung around in the zeitgeist.'Attempts to prove the theory stretch back further and keep coming up with six or thereabouts. In a 1969 study, researchers Stanley Milgram and Jeffrey Travers asked 296 people in Nebraska and Boston to send a letter through acquaintances to a Boston stockbroker. Only 64 of the letters reached the stockbroker. Of those letter chains that were complete, the average number of degrees of separation was 6.2.In 2003 researchers at Columbia University in New York experimented using the internet as the ultimate laboratory of the connected world. More than 24,000 volunteers tried to send an email via acquaintances to one of 18 target people in 13 countries, including a police officer in Australia, a vet in the Norwegian army and a professor at an Ivy League university in America. Only 384 of the chains were completed, using an average of four steps. But the researchers estimated the average length in all the chains was between five and seven steps. Facebook, the online social network, has a 'six degrees' application to test the theory through the connections of Facebook users. That may reduce a degree or two: Barack Obama already has well over a million Facebook friends.
Guitar Hero On TourNintendo DSActivision, &pound;40Guitar Hero has been astoundingly successful at drawing in gamers and resolute non-gamers alike into its web of benign addiction. At the centre of this is the small plastic guitar that allows you to foster true feelings of heroism and removes the experience from the usual joystick clutching. Naturally Activision's first duty to shareholders is to make sure something similar is available on the bestselling Nintendo DS. Making it work on a handheld prompted the invention of a reassuringly solid "guitar grip", which slots on to your DS while you use its built-in plectrum to strum the strings on the touch screen. The old magic's still there, but the guitar grip is as conducive to guitar playing as quadriplegia is to parkour, proving especially pointless for the fast fret changes of higher levels, where the full limitations of touch screen strumming are also apparent.i-SobotGadgetfirebox.com, &pound;199.95At around 20cm tall, i-Sobot is a very small robot. However, in common with a lot of things that cost more than you'd expect, it's mysteriously heavy, as though all the extra money was spent on tiny, important and weighty components hidden inside. Coming with an equally diminutive remote control with a lot of buttons on it, i-Sobot can either be controlled directly or pre-programmed with a vast repertoire of moves, including disarmingly accurate gorilla, chicken and dog impressions (it barks, it pants, it cocks its leg) to entire tai-chi routines. Its multi-articulated limbs and plaintive robot voice give it a peculiarly expressive range capable of anything from joy to despair via slapstick comedy, though the button sequences needed to trigger these are anything but intuitive. While fascinating to watch, &pound;200 feels a bit steep.
Caught By The River, caughtbytheriver.netJeff Barrett, the boss of Heavenly Records - home of Edwyn Collins, Doves, Beth Orton and numerous other fine British musical talent of the past 18 years - is something of a keen angler. It is hardly the most rock'n'roll of pursuits you would have thought, but at this most laidback of blogs it all meanders along beautifully alongside discussions on classic vinyl, poetry, the seawall kiosk in Canvey Island and current DVD releases. Jeff and assorted literary pals who drop by to spin a yarn have no axe to grind, just a desire to fulfil a broad remit of stuff that brings joy and pleasure. If you also enjoy pictures of hairy men holding big fish you'll be amply rewarded.Totally Looks Like, totallylookslike.comFrom Stuff On My Cat to Mugshots Du Jour, the greatest websites are those that relentlessly deliver variations on the same visual joke. Celebrity look-alikes is a similar gag that keeps on giving - although one recent entry of Clark Kent and Superman shows they could be running dry. The quality so far is fantastic: Metallica's ginger-maned James Hetfield caught in identical pathetic roar pose as the Cowardly Lion from Wizard of Oz; Flavor Flav of Public Enemy and Stripe from Gremlins as perfect twins; and an incredible pairing of Mick Jagger and a batfish.
We recently got rid of our TV - and licence fee - but want to watch DVDs. Is there a way of connecting a DVD player to a monitor? We don't want to pay a fortune for a projector.Video and PC have traditionally been fairly separate. In the past, people who wanted a dual-use monitor had a limited choice of awkward solutions. The arrival of high-definition TV has helped shift things radically, however: your best bet is probably to buy an LCD TV that can double up for both jobs. LG's 22-inch M228WA costs a little over &pound;200 fromAmazon.co.uk. More simply, use your PC's DVD drive (if it has one), an S-video connection (if both your monitor and player have them) or even your existing TV, though you must write to TV Licensing in Bristol to confirm you use the TV only to watch DVDs.I want to transfer my mobile's address book to another phone. Bluetooth sends only one address at a time. Is there a faster way?Phone management software for your computer lets you download your address book in one fell swoop, before uploading it to another handset. TheMotorola websitehas what you're looking for.email your problems togadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
You can do a lot of things with a hatchback. You can open up the back and transport flat packs from Ikea. You can close the back and emphasise its moral dissimilarity to an SUV. It's a flexible kind of car. Big enough for the family. Small enough for the city. But at the end of the day, it's still a hatchback. And there are few things in life more boring than a hatchback.Renault know this. They canvassed thousands of drivers on the issue, and we can safely assume that the consensus of opinion was that hatchbacks are fantastically useful but, well, a bit dull. Anyway, in search of a flagship car and a solution to dullness, the company has thrown about a billion euros, and a great deal of technical expertise, at the problem and the answer they've come up with is the New Laguna GT.As image modernising goes, it's up there with the transformation from Labour to New Labour, which had the added advantage of turning the previous incarnation of Labour into Old Labour. By the same token, Renault are essentially saying, forget the old Laguna, with its state-owned squareness, its beardy utility and Clause 4 steering. The New Laguna is all private enterprise, with a little help from Nissan, focus-group precision and four-wheel steering.First the bad news about the rebranding. The New Laguna still looks like a hatchback. True, there's a pleasing sleekness to the design, with elongated headlights, a shark's-mouth grill and sporty curves. But no one's fooled. To the watching world, the driver of it is almost certainly on his way to Homebase or back from dropping the youngest off for a sleepover.However, there's nothing suburban about the way it moves. The first tip that there might be something under the bonnet to set your neighbours' curtains twitching is the metal pedals. Gleaming naked and naughty on the floor, they promise furtive and quite possibly inappropriate thrills. And they do not disappoint.You may only be going to replace a drill bit, but the chances are you'll be first away from the lights. It's the kind of car, in other words, that could lead you astray. Or it would, if the four-wheel steering system was not quite so finely calibrated. The science is predictably complicated, involving sensors that adapt to steering movements every 10 milliseconds and front and rear wheels that turn in opposing directions below 38mph (you may be reassured to learn that they go in the same direction at over 38mph), but the upshot is that it takes corners like David Beckham in his prime.At the same time it scores big on matters, such as safety and noise reduction, that responsible people in hatchbacks will want to take seriously. And there's plenty of space across the back for kids, mothers-in-law and other people you're obliged to drive around but don't want in the front passenger seat. But it's really a car for people who want a bit more vim in their lives, yet don't feel they can afford a sports car, or a divorce.The GT comes in a very attractive Malta Blue, and sharking along in a blue Laguna, the middle-aged thought comes to mind ... Crisis? What crisis?Renault Laguna GT dCiPrice:£21,500Top speed139mphAcceleration0-62 in 8.5 secondsAverage consumption43.4mpgCO² emissions172g/kmEco rating6.5/10At the wheelEd BallsBound forThe next set of traffic lightsIn a wordSurprising
As is well established, the videogame industry is an enormously profitable one that is getting bigger. Astute observers will also notice that, while the majority of those profiting are the ones making and publishing games, there's an odious minority whose business model doesn't involve making anything, but simply patenting seemingly tangential technologies and then waiting for the opportunity to sue against them. While it's hard to let your heart bleed too much for mega-corporations the size of Nintendo, Sony and Microsoft, at least they design and manufacture stuff that makes people happy. The same can't be said of Anascape, a company currently preventing Nintendo from selling joypads for the GameCube in America. It previously won settlements from Sony and Microsoft using its patent covering a device that detects "six types of motion simultaneously" to protect questionable claims of wanting to get into hardware manufacture.
Video. Your mobile phone might be capable of it, your compact digital camera almost certainly is and there are dozens of dedicated camcorders available that can write moving picture information to all kinds of media at all kinds of qualities for all kinds of money. Why, then, a basic handheld video camera that can do nothing else? a) What is the point? and b) Where is the market? The answers, refreshingly, are a) Fun and b) The young.I am looking at the Flip Ultra from Pure Digital (&pound;94-&pound;99), and the Vado Pocket Video Cam (&pound;89.99) from Creative. Each is the size of a packet of Rothmans; a light, "barebones" camcorder with a small LCD screen; basic playback, zoom, record and bin-it buttons; a built-in speaker; tripod mount connections; 2GB of memory; and a cunningly recessed USB cable. The most striking distinction between the two is that the Flip takes standard AA batteries, while the Vado has a lithium-ion unit, charged through its USB connection to a PC or Mac. The Vado has a two-inch screen to the Flip's 1.5.The Flip has been in the world a little longer and offers all kinds of accessories: a tripod, an "action mount", underwater housing, pouches, skins and adaptors. Most of those will work on the Vado, since they are so similar in size and specifications. There are five colourways to the Flip: silver, black, pink, tangerine and lime green, while the Vado is available only in silver and the inevitable girlie pink.They are both light and quick in their responses; they are so cheap and so jolly that you don't really worry about slamming them into your pocket or handbag, or dropping them on the beach. You point, you press a button and you record. You can review on the device itself, although the sound playback is horrendous. The 2GB memory allows up to an hour of MPEG-4 AVI footage to be recorded at an acceptable 640 x 480 resolution. This memory is fixed and built in. Pre-installed on it are applications to run on your computer, available the moment you mount the camcorder via USB. They include the 3ivx codec and, in the case of the Flip, a PC and Mac application that allows direct uploading to YouTube, MySpace and AOL, as well as (PC only) Muvie-style video mixing capabilities.I made a couple of very quick test movies of myself this morning and uploaded them to YouTube; it was very early so forgive the d&eacute;gag&eacute; appearance and dopey manner. You will find the results on a YouTube account I have set up: DorkTalk2008. The Creative footage is onyoutube.com/watch?v=0qaA5AQCqugand the Flip onyoutube.com/watch?v=eKA_omhtb7Y, but on YouTube it is easier to search - I suggest "DorkTalk2008" as the query term.So, which should you choose? The Vado has a larger screen and is slimmer, lighter and cheaper: the Flip Ultra has a wider choice of colours, the advantage (or disadvantage) of standard batteries and better pre-installed software. I think I prefer the Flip. It is bulkier, however. If you have had a look at the YouTube clips, you may think the Vado's sound recording is superior, on the other hand are the colours on the Flip a little richer? And which one responds better to changes in light? Oh dear... so hard to decide. Frankly, I wouldn't throw either of them out of bed.Have fun and stay young.Acronyms of the weekLCDLiquid Crystal Display ... if your TV isn't plasma or an old-fashioned cathode ray tube, then it will be LCD, the display technology used for everything from phones to fridges.USBUniversal Serial Bus, the standard interface that connects your computer to devices such as phones, printers and cameras.MPEG-4The fourth video and audio compression standard of the Moving Picture Experts Group.AVIAudio Video Interleave. A 'container' format or 'transporter' for playing the video.3ivxA 'codec' (short for compressor-decompressor or coder-decoder) that allows the AVI to contain and transport the MPEG-4 data stream.
Yahoo's annual general meeting got underway - as scheduled - and Roy Bostock, the chairman, has given an interesting interpretation of events, saying that Yahoo never "resisted" Microsoft's offer. Thing is, he said, Redmond was never actually fully engaged. We think that's a quote.Microsoft was not best pleased and leapt to its corporate computer: "Yahoo is attempting to rewrite history yet again with statements that are not supported by the facts." That's one way of saying it.The key question - about the three board seats being offered to Carl Icahn, the corporate raider who has acquired a substantial block of Yahoo shares - won't be known until Saturday morning (UK time).But there wassomething of a ding-dongnevertheless.Activist investor Eric Jackson told Yahoo's executives and board members that they "overplayed" their hand in the Microsoft negotiations."I think you're overpaid on compensation, and you've overstayed your welcome," Jackson said. "Will you do the honorable thing, if there's a high 'against' vote, and step down from this board?"Bostock rejected Jackson's version of events. The chairman had said earlier that while Microsoft may have raised its initial offer of $31 a share to $33, it did so via an "off-hand comment.""They said to one of our management people there may be a few more dollars on the table," Bostock said, adding however that "it was never communicated explicitly to the board." Bostock said also that Yahoo's board subsequently concluded that Microsoft's proposal to buy its search business was "not compelling."But, sadly, Icahn haz.. er, no, I can't figure out the sentence.Bostock singled out Icahn, one of his chief antagonists in recent months, for praise. "Carl's a smart guy," Bostock said, and "a good guy" that he looks forward to working with. Icahn himself on Thursday announced that he wouldn't bother to attend the meeting.Damn! That was going to be one of the showdowns of the year. Oh well - let's see what happens when Icahn does join the board.
MondayTech Weekly: Virtual Worlds specialHas iPhone made mobile gaming good?TuesdayFallout 3 questionsDevelop: Have I Got Games News For You (pics!)Develop - highlights of day oneWednesdayWikigame demo: ISO testers and death scenesArt and virtual landscapesElite 4 is comingThursdayCasual games rule chartsGolden Joystick Awards nominations openBest of ChatterboxEmily Allchurch and the Neoclassical level designerFridayGame Pitch: DysonFallout 3 impressions etc
A lot of security issues in network and computer security can filed under the category of "PEBKAC" - problem exists between the keyboard and chair.Kevin Mitnickcompromised more systems by knowing the foibles of human nature than the intricacies of the networks that he was breaking into. (Though Mitnick was good on the intricacies too.) Likewise, Gary McKinnon is exploiting some known vulnerabilities - but in this instance, in media coverage.The main vulnerability he's exploited is that most journalists are generalists and don't know enough to challenge him on the claims that he has made, whether they are about his exploits or the US justice system. His statements about the case have gone largely unchallenged, no matter how outlandish.First off, it is oft-repeated that he broke into 'top-secret' systems. No, he broke intounclassified systems, which doesn't mean that they are unimportant to the daily operations of the US military and Nasa, but it's wrong to say that they were top-secret. Classified - 'top-secret' - networks are almost isolated in both virtual and many times physical ways from the public internet.From Darpa, one of the agencies that McKinnon tried to hack, there is a description of the US Department of Defence networks:The Global DoD Enterprise Network forms the backbone of the DoD Global Information Grid (GIG). It consists of satellite-based networks, an optical core network, optical edge networks, and land-based fixed wireless networks, all with strong connectivity to tactical wireless networks. Incidentally, all this is virtually separate from the public internet, but, today shares some of its resources.For the most part, McKinnon broke into administrative systems, possibly through some publicly accessible webservers. Embarrassing? Yes. World'sbiggest military hack?Not by a long shot. Would the Army and Navy have 'top-secret' documents about aliens mixed in with the spreadsheets about duty rosters? Probably not. Maybe McKinnon stumbled on some Army administrative officer's pitch script for X-Files.That's the technical side of the story, but McKinnon and his legal team's public statements about the US legal system make for even more entertaining reading. Any US TV crime drama junkie would know that most of them are about as plausible as his alien information claims. For instance,Gary McKinnon told the BBC:"I'm extremely sorry I did it, but I think the reaction is completely overstated. I should face a penalty in Britain and I'd gladly do my time here," he said."To go from, you know, perhaps a year or two in a British jail to 60 years in an American prison is ridiculous."The 60 to 70-year figure is oft-repeated in the British Press, butnofew journalists has challenged that figure. (I've been challenged in e-mails from some journalists covering the story.) American sentencing guidelines have a wide range, and it's extremely rare for criminals to be given the maximum sentence, especially in a white collar crime like this. Some basic reporting would have found this out, or you can just read a recentAssociated Press report:A 60-year sentence is "extraordinarily unlikely," according to Scott Christie, who was the lead prosecutor in the case in New Jersey before going into private practice. ..."His general exposure would be in the range of between three and five years," he said.McKinnon has played on legitimate concerns about human rights abuses in Guantanamo, an aversion to execution and upset about inequalities in extradition between the US and the UK to raise his case to the level of a human rights travesty. McKinnon's lawyers have said that the US wanted to see him 'fry'. That surely has to be metaphorical because none of theoffences he has been indicted onare capital offences. As implausible as 70 years in jail is, suddenly going from jail time to the 'chair' can't happen. It makes a good soundbite, which is probably why he keeps repeating it, but it's not germane to the case or whether his human rights are threatened because of the potential threat of execution.Also, according to his own legal team, he was offered a plea bargain of six months. He said yesterday on the BBC's 5Live thathe didn't accept it because they wouldn't put it in writing. Something is wrong here. Either they offered him a plea bargain, which would have to be in writing, or they didn't. Maybe, asKevin 'Dark Dante' Poulsensays, plea bargaining is a foreign concept in British justice so poorly understood, but again, we've all seen the crime dramas: Prosecutor sits down the defence team and offers a reduced sentence for a guilty plea. (And the idea already exists in British justice: in general, you get a one-third reduction on the standard sentence if you plead guilty.) McKinnon has already said that he's guilty. He's been offered six months not 60 years, and again, as Kevin says, this is minimum security time, where the biggest thing he has to fear is dodgy stock advice from a convicted insider trader, not becoming some bubba's love slave in somescary 'super-max' prison.I'm not going to speculate what Gary McKinnon's motives are in playing the case this way, but he's turned large swathes of the British media into his own PR wing. Journalists seem content to avoid letting the facts stand in the way of this good story. Sure, I can understand that some people hold him up as yet another example of the inequalities in the 'special relationship' between the US and the UK. But Gary McKinnon is an imperfect poster boy for that cause.
What's BillG doing these days? Well,his investment armis warning a "waste management" investment against buying a rival. "We can only assume your ill-timed and poorly conceived pursuit is designed to disrupt what you perceive as a competitive threat,"wrote BGI. The feared result? "excessive debt, distract your management [and] significant regulatory burdens."Jerry Yangmay not appreciate the irony.
For many moons, I've been raising the issue of how people get to 64-bit Windows 7, which is a big compatibility shift from 32-bit Windows XP. The obvious answer is via Vista, but is that 32-bit Vista and/or 64-bit Vista? The price includes both, so it's up to you.Initially, Vista was a bit short of drivers, or else had some bad drivers. That made 32-bit Vista the obvious choice for most people, because 64-bit drivers were even rarer. The same thing applied to software compatibility, only more so, because while it does run 32-bit programs, 64-bit Vista is much less forgiving about rubbish programming.Now it looks as though the dramatic improvements in Vista drivers etc could be feeding through into the 64-bit version (possibly with a bit of help from the Windows Server market, which is now almost all 64-bit). Anyway, according to Chris Flores on theVista team's blog:20% of new Windows Vista PCs in the U.S. connecting to Windows Update in June were 64-bit PCs, up from just 3% in March. Put more simply, usage of 64-bit Windows Vista is growing much more rapidly than 32-bit. Based on current trends, this growth will accelerate as the retail channel shifts to supplying a rapidly increasing assortment of 64-bit desktops and laptops.One example of that is Gateway, which has now gone all 64-bit with its black "back-to-school desktops". And since the chips (AMD in this case) and Vista are already 64-bit, there's not much difference in price.Moving to 64-bit Vista allows access to 8GB or more memory and provides better performance, particularly when with multitasking. If you're running, say, Autodesk, Avid, SoftImage or even the 32-bit Adobe Creative Suite 3 all day, then going to 64-bit Vista is obvious. Whether it's worth the risk for ordinary users with obscure bits of "long tail" software is another matter. The blog warns of the need to check for drivers and software compatibility issues at theWindows Vista Compatibility Center.In any case, the bigger benefits won't come through until there is more software optimized for 64-bit systems, such as the versions ofAdobe Lightroom (edit: just released), PhotoShop and Sony Vegas Pro expected in the autumn.So, how many people have moved to 64-bit Vista already? If you are thinking of moving on from XP to Vista, were you even going to consider it?Update: Ed Bott has also bloggedSuddenly, 64-bit Windows is mainstreamat ZD Net. He says: "Using data from its Windows Update servers, Microsoft calculated that 1.45% of all Windows Vista machines were running x64 Vista editions in March of this year. By June, that figure was up to 5.18%." That would be a maximum of 9 million machines, based on Microsoft's claim of 180 million paid for copies of Vista. How manyinstalled copiesis another matter, but the number could grow quite quickly. People who mainly want to do online stuff and email don't need as much backwards compatibility -- and Vista offers more than either a Mac or Ubuntu.
