Microsoft's share of new server operating OS shipments grew from just under 42% in 2000 to nearly 49% in 2001, according to IDC research reported byInfoWorld. That's pretty impressive considering Microsoft started with 0%, way behind Unix et al. (For what it is worth, my opinion is that GNU/Linux will overtake Windows eventually, in the server market. But I'm not going to claim that's true until it is.)
The Slapper worm is still insignificant compared to CodeRed, but it could become embarrassing for the open source community if it keeps growing.ZDNethas the details and the background.
Google's Beta test rolling news service now features on its front page, but you can go straight tohttp://news.google.com/
After parting company with Hewlett-Packard, Dell has signed an agreement with Lexmark (which used to be part of IBM) to manufacture and sellprinters and cartridges, reports AP.
As Peter Judge onZDNetsuggests, you'd have thought he would have bought up a small telco or ISP to do the job, but no: even Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer can't get cable or DSL to his home, six minutes from downtown Seattle. What chance do mere non-billionaires have?
TheMercury Newsreflects that, on Monday, the Nasdaq finally dipped to below 1996 levels, and "wiped out all the wealth it had created during the tech bubble of the late 1990." Yesterday, the FTSE did the same. Of course, not all the wealth has been wiped out: there are more than a few analysts, brokers and dot.com entrepreneurs who wisely, or luckily, ignored their own advice and cashed out when the bubble was fully inflated. The rest of us get to continue to worry into the uncertain future about our pension funds...
The 90m mobile phones in Britain currently stuffed in drawers - plus a further 15m replaced each year by consumers - will not become another fridge mountain.The mobile phone industry is to recycle or reuse them for nothing, or in some cases give a discount off the cost of a new handset. Preventing them being thrown away will save 1,500 tonnes of waste going to landfill every year.Shields Environmental, which is running the programme, dubbed Fonebak, has got Britain's five main mobile phone operators - O2, Orange, T-Mobile, Virgin Mobile and Vodafone - in the scheme along with Dixons Group, which includes Dixons, Currys, The Link and PC World.With 45m mobile phones in use in Britain, handsets are now a fashion accessory. The average user replaces the handset every 18 months, while its working life expectancy is eight years. This provides a second hand market in phones which are refurbished and sold to eastern Europe, Asia and Africa.Most, however, will now be recycled, extracting gold, platinum, silver and copper. The metals are extracted during this process and put back into use.Contents of batteries pose a threat to the environment. One cadmium battery could pollute 600,000 litres of water. When disposed of via Fonebak, these metals are also reused, in the case of nickel into irons and saucepans.Mixed plastics (those that contain metals and plastics) are sent to a specialist recycler in Sweden who incinerates the plastic and uses the energy to heat the local village. Other plastics are sent for granulation and end up as traffic cones or are used on horse gallops.The scheme is the first to comply with current legislation and the forthcoming WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) directive, which sets guidelines and targets for the recycling of potentially harmful electrical waste.The government, which has previously failed to anticipate new waste directives, was delighted by the mobile phone recycling scheme.Michael Meacher, the environment minister, said he was pleased the terms of the directive were being met before the disposal of phones became a problem.
We all get them: the spam emails from dodgy businessmen, USUALLY ALL IN CAPITAL LETTERS AND REQUIRING YOUR URGENT ATTENTION, that suggest you'll earn millions by indulging in a little fraud. Well, turns out around 1 per cent of people who get these mails actually fall for them, which is pretty amazing. Better still, one of the most recent victims happens to be a Detriot bank worker, who isnow on trial.
Steve Bowbrick, the dot.com entrepreneur and Online columnist, has sparked quite a debate. It all started with a prettyinnocent poston his weblog about judging the entries for Guardian Unlimited's Best British Blog contest, the results of which are announced on Thursday. He'd had a long night sifting entries, but was impressed by the high standards of the entries (as we all were). "I think the competition will prove to be a real validation for the new form," he wrote, "and, I hope, a springboard for the weblog's leap into the mainstream."So far, so positive, you'd think. But no: amazingly, at this point it all kicked off. It's well worth following the links provided by Steve, as there are plenty of comments from everyone who objects to the competition on whatever grounds. You discover quite a lot about why a few of themreallyobject to the contest - Steve's comments pretty much hit the mark.
Yes, I totally share your contempt for those 4x4-owning urbanites who would have to drive for at least an hour even to find a muddy field. I agree, it's idiotic: pure pretension, a banal triumph of style over substance. Buy an off-roader and you buy into the lifestyle myth that you're some kind of leisure-class landowner. Whereas, in fact, your "estate" amounts to a backyard of cracked screed the size of a tennis court service-box, in which the last recorded sighting of wildlife was when the neighbour's cat came to pee in your plant pots.And because these vehicles are hulking, heavy and as aerodynamic as a ton of bricks, they are an environmental disaster on wheels: burning fossil fuel and spewing out greenhouse gases and pollutants as if there were no tomorrow. Which, thanks largely to them, there may well not be.I think we can exempt the 2% of the population who do "live on the land" but, for the rest of us, there's no excuse. Toff-roaders, soft-roaders, SUVs ... call them what you will, they're an affront to reason and civility.So, the Subaru Forester. I mean, "Forester" - what's that about? We haven't had any real forest in this country since Henry VIII cut it all down to build his navy. Just how many real-life foresters do you know? The only person of my acquaintance who even owns a chainsaw uses it to sculpt wood. And no, she doesn't wear plaid shirts either.So, the Forester. Obviously, I'm going to slag it off then.Well, erm ... not altogether.It got off to a good start. My daughter's face lit up when she saw it - "It's a Jeep!" (her favourite type of vehicle). Of course, kids like it because of its Tonka-toy styling. But they also like it because, with its elevated seats, big windows and low sills, they actually get a decent view without having to crane their necks only to see the tops of trees and buildings whooshing by. There were notably fewer complaints of car-sickness than in our bog-standard family estate. Even the "Are we there yet?" quota went down substantially.I started to like it when we wanted to put our bikes in the back. Load space at the rear is not spectacular; this new Forester is slightly smaller than the old version. But making more space by using the split-seat arrangement in the back is incredibly easy. No fiddling around with headrests and seatbelts: just a single press of a button and one side went flat, making ample room for three bikes.And I liked it still more because it drove like a car - instead of a hairy behemoth that bears down on you in your rearview mirror like the demonic truck in Spielberg's Duel. For all their much-vaunted four-wheel drive capability, most of these monstrous hybrid, Land Rover-for-townie-type machines feel as though they're going to fall over in a stiff breeze. Their suspension set-ups, tuned to cope with rutted tracks as well as dual carriageways, mean they wallow and wobble through bends like a confection of jelly and marshmallow. Not so the Subaru.Although the Forester is tall, it is not heavy. If you look under the bonnet, you see that the flat-four ("boxer") format of the engine allows it to be mounted lower than normal for a vehicle with this sort of ground clearance, which helps keep the car's centre of gravity down. As a result, it corners without rolling, and generally has a taut, nimble feel.The two-litre petrol engine is eager enough, but lacks a bit of punch. This could be tricky for a 4x4 that's supposed to be able to tow a trailer over a soggy field, but the answer is a little lever next to the handbrake. You just drop the clutch, pull on the lever, et voil&#224;! - you have a full set of low-ratio gears. If this leaves you still power-hungry, then there is also an S-turbo edition, which is truly a wolf in sheep's clothing.What the standard, non-turbo Forester lacks in outright performance, it makes up for in economy. Even around town, it gives a respectable 24 mpg, near enough double what you can expect from some street-bound off-roaders, and making it modest both in running and environmental costs.Its road presence is also modest. To some, perhaps, it is a demerit that the Subaru has close to zero social cachet. But another school of thought finds its lack of brand identity paradoxically pleasing - especially since this niche Japanese manufacturer's cars regularly come near the top of customer satisfaction and reliability surveys: Subarus are a kind of well-kept secret. Why pay twice as much for a fancy Audi or BMW 4x4, when the Forester gets the job done just as well?So having a Forester is a bit like buying your smalls at Muji - it's thoroughly competent and comfortable, but don't expect to impress: it's neither fashionable nor glamorous. On the other hand, it does perform the trick of allowing you to own a 4x4 and a conscience at the same time. And it shows "snob value" for what it is: a contradiction in terms.
Clay Shirky takes apart the oft-repeated myth that "half the world has never made a telephone call", inWired News.
"Confused by DVD+R, DVD-RW, DVD-R, and DVD+RW? We take a first look at Sony's new DRU-500A, the first DVD-recordable drive to support all four formats," saysZDNet.
Infogrames has presumably now closed the British development studio behind Geoff Crammond's Grand Prix series of games, ifGamesindustrybiz's rerportis correct. F1GP has been an iconic title for the British games industry, having started as Revs on the BBC Micro. The closure is almost the end for the once-mighty MicroProse, which was co-founded by Sid Meier (Railroad Tycoon, Civilization, Alpha Centauri etc). Otherwise the story is: French owner. American label, minus 27 British jobs.
People who play The Sims Online will be able to buy Intel PCs and eat at McDonald's, following multi-million dollar placement deals with Electronic Arts, reports theLA "pop up" Times.
Picture this. You are on a bus, listening to music, but not on an MP3 player. A friend has sent a clip of the latest Ja Rule single to your phone. When the song is over, you load up a pirated copy of Road to Perdition from someone sitting in the Starbucks that your bus is passing.You watch Jude Law and Tom Hanks for a few minutes on your phone's colour screen before sending the latest copy of a video game to a friend. You compete with him until an email icon with your boss's face on it appears on the screen. You click on your inbox, read the email and use your phone to do something you used to do a lot but don't do so much any more - make a call.Sounds like a scene from The Matrix II? Think again.The two most powerful modern technologies - the personal computer and the mobile phone - have been spending a lot of time together lately and the relationship is bearing fruit. A new breed of 'smart phone' is on sale and the phone companies, which have already turned us into contact-obsessed neurotics, taught us the joy of txt, got our children mugged on the way home from school, and made us worry about brain tumours (and pay for the privilege) want us to take a giant leap into the future of mobile communications.The new mobile revolution will be televised - in colour - on the screens of the latest Nokia and Sony Ericsson mobile phones. The handsets, supported by third generation (3G) networks, offer TV and video clips. The sound is 'real', turning your handset into a personal stereo. The games arcade will move into your pocket, with the latest video releases emailed to your phone. Web browsing is already up and running with your handset permanently online at superfast speeds and, as T-Mobile's Steffi Graf and Andre Agassi remind us every night, your phone is also now a digital camera you can use to take and send pictures anywhere, anytime.The phone companies have promised the future before, only to end up over-hyping and under-delivering. Remember WAP? This time, observers say, it's different.'The phones may be small, but they are a giant leap,' says Gareth Mason, editor of What Cellphone magazine. 'They are new products doing new things. We've had the dotcom revolution; this is the wireless revolution.' Stuff magazine puts it simply: 'Something wonderful has happened.'The new toys may look and sound good but, with 80 per cent of us already using a phone of our own, will we shell out for a new one? Sceptics point out that the new handsets cost about &#163;300 to buy, with a 12-month contract, and more than &#163;400 on their own. Call charges will remain the same but surfing the net will be pricey, sending a photo is four times more expensive than sending a text message - 40p per image - and transmitting video and playing games will cost even more.Parents are concerned at the lax controls on web surfing. And while the new photo technology may be great for sending pictures of yourself by the pool on holiday to your friends back home, it will also enable your boss to see that, when you're 'stuck in traffic', you're actually still stuck in bed.The phone companies and operators, including T-Mobile, formerly known as one2one in the UK and owned by German telecoms firm Deutsche Telekom, and Hutchison 3G, dismiss fears that smart phones are too much tech with a big bill attached. 'Technology and consumer behaviour are always evolving,' says Ray Haddow, Nokia's head of product marketing. 'In past years, we've introduced colour screens, text messaging, specialist ring tones and email. Consumers have accepted all those and it will be the same with the latest services. It will happen in exactly the same way that we have all moved from radio, to black-and-white television, to colour television.'Sony Ericsson's head of marketing, Peter Marsden, agrees. 'Just as DVD players have replaced video machines and enabled us to do so many more things with movies at home, so people will come to realise that the days when the mobile phone was just for phoning your wife and telling her you're going to be late home are long gone.'Haddow and Marsden might sound confident, but behind the hype they, and their Scandinavian bosses, are anything but relaxed. For the phone firms, there is much more at stake than photographs, films and 'fun on the run'. Their future - not to mention the future of the telecoms sector - is riding on these slinky new gizmos. Telecoms firms have spent &#163;22 billion in the UK alone on the licences to provide the new services, several billions more to manufacture the handsets and get the whole thing up and running, not to mention the hundreds of millions they are now spending on ads to convince us that it's all such a great idea. Steffi and Andre don't come cheap. Add it all up and it's clear that they are going to have to sell an awful lot of handsets.The only consolation for the cash-strapped companies is that they have no choice. Katrina Bond, principal analyst at Cambridge-based researchers, Analysys, who has just completed a six-month study of the European mobile market, explains: 'After years of growth, the number of mobile phone subscribers has stopped going up. Pretty much anyone in Britain who wants a mobile has got one. The use of those phones is not rising fast enough for operators to grow their business using phone calls alone, because call charges are coming down. The only way they can make more money is to get us to see our phones in a new way - as something more than just to make calls.'If the new mobile lifestyle takes off, what do we have to look forward to? After text, what's next? Higher bills, spam images, a video games boom, more harmonious ring tones, emails from estate agents, a battle for the rights to send sporting highlights to handsets, phone dating, interactive phone sex, more scare stories about radiation affecting the brain, and a News of the World campaign against 'phone perverts' seem certain.But What Cellphone's Gareth Mason, who has just finished a study of the new mobile future, says users are already learning some uncomfortable new lessons.'Deception is a lot more difficult if your phone has images and sound. If you say you're somewhere you're not - 'working late in the office', 'stuck on the bus', 'at the airport' - a simple 'send me a picture will you?' will expose the truth.'Fortunately, software firms are already producing programmes that allow users to pre-record and store 'as-live' video clips of them at different locations, with sound, for emergency use. Mason also says some firms are introducing anonymous instant messaging services 'which are designed to be innocent fun. But we tried them in the office and they quickly turned nasty. Who can resist sending anonymous messages to their worst enemies?'Nokia and Ericsson smart phones are already on the shelves. New models from Motorola, Sharp, Samsung, Siemens and Panasonic will follow. Vodafone, BT's 02, Orange and T-Mobile support all the whizzy new services and Hutchison 3G aren't far off. The run-up to Christmas will be the busiest in the industry's history, with an multi-million-pound advertising blitz to persuade us to splurge on this phone or that phone. 'We're going to be swamped,' says Mason.If the outbreak of phone wars makes you reach for the off button, don't worry. You're actually way ahead of the game. Forecasters say the next trend is for no phones. What better way to affirm your independence than by renouncing the mobile altogether. You're not in? Tough. They can wait. Now where's my notebook and pen?john.arlidge@observer.co.uk
The mobile phone is the fastest growing new technology ever. In just 15 years, so many mobiles have been sold that they now outnumber televisions. What was once a gadget, an intrusion, has transformed the way we communicate and behave.Oddly, we now talk less and write more, with 1.5 billion text messages sent a month. Mobiles have transformed language. Dozens of new words have entered our vocabulary. We talk of Wap, 3G, GPRS, SMS, MMS, GSM, Bluetooth, 'Pay as you go'. We know what Triband means and which phones work where.Txting has an entire language of its own. R u :) or :(? C u L8r. Collins, Britain's biggest dictionary publisher, is bringing out its first guide to the shortcuts, phrases and acronyms used by mobile owners.Mobiles are changing the way we behave. Texting has rewritten the rules of flirting. No date is complete without a txt on the way home. One to one. We have become game addicts. 'Snake, anyone?' 'Sorry, I've been playing so much I've got RSI.' We spend hundreds of pounds downloading cacophonic tunes to let everyone else on the train know we are a fully registered cool person. Nice.A new type of offence - 'phone-jacking' - has become the number one street crime. Almost 1 million phones are stolen every year. Not that the police are too bothered. The more mobiles there are out there, the easier it is for them to keep an eye on us, because they act as electronic tags, tracking our movements 24 hours a day.Teenagers are the biggest market. They spend so much on pre-paid credit cards that under age drinking and smoking are decreasing. Phones have become 'geek chic' fashion accessories. 'You've got a phone that actually looks like a phone? That's  so  last season.' They have even made entire countries fashionable. The Nokia factory in Helsinki is Finland's biggest tourist attraction - after Santa's grotto.And you can even use them to call someone.
'You mean I can take pictures of my arse and send them to my mate? That's totally worth paying for. How much?'Craig, 24(Current phone: Nokia 3310)'It looks really expensive and, I know it's a bit shameful, but my Dad pays my bill. I don't think he'll want me to get one'Sally, 22(Phone: Motorola Timeport)'Can I get a one-to-one video call with David Beckham?'Jessica, 23(Phone: Nokia 8210)'It's really expensive. I wouldn't want one because I'd be worried all the time about someone nicking it. I'm happy just making calls'David, 29(Phone: Sony Ericsson T68)'That's the coolest thing I have ever seen'Richard, 10(Phone: Sony Ericsson T68i 'when I'm older')
One of the most ludicrously overhyped companies of the 1990s has finally decided tocall it a day. General Magic developed Magic Cap, a terminally cute graphical operating system for handhelds. With cutting edge technology, a big market trend towards mobile computing, staff out of Apple (including Bill Atkinson and Andy Hertzfeld) and the backing of Sony (not to mention Apple, AT&amp;T, Matsushita, Motorola and Philips), it could not possibly fail. Yeah, right. This account fromByte (1994)is a good guide to what the fuss was about.
CNet reckons Microsoft's takeover of Rare isa done deal, with Nintendo confirming that it has sold its 49% stake in one of the UK's most important game developers. Microsoft is expected to announce the takeover onTuesday, says the Merc. Rare wrote Donkey Kong Country and Goldeneye.
A teenager who stabbed his best friend to death in an attack sparked by a row over a computer game was yesterday given a life sentence.Yonis Jama, 19, was found guilty of murdering Steven Siewlal in September 1999.He slashed his schoolfriend 60 times on the face and neck at the victim's home in Tottenham, north London, the Old Bailey was told.Steven's body was later found tightly wrapped in a vacuum cleaner flex by his horrified mother.Judge Neil Denison ordered Jama, also of Tottenham, north London, to be detained at Her Majesty's pleasure.Jama, who suffers from Asperger's syndrome - a form of autism which disturbs the level of empathy for others - was told he would have to serve eight years before being considered for parole.Jama had pleaded not guilty to murder. His plea of guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility and provocation were rejected by the prosecution.Jama lashed out in a furious argument over a computer game called Xenogears and a PlayStation when he and Steven were both 16, the court was told.The pair shared a passion for computer games and they were so close that Steven, a sixth form student, had helped Jama write love letters to his girlfriend, said Mark Ellison, prosecuting.On the day Steven died Jama was seen walking with him to his home in the afternoon when Steven's parents were at work.Police discovered Jama's fingerprints in his victim's blood in the bedroom and two knives from Steven's collection dumped in a local park.After Steven's death Jama told police three different stories about his whereabouts during the murder.Press Association
Palm is briefing Europe on itsthree forthcoming machines(I had an hour with Todd Bradley et al on Wednesday). Some of the info is under NDA (ie a non-disclousre agreement) but Matt Loney has the news you can print. Update:IDGhas heard much the same pitch, whileCNethas names -- Zwire and Tungsten -- and prices.
VNU has a quick run-down ofthe main variants, which could be useful to beginners.
Microsoft has unveiled its long-expectedWi-Fi wireless productsintended to simplify the process or setting up home networks. Apple has, of course, been in this market for years, with cards sourced from Lucent. Intel is also in this market having taken overXircom.
OK folks: as all you avid Guardian readers know, BT is about to kick off a massive advertising campaign, called "Broadband has landed", to persuade lots of people to sign up for broadband in the next few months. And, as part of any Massive Advertising Campaign, it is deemed important to send journalists some trinkets, it appears.So now we have, on the online desk, a collection of pin badges, fridge magnets and keyrings. Six of them, all told. They all depict the charming flying pigs (in a Chicken Run Claymation style) who will be advertising BT's Broadband "fat pipe" over the next few weeks (starting on Sunday at an unearthly hour, as revealed in today'sCity Diary). We'll post a trinket each out to the first six people who manage to say something witty about broadband, flying pigs and BT in the comments box below. Keep it clean, and don't forget to include an email address - completely arbitrary judge's decision here next week.
"And over there," says Ben Widdicombe, nodding across the heaving room towards the freakish Marilyn Monroe caricature, "is Amanda Lepore." She is in a cream frock, not unlike Monroe's in The Seven Year Itch, only Lepore is wearing a corset so tight that John Galliano would blush. Her waist must be no more than 20 inches around. Lately, it is alleged, she has had two ribs removed to accentuate her hourglass proportions. (The removed ribs, it is said, have since been coated in gold and preserved for posterity.) Lepore is a muse for, among others, photographer David LaChappelle. Also, she was once a he. What with the breast implants, the peroxide helmet and the plump-to-bursting lips, Lepore is indeed a walking homage to Marilyn - and a testament to the wonders of plastic surgery. Pouting, preening and posing for the throng of photographers, she is also the centre of attention. This is New York fashion week, after all.And this is a party for Heatherette, who may be a person, or a label or both; in the fog of complimentary Absolut, it's hard to tell. "I'm here for the drink," Widdicombe confirms, a glint in his eye. "And the bad behaviour. Hopefully someone else's."As one half of Chic Happens, the internet fashion gossip column featured on hintmag.com, Widdicombe thrives on other people's bad behaviour. Along with Horacio Silva, Widdicombe commits to hypertext the crimes, misdemeanours and salacious secrets of fashionistas from Anna Wintour to Calvin Klein. The site was the first to report Kate Moss's pregnancy ("Not those 3am Girls, despite what they say"), the first to whisper of Anna Wintour's affair in one of its infamous "blind items", and merrily skewers anyone who's anyone, fashionably speaking."The fashion world is full of vain, awful, ridiculous, horrendous people, so we have a lot to work with," says Widdicombe, smiling. "We puncture egos, revel in hubris and deflate pretension, all of which is kind of unusual in fashion journalism since the business is almost completely unexamined by its own media. You will never see a negative review in Vogue - ever - because they're too reliant on advertisers, while Suzy &#91;the gossip column in W magazine&#93; is nothing but a list of what parties she went to. It's ludicrous and contains nothing that you want to know."Chic Happens has just celebrated its fourth birthday and Widdicombe attributes its success to the originality of its voice. "I'm surprised we've lasted this long, because I thought they'd have worked us out and all the doors would have slammed in our faces. In fact, the fashion industry's incredible capacity for hypocrisy has worked in our favour; we're hated and loved in equal measure. We're still here and we're kind of part of the scene now."Hence, we have already been to the Moet &amp; Chandon party after Behnaz Sarafpour's show, where the stupendously beautiful waiters offered the even more beautiful guests lemon   meringue pies the size of bumble bees to go with their fizz. "It's also the US premiere of the Moet miniflute," explained a perky PR brandishing a plastic cone straw substitute thing as he looked over my shoulder for someone more important to speak to.Widdicombe moved to New York with then boyfriend Silva five years ago after a youth spent in London, Sydney and, incongruously, Dover College in Kent. With Silva's background in fashion journalism ("He can tell you which model worked on which campaign five and 10 years ago") and Widdicombe's disdain for the fashion world ("I regard it as a spectator sport"), Chic Happens has developed a fanatical following within and without the world on which it so caustically comments. It's not surprising to learn that Silva and Widdicombe are in talks with Sky to bring their brilliant, bitchy talents to British television.Friendly, flirtatious and frank, Widdicombe is the antithesis of a frosty fashionista and isn't averse to misbehaving himself. At last year's New York fashion week, he got himself quite an accessory - six stitches in the back of his head after falling down a flight of stairs. "It didn't hurt," he says with a grin, "but it bled a lot. If you look at the stain on my Vivienne Westwood coat, you would think I'd been decapitated."Stairs are the least of Widdicombe's worries. After using the words "200lbs of quivering flesh" to describe Monica Lewinsky, the world's most famous intern smacked Widdicombe with her handbag while Iman slapped the air in front of his face. We can assume she was only half joking."We don't hang about with celebrities and exchange barbs; we don't verbally joust with Calvin Klein and his celebrity friends. At a party, we head for the bar and news sort of comes to us."And so it does, along with copious amounts of alcohol, much of it free. In the course of the night (three parties, including one at the Chelsea Hotel where a waiter who doesn't think I tipped him enough coincidentally smashes a glass), Widdicombe scribbles on napkins and scraps of paper, his ear always open to whispers, wicked and otherwise. He is quite the popular boy."Fashion is a bit like politics in that it attracts megalomaniacs," he says. "A lot of our sources are people in design houses and magazines who feel like they're doing the work but not getting the credit. The fashion media is very much a rich girl's game. You have to be thin and good-looking - which counts a whole lot more than brains - and Daddy has to have a few quid. You have to be able to afford to wear the clothes. The Sykes sisters &#91;Plum and Lucy - New York's resident British It girls&#93; are perfectly sweet, but they're not geniuses. They've done really well here on Daddy's money and by virtue of the fact that they look great in designer clothing. And they do look great in designer clothing. I don't wish them any ill, but they didn't get where they are because of their brains."Even though he admits to being part of the scene, Widdicombe isn't concerned about becoming that which he parodies. "There is a danger of that and if and when we do, there will be other people to ridicule us. That's what I'm hoping for, anyway."Hailing a cab, Widdicombe takes his leave with a word of advice for any parent considering letting their daughter become a model. "Give them a bag of coke and then drop them off at the sex-offender wing of the local prison," he says. "It's effectively the same thing." And with that, he's off into the New York night to prepare to do it all again.
NetNewsWire is my favourite way to read the various weblogs I like to keep up with - or, at least, it is when I'm working at home on my OSX Mac. We're still on mucky ol' 8.1 in the office. And now it (NetNewsWire - not OS 8.1) has emerged in full 1.0 version. Better still, there's a paid-for pro version on the way. There are lots of coolfeaturesplanned - the "train friendly" option would be enough to persuade me it's time to put OSX on my laptop, just by itself... (and if you're wondering what all this is about, read Ben Hammersley's excellentintroduction to RSS newsreadersfor PC and Mac, published in Online last month).
BT yesterday announced one of the most intensive advertising campaigns to be launched in Britain, in an effort to persuade households to sign up to high-speed broadband internet services.BT will spend &#163;1m a day for 10 days from Sunday to try to double the take-up of broadband as it looks to hit its target of 1m households with high-speed connections by next summer.The &#163;10m advertising campaign, featuring Pulp lead singer Jarvis Cocker, a 60ft three-headed dragon and two claymation pigs, comes ahead of a further &#163;23m campaign which will launch BT's no-frills broadband product.The news came as Irish directory inquiries operator Conduit took BT to court, alleging that the company tried to muscle in on its contract to supply 192 services to mobile phone company mmO2.Conduit, which also supplies Orange and Telewest, has complained to telecoms regulator    Oftel, too, saying BT abused its market position by offering preferential terms to mmO2.In addition, the head of BT's retail business Pierre Danon yesterday admitted that the company is talking to Vodafone and Vivendi about selling its 26% stake in French telecoms group Cegetel, which owns mobile operator SFR.Both Vodafone and Vivendi want to increase their holdings in Cegetel to gain control of SFR. While Vodafone wants a French mobile business to complete its European network, ailing Vivendi wants SFR's cash flows. While a cash injection from the sale of the stake would be welcome at BT, the company is more focused on getting its core British business to generate growth. High-speed internet access plays a crucial role in its drive for new revenue streams.To date, BT has 350,000 broadband connections and is taking 12,000 orders a week. It hopes to increase that to 24,000 orders a week in order to hit its 1m target by next summer.
"It's tempting to say it all started with the hookers, but it really didn't... " Chris Morris at CNN/Money gets to the root of the problem ofusing sex to sell video games.
&gt;connecting to server . . .Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:Saddam Hussein has now agreed to allow weapons inspectors into Iraq without conditions. Is he stalling for time, or simply complying with US demands? What should happen now?Host_Chris2:IMHO this is just another cynical ployPashmina:I say give him 1 more chancenameless:he's a pathological liar only interested in saving his own skincapitalistpiglet:im not saying we should trust him, but I think he must understand the dangers of being bombed at this stagePashmina:yes he really does nownameless:we cannot let him escape justice againPashmina:me nan thinks he greatHost_Chris2:Pashmina I'm surprised to hear you defend Saddam Hussein*LADEEZMAN has entered the NewsRoom*LADEEZMAN:yo roomPashmina:I thougt we were talking abt barrymoreHost_Chris2:we were discussing the topic: Saddam Hussein has agreed to unconditional weapons   inspectionsnameless:actually I was talking about barrymore as wellPashmina:its sad innit hes so talantedLADEEZMAN:YO ROOMPashmina:hi ladeezman still capped up I seeLADEEZMAN:YESHost_Chris2:that reminds me: from next month, all permachat users will need to have a registered username and a password. We've had several complaints about multiple usernames and impostors. You can register your username at &lt;A HREF="http://www.permachat.co.uk/signup."" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.permachat.co.uk/signup.Pashmina:they are tryin to censer uscapitalistpiglet:I agree, but I don't want anyone to get my name before I do*capitalistpiglet has left the NewsRoom*LADEEZMAN:brb*LADEEZMAN has left the NewsRoom**capitalistpiglet has entered the NewsRoom*capitalistpiglet:I am now officially registered as capitalistpigletPashmina:no one woud dare to steal my usernameBronco:I might change mine to MrLoverMannameless:I shall remain nameless*HugeDick69 has entered the NewsRoom*Host_Chris2:let's return to the topic, people.HugeDick69:ANY1 LIKE TO INSPECT MY WEAPONPashmina:ladeezman we know that is you&gt;connection to server has been terminated ...
Tone it downSony's game the Getaway (Online, September 12) sounds great, and I love the idea of the true-to-life London backdrop. However, with an 11-year-old son I won't be buying it as I respect the 18 certification. If this is primarily due to the "language of the street", and the disc is a DVD, why not issue a version for the potentially huge under-18 market? It couldn't be a huge cost, given the money already invested in the game.Geoff Dennisgdennis@btinternet.com&#183;According to Jack Schofield, "almost everyone who works in London... will want to try it". I'd guess that half the people in London are so busy interacting with - and struggling to survive in - the real world that they're barely aware there are such things as video games. Most of the rest of us have never laid a finger on one and can't imagine this new example being likely to change that.Albert Bealeworldpeace@gn.apc.orgHere and nowIt's OK: the fat lady can't sing (Second Sight, September 12). What a strange piece. It felt like a precusor to something - a little viral ad for a bigger insight. However, it did sum up the state of play and look towards a new open world of music. I ran a music website, a small site for the Bristol music scene. We didn't share files, we just focused on new acts and ran news on the established artists. But ideas floated around the office about how the industry was going to cope.My opinion was radical: I said they should give away the music. The music is the oil and the engine is the brand (and the band), the merchandise, the gigs, the membership to the website, the live and exclusive meets with the band. Essentially, record companies would have to concentrate on a smaller number of acts, they would have to forget about back catalogues and make money from the artists in the "now".In essence, they would have to work harder. Even I think it probably wouldn't work, but there is a middle ground that doesn't involve new laws, shutting down P2P companies and the consumer sticking their fingers up at the record industry while their other hand clicks a mouse to download the RIAA's precious metal.Ed Walkertenbasetee@hotmail.com* Steve Bowbrick (September 12) misses the point in some key areas. You mention we should not be worried by the possibility of a pumped-up music business empowered by silly new laws. Wrong. This is what we should be worried about. Legislation (US based) that effectively prevents any form of copying? Have you read about the UK implementation of a similar Euro law that could put software developers at risk of jail? Hollywood and the labels are running the show.They only want file sharing on their terms and their senators are doing a good job for them, especially by introducing bills that will give them the right to hack into an individual's home PC if they suspect copyrighted material is being shared. How about the case in Norway, where a 16-year-old boy reverse engineers the code embedded in DVD video discs so a software player can be developed for Linux, a free operating system.The MPAA, frightened that people might use the code to copy DVDs, made a scapegoat of him. Such is its power that they persuaded Norwegian authorities to prosecute. Big businesses want to retain control over the products. What is wrong is that Hollywood et al are trying to control other businesses' products to protect their own. Witness Intel producing embedded security technology on upcoming processors - billed as making for a more secure environment but actually designed to stop copyright material being played illegally. It's a similar story with Microsoft's Palladium initiative.Manufacturers of CD and DVD players for PCs are being leant on to introduce copy protection technology. And we take it. The majority of people are happy to pay huge prices, with only a small percentage of the mega profits going to the artist.  The entertainment industry fails to realise the huge potential of the net. Most media is now produced digitally.A lot more people have broadband connections. The production costs of CDs could largely be avoided by making use of this and allowing people to download albums and burn their own CDs or DVDs. Only if artists start producing their own material and disseminating via the net will record companies take notice. However, this won't happen. We will all be hamstrung by draconian US laws governing the world wide web.Pete Rutherfordpeter.rutherford@siemens.comGreen lifeThanks for Simon Birch's Working the Web (Green Tips, September 12). The websites quoted are excellent if you want to take a complete look at greening your lifestyle. However, sometimes consumers just want to take one step at a time. The websitewww.greenchoices.orgtells you simple things and encourages you without being too preachy.Tony Josephstony_josephs@hotmail.com* Save energy - switch your bloody computer off...Root Cartwrightroot.cartwright@btinternet.com
Microsoft has now outlined its plans for an assault on thebusiness software marketbased mainly on its takeover of Great Plains. A lot of people thought Microsoft would never get into this market because it involves competing with many of its own customers, who use Microsoft development tools to create business applications for Windows. It has delayed its entry by about 25 years, but the long-term need for growth now seems to be overriding such constraints.
Hitman 2: Silent AssassinPlayStation 2 	 &#163;39.99 Xbox 	&#163;44.99 PC 	&#163;29.99 Eidos 	****Busty archaeologists are fine but anyone who prefers their    gaming heroes a little more masculine should look at Hitman. A cross between Grant Mitchell and James Bond, the follicularly challenged agent is back in a sequel that dramatically improves upon the original.There is still the same mix of assassinations and espionage, but on PS2 you can now save mid-mission, which makes the action more accessible to newcomers. Starting off in a Sicilian monastery, the game takes you to Russia and beyond, and variety isn't a problem.The main issues are the controls and the graphics. Happily, both come out well, especially the visuals, which show a solidity and fluid animation style uncommon on PS2. But Hitman 2 isn't suitable for a console owner wanting a quick blast. This is all about stealth, cunning disguises and tactical planning. Whether it's stealing a guard's uniform to infiltrate a party in St Petersburg or interrupting two generals in a city park, there is plenty of sneaking and garrotting to be done.Unfortunately, the downside is a frustrating amount of trial and error, not helped by the harsh difficulty level. This is a very challenging game, with some missions simply too long. The time-limited levels, while realistically tight, feel overly constricting. Nevertheless, by mixing the stealthy bits of Metal Gear Solid with numerous spy-movie influences, Hitman 2 offers some welcome variety on the PS2. (GH)Project ZeroPS2 £29.99 Tecmo/Wanadoo ****Japanese arcade adventures have driven the genre almost single-handed for      years. Some work brilliantly (Final Fantasy and Resident Evil the obvious trailblazers), while others are too predictable and      badly translated. Project Zero falls in the middle, a flimsy premise crammed with excellent ideas and a brooding sense of      menace that younger gamers will find disturbing.You begin the game as a journalist named Mafuyu, armed only with a torch      and camera, creeping through a ruined manor in search of clues. Seconds later, and after a 10-second cut-scene every bit      as scary as the Blair Witch Project, you switch roles to play his sister Miku, trying to find out what became of him, fighting      off all manner of spooks.As the game progresses, you begin to increase the power of your camera. Ghosts moving through      mirrors and torchlight as the only means of illumination are survival horror staples, but Project Zero pulls them off with      panache. Part is down to good programming - for example, in the way there are no annoying "loading" pauses as you move      between rooms.However, the game also proves that the idea of an interactive movie is no longer the object of derision it      used to be. When a story is this well plotted, entering an ominously noisy room is far more tense when it's you choosing to      turn the handle.The first-person perspective blends well with third-person action. If nothing else, Project Zero is a wake-up      call to Squaresoft and Capcom that when it comes to horror, less is definitely more. (MA)Blade IIPlayStation2 £39.99 Xbox £44.99 Mucky Foot/ Activision **Blade II demonstrates the tribulations that beset      new UK developers. Created by Mucky Foot, who developed Urban Chaos and StarTopia for Eidos, it is typical of a game of a      film. It is not what you would expect to find an ambitious developer making for an American publisher.But movie tie-ups are      good for balance sheets, and generate the cash required to make more experimental games. Blade II is a well-executed, yet      generic, action-adventure game, in which you play a facsimile of the Wesley Snipes character.Combining shooting and      hand-to-hand combat it is authentic, but action-adventure gamers will feel they have seen it before. It tries to differentiate      itself by forcing you to select weaponry before each mission, and Blade has been given a rage meter which, when full, turns      him into even more of a killing machine.But the game is sufficiently brutal to spark debate about violence in games. Points      are even allocated according to how many opponents you kill during each mission. Graphically, Blade II is impressive      (particularly on the Xbox), but the camera occasionally makes things tricky, the gameplay becomes repetitious and the      close-quarters fighting a bit ponderous. Such games aren't the way forward. (SB)
&#163;499 PCsI read with great interest your article on &#163;500 computers (August 29). Are the ones you mentioned more powerful than the Packard Bell Pulsar 600 we bought two years ago?Bernard GabonyJack Schofield replies:Your Packard Bell has a 600MHz Pentium III, 64MB of memory and a 10GB hard drive. The minimum specification today is twice that: 1.3GHz Intel Celeron or Pentium 4 or AMD equivalent, 128MB of memory and a 20GB hard drive. But aim for something three times faster: a PC with the new 1.7GHz Celeron. This is the same as the top-of-the-range Pentium 4 chip from last April, apart from having a smaller cache memory. It also supports Intel Extreme graphics on the motherboard and double-data rate memory (DDR SDRam), which the old Pentium III-based Celerons do not. Finally, today's PC also comes with a much more advanced operating system: Microsoft Windows XP instead of Me.Or lessIs your &#163;499 PC a case of "rip-off Britain" again? Walmart in the USA has launched a $199 PC. Why can't we have deals like that?Andrew ClarkJS:Wal-Mart's &#163;199 PC has a slow processor (800MHz Via C3), small hard drive (10GB), outdated graphics (Trident), no floppy drive, no modem, no monitor, and originally had no operating system, though Wal-Mart is now installing the "Lindows" version of Linux. This runs some Windows programs usingWine. Remove the VAT (&#163;75), monitor, operating system and any delivery charges from a British &#163;499 PC and the prices are not very different from a Wal-Mart PC with a similar specification. American PCs are certainly cheaper than the equivalent British models: often $1 is roughly equivalent to &#163;1. However, this is not unique to the computer market.No JavaI have a new computer running Windows XP Home. Several websites I have visited invite you to download the Microsoft Virtual Machine to gain access. When I click to download it, a message pops up saying that it is no longer provided for Windows XP.Lynda RJS:The Microsoft Virtual Machine is Microsoft's equivalent of Sun's Java Virtual Machine (JVM), and Microsoft has either been taking it out or putting it back in response to Sun's various lawsuits. Basically, your PC supplier could have pre-installed the Microsoft VM, or you could have downloaded it before July 10. The main way to get it now is to install the latest Windows XP Service Pack 1, which provides a roll-up of bug fixes and some new features. Unfortunately, if you download all of SP1, it comes to    134MB. The alternative is to use the Windows Update facility. If you have been a regular visitor, most of SP1's updates will already have been installed; if not, not. Microsoft reckons the average SP1 download using Windows Update is about 30MB. For the latest news on the VM saga, seewww.microsoft.com/java/xp.htm.For further information about XP SP1 and download links, go towww.microsoft.comSince Microsoft will finally abandon its Java VM in January 2004, you could consider downloadingSun's JVMinstead. However, if a website's designers are stupid enough to create sites that are unusable without Microsoft's VM, there's no guarantee they will have tested it with Sun's. Certainly Microsoft has not tested it.Video on CDI've got a mini DV recorder that came with Pinnacle 7 Express. I edit and transfer my video on to CD and play it back using Windows Media Player, and that's OK. Pinnacle says if I upgrade to version 8, I can put the CD into my DVD player and watch it on TV. Is there a cheaper/better way to do this?Paul CooperJS:Pinnacle sells a huge range of video editing and broadcasting software for home and professional use, and some of its packages come complete with Firewire interfaces for desktop or notebook PCs.Pinnacle Studio Version 8provides an all-in-one solution that makes it easy to capture, edit, title and burn your video to CD-R and DVD discs.It is, however, possible to do the same jobs using free software. In this case, you could capture your video withVirtualDub. You could useTMPGEncto edit and convert your video sequences to Video CD (MPeg) format. You could then "author" the disc and add titles and menus usingVCDEasy, before burning the CD-R in the usual way.Pinnacle's "one-stop shopping" approach is undoubtedly easier, but you will learn more if you take the free software route. There is an excellent list of video software for PCs atwww.vcdhelp.com/tools.htm, and this site provides step-by-step guides to help beginners through the process. Andy McFadden'sCD-Recordable FAQis also a very useful resource.Backchat&#183;Last week, Nick Goodwin    wanted to "dual boot" his PC to provide a choice of two different versions of Windows. Michael McNamee suggests buying System Commander fromV Communications. I have not used it, but it includes Partition Commander 6 to handle DOS, NT's NTFS, and all sorts of Linux and Unix file systems.&#183;Joe Flatman wanted to buy his father a train sim for his Mac, but could only find PC software (September 5). Guy Ferger has the Microsoft Train Simulator for Windows but says he has never been able to get it to run using Connextix's Virtual PC for Mac, which is not designed for gaming.&#183;No long-running SMS-to-PC saga would be complete without a mention of Locust, according to Jon Anderson from Locust. This "provides an absolute multitude of services, including two-way email to SMS. You can also access it through your PC, via AOL Instant Messenger, via Wap, via the web, etc. Anyone can get a free trial by sending a text message saying TRIAL to 07973 410933 or by visiting the website atwww.locust.co.uk". It costs &#163;3 per month.
Number 46 Ellerton Road, Kingston, has no preserved trees in its garden. I          know this because I've just zoomed in on the address at random from a          website set up by the Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames.The web service, called ISIS (you can find it onwww.kingston.gov.uk), contains information on every address in the borough, whether it's a house, a shopping centre or a public toilet. Apart from tree preservation orders, each has          a planning history dating back to 1947 and a building history from the 1880s.          You can look at aerial photos, or check the distance to the nearest recycling          bins or school. And it's all free.Council officers like ISIS because they have to spend less time handling phone          inquiries. So do residents: ISIS handles around 100 "user sessions" a day.          One user commented: "No offence, but it's the last thing you'd expect to find          on a council website."ISIS is just one of many local services which demonstrate that, when it comes          to e-government, councils are capable of innovative thinking. This is just as          well, because the main burden of meeting the 2005 target for all public services          to be online will fall on the UK's 465 local authorities.It's a tall order. Local authorities face their own special obstacles on top of          those faced by Whitehall and other agencies. Let's look at those difficulties:Range of servicesCentral government agencies do only a handful of things - licensing drivers and vehicles, for example. Local authorities do at least 100, from running cemeteries to paying housing benefit to clearing wasps' nests. This creates big IT problems: metropolitan authorities such as Birmingham City have dozens of IT systems that were never designed to share information.Legal requirementsEverything that a local authority does is governed by laws specifying what it must and must not do. At present, for example, councils can't send out tax bills by email because by law they have to accompany bills with information about where the tax is being spent, and whether it's gone up since last year.The government has just announced plans to change this law, to allow councils          to get into e-billing. It is also considering changes to another, more controversial law, covering the sharing of personal data between departments.Today, on top of the normal provisions of the Data Protection Act, a council          department that collects data for one purpose has no legal power to use it for          another - even if the individual concerned gives consent. The 1992 Local          Government Finance Act specifically forbids the sharing of data in council tax          systems, which in most authorities are the most up to date.This means that authorities setting up council-wide change-of-address          notification and other "one-stop" services are usually breaking the law. It's one          of the issues that the Downing Street Performance and Innovation Unit proposes tackling in its report Privacy and Data-Sharing, published last April. But it will take time.FinancialLocal authorities are still the poor relations in the e-government bonanza. Of the pounds 1 billion in new money allocated for UK Online          between 2001 and 2004, local authorities received only pounds 350m. Their e-government plans, as set out in documents called Implementing Elecronic Government statements, add up to pounds 2.5bn. Although the chancellor's latest spending review has promised another pounds 511m, it is clear that councils which want to realise their e-visions will have to find money elsewhere - usually by cutting services.Local governmentA final problem has its roots in the philosophy of local government itself. It's clearly absurd for hundreds of authorities, all running more or less the same services, each to develop their own e-government          systems. Central government (and IT companies, which frequently come to grief in local government) are trying to persuade councils to form consortia or buy systems developed for their neighbours.This does not go down well in council chambers: the whole point of Upper Snodsbury Borough Council is to run things differently from Lower Snodsbury Borough Council. In their obsession with e-government, Whitehall, and the IT industry, would do well not to tread too heavily on what little remains of local          democracy.
Apple is finally attempting to find out how may Windows users will pay twice the price for asmaller MP3 player, though it seems it hasn't gone so far as to do a USB 2.0 version or port iTunes or make it work with Audible.com or add Windows Media Audio file compatibility. However, Simon Bisson may have found a solution tothe iPod's power management bugthat otherwise involves taking the machine apart and detaching the battery.
After spending years rubbishing personal computers (in favour of "network computers") and years rubbishing Linux (hopelessly inferior to Sun's own Solaris version of Unix), Sun seems to have seen the light and done a U-turn on both views, at least at the low end of the market. It now plans to offer aLinux PC.However, it is unlikely to reach any geek homes. According to CNet, Sun's idea is sell packages of 100 network-dependent PCs, including 5-years' support, for $300,000.
There are several "virtual keyboards" in development and I don't think I'd bet onthis, but it's certainly innovative.Extreme Techhas more details.
It's Thursday, so Online ison the web. Ben Hammersley looks at the BBC's plans for world domination, Jack Schofield reports from San Jose and the Intel Developers' Conference, and Sean Dodson sees some remarkable digital art - including a game of pong that gives you an electric shock when you lose - in Austria. And for those of you dying to know about the results of Guardian Unlimited's Best Blog compo: that'snextweek. Ok,Tom? :-)
It beats me why anyone would wish to transmit live images of their most intimate moments to a voyeuristic world. Personal webcam sites have exploded on to the internet and none more so than the ubiquitous "girlcams". But having recently moved to the other side of the globe, I, too, have jumped on the webcam bandwagon.Webcams offer a wealth of possibilities, from entertaining friends with stand-up comedy, to monitoring your dog while at work. I was interested purely in the webcam's video conferencing capability as an antidote to homesickness. For what better way to keep up with the family back home than to drop in to their living room for unlimited chats without worrying about my phone bill? No wonder so many people here in Australia have acquired this inexpensive piece of technology for staying in touch with relatives overseas.I paid less than &#163;50 for aLogitech QuickCam Web, which comes with a built-in microphone and all the software you need. For video calling, you need a webcam at both ends and, ideally, a fast internet connection and full duplex sound card. The compact unit, designed to perch on a monitor, seemed an ingenious birthday present for my distant mother. It also promised to be a great investment guaranteed to pay for itself in phone bill savings in a couple of leisurely online reunions.With our children geared up for a live rendition of happy birthday, we requested our first net meeting. A few moments later, we landed in my brother's living room in Sussex and our geographically separated families could see each other for the first time in more than a year. We all huddled around the monitor and squinted at the images that filled much less than a quarter of our 19-inch screen. But fiddle as we might with our microphones and software, we could not hear a thing at either end. We waved and gesticulated wildly, actions that appeared as delayed jumpy movements that froze rather comically on several occasions. Finally, after a frustrating hour on the phone to each other (rather defeating the cost-cutting objective), we sorted the   audio glitch by disabling our firewalls."Hello, can you hear us?" we chorused excitedly from both ends. A long pause followed because we were talking over the top of each other. When all was quiet, we tried another tack. "Let's say 'over' when we've finished speaking. Over". Pause. "OK", came the reply with the "over" omitted. Another two-second pause, then both ends tried speaking again in unison. The much-rehearsed happy birthday performance was lost in the mix.The two-second delay in the audio has proved a real conversation killer, particularly for get-togethers involving three generations. Logitech's support system helpfully pointed out that we were using the webcam to bridge a huge distance. "You may see some delays, and the voice will probably not exactly coincide with the video." Too true, but we soon eliminated distance as the main cause of the delay. We made a number of calls to different destinations but the audio delay was roughly the same: two seconds to London, two seconds to Hong Kong and darn near two seconds to just around the corner.I telephoned other webcam owners to swap experiences. "The voice and video are OK on their own, but a bit dodgy together," said one user, who relied on the webcam for vision but the phone for voice. A more enthusiastic advocate said that he and his family have learned to anticipate when someone is about to finish speaking and launch a reply before the delay kicks in. "It does take a bit of getting used to but you don't need to revert to CB talk. We can hold a reasonable conversation even on a dialup modem."The Microsoft NetMeeting video call software is free to download atwww.microsoft.com/windows/netmeeting. Expensive video conferencing software may do the job better, but the beauty of the webcam package is that it is wonderfully affordable, making video conferencing accessible to home users for the first time.In spite of getting our wires crossed, the opportunity for my mother to see her grandchildren was a wonderful birthday surprise. Our children were also thrilled to be reunited with grandma's dog and their cousins' cat. As for chatting, we've found we can exchange more information over the phone in 10 minutes than we can in an hour of internet chat. But who cares? It's fun and, with our cable connection, it's free.
Auntie Beeb certainly gets around on the internet. There's not a subject that hasn't got her distinctive features all over it. News? No problem. Sports? Certainly. Education? Both O and A-levels, my dear, no extra charge.And she upsets the neighbours, too. Every pound of the &#163;100m that goes from the licence fee to BBC's new media is seen by other internet publishers as adding a little more wood to their smouldering funeral pyres.But the BBC's 300 new media staff, and their massive efforts on the web and interactive TV, are not a new phenomenon driven by dotcom greed. They are the latest instalment in the BBC's 20-year-old effort to create a digital Britain.Twenty years ago, the launch of the BBC's computer literacy project and, with it, the BBC Microcomputer, started the technological revolution in the UK. By the end of its product life, the BBC Micro had sold more than 1 million units. Every school had the option to buy one at a discount. Two generations of school children have been introduced to the wonders of the digital age, inspired directly or indirectly by the BBC's original efforts.Now, with its websites and interactive television some of the most popular in the UK, the BBC is gearing up to do it again. The heads of the BBC's new media empire say the critics have got it wrong.We meet across the road from the BBC's spiritual home, Bush House, in London. There, Ashley Highfield - director of the BBC's new media and technology section - is keen to highlight the links between what the BBC does now and what it was doing all those years ago."The parallels are interesting," he says. "The vision we've got in new media is to try to accelerate digital Britain, and that seems to have been much the driver 20 years ago behind BBC Micro; of trying to, one, create a much more technologically aware Britain, and two, make it really easy for people to get on, which is still our mantra."The BBC is not, alas, about to launch a new BBC Micro for the 21st century. With the age of the internet, it is not needed."I think we are really all about interoperability," says Peter Bury, head of the BBC's research and development department. "Perhaps, back in the early 80s, there was no common platform. The industry has grown up and now understands that unless you have common standards, nobody actually makes any money."Ah. Money. You remember all the stuff at the beginning? How other internet companies are a little upset with the BBC? How dare the BBC, the rivals demand, come over to the internet and start offering all this great content with no need to make money? Don't they realise there are private companies trying to earn some cash here?They go on. The British Internet Publishers Association (the membership of which includes the publishers of the Guardian) complains: "The size of audience for the BBC's internet services adds considerably to the costs and risks of the establishment of new, competitive services. Furthermore, it provides the potential for the BBC rapidly and without constraint to develop extensive new revenue streams, again at the expense of actual and potential competitors."Or to put it another way, if the BBC is going to give it away free, why would anyone pay us?The answer, as far as the BBC is concerned, is not as sinister as the BIPA might think. Ignoring the question of whether anyone would pay to support commercial operations given the amount of free content worldwide, the BBC's new media team does not see itself as competing with anyone. In fact, they say its job is to help everyone out.Highfield says: "We're trying to find out what people want, what they don't want, and then we will publish our findings. If we can work to create the content, share all of what works and what doesn't, and help set standards, then basically everyone in this industry is going to win."So does the BBC see that as an extension of the public service remit: you're creating open standards for the benefit of the entire industry?Highfield again: "Yes. We have to be the creative R&amp;D for the industry. We had to be the innovative, venture capital for the UK media, and that is one of our most important roles. We're doing it to learn, find out what works, to share it."You don't look at the figures and celebrate beating rival sites? You don't actively go out for higher ratings?"No."While the argument could be made that private companies should already know that the BBC exists, and see the difficulties involved in competing with it before they start, the BBC does make itself difficult to pin down. And their openness after the launch of a new service contrasts notably with their secrecy before.For a public service corporation portraying itself as the creative R&amp;D for the nation, it does a very good job of keeping its upcoming "research" secret. Indeed, their interview technique - blanking specific questions regarding future plans - is as good as any commercial company's. Nevertheless, rumours - albeit completely unconfirmed - do come out of Bush House.For instance, there's the one about a complete change in copyright philosophy: where the idea is that the licence fee payer has already paid for, and in many respects owns, all the content produced by the BBC. Thinking this way, the BBC could then allow anyone who wants to use existing BBC content to do so. The onus then will rest on the commercial operations to take on board both BBC advice, and their content, and create something better. Such a radical plan, if the rumour is accurate, would place the BBC in a unique position.That, of course, is just one idea, and given such a huge staff and a such a wide-ranging remit, Highfield's team is unlikely to stick in one area for long - a fact that further infuriates commercial rivals."What we're trying to do now is move across different genres," he says. "From a summer of sport we're moving into a fall of factual."If you've ever seen a man wish he'd not coined a phrase, you can recall that image now. Nevertheless, Highfield is pleased with the plans for the next few months.One project has the internet and interactive digital television departments acting as the primary outlet, with broadcast television dipping in. The BBC will be dropping a deep water sub to the bottom of the sea. It will take a day to get down, look around, and come back up. All the while, live coverage will be shown on the web and interactive channels. BBC 1 will dip in through the day, but new media is the main outlet.Taking the web from a geeky diversion, to the long-trouser-wearing main channel for such a major broadcasting project, is both pleasing for the new media team, and a radical change in broadcasting philosophy.In the beginning, says Highfield, everyone thought the internet was just like television, but with words. It's not the first time the incumbent media has got it wrong: Highfield is fond of a story from the early days of telephony, when newspapers tried to colonise the new medium by reading the news out to paying subscribers."The telephone rings and you pick it up and somebody speaks the news at you for 10 minutes," says Highfield. "You're not allowed to interrupt them because it's a live person there and, in the end, you go 'thank you very much' and hang up. Clearly this was barking mad."He draws a parallel with today's early efforts at interactive television. "All we've done is, by and large, enhanced linear television," he says. "But in 10 years' time, we'll say, well yeah that was useful, but we so missed the fact that this is now a two-way medium, and therefore it will become a different device."The concept of the two-way web is an important one for the BBC new media department. Tom Loosemore, its head of web communities, is looking at using the BBC's network of popular regional radio stations to bring audiences online.One project to be launched next year is a radio and web local history project, aimed at the older generations. As Loosemore says: "There, at a stroke, if we get it right, we'll have created a mass increase in the reach of 55-plus on the internet, through community-based regional services."The BBC's original ambition - to educate and join the country together as a nation - seems to figure strongly in the new media department's thinking. Highfield again: "I think so many people have always looked at the negative side to these technologies, such as the isolationist potential, whereas the sort of communities we've created, through the BBC, are totally liberated."He tells one final story - of the Radio 1 website user who  posted a message saying they were ready to commit suicide. The community of teenagers rallied round, and there was a happy ending. "How mature those 15-year-olds must have ended up as a result of that  particular experience," he says.And perhaps that's how it will be: while the Reithian BBC had Nations speaking unto Nations, the internet-age BBC is trying for something more personal. Not nations declaiming unto us from above, but people speaking with other people.And while they may get together to chat about EastEnders today, who knows what they will talk about tomorrow?
As the sun sets over the Danube on a balmy Saturday night, the main bridge in the Austrian city of Linz is thronged with thousands of spectators jostling for a view of the city's biggest party of the year.Two giant screens shaped like sails float above the water, while ships are illuminated by a dazzling array of fireworks and lighting. Banks of speakers suspended from cranes hang over the river and in the adjacent Brucknerhaus, an orchestra performs a special score by Christian Muthspiel. It must be the biggest multimedia extravaganza of the year.Linz is the setting for the opening night of the Ars Electronica - the biggest and oldest digital arts festival in the world. The week-long festival was established in 1979 and features hundreds of exhibits spread across seven sites.Since 1984, the festival has also held a prize ceremony for the cyber arts. A staggering 1,373 artists from 80 countries submitted 2,326 works this year, competing for the six Golden Nicas - statuettes that look like molten angels - awarded for digital art and music. There are 18 cash prizes worth a total of &euro;109,000.They take digital art seriously in Austria. The grand prize ceremony is screened live on Austrian public television and most of the national papers print special supplements for the festival. In recent years, Golden Nicas have been awarded to Linus Torvalds (the chief author of the Linux   operating system) and to the makers of the Hollywood movie Titanic.This year, the top prizes went to Canadian David Rokeby, for his installation n-cha(n)t, and the film Monsters Inc. Crispin Jones, a graduate of the Royal Academy of Arts, represented the UK with An Invisible Force, which won an honorary mention in the Interactive Arts category.The festival is focused around Linz's unique Ars Electronica Centre. Dubbed the Museum of the Future, the centre is dedicated to new technology and is the only place in the world where   members of the public can visit one of a handful of Caves (cave automatic virtual environment).Unlike other virtual reality applications, which rely on complicated headsets, the Cave is a box-shaped room - not unlike a primitive version of the holodeck in Star Trek - where several people can experience virtual reality together. Through the use of special motion-tracking 3D spectacles, visitors become immersed in a virtual environment. When the program runs, the walls seemingly expand, while objects fly about the room. A wand-like device controls the Cave and adds to the sense of magic.One can't escape the digital arts in Linz in September. In the attractive main square, a   man in lederhosen and a feathered hat talks on a mobile phone, unaware that his shadow is projected six storeys high against a giant white screen obscuring the city hall.There are hundreds of other works on show, and dozens of talks, club nights and live concerts to attend. You could spend a whole week in Linz and not see half of it. Some is ponderous, some is old, but if you want to experience the future of digital culture, there is no better place to be. As the curator Timothy Druckrey once wrote, Ars Electronica has become responsible for "a generation of committed but dispersed artists, engineers, writers, curators and theorists &#91;that have&#93; found a focal point in the improbable city of Linz."Pushing the boundariesJam-O-Drum: Circle Mazewww.etc.cmu.edu/projects/jamodrumThe UK's Tina Blaine and Clifton Forlines created a musical game for children that promotes collaboration. A round table allows four people to make music together by directing a virtual ball to the centre. Inspired by experiences of communal music-making in non-western cultures, the pair developed the game while on a residency at Carnegie Mellon University in Pennsylvania.Faust II Hybrid Versionwww.vision.co.jp/66bIn a converted tobacco factory, a performance by a Japanese dance troupe dressed in futuristic costumes -66b/cell - revived Goethe's myth to a soundtrack of techno music: a seamless marriage of contemporary dance and cutting-edge computer graphics.Painstationwww.painstation.dePainstation, a version of the arcade classic Pong, won an honorary mention. On a two-player console, players compete by placing one hand on a metallic sensor. For each lost point, the console administers a small electric shock. Lose three times in a row and a tiny wire whiplashes your palm. Sound a terrible idea? In Linz, people queued up to get hurt.The Crossing-Projectwww.crossingproject.netA virtual exploration of Hindu mythology, Ranjit Makkuni's The Crossing Project is a journey through the Indian city of Banaras, on the banks of the River Ganges and the legendary home of the Indian deity Shiva. The exhibit's e-rickshaw, complete with monitor, was a talking point.
It's transparently obvious that, even putting aside the war on terror, we are in a pickle about security in general and identity in particular. There's a theory that better identity management might help fight crime and terrorism. But there is also a sense that better identity management might be disastrous for civil liberties. The hunt is on to find the right balance between identity management, technological implementations and human   rights. The hunt is on for the "privacy settlement" I have referred to previously in this paper.It is difficult to figure out what that settlement should be and what role technology should play in it. The role of government is particularly difficult. Is it part of the problem or part of the solution? In the US, many law enforcement agency websites list names, addresses, dates of birth, social security numbers and sometimes even provide photographs. Everything that an ID fraudster needs.In Australia (where the authorities receive 4,500 fraudulent applications for business registrations per day and one mobile operator is losing $5m a week to fraud), the former minister of health Neal Blewett said that privacy is a "bourgeois right that is very much associated with the right to private property".So what does the UK government want? I think it wants ID cards as a "magic bullet". But does the government really want no privacy at all? Surely it must be in the government's best interests to encourage the use of technologies that can actually help it to achieve worthwhile goals?There is a range of technologies widely used to implement ID cards and   related systems. Smart cards, digital certificates and so on are hardly new. We have a choice about how these technologies are to be configured and deployed. To make those choices, we need to know what the problem is: do we need to know who someone is in all circumstances?I don't think so. What you need to provide is some sort of credential rather than your actual identity. Suppose the local council gave you an ID card and you needed that ID card to get into the leisure centre. What is being checked when you are asked to present the card at the desk? Your name? Why? What the leisure centre needs to know is not who you are, but what you are (ie, a resident of the borough, or whatever).There are, of course, cases where absolute knowledge of someone's identity is important. Opening a bank account online would be easier if a consumer could put his identity smart card into his PC when connecting to a bank, as is the case in Finland. There are still, however, different "levels" of absolute knowledge of identity. The UK government has proposed three in relation to its government gateway: authentication based on "balance of probabilities", "substantial assur ance" for activities such as tax returns, and "beyond reasonable doubt" for activities such as passport applications.However these authentication levels might be established, it is important to minimise the cases where knowledge of identity is required for a transaction. Every time a person is required to establish his absolute identity there is an increase in the potential for identity theft and other privacy invasions. At The Rack, a bar in Boston, about 10,000 people a week hand over their drivers' licences to a doorman, who swipes them through a machine. It also stores, unbeknown to the customers, their name, address and other personal details. The owner bought the machine to keep out underage drinkers, but soon found he could build a useful marketing database.As this case demonstrates, there's a world of difference between being asked whether you are over 18 (a credential) and being asked who you are (an identity). Moving to an environment where identity is disguised and credentials are used in transactions (known as "pseudonymity") is a simple way to minimise the potential for privacy violation. It is perfectly feasible to opt to base mass-market identity management schemes on pseudonymity (see, for example, the work of Stefan Brands at Credentica) and therefore preserve individual privacy in the emerging online environment.Pseudonymity (between, for example, a person using a smart card with a PIN to purchase something in a shop and the shopkeeper) makes it possible to arrange anonymity in legal transactions with accompanying legal certainty. Pseudonymity is therefore both socially useful - because it preserves a socially desirable "organised anonymity" -and an excellent basis for evolving a real privacy settlement that works for government, citizens and businesses alike.
Space elevateThe idea of "taking an elevator into space" - or, at least, ascending a carbon fibre ribbon to orbital height - is one of the most interesting to emerge for years. The idea is explained in depth at the HighLift Systems site. The FAQ includes the bad news that you will not be able to hitch a ride. "An additional, stronger ribbon would have to be built for human transport to become practical," it says.www.highliftsystems.comDigital fabricsFuture Physical, which "celebrates the interaction of the human body with digital technology", was launched last week at Norwich Arts Centre as part of East England Arts' Arts and Technology Plan. The programme   promises a wide range of online and offline events and artworks, including Wear Me. The December meeting will focus on wearable computers, body-sensing technologies and active fabrics, and will include a number of artworks such as Nicholas Stedman's Blanket Project: "The device will navigate through space seeking out individuals for intimate encounters", which sounds rather like the Starship Enterprise.www.futurephysical.orgTop classesEvery newspaper seems to have its own guides to the top schools and universities, including the Guardian, but they are all narrow and parochial. What about Mother Jones's list of the Top 10 Activist Schools, India Today's Top 10 Colleges, Pforzheim University's list of the world's top 50 business schools, and Academic Squirrels, which ranks universities by the size, girth and health of their squirrel population? All these and more are covered by the College and University Rankings site provided by the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. In the US, of course, the top ranker is US News and World Report, which has just published its annual survey of America's Best Colleges. Yes, Princeton again, followed by Harvard and Yale.http://education.guardian.co.uk/universityguidewww.library.uiuc.edu/edx/rankingswww.usnews.com/usnews/edu/college/rankingsLog linesNew Technology versions of Microsoft Windows - NT, 2000 and XP - keep an event log that records some significant events and many trivial ones, such as successful network log-ons. GFI has launched a free online service that picks out the "critical" entries and displays them in your browser. It's basically a promotion for GFI's LANguard software, which a   company could use to monitor things such as hacking attempts.www.gfi.com/eventlogscanTag hagsJust what you have always wanted: the ability to make labels online. The Acme Labs system defaults to the great Dyno font, but you can also use Future, Trek Classic, Tolkien, and some very unpleasant alternatives. And if that's not enough, Acme Labs also lets you run off American and Canadian licence plates, with options from Alabama to Yukon in a good range of years. The easiest place to pick a blank plate is R T Brandon's Blank License Plate site.www.acme.com/licensemakerwww.rtbrandon.com/blankplateslabelmakerwww.acme.com/licensemakerSignsLycos was the first search engine to publish lists of the most popular search topics, and to celebrate its third anniversary, it looked back at some of the odder things to enjoy a few moments of fame. They include Ginger/Segway, Q33NY, Claire Swire, and Chu Mei-Feng. Nowadays, of course, Google's Zeitgeist page often has more of interest. Last month, for example, Spanish users were searching for young heart-throb David Bisbal, while in Japan it was Gackt - J-pop artist Kamui Gakuto.http://50.lycos.comwww.google.com/press/zeitgeist.htmlAhoy, there!Talk Like A Pirate Day is being held today. The idea was given publicity by columnist Dave Barry, as the B3TA newsletter has reminded me. Re-reading Treasure Island would be a good way to get into the spirit of the thing. You can get a Jolly Roger and everything else you need from the Pirate's Locker.www.bayarea.comwww.b3ta.com/newsletter/issue56http://ferncanyonpress.com/pirates/treasure/island.shtmlhttp://ferncanyonpress.com/pirates/locker.shtmlwww.jollyrogerpirates.com/terms.shtmlNew &amp; noted&#183;How many search engines have a trivia quiz?www.google.com/googlequiz.html&#183;Yet another front end to lots of search resources:www.maridadi.com&#183;Blog of the week:www.searchengineblog.com&#183;Google in Ireland:www.google.ie&#183;Bubblewcam:www.andieandmike.org/bubblecam-push.stmSix of the bestNewslettersTom's Hard Newswww.tomshardware.comSearchDayhttp://searchenginewatch.com/searchdayFred Langawww.langa.comMike Elganwww.mikeslist.comLockergnomewww.lockergnome.comTourbushttp://tourbus.com
Can the Peace One Day event be followed on the net? The Brixton Academy event on September 21 will be webcast by MSN. Peace One Day is aware of committed activities in 57 countries - 22 of them at governmental level. These are all listed on the website along with everything else that's going on. This is how the net community can be harnessed to help. Immediate information and communication, in any language, at any time, anywhere, is the weapon of peace.Is September 11 being used to restrict the freedom of the net?I always suspected that they'd hang on to our emails and there'd be a slow chipping away of privacy. One of my conspiracy theories is that someone does actually own all the infrastructure for the net, so basically anything you say or do on the net is "owned" somewhere down the line, which means someone then owns our freedom in many respects!Does the increasing amount of computer generated images (CGI) in movies concern you as an actor?I recently worked onDog Soldierswhere most of the effects were done "in camera" with animatronics, etc. I still think CGI is amazing but everyone's now seen morphing and the other effects. I've done a few movies that have been largelybluescreenand if it's used well, it can be genius. I just think when it's rammed down your throat too much, your eye becomes attuned to it and it doesn't actually live and breath. Maybe it's time to start writing better scripts again.What computer do you use?I have just got a newMac G4 laptop. I mainly use it for email, scripts, iMovies and a bit of editing. I've just gotTelewest broadband, which is very fast and which I'm really into just now. I don't use chatrooms or messaging, mainly because my qwerty typing sucks!Favourite gadgets?I would put myiPodat the top of the list. I hate CDs but I love my hip hop and old school reggae, so I've downloaded four days of music on to my iPod. I wish there was superb voice recognition that would actually work, as in Minority Report! I also love my PS2 andXbox: Halois the most sublime game ever made! I'm looking forward to it being winter so I have even more excuse to stay inside and play it!Favourite websites?I'm not really a huge surfer _ I just mess about on it. I did experiment withGroksteras a friend in the music business explained to me how scandalous these things were, but I gave up when loads of warnings came up on screen!Visit:www.peaceoneday.org&#183;Sean Pertwee is speaking at Saturday's Peace One Day event at Brixton Academy in London to mark the UN's international day of peace.
'Consumers don't care about megahertz," the number we use to describe a microprocessor's speed, "what they really care about is realised performance." So says Pat Gelsinger, Intel's chief technology officer, and the man who directs its research. This sounds almost heretical from a company that has spent three decades shipping chips that run faster and faster. However, the not-so-hidden message from Paul Otellini, Intel's president and chief operating officer, is that the next range of desktop processors "will give up to a 25% increase in performance" at the same clock speeds, thanks to a new ingredient - "hyper-threading".The basic idea is to enable a Pentium to run different streams of program instructions - threads - in parallel. On a multiprocessor server, the different threads might be run on separate processors. With Intel's hyper-threading (HT), a single processor does the job. In theory, you get two "logical" processors for the price of one physical processor.The catch is that you have to buy a new processor to get it, and Otellini says a 3GHz HT Pentium will be out by the end of the year. "We'll have 20m desktops shipping with hyper-threading next year."HT is not new: it's already available in Intel's Xeon versions of the Pentium, designed for high-powered workstations and multiprocessor servers. Multi-threading has also been used in software for almost 30 years. Why hasn't Intel offered it to desktop users before?"What's changed is that, with Windows XP, you now have a multi-threaded operating system that you can take advantage of in the desktop space," says Gelsinger. He concedes that Windows NT has supported multiprocessing and multi-threading since 1993, "but now it's come to the mainstream for the first time."This is good news for consumers, who will get a PC that operates more smoothly and is better at doing more than one thing at a time - particularly if one of those things is something like speech recognition or capturing video. It's great for a depressed PC industry, which can now sell a slightly better PC to people who already have a perfectly adequate one. And it's best of all for the deadly duo, Intel and Microsoft, when a new version of Windows justifies buying a PC with a new Intel processor, and vice versa. It's called "the upgrade spiral". It's very profitable.Intel demonstrated HT at its latest Intel Developer Forum, held in San Jose, California, last week. More than 4,000 developers turned up from all over the globe for classes that ranged from a hands-on workshop on accelerating your Universal Plug &amp; Play development to the easy-peasy Designing an IXP425 network processor-based residential gateway. It also invited, as usual, more than 400 journalists and industry analysts for briefings, including, not as usual, me. The attraction is the chance to cross-question top management, though it helps if you recognise them. At IDF, they all wear the same Intel blue shirts: it is not always obvious which ones are running multibillion dollar divisions.Nor surprisingly, Intel focused on the forthcoming chips it wants IDF attendees to use in their forthcoming PCs. Most are Pentiums for notebook and desktop PCs, but the company also has the Xeon and Itanium 2 ranges for workstations and servers, the XScale (nee ARM) chips used in mobile phones and handheld computers such as HP's Compaq iPaq, plus the IXP425 network processor and other chips designed for communications.Besides hyper-threading Pentiums, the next major launch will be Banias: the codename for a power-efficient version of the Pentium 4 designed from the ground up for "thin and light" internet-attached notebook PCs. Banias is expected to appear in the first quarter of next year, running at 1.4GHz. (Intel says "first half".) It should enable PC manufacturers to build standard notebooks that offer eight hours of   battery life, which doesn't mean they will.Anand Chandrasekher, general manager of Intel's mobile platforms group, says: "Banias is going to take over the majority of mobile platforms." Intel has also, he says, been collaborating with Microsoft and the Tablet PC manufacturers, and "we absolutely expect all of those designs will migrate to the Banias architecture." If all that happens, it will be bad news for Transmeta, which had hoped to find a niche for its Crusoe chips in the low-power market.I ribbed Gelsinger, in our one-on-one, that HT and Banias made it look as though Intel was giving up on the megahertz race which, after all, could not go on much longer. He emphatically did not agree with that. "Paul &#91;Otellini&#93; showed a Pentium 4 running at 4.7GHz this morning," he said, "and within the next 10 years we'll have multibillion transistor chips operating in excess of 30GHz delivering 1 tera-instruction per second of performance within one piece of silicon. So we have a long way to go yet, and I believe it continues well past that." (Tera means 2 to the power of 40 or 1,099,511,627,776.)One of the advantages of having billions of transistors on a chip is that you can have bigger cache memories. This means the processor can get data very quickly instead of   waiting perhaps hundreds of clock cycles while it is fetched from slow main memory. "There is no end to the benefits of bigger caches in sight," says Gelsinger. "Another direction is chip-level multiprocessing, where you put multiple processors on a single die. But the big theme is not just thinking about transistors but thinking about applying silicon in new areas. Wireless - integrating radios into silicon; integrating photonics, and even integrating sensors into silicon. Further out, there are biological things you could think about integrating as well."But multi-threaded execution - chip-level multiprocessing - is the next big thing, which is why our hyper-threading announcement is such a big deal for the consumer desktop space. You get 30% extra performance and it doesn't cost you an extra penny. And this is just the beginning. What you're going to see us do with threaded machines in the future is dramatically beyond what we've announced today."&#183;www.intel.com/technology/hyperthread
Steve Case, one of the chief architects of the souring marriage between America Online and Time Warner, is coming under pressure from shareholders to step down.Mr Case, chairman of the combined group, could face calls for his resignation at a board meeting in New York tomorrow. According to several reports in the US, a number of directors on the AOL Time Warner board are seeking his removal in order shore up investors' confidence.Gerald Levin, the former Time Warner chief executive who agreed to the merger, resigned from the top job of the combined company in January. Another senior figure from the America Online camp, Bob Pittman, was ousted as chief operating officer of the group in the summer.Mr Case is the last surviving member of the America Online team among senior management and the last remaining architect of the merger of old and new media.Investors have turned their ire on Mr Case because of the turnaround in the fortunes of the internet business. Instead of supercharging the old media divisions of Time Warner, America Online has suffered falling advertising sales and faltering subscriptions.Fears for the future of America Online have been a big factor in the 70% decline in the company's shares since the merger was completed."I would like to see Steve Case resign or be forced to resign," said Hal Vogel, head of New York fund manager Vogel Capital Management. "The sooner they get on to it, the better. Others who have messed up get pushed out."The New York Times said Mr Case, 44, would face a challenge at the board meeting from at least three directors but was likely to be able to round up enough support to see off the threat.An AOL spokeswoman denied that Mr Case was about to leave the company.The anger directed toward Mr Case has intensified with the controversy surrounding advertising deals that may have inflated revenues at America Online. AOL admitted it had uncovered at least three dubious deals, and the company is under investigation by federal authorities and regulator the securities and exchange commission.Mr Case has spent much of the past year out of the spotlight as new chief executive Richard Parsons has taken centre stage. Mr Parsons has shaken up management, promoting a number of Time Warner executives and bringing in an outsider to run America Online.
Lastminute is allset to report its first quarterly profitat the end of the month. Of course, the profit will come before a bundle of costs are removed, and some might argue that the fact that a travel agency - which is what Lastminute pretty much is this days - should really be hoping to make a profit between July and September. Worse, as today's Guardian city notebookpoints out, dig a bit deeper into Lastminute and there's still a lot that is unsatisfactory: not least its crappywebsiteand relatively high prices. It's certainly one of the last places I'd look for a cheap travel deal.
A visit to MP Chris Smith 's website (www.islington.org.uk/labour) is a baffling ordeal. On the one hand, it looks bang up to the minute, state of the art. It has today's date on the homepage, for instance, which is always a good start. And then there is the heartening message under the heading about working hard for local people: "Being an MP is more about listening than talking. Since I was re-elected in 1997 in Islington, I've done lots of listening. I listened to local people who were threatened with eviction from their homes after housing benefit delays at ITNet. I listened to the Post Office staff at Mount Pleasant who faced huge job losses. I listened..." Enough. The man listened - get the picture?But did he do anything after he listened? We may never know - click on the outline map of the constituency that bears the legend: "Click here to see what Labour's done in Islington South and Finsbury", and up pops: "Not found. The requested URL /maps/done.phtml was not found on this server. Additionally, a 404 not found error was encountered while trying to use an error document to handle the request." Which isn't a great achievement however you look at it.What's more, you have to worry about who Smith has been listening to. Click on the letter from Chris and you will find this: "Dear friends, The general election has now been called. In just a few weeks, you will have a chance to cast your vote to decide how the future of our country will be shaped. It's in your hands to decide whether Britain continues to move forward, creating jobs for young people." And so on. Just one thing. Is there an election looming? Didn't we just have one?But he isn't alone in his apparent belief that we are living in the spring of 2001 or earlier. Stephen Dorrell's homepage (www.stephendorrell.org.uk), for instance, has a picture of an uncomfortable looking man affecting to be writing on a pad while looking into the middle distance (in the time-honoured manner of photographs of besuited men), with the caption: "Vote Dorrell 2001". If only I could, Steve, you know I would. Worse yet is Glenda Jackson's site (www.glendajackson.co.uk), which urges us to vote "for a greater London" in the 2000 mayoral race, a message that can only leave Londoners wondering why this hopelessly out-of-date site has not been suppressed or updated.There is no point in a politician having a website that makes the casual surfer think: "Wake up grandad, put your teeth in and tell us who's prime minister". There's no point having a purportedly on-message website when it makes you feel as though you are entering, at best, a different space-time continuum, or at worst, an unreliable simulacrum of the real world whose impact can only be to mislead. No point at all. And yet many of them fulfil only these functions.Sadly, though, they aren't the worst. The worst are those politicians' websites that are devised not as places from which information can be disseminated, but as amusement parks, where politicians off-load their "personality" like an annoyingly irrepressible spaniel who's just leapt into your lap after a long journey in a small car. In other words, welcome to the crazy world of Austin Mitchell. Go towww.austinmitchell.co.ukand you will be confronted by a middle-aged man sitting on the floor waving at the camera like a jaunty drunk in a gutter and sitting next to a large neon sign that reads "Friendly" but could be changed helpfully to "Disturbing". This, Grimsby, is your MP.If you are not running Netscape or Internet Explorer 4 or higher, you will be ushered into a lo-tech version of the site (www.austinmitchell.co.uk/old/slowind.htmlwhich has a picture of a man leaning against an end-of-terrace wall on which someone has painted the unedifying message "Austin Mitchell". But this is no ordinary man, rather a recognisably northern stereotype from the 1930s, complete with two utterly entrancing whippets, a flat cap and an expression that to my mind says: "Skinny latte? Round here? Ist tha' trying to be funny, sonny, eh?" Perhaps it's for a new photo-reality strip called It's Grimsby Up North.To be fair, Mitchell does set out his singular worldview with a chastening brevity that his more verbose Westminster colleagues would do well to copy on their websites. Then he spoils it all with his photo gallery, which features his frankly terrible pictures of subjects political and bucolic, whose content need not detain us here (apart from that stand-off between a little girl looking up a dry-stone wall where some sheep are staring her out worryingly - how did that one pan out? The promised caption could not be accessed so I will never know).The website photo-gallery is a humanising touch that MPs often deploy in a shameless bid to make themselves lovable. My favourite is the kids' sub-section of Roger Gale's site (www.rogergale.co.uk). It features a picture of the cuddlesome Conservative member standing arm in arm with a man in a fox suit, alongside a caption that poses more questions than it answers: "With my friend, Mr Fox". In the "Being an MP" section, there is a nodding dog with a wagging tail. Under the "my pets" section , there are some charming snapshots of the Gale menagerie as well as that insult to the canine world, a virtual dog. There's also a picture of him with Anneka Rice, which is nice to see even though she is not technically one of Gale's pets, and lots of jaunty illustrations of lions and such. All of these, however, can only juxtapose sadly with the mugshot of the sad, bloodhound-eyed North Thanet and Herne Bay MP on the homepage (www.rogergale.co.uk). Mind you, at least he knows that the last general election was in 2001.But it is Gale's more illustrious Tory colleague, Ann Widdecombe who really shows what a politician can do with the wonderful world of websites. It is impossible to read the "My Cats" sub-section in the junior section of the so-called Widdy Web (www.annwiddecombemp.com), without ringing up the Blue Cross to see if one can help in some way. There she writes about what can only be described as her cats. There isn't enough space to reprint the life of each cat that she recounts in such affecting detail, but here's a snippet: "Unfortunately Sooty died of a kidney infection when he was 16, but Sweep lived on to become not only a Westminster cat but a ministerial cat. He was greatly missed when he died at the age of 24." Which, we can agree, is some age for a cat.Peter Luff (Con, Mid Worcestershire), by contrast, spends a great deal of his website acreage (www.peterluff.co.uk) being licked by dogs, or shaking their paws - the latter in a manner which suggests he may have mistaken one of them for a constituent. He also steers canal boats, which not only shows singular good sense but probably wins him a few votes with a neglected demographic. Jane Griffiths (Lab, Reading East) has two rats called Bob and Vic and devotes a substantial portion ofwww.janegriffithsmp.orgto them. "They have different personalities," writes Jane. "Bob is more sociable and outgoing and enjoys getting out and exploring, while Vic is more shy and prefers to sit on your shoulder under your top enjoying the shared body heat."Jane's personality is not described but can be taken to be adventurous, caring and perhaps a little too tolerant rat-wise. But what of those many MPs who don't really have personalities, or even rats with personalities? What do they put on their websites? There are three answers to this question. The first is not to have a website, an option that the likes of Gerald Kaufman, unexpectedly, and Tam Dalyell, disappointingly, have plumped for. The second is to submit one's website to the standardising strictures of some godawful website portal - an option chosen by Labour MPs Patricia Hewitt, Geoff Hoon and Martin Linton, whose identikit sites are part of the Epolitix portal. Similarly, Ann Clwyd's site (www.waleslabourparty.org.uk) demonstrates how the standardisation of Welsh Labour MPs' internet pages has stopped their members' personalities from flourishing in cyberspace as they ought, something that can also be said of elected representatives for parties such as Sinn Fein, the Ulster Unionists, the Democratic Unionists, the SNP and Plaid Cymru, as well as many LibDems. This is a great shame, since a website by Gerry Adams, with his favourite poetry and collection of Toby jugs, would be just the thing to muse over now the nights are drawing in.But boring standardisation is very popular. The Scottish secretary Helen Liddell, for example, has an official site (www.scottishsecretary.gov.uk), that tells us: "In her spare time, Mrs Liddell enjoys cooking, hill-walking, music and writing." Which makes her sound as interesting as a drawerful of congealed porridge. Thank heavens, then, for the unofficial fan website (www.members.tripod.com), which tells us "all about Scotland's answer to Mrs Thatcher": "She is worth every single penny of the &#163;77,000 salary which she is paid at taxpayers' expense. But Helen Liddell is not just a hard-working politician. She has also found the time to bring up two children and write a racy novel whose intellectual content is only surpassed by truly great litterature like whot Barbara Cartland wrotes. Not only that, she was also chief gopher and hatchett woman for the dearly departed and sorely lamented Saint Robert de Maxwell. And if all that wasn't enough, Mrs Liddell is by far the most glamorous doll in British politics since Baroness Thatcher was put out to pasture. &#91;sic&#93;"Jaw-dropping dreariness is also the key characteristic of Boris Johnson's official site (www.conservatives.com/people). He has also, however, another site devoted to his third career. When he's completed a hard day's editing the Spectator and representing the good people of Henley on Thames, he makes himself available as an after-dinner speaker atwww.speakers-uk.com. "The flaxen-haired editor and MP," reads the blurb there, "unlike some of his 'young fogey' counterparts, is affable and good-humoured and extremely witty. As well as being an after dinner speaker, Boris also speaks on the media and politics." Probably does weddings and Bar Mitzvahs, too.But there is a third way in which politicians can strut what stuff they have in cyberspace. That is through impressive, cutting-edge design. Ben Bradshaw's site (www.benbradshaw.com) is a key example but tries too hard - it's designed by webheads, which means it features go-faster stripes and has an annoying spinning front page called News Flash that won't stop spinning, dammit, alongside a nice montage of attractive Ben with even more attractive Exeter Cathedral in the background. That said, the first words you see are "Thank you for voting Labour," which is presumptuous of him. Stuart Bell's (www.stuartbellmp.org) and Angela Eagle's (www.angelaeagle.labour.co.uk) both feature impressive tickers rushing busily across the top of their pages, which make you think both of them are busy, go-ahead, up-to-the-minute people, which maybe they are. Though Bell's does judder rather and gave me a Proustian rush - I suddenly recalled, thanks to this site, all the bouts of carsickness I have ever experienced. Similarly, the design of Kenneth Clarke's website (www.tory.org/home/rushcliffetories) features red, white and blue Tory torches fluttering ineptly in the breeze of cyberspace. In lieu of Big Ken's burly personality and an exposition of his love of Thelonious Monk, we have bad graphics. It is a poor exchange.Is the internet being used as a serious tool by politicians to help us understand what they are doing for us? Or is it just a place where old speeches go to die and holiday snaps get unwarranted publicity? The failure of politicians to exploit the internet for its distinctive feature, interactivity, offering such things as, say, online surgeries, indicates the latter. But let's see if there isn't some truth in the former. I go to the Labour party's website (www.labour.org.uk) to find out what the party is doing for me. Helpfully, there is a facility whereby if you type in your postcode it will tell you how Labour is improving all kinds of things in your constituency, in my case Islington North, fiefdom of luxuriantly bearded lefty Jeremy Corbyn. Initially, the information there seemed to be a con: it does not, as it promises, tell me what Labour has done to cut crime in that area, but rather gives me London-wide statistics on police numbers, which is hardly the same thing. That said, the information it gave me under other headings - health, family policy, education, pensions - was helpfully precise and up to date.The same is true if one types in a plausible postcode (say the Guardian's EC1R 3ER) for Chris Smith's constituency in the same search engine. It unveils a rich variety of the marvellous things that Labour has done for the people of Islington South and Finsbury. Now would some techno-johnny at Labour's HQ tell this stuff to Chris Smith so he can put it on his website? He's a very good listener.
Lastminute.com, the flotation that marked the bursting of the internet bubble in Britain, has always showed a special ability to get its stock market followers to suspend logic.Every few months, with tedious predictability, a carefully worded statement pops out of the company, explaining how growth remains exponential, the management is leaning on costs and this amazing business is on the brink of turning a profit - albeit before irritating things such as goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.Every time one of these statements appears the share price perks up a bit, saluting the fact that Lastminute's plucky young managers, Brent Hoberman and Martha Lane Fox, have stuck doggedly with it - turning a poor victim of the dotcom era into a rare and extraordinary internet success story.But turn the publicity machine off for a moment, and the whole Lastminute facade begins to crumple.The company used to pretend that it was not a travel site but dealt in last-minute everything, such as gifts for forgotten birthdays. Nowadays, grudgingly, it accepts that it is little more than a regular travel site. Yet, strangely for a business supposedly enjoying so much momentum, Lastminute never seems to make it into the listings of favourite travel websites; and those pointing their browsers there quickly learn why.The site is clunky and the prices on offer are uncompetitive.Yesterday, it replied to a random request for five tickets from London to Nice (two adults, three children), outbound October 1 for a week, with a simple quote for British Airways flights starting at &#163;79 apiece, plus tax.The same flight could be found at &#163;68 plus tax yesterday at Airnet.co.uk, one of many flight aggregators. This website, better known as the Airline Network, also offered flights from Air France and bmi costing &#163;65 and &#163;48 respectively, together with further discounts for the kids.Which brings us to the real issue. This company's success is about Lastminute "the balance sheet", not Lastminute "the website".Lastminute never was a dotcom victim. It was an out and out winner, banking &#163;125m from the spring 2002 float. Much of this cash has been used to build the business by buying other web-based travel firms which have accepted they cannot prosper alone. In short, the size of the flotation has allowed Lastminute to lead consolidation in what is now a pitiful and still unproven sector.Sadly, we are still waiting for evidence   that this is a brilliantly managed business. Investors who put up all that early money are still out of pocket to the tune of 77%.Merger testFive documents landed on the desks of competition experts yesterday, physical evidence that the competition commission is determined to become more communicative. Lawyers, bankers, company executives and other interested parties have until mid-December to make their views known.This lengthy consultation process is part of the commission's attempt to comply with the enterprise bill, which comes into force next spring. The idea is that ministers no longer get to meddle in competition issues while the traditional "public interest" grounds for an investigation are replaced by a test which will be known as "substantial lessening of competition".This new test, which takes 20 pages of legalese to explain, boils down to whether a merged company would get more market power which it could then use to raise prices, restrict choice and reduce innovation.Importantly, if the competition commission smells a suspect merger it will publish its proposed remedies, putting the onus on the merging companies to come up with a public solution.This is an interesting development, potentially opening up the debate on competition. But moves to make the system more transparent should also be accompanied by moves to add some speed and predictability to the process.Welch rare bit"I want to share a helluva problem that I've been dealing with recently," former General Electric boss Jack Welch told the Wall Street Journal yesterday.The man was writing to explain how the publicity about his post-retirement treats and freebies package, disclosed as part of his divorce proceedings, had caused this tough old corporate warrior to all but tear up his contract with his former employer.He didn't want GE or its people damaged at a time when public confidence in corporate American had been so shaken. So Jack is giving up retirement benefits - including use of a corporate jet, free wine, a company apartment, etc - worth a cool $2.5m a year.He insists that this extraordinary package was agreed only to get him to stay at the helm until he was 65.Yet Mr Welch is thought to be worth close to $1bn (&#163;700m). Even six years ago, when the package was set, it seems inconceivable that a man of such wealth and prestige could be motivated by something like free corporate seats for a baseball game. But then it is probably many years since Mr Welch did anything grubby as carry his own cash around.
Silicon.comhas a fascinating piece on British Airways' PC purchasing policy. It reveals that: "The average age of the PCs at British Airways is four and a half years and most are running Windows 95." Makes you wonder if anyone costed the staff time wasted rebooting these antiques, compared with Windows 2000. Or was it just that they never crashed?
