Aleks Krotoski is joined by Juliette Garside to find out what's new at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.Guardian data journalist James Ball joins us to discuss the decision by hacker collective Anonymous to give Wikileaks a series of emails hacked from intelligence firm Stratfor.Charles Arthur dissects Apple's decision to review Siri rival Evi from its App store.And author Rebecca MacKinnon discusses the reign of the sovereigns of cyberspace – Google, Facebook and Amazon.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Email the producertechweekly@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
A selection of 13 apps for you today:TNW MagazineThis blogs-becoming-magazines thing is catching on: first Engadget Distro, and now fellow tech site TheNextWeb has launched a "digital monthly magazine" for iPad. It rounds up content from the site with additional columns, photography and interactivity. TNW used the Mag+ platform to create the app.iPadSprintTV for iOSBy definition a US-focused app, this offers live TV to iPhone-owning customers of mobile operator Sprint. Channels include ESPN, NBC News, Disney Channel and others. Additional packs of channels can be subscribed to in-app for between $4.99 and $9.99 per bundle. A sign that operators haven't given up on their mobile TV ambitions.iPhoneKid LauncherPlenty of parents are handing their Android smartphones over to their children as a distraction, but how to stop them from opening your apps? Kid Launcher is one of the apps trying to solve that problem: replacing the standard Android homescreen and only allowing access to your pre-defined child-friendly apps.AndroidSquidsBilling itself as a blend of action-strategy and RPG, this sees you doing turn-based battle with armies of sea creatures, following its earlier debut on iOS.AndroidESPNsoccernetESPN's new app for Soccernet offers news, live scores, stats, videos and podcasts for leagues around the world. For more on what the broadcaster is up to in apps, seethis interview.iPhoneFunpark FriendsFreemium game Funpark Friends has made the leap from iPhone to Android, offering Theme Park-like strategy as you build and maintain an amusement park. Social features and offline capabilities are also included.AndroidAdidas Outdoor MagazineSporty brand Adidas has launched a magazine app for iPad, focusing on outdoor pursuits from climbing to kayaking. News, features, videos and photography are all in the mix.iPadGroupMeNow a subsidiary of Skype, group messaging service GroupMe has a new Windows Phone app. It lets users start groups with their existing phone contacts, switching between instant messages and SMS according to connection – although for now, the SMS chat only works in the US.Windows PhoneAirVinyl for iPhoneAirVinyl started life as an iPad app to make your digital music sound like vintage vinyl, using technology from London-based Air Studios. Now there's an iPhone version with the same features.iPhoneThe Cloud Pro Guide to Cloud ComputingDennis Publishing's Cloud Pro website has launched its own app in association with HP, providing analysis of the cloud computing market and video tutorials. The publisher used Mobile Roadie's DIY apps platform to make the app – an interesting editorial use of something more associated with music and celebrities' apps.Android / iPhoneTouch &amp; ListenSubtitled "a picture book for children", this is the latest polished kid-app from Swedish developer Wombi. 200 pictures are accompanied by sound effects and a reading of their name.iPhone / iPadPah!Already a viral hit on iOS and Android, voice-activated game Pah! has now been launched for Windows Phone. It's a simple horizontally-scrolling shoot 'em up where your ship is controlled by saying "Aaaah" and you shoot by shouting "Pah!"Windows PhoneHoneymoon ❤ Pinterest and Reddit for LoversThis may be silly, but it made me smile. Honeymoon is an app that splits the iPad screen in half, showing Pinterest on the left and Reddit on the right. The theory being that women like the former and men the latter. "Finally you can enjoy each other's company while browsing your favorite websites..."iPad
A new British computer that costs just £22 went on sale at 6am on Wednesday morning – and immediately sold out, crashing the websites selling it in the process.The Raspberry Pi is intended to inspire a new generation of schoolchildren to learn to program, just as the Sinclair Spectrum and BBC Micro did in the 1980s, which led to the burgeoning UK games sector.As small as a credit card, the first versions of the Raspberry Pi, which are being sold through the components companies RS and Farnell, are intended to go to developers who will then write software that people can use to write their own programs.The ideal, says Eben Upton, the founder of the charity behind the scheme, is to give one away to every child as they reach a new school year so that they can do their own programming and learn to control computers, rather than be controlled by them.The devices have a USB port for a keyboard, Ethernet port, SD card slot, and an HDMI port for video output. Users will have to supply their own keyboard and screen, or plug it into a TV set.At its heart is an ARM chip, like that found in mobile phones and tablets, and it runs a version of the free open-source operating system Linux found in many web servers and in Android smartphones.The idea came from David Braben, a video game veteran who wanted to find a way to inspire young users to program just as the Spectrum and BBC Micro did.For those who had awoken especially early but found the websites at RS and Farnell had crashed, the experience was frustrating: "This is what it feels like to be a middle-aged woman who wants Take That tickets,"quippedMatthew Green on Twitter pondering the crashed site.Raspberry Pi is a charitable foundation set up by Upton, a Cambridge-based engineer, whosays that he got the idea about five years agowhen he found that applicants for degree course places: "[didn't] seem to know enough about what a computer really was or how it worked… I found it worrying."He explained that: "What was needed was a return to an exciting, programmable machine like the old BBC Micro; and it had to be affordable, say around £20, so every child could potentially have one."The Raspberry Pi has gone through a number of prototypes. This shows its video out capabilityAnd its web browsing capability
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple's China audits don't inspire the same from other companies | TUAW - The Unofficial Apple WeblogThe Bloomberg post notes that "companies including Microsoft, Dell, Hewlett-Packard and Samsung Electronics rely on their own evaluations, based in part on guidelines from the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), which they say are sufficient to prevent abuses." However, "while the EICC sets standards for ethics, worker safety and labor practices, it doesn't require members to disclose findings and it lacks enforcement powers. The result is a disjointed system of self- imposed regulations that fail to hold companies accountable when abuses arise, according to labor advocates and technology executives."Still, there's plenty of consumer agitation about them which will force a response. Isn't there?More feds ditch BlackBerrys &gt;&gt; Politico.comNot good for RIM:The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives is planning to start the process of ditching Research in Motion's signature BlackBerry wireless phone largely in favor of the iPhone, the agency's top tech official told POLITICO. "We're going to delete the BlackBerry from the mix," Rick Holgate, ATF's chief information officer, said in an interview. That move -- which includes swapping out about 3,800 BlackBerrys -- should be complete in "probably no more than a year," he said. More than 60% of the replacement devices are initially slated to be iPhones.Android phones look to be getting a look-in too. As do iPads. Basically, ABR - anything but RIM.How LulzSec kept itself safe during the summer of 'lulz' &gt;&gt; New ScientistLast year, a group of hackers calling themselves Lulz Security (LulzSec for short) caught the internet's attention with a series of high-profile data breaches and website takedowns targeting the likes of Fox News, Sony and the US government, before apparently disbanding after 50 days of "lulz". Throughout that period, the group's own website proved impervious to rival hacking attempts, thanks to an online security service called CloudFlare. Speaking to New Scientist in advance of his talks at the RSA conference and SXSW festival next month, CloudFlare CEO Matthew Prince explains why he kept the hackers online, and how attacks on their site have helped protect the internet.Intriguing interview.Apple loophole gives developers access to photos &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comDevelopers of applications for Apple's mobile devices, and Apple itself, came under scrutiny this month after reports that some apps were taking people's address book information without their knowledge. As it turns out, address books are not the only things up for grabs. Photos are also vulnerable. After a user allows an application on an iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch to have access to location information, the app can copy the user's entire photo library, without any further notification or warning, according to app developers.Are we tired of this yet?How Apple's top secret product development process works &gt;&gt; The Next WebClever leveraging of Adam Lashinsky's book 'Inside Apple':This is the framework on which every Apple product development is hung: Every product at Apple starts with design. Designers are treated like royalty at Apple, where the entire product conforms to their vision. This the polar opposite of the way it works at other companies. Instead of the design being beholden to the manufacturing, finance or manufacturing departments, these all conform to the will of the design department headed by Jony Ive.Definitely interesting to think about - especially the person who has the jolly job of simply trying out the opening experience of different boxes.The internet is broken: could we please fix it? &gt;&gt; Cryptographic EngineeringMatthew Green:every man has a breaking point, and the proximate cause of mine is Trustwave. Or rather, the news that Trustwave -- an important CA [certificate authority] and pillar of the Internet -- took it upon themselves to sell a subordinate root cert to some (still unknown) client, for the purposes ofcatastrophically undermining the trust assumptions that make the Internet secureeavesdropping on TLS connections. This kind of behavior is absolutely, unquestionably out of bounds for a trusted CA, and certainly deserves a response -- a stronger one than it's gotten.Certificate authorities are looking less and less authoritative all the time.As Staff Flees, TechCrunch's Traffic Plummets | paidContentTechCrunch, the long-time darling of the digerati, is smashed to bits and all of AOL's horses and men will be hard-pressed to put it together again. The site has lost almost every one of its top writers and traffic has fallen sharply, dropping by 35% from a year ago.That's $25m spent by AOL it isn't going to see back. Though the estimate of pageviews comes from ComScore, so if you chose not to believe yesterday's story on time spent on Google+, why, then everything's just hunky dory at TechCrunch.The Department of Homeland Security is searching your Facebook and Twitter for these words &gt;&gt; Animal New YorkSafety theatre, of sorts:The Department of Homeland Security monitors your updates on social networks, including Facebook and Twitter, to uncover "Items Of Interest" (IOI), according to an internal DHS document released by the EPIC. That document happens to include a list of the baseline terms for which the DHS-or more specifically, a DHS subcontractor hired to monitor social networks-use to generate real-time IOI reports.Google offers $1 million reward to hackers who exploit ChromeHey, Anonymous!Google has pledged cash prizes totaling $1 million to people who successfully hack its Chrome browser at next week's CanSecWest security conference. Google will reward winning contestants with prizes of $60,000, $40,000, and $20,000 depending on the severity of the exploits they demonstrate on Windows 7 machines running the browser. Members of the company's security team announced the Pwnium contest on theirblog on Monday. There is no splitting of winnings, and prizes will be awarded on a first-come-first-served basis until the $1 million threshold is reached.Android Takes IPhone Battle to Office &gt;&gt; BloombergAmong a number of initiatives to bring Android phones into the enterprise:Vodafone Group Plc, the world's largest mobile operator, plans to use the Cebit technology trade show in Hanover next month to demonstrate its device-management suite as well as a SIM-card software that authenticates a phone's user and encrypts data and messages, said Jan Geldmacher, who heads the carrier's German enterprise unit. The encryption works better on Android devices than on iOS because Apple doesn't let developers fine- tune the operating system for maximum security, he said. "The security is a bit reduced if the manufacturer doesn't let us access the system," he said in an interview. "When I advise a customer and he wants to use an encryption mechanism from our Secure SIM card, and he asks me which phone he'd recommend, I'd say take an Android device."Wonder if Apple will respond to this in its next version of iOS. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's Wednesday. How is your week going?
Block 110.22am:So! Here we are at Long Beach, California where the corporate jets have landed. The tech billionaires have arrived (they're all be here, Sergey, Larry, that baby-faced one who set up Facebook). And it's almost time for the first session of TED 2012 to get under way. What will be this year's big idea? Will there be any great tech unveilings? Who knows. It's all VERY hush hush.Last year,a scientist "printed" a human kidney live on stageusing a desk-top laser printer (and stem cells instead of ink) and Google demonstrated the self-driving car. Will this year's talks top that? It's too soon to tell though the theme of this year's conference is"Full Spectrum"...but of what exactly? Time will tell, people. Time will tell....Block 210.46am:New to TED? There's a primer I wrote a while backhere...And, if you're thinking, "Well, this is all veryAmerican..", you can feast your eyes upon our very own mini British TED, TEDxObserver, righthere...It's being hosted by John Mulholland, the Observer's editor on March 10 at the Sadler's Wells in London, with regional events in seven other British cities, and we're starting to get just a littlenervous....Block 310.55am:Blimey. There's orchestral music swelling here. It's almost time. So first up isBrian Greene, physicist, mathematician, superstring super brain (that's the theory ofeverything, you know). More on him in a moment. But we've also been promised a mystery, surprise speaker.Last time, this happened it was Julian Assange (this was back in 2010), so who knows what they've got up their sleeve...Just a quick explainer. The videos will be released later and I'll post them as soon as they become available.Block 411.02am:A-ha. And here'sChris Anderson. He's the British magazine entrepreneur who owns and runs TED (though what with his can-do attitude, and make-the-world-better spirit, he's become more than a little bit American....). We'reall"Full Spectrum" apparently....Block 511.06am:Okay. So we're a minute into TED and it's already gone a bit weird. Brian Greene has told us that he's going to tell us the story of the multiverse in three parts.What's that? You're not up 100% up to speed on the theory of an infinite number of parallel universes? Hmm. Well here's Brian with a quick explainer:Block 611.15am:It all comes to dark energy, he says."If there other universes and if those other universes and if they have a different shape for the extra dimensions, then each universe will be different...."Block 711.25am:Okay, this is alittle bitfrivolous but according to Wikipedia, "Greene is one of the few people to have a defined Erdős–Bacon number".Don't know what an Erdos-Bacon number is? Well hang on to your hat. It's the "collaborative distance" in authoring mathematical papers between that person and the Hungarian mathematician, Paul Erdos. And one's Bacon number, ie the number of film links away, one is from the actor Kevin Bacon.Block 811.34am:Great BBC doco "Hidden Cities" on it, clip here:Block 911.36am:Block 1011.39am:So, a talk about how technology can help us discover unknown stuff about the past...and now, time for the apocalyptic stuff.Paul Gilding, an Australian activist, has just taken to the stage and told us, "The earth is full".He believes that we just can't go on as we are. We're over-using the earth's resources. And, it's just a matter of time before it catches up with us."I'm here to tell you: the the earth is full. It's game over."Block 1111.43am:Here he is summarising his ideas...warning, however. The future is looking a little bit scary.Block 1211.47am:The crisis is now inevitable, Gilding says."Imagine our economy when the carbon bubble bursts," he says. When the oil industry is over. Imagine India and Pakistan go to war. Imagine the Middle East without oil income. Imagine our agriculture failing. And supermarket shelves emptying.I know. Cheerful, isn't it?Read up on it in his bookThe Great Disruption. Or you know, put a saucepan over your head and hide under the bed.The Occupy protests, Arab uprisings, rising food prices, they're all the first signs of the The End.Block 1311.51am:Hang on a minute. What's going on here? He's suddenly got all upbeat. "We should only fear fear itself."Apparently, it is a crisis, you know, the worst ever, the world about to implode, BUT Gilding's line is that we'llriseto it..."Sure," he says. "If we get it wrong it'll be the end of civilisation..." Oh you know."But if we get it right. How cool will that be?" Cool, I say, Paul. Cool!Block 1411.53am:I have to say the laidback Aussie delivery is really adding to this talk. I'll summarise. It's like Sir Les Patterson meets Ridley Scott. "Look mate, we're stuffed. STUFFED. But you know what, cobber, I've got a plan...."Block 1511.57am:Choose life over fear, folks. Life over fear.Block 1611.58am:Ah, a little change of pace now.Peter Diamandisis up next who has an, ahem, slightly different view.Diamandis is a tech evangelist. Actually this is something of an understatement. Diamandis, the founder of the X Prize, and the Singularity Universe, is a tech Utopian.Block 1712.01pm:According to Diamandis, we are living in an extraordinary time! This is the BEST time ever. And exponentially growing technologies are going to make it EVEN better.The Singularity University? It just has a simple aim: to solve the biggest problems known to humanity. You know. As you do....Block 1812.07pm:Takethat, Paul Gilding!Technology is coming online right now, he says, that will give us limitless energy. And if we have limitless energy, we'll have limitless clean water.That technology already exists. Coca Cola is testing a new device that will provide clean water for two cents a gallon, he says. A Masai warrior on a cellphone has better mobile comms than President Reagan did 20 years ago. If he has a smartphone, he's more up to date than President Clinton was 15 years ago.Block 1912.10pm:12.09pm:And best yet, he says, is the medical advances. He's launched a new X Prize competition to come up with a tricoder. Yes, a tricoder, trekkies, as used by Captain Kirk.Diamandis believes that competition drives innovation. And money drives competition. So he offers money. Now there are those who say that Watson and Crick did it for the love of scientific discovery, but then again, the first X Prize, to invent personal, manned space flight, worked and it's technology what Virgin Galactic are now using.Block 2012.12pm:There's a promo for the X Prize here. It is, how can I put this delicately, somewhat Californian:Block 2112.13pm:We are now more empowered as individuals to take on the great challenges of the planet, says Diamandis. We have three billion new minds coming online (I think that means, as we call it, "being born"). We are entering the age ofabundance.Block 2212.22pm:So Chris Anderson has called Paul Gilding back on stage and is encouraging them to "duke" it out. The doomster versus the Utopian. Who's right?They both have interesting life stories. Diamandis's background rather supports his theory. He's the son of immigrant Greek parents who grew up in the Bronx and went on to Harvard and MIT. "The best way to predict the future is to create it yourself," he says. (As he did.)While Gilding has been an activist and campaigner against Big Business and corporate interests for the last 30 years. Among other things he's been a protestor for Aboriginal land rights and the global head of Green peace.Chris Anderson is demanding a show of hands. Who believes Paul? And who's on Diamandis's side, he asks? Oh come on! We're in California. With the tech billionaires! Of course, they're going to go with Diamandis....Block 2312.25pm:No! Shock....Anderson is claiming it's 50:50. Hmm. Well, I'd have said it was more pro-Diamandis but anyway, this is a conversation, Anderson says, which will go on for the rest of the week "and probably the rest of our lifetime".Block 2412.27pm:Susan Cain up next. "Give her a big welcome," he says. "She's an in actually is the theme of her talk....she's the best-selling author ofQuiet.Block 2512.32pm:Not only that, interestingly, Quiet was aninstantbestseller. This is a book that was waiting to be written. A former corporate lawyer, she says she made "self-negating" choices. Which is what introverts do, she says. And "is the world's loss".A third to a half of the world's population are introverts. But nobody bothers to listen them.Cain calls for "a quiet revolution".Introversion is different from being shy. That's about fear of social judgement. Whereas introverts just don't need or thrive on external stimulation.Block 2612.34pm:It's a bit of a topic of the moment. Back in 2003, Jonathan Rauch wrote an article for The Atlantic magazine called"How to Care for your Introvert"which has had an amazing afterlife. The most read Atlantic article ever.Cain's thesis expands on this. She believes that the world is structured to favour extroverts. Schools, workplaces are biassed against introverts. And yet, some of the greatest leaders in history, and innovators in every field, are introverts.Block 2712.37pm:Are you an introvert? Quick quizhere.But basically, extroverts take energy from other people and social situations. And introverts don't. They need quiet.This is Rauch on the differences:Do you know someone who needs hours alone every day? Who loves quiet conversations about feelings or ideas, and can give a dynamite presentation to a big audience, but seems awkward in groups and maladroit at small talk? Who has to be dragged to parties and then needs the rest of the day to recuperate? Who growls or scowls or grunts or winces when accosted with pleasantries by people who are just trying to be nice?If you answered yes to these questions, chances are that you have an introvert on your hands—and that you aren't caring for him properlyBlock 2812.39pm:"We have known for centuries about the transcendental power of solitude," says Cain. It's only recently we've forgotten."There's zero correlation between being the best talker and having the best ideas," she says. Sshhh, Susan! That's the TED model you're dissing there.....Block 2912.49pm:As someone who's scared of public speaking, Cain says this is her year of "speaking dangerously". And she finishes with her three calls to the world:1) Stop all group work, stop it now. In the workplace, we need privacy, autonomy and quiet. And in schools too.2) Go into the wilderness. Get inside your own head. Be like Buddha.3) Introverts, sometimes you need to show people "what's inside your suitcase". (It's called a metaphor, people, I think she means "head".)Block 3012.54pm:Phew! So, that's the end of Session 1. We've had super-strings, multiverses, apocalypses, technological epiphanies, and how we all need to get in touch with our inner Buddha. So, a nice, easy introduction...nothing difficult there, just some light quantum physics and the end of civilisation.We've got an hour and a half and then we'll go into Session 2. I'm going to leave you withJill Bolte Taylorjust because I met her at the IT helpdesk earlier and recognised her voice from her amazing talk:Hers is the second most-watched TED talk of her all time and says that she's been recognised everywhere from Scotland to Canada because of her voice.A neuroanatomist, she knew exactly what was going on in her brain, even as she had a stroke moment by moment. She's looking very well now, you may be pleased to hear and if you haven't already seen this, it's well worth a look.Okay, see you later.Block 312.12pm:So, we're back from lunch. And I can exclusively report that [name redacted]*, long-time TED fan, is not a follower of the Hollywood diet. Oh no, given the choice of the vegan, organic lunch truck and the In-N-Out burger truck, she was at the burger truck.(*This is a very pretty, very thin Hollwood actress whose name I've justbeen politely asked by TED to take down. She goes every year, though. Google it, if you'rethatinterested.)Anyway, this is no time for celebrity tittle-tattle. Session 2  is up soon. And Andrew Stanton, the writer and director of Finding Nemo and Wall:E is on soon. Here's a little known fact, he's also the voice of the turtle in Finding Nemo.A little taster, therefore, of the talk to come:Block 322.21pm:We've got these strangely mesmerising dancers first though. Quixotic, a taster here:Block 332.26pm:A lot of talk during the lunch break about Susan Cain's talk on introverts. He who speaks loudest may not have the most interesting ideas. Or even be a he. It's hard not to notice that there's a bit of a gender imbalance at TED. Way more men than women, both on the stage, and in the auditorium....This session though is just a little bit more female, though, being led byJune Cohenwho's TED's online guru. She's up on stage right now, exhorting everyone to put their phones away. Actually that's a bit Susan Cain too: still the noise, get into your head, be a bit quiet.Block 342.35pm:2.35pm:Okay. The turtle is on. Andrew Stanton of Pixar is up. He really is something of a voice artist though we're getting dodgy Scottish right now....Ah, it's a joke!Because, according to Stanton, storytelling is joke telling. It's remembering your punchline. Leading up to a single goal. And hopefully reveals some deeper truth. Stories about who we are. We all want affirmation that our life has meaning.There isn't anyone you can't learn to love once you've heard their story.The most important story commandment: make me care.Block 352.38pm:So Stanton, to illustrate the power of stories, tells us he's going to tell us his story. The ending of which he says is "how I came to tell you a story at TED". Is this meta-storytelling? I think it might be.Block 362.39pm:But first he's showing a clip from his newest film John Carter.It's based on an Edgar Rice Burroughs story and produced by Disney.Block 372.42pm:Storytelling without dialogue is the pureset form of storytelling, he says.The audience wants to work for its pleasures."There's a reason we are all attracted to an infant or a puppy. We can't help ourselves. We want to complete what they're trying to tell us."Every character has a single defining drive, he says. "I have children and I'm certain that you're born with a temperament and you're wired a certain way and there's no changing you."We're all still learning who we are all the time. It's why if stories are static they die.Block 382.46pm:Blimey. It's a storytelling masterclass. The tweeters are going mental here. There's aphorism after aphorism.Here's the next: "Drama is anticipation mingled with uncertainty."Block 392.47pm:So, here's the golden rules of animation according to the Pixar crew:No songs.No "I want" momentNo happy village.No love story.No villian.Disney panicked, he says. They wanted songs and happy villages "but we were too young and too rebellious". And that's when we learned that "storytelling has guidelines not hard and fast rules".Block 402.49pm:He's now showing a clip from Lawrence of Arabia for its sheer storytelling genius....and how Peter O'Toole fed into Toy Story's Woody.And now it's Bambi which he watched aged five. Ah! It was my first film too. Please don't show Bambi's mother dying, Andrew! Not the dying mother...Block 412.52pm:Phew! We just had happy falling-over-on-the-ice Bambi.Invoking wonder is the great storytelling gift, he says. The best stories incite wonder.As a child, Stanton tells us, he nearly died. And he's strived ever since "to be worthy of my second chance". And to prove it, he shows us an unhappy fish from Finding Nemo."Expressing values you personally feel," that he says is the key to great storytelling. "And that's what led to me speaking to you today at TED."Block 422.59pm:A great talk there, if you're at all interested in story telling. I have a feeling that that video is going to be a film school standard. We won't get the actual videos of the talks till later but in the meantime, here's what kicked it all off. What inspired the wonder that led Andrew Stanton to Toy Story and Finding Nemo and Wall: E. It's Bambi on ice!Block 433.08pm:It's interesting, it's art, but fundamentally, he says, it's craft. He just likes making things.TED's Tom Reilly is up now to talk about theTED fellowsprogramme. They're the young movers and thinkers who TED sponsors to come to the conferences and tries to support their work. They are a little bit amazing. One of them won an Oscar on Sunday night. Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy - who got an Academy Award for her short documentarySaving Face.She'll be talking later in the week so more on her then. She's the first Pakistani to ever win an Academy Award.And then there's the scientist I met last night. "What do you do?" I asked. "I grow heart tissue," she said. You know, just your normal TED-style chit-chat. She's called Nina Tandon and this is the talk she gave last year:Block 443.19pm:This will be good, I think,Billy Collins, the poet is next on. He's a "two-term poet laureate of the United States" and he has rather a fabulously lugubrious voice. Really. If he was a Pixar character, he'd be a very jowly slow-talking tortoise. Or possibly a bloodhound.He's going to show animated versions of his poems. It was an idea he initially resisted, he says. He wanted to let the reader do a little work. It's about using your imagination, after all. But, then he realised, it would mean you could have poetry on television. The very idea!Block 453.25pm:Oh good. They're on YouTube. Here's his first. It's called Budapest. And, don't worry, poetryaphobes. It's nice and short.And here's a handy piece of advice:"If at first you don't succeed. Hide all evidence you ever tried."Block 463.28pm:Ah! And here we have Collins' Ode to Middle Age (it's actually called "Forgetfulness", but let's not split hairs). This is a cut-out-and-keep video for those over the age of 40. One to send to your mum.The name of the author is the first to gofollowed obediently by the title, the plot,the heartbreaking conclusion, the entire novelwhich suddenly becomes one you have never read,never even heard of,Block 473.30pm:Here he is. What a great voice. It's Garrison Keillor meets Bill Murray.Block 483.32pm:as if, one by one, the memories you used to harbordecided to retire to the southern hemisphere of the brain,to a little fishing village where there are no phones.I have NO idea what he's talking about. No. None.Block 493.33pm:Oh, it's a standing ovation for Billy Collins. It's a TED special, this. BUT, it is a bit unusual. He's a poet, after all! In an age which doesn't have all that much time for poetry. And he's at TED..where it's usually the brain surgeons and rocket scientists who are cheered from the floor.June Cohen has just come on stage to ask him about the humour. And this is what he said:"Humour is epistemological. The angle at which you see life. There's something very authentic about humour. Anyone who's ever had a job or sat in a classroom knows how's to pretend to be be serious. But you can't pretend to be funny. It's authentic that way.Block 503.45pm:It's very interesting: he's talking about how we respond to music. And how little we actually understand of that process.There are so many emotions seemingly inside music, he says. Though it's just vibrations. And our reaction to music is complex, incompletely understood, and has changed over time. Our 21st century ears have inherited centuries' worth of changes.Block 51Notation changed music, he says. Creating a system for writing it down made it into what it is now: a dialogue between our nature, instinct and intelligence.By 14th century, the aim of music was to mirror the mind of God. And then, [dramatic pause], there came opera!And, now composers found ways of expressing emotions, he says."And the big difference between happiness and sadness? 36 freaking vibrations."Block 523.56pm:The culture we have now is awash with the music of improvisation. What is the long term effect of this nobody knows.What happens when the music  stops. What sticks with people?He tells the story about how he watched an old man in a care home, who could barely remember how to speak, trying to play Beethoven."And that's why I take every performace so seriously. I never know who might be there. And how they might be absorbing it into their lives."Block 534.00pm:This is Tilson Thomas's long view of musical history and where we are now in it. But, he's best known for the being part of what might be the future of music - as the conductor of theYouTube Symphony, the world's first online collaborative orchestra. Amateur musicians auditioned via YouTube and then came together to play at the Sydney Opera House: 101 musicians from 33 countries.We're off on a break now before Session 3 but to play you out, here's the multimedia grand finale of the YouTube Symphony. Back soon!Block 545.03pm:Session 4! The Dinner Party!Chris Andersonhas just introduced us to his concept of the "ideal dinner party". Well, for Chris, maybe. For the rest of us, it looks like the Scariest Dinner Party Ever. Run little introverts, run...Block 555.07pm:He's gathered them around a designer dinner table on stage, and is now introducingSteven Pinker, or "the rock star scientist" as he calls him, and in an unusual TED double act, his wifeRebecca Newberger GoldsteinThey're going to be employing "a Socratic dialogue".Yep, it's just your bog-standard, common-and-garden dinner party....Block 565.41pm:Hmm. Sorry for the pause. Technical problems going down here. Just testing this is now working.Block 575.34pm:Sorry. Where was I? Oh yes, reason.Man is not a brain on a stick, says Pinker. We are animals.But reason has made us into nicer animals."When our great grandchildren look back at us, will they be as appalled as we are by our heretic-burning, gay-bashing ancestors?" asks Goldstein.Pinker's thesis is that it takes roughly 100 years for the great ideas of the enlightenment to trickle down. So in what spheres are we behind the reason curve?Factory farming, suggests Goldstein. The imprisonment of non-violent drug offenders, and the tolerance of rape in prisons, says Pinker. The possession of nuclear weapons. And, even, he says, religious faith."I have become convinced that reason is the better angel. That it holds the greatest hope."Block 585.44pm:Julie Bursteinnow on how creativity works.Hmm. So, how doesitwork?Well to start:"In order to create, we have to stand in that space between what we see in the world and what we hope for."Block 595.49pm:Burstein has written a book on this, Spark. And her process has been to look at how other people have got ideas.She's taken a decade's worth of interviews with some of the greatest creative minds of our time and analysed them to discover their secrets."Creativity is essential to all of us," she says.It grows out of what we can't control. It grows out of the broken places. Of picking up the pieces and making something new.And now she's been sent back to "the dinner table". And Ken Robinson (who gave the most watched TED talk of all time on...creativity) has lobbed her an easy question.Creativity is not just to do with the arts, is it?Block 605.55pm:Not entirely sure about this dinner party thing. It's a bit like Late Review with particularly uncomfortable chairs.Anyway, it's now time forAtul Gawande. This is going to be good. Gawande's a surgeon but he also writes quite brilliantanalyses of the US healthcare systemfor the New Yorker.Block 616.00pm:We've reached the point as doctors that we can't know it all, he says.How many clinicians does it take to take care of you? In 1970, you'd have a visit from a doctor a day? Now, you're likely to have 15 clinicians looking after you. And they're all specialists.And this....is a disaster. We have trained rewarded and hired to people to be cowboys (I think he means to work alone.) Whereas, he says, it's pit crews that we need.Forty per cent of our coronary patients receive incomplete or inappropriate care. Because somebody has failed to follow the basic processes.As complexity has increased, we've found that the most expensive care is not necessarily the best care. The best care is often the least expensive. It has fewer complications.The ones which look the most like systems are the most successful. It's about getting the pieces to come together into a whole.Having great components is not enough. And yet, in medicine we've been obsessed with components. But nobody's thought about how it all comes together.Block 626.08pm:Good care, Gawande says, is now about data. And, when he looked at other industries, he found that there's a simple solution: the checklist.They got the lead safety engineer from Boeing to write a checklist to help people to understand complexity. To understand the moments in the process where there is a danger and to create a pause point, to catch it first.Things get forgotten, he says. Unless they're checked.If you want to read a fuller account of this, it's righthere.Some astoundingly simple procedures have cut deaths by 47%. Such as? Getting surgical teams to introduce each other by name at the beginning of the day.Block 636.14pm:The problem is that people don't like to think of themselves as systems.Doctors, in particular, don't like to think of themselves as systems. They're individuals. Autonomous. Cowboys, as he calls them.But making systems work is the great challenge of the future for healthcare.In fact, it is for everything, he says. In every field, knowledge has exploded but it's brought complexity.And complexity requires group success.Block 646.16pm:It's a great talk, a TED classic-to-come. The power of the checklist. And the results - from eight hospitals around the world - is really groundbreaking stuff.The other great Gawande New Yorker article is aboutdeath.Or at least more precisely, dying and end-of-life care. Read thisbeforesomeone you love is sent for one more operation...Block 656.26pm:Jonathan Haidtnow, he's a professor of psychology, who specialises in morality andhappiness.He's going to talk today about self-transcendence.Sometimes, he says there's a room in our minds where a door may suddenly open and we experience a state of altered consciousness.Religions have found a host of different ways of achieving the state: drugs, dance, music, meditation.And there are other ways, you can achieve is. Such as through nature. Raves. Even brain damage. And here he cites our friend from earlier, Jill Bolte Taylor, who when she had a stroke and an amazing flash of insight and feeling of peace.Here's the strangest one, he says: war. War brings people together like nothing else.Block 666.42pm:Jonathan Haidt has just finished his talk and said "but now I'm going to deliver it again in three minutes".And he does! Complete with bombastic symphonic music. Think Ride of the Valkyries with added TED-ness.In summary, it's roughly this:"We humans have many varieties of religious experience. One of the most common images is this idea of climbing a staircase and achieving a type of transcendence."Is this an evolutionary or a bug? A mistake?" Haidt theorises that it evolved via the somewhat controversial idea of "multi-level selection"."I can't be certain it's an adaptation rather than a bug. But if it is an adaptation, we evolved to be religious. Not organised religion but, we've evolved to see sacredness all around. And this has led us to work in teams..."Okay, bit of jump there. But we'll go with it."It's why politics is so tribal," he says. "It's about joining with others  moral ideals. And if the staircase is real it explains the undercurrent of dissastisfaction that runs through modern life. We're hive-ish creatures like bees. And sometimes we wonder is if this is all there is. What's missing?"Cue symphony swelling. The music's getting louder. He's reaching his final point."One of the great challenges is to find the staircase. We all want a cause, a calling. And that gives me hope. We long to beome part of something larger."Block 676.52pm:And then Haidt's TED-tastic ending:"It's why no man is an island, entire of itself."It's a good talk but someone has to build a TED-o-matic Talk-maker, in which the words "evolutionary adaptation" and "No man is an island" will be randomly generated right alongside "crowd-sourced", "peak oil" and "curated content".And surely that's a good excuse as any to post a link to the wonderfulDaily Mail-o-Matic?Block 686.58pm:Anyway, a slight diversion here, but there's an interesting article on wired.com abouta talk from one of the pre-TED sessions this morning.Mozilla has created a browser that allows you to see who's online stalking you. (Or, possibly, reveals your identity to the person you're online stalking...uh oh.)Anyway, that's it. Day One's over. Phew! It's been quite a ride. I'll post the first videos when they're up later, but definitely worth catching are: Susan Cain on introverts. And Atul Gawande on checklists. Personally, I'd like to watch Brian Greene's talk on multiverses again as I was, ahem, struggling with technology then.But for sheer performance value, today's TED talk for me was byBilly Collins, the US poet laureate.So, here. As a little poetical, end-of-TED treat, I'm going to leave you with his Forgetfulness.The name of the author is the first to gofollowed obediently by the title, the plot,the heartbreaking conclusion, the entire novelwhich suddenly becomes one you have never read,never even heard of,as if, one by one, the memories you used to harbordecided to retire to the southern hemisphere of the brain,to a little fishing village where there are no phones.Long ago you kissed the names of the nine Muses goodbyeand watched the quadratic equation pack its bag,and even now as you memorize the order of the planets,something else is slipping away, a state flower perhaps,the address of an uncle, the capital of Paraguay.Whatever it is you are struggling to remember,it is not poised on the tip of your tongue,not even lurking in some obscure corner of your spleen.It has floated away down a dark mythological riverwhose name begins with an L as far as you can recall,well on your own way to oblivion where you will join thosewho have even forgotten how to swim and how to ride a bicycle.No wonder you rise in the middle of the nightto look up the date of a famous battle in a book on war.No wonder the moon in the window seems to have driftedout of a love poem that you used to know by heart.
Interpol's website appears to have been the victim of a cyber-attack after the international police agency announced the arrests of 25 suspected members of the hacking activist group Anonymous in Europe and South America.Thewebsitewent down briefly on Tuesday as supporters of Anonymous made online claims that it had been targeted following the arrests in Argentina, Chile, Colombia and Spain. It was quickly back up and running but was loading slowly.Interpol announced that the arrests had been made under the umbrella of Operation Unmask, which it said was launched in mid-February in the wake of a series of coordinated cyber-attacks originating from the four countries against targets including the Colombian defence ministry and presidential websites, a Chilean electricity company and Chile's national library.It added that the operation was carried out by authorities in the four countries under the aegis of Interpol's Latin American Working Group of Experts on Information Technology (IT) Crime, which facilitates the sharing of intelligence between the states involved.Around 250 items of IT equipment and mobile phones were also seized during searches of 40 premises across 15 cities, Interpol said. Payment cards and cash had also been seized as part of the investigation into the funding of illegal activities carried out by the suspected hackers, aged 17 to 40.Bernd Rossbach, Interpol's acting executive director of police services, said: "This operation shows that crime in the virtual world does have real consequences for those involved, and that the internet cannot be seen as a safe haven for criminal activity, no matter where it originates or where it is targeted."Cyber-attacks by hackers linked to Anonymous have become a fairly regular occurance. Earlier this month,they marked the one-year anniversary of the uprising in Bahrain by attacking Combined Systems, a tactical weapons company that has been accused of selling tear gas canisters and grenades to Arab governments. Anonymous said the attack was in retaliation for sales by the company of chemical weapons "to repress our revolutionary movements".Also earlier this month,a leak by the hacking group of an 18-minute discussion between members of the FBI and the Metropolitan policeembarrassed authorities and raised questions over how security was breached.The call revealed officers discussing the delay of court proceedings against two alleged members of the LulzSec hacking group, which attacked a number of sites in 2011 including the US Congress and the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency.
Mobile operators are being "regulated to death", according to Google chairman Eric Schmidt, endangering their ability to invest in better networks."It is very difficult to be a telecom operator right now," Schmidt told the Mobile World Congress during a keynote speech on Tuesday. "You've got the reality that you have to upgrade your equipment to 4G and you have customers who are busy using enormous amounts of the bandwidth that is so scarce for you, and governments, in addition to regulating you to death, are charging huge fees for new bandwidth."In order to deliver 4G super-fast mobile internet, mobile operators must buy more spectrum. The UK auction is due to conclude early next year and analysts estimate it could raise up to £4bn for the British government.Schmidt called for a lighter-touch approach to the industry. "The operators and regulators have got to sit down and come to some kind of rational collaboration. We at Google are critically dependent on this infrastructure building out."Schmidt surprised many by siding with the mobile phone giants in the debate about telecoms regulation which was kicked off on Monday by Vodafone chief executive Vittorio Colao.Colao called for a "moratorium" on regulation, saying rounds of price cuts imposed by European governments were endangering mobile operators' ability to invest in upgrading their networks for 4G mobile internet.Vodafone and the other major European operators met Neelie Kroes, vice president of the European commission responsible for the digital agenda, on Monday morning to argue regulators should pare back their role in controlling mobile call prices.Kroes has been responsible for pushing through successive rounds of cuts, the latest of which was voted on by MEPs on Tuesday.They agreed to bring down the cost of using a phone while travelling in the EU. So-called roaming rates will be capped at a wholesale price of £170, subject to a vote by the European parliament this year. This is significantly lower than the £400 originally proposed by the commission.Kroes appeared to be in no mood to step back. She used Twitter on Tuesday morning to hit back at Colao, writing: "Message to Vittorio + Vodafone: I call your bluff. I take the side of the Vodafone customer."
If you use a smartphone and download apps, as half the UK population does now, you've probably used an app which pops up a dialog box pop asking "Find your friends?" and offering to search some new social network – or one of the more familiar ones – for people you already know.It's easy and quick to click on the "OK" button. But do you know what's happening once you do? This is where you suddenly discover that what you thought you knew about your online privacy is wrong – or at best, incomplete.In mid-February, an Indian researcher, Arun Thampi,figured outwhat was happening when Path, a would-be social network app for Apple's iPhone for "sharing your life", asked that question. It was uploading the entire contents of your address book – names, emails, phone numbers – to Path's servers.The outcry over this data grab was rapid and widespread – at least among the Silicon Valley digerati and those who watch them. Path's chief executive wrote amea culpablogpost, the company updated its app so it wouldn't upload all the data, and everything seemed calm.Then Dustin Curtis, a user interface designer,pointed outthat loads of apps do this. On his blog, he noted: "I did a quick survey of 15 developers of popular iOS apps, and 13 of them told me they have a contacts database with millons of records. One company's database has Mark Zuckerberg's cellphone number, Larry Ellison's home phone number and Bill Gates's cellphone number." But he added: "This data is not meant to be public, and people have an expectation of privacy with respect to their contacts." More digging showed that Facebook, Instagram, Yelp and location service Gowalla did too. It seemed like it would be easier to list the apps that didn't do it.For those feeling suddenly itchy about their privacy, there was more to come. A few days after Curtis's blog, Twitter admitted that it too grabbed address book data (though only, it said, your friends' emails and phone numbers); the purpose being just to find people you already know who might already be, or will be, members of the service. Jon Leibowitz, the chairman of the US's powerful Federal Trade Commission, summed it up in a sentence: "Right now, it is almost impossible to figure out which apps collect data and what they do with it."Apple chewed this over silently for a week and then announced that a forthcoming update of the iPhone and iPad software would prevent this.But just as another privacy storm seemed to have come and gone, another arrived: Jonathan Mayer, who researches online privacy at Stanford University,discoveredthat Google had hacked past the default privacy settings of Apple's browsers on the iPhone, iPad and desktop so that it tracked people's use of the web, whether or not they were signed into its services.That also meant that its advertising arm DoubleClick could follow them too. Adding to the appearance of culpability, as soon as the Wall Street Journal, following up Mayer's discovery, contacted Google, it stopped doing it. In recent weeks, only Facebook – accused wrongly by the Sunday Times of reading your text messages (the company insists it's doing no such thing; the capability in its app is for a future mobile payment service) – has emerged without immediate criticism.But the damage has been done. "Between the Path debacle and Google's Safari cookies, [Silicon] Valley's moral bankruptcy on privacy was made obvious,"commentedJames Grimmelmann, an associate professor at New York Law School, on&nbsp;Twitter.But it's not just in the narrow space of web browsing or apps that we're identifiable. Achilling story in the New York Timesdescribed how the giant Target store is now so good at tracking what items people buy that it can spot if someone is pregnant – especially in the second trimester, when they begin buying things such as vitamins and maternity clothes; catch them there and "we could capture them for years", as a statistician explained. The 25-item prediction system works so well that Target knew that a teenage girl was pregnant (and began sending appropriate shopping coupons to her home) before her father did. Which caused some red faces – first anger, then embarrassment – when he found them and accused the Target manager of encouraging her to get pregnant.On Target's part, it was nothing personal. But it wasn't private either: somewhere in its machine, there was a link between the girl and her pregnancy.Essentially, the edifices of privacy that we once thought we understood are melting like ice in a heatwave. Once upon a time, before mobile phones, it was really hard, without direct surveillance, for anyone else to know where you were. The advent of mobile phones meant police could track you by seeing which mobile masts your phone connected to. Then supermarket loyalty cards meant big retailers could make educated guesses about your home life – your income, education, life stage. Next, the location of your use of debit and credit cards, and the burgeoning number of CCTV cameras, all began to add up to a picture where not just the police but also big businesses could build up a picture of where you were pretty much throughout the week.Now add in smartphones and apps such as Path, Twitter and Foursquare, as well as web-based companies such as Facebook and Google which rely on serving ads, and data-crunching like that done by Target (and all the big supermarkets) and the idea of "privacy" is being eroded from inside and outside. Your address book is somewhere in the "cloud". You're telling anyone who has access to your Facebook profile where you were. Foursquare users can track your whereabouts, if you "check in". The supermarket where you shop is sending you coupons for nappies.A graphical representation ofhow much public data Facebook used to show in 2005 compared to 2010looks just like scary forecasts of polar ice cap melt. Except it's already happening. In fact, online privacy looks altogether like global warming: we tut about it and mutter "something must be done", and then do the equivalent of clambering into 4x4s – tagging photos on Facebook of friends getting drunk, tweeting pictures of our lovely trip and family on Instagram.Simon Davies, director-general of Privacy International, the pressure group that has been warning about the ease of such invasions for years, thinks it's an apt metaphor – but equally that, like the environmental movement, awareness is growing that it's not right, and that we can't go on this way."We have had developers tell us that they don't want their platform screwed up by too much privacy management," he says. "There's all sorts of hoodwinking and linguistic devices that they use to persuade you to hand over your data." Such practices are pervasive, he says.But he sees signs for optimism: there's growing awareness among a number of people on social networks (the irony might not be lost on you) that there's value in keeping information about yourself, your whereabouts and life private. Not just to protect yourself from identity theft; also just because it's nice to have some part of you that isn't subjected to the panopticon of the web."It is like the environmental movement, in that there are evangelists working to keep the brakes on excess use," says Davies. "I think Microsoft and Google are starting to see a change there."The trouble for Google is that 97% of its revenue comes from serving ads. Its profits improve if people click on ads, so it likes to show "relevant" ads – and the best way to work out which ads to offer is to watch which web pages people visit.Google is painfully aware that government agencies take a dim view of any corporate infringement of people's privacy – and also that if it loses users' trust, the slope from top dog in search to also-ran could be slippery. (For that reason, Microsoft has been hammering away at the privacy topic in its PR efforts: when news broke that Google had worked around Internet Explorer's protections, rather than follow its frankly arcane privacy system, Frank Shaw, Microsoft's combative head of PR,tweetedin faux disbelief: "Google can work on a self-driving car but can't figure out how to implement a standard?")"Even if you don't think cookies are a privacy harm, you should care about Google's inability to keep its promises," noted Grimmelmann, who studies how software affects freedom, power and wealth distribution. He says it's the same as not caring whether a politician had an affair: "[the politician] lying about it is still a big deal."And not many are prepared to give Google much leeway: "Of the four ad networks caught abusing [the] loophole in Safari cookie controls to track users, only Google is claiming it was unintentional," tweeted Christopher Soghian, a security and privacy researcher based in Washington.The culmination was theannouncement last weekby the Obama&nbsp;administration that it would push for all browsers to have a "Do Not Track" button as part of a "consumer privacy bill of rights", while the Californian attorney general said that apps would have to include privacy policies to tell users what data they would access.But where does it all end? "It's a systemic problem," says Davies. "The situation will only change when it's not fashionable to give away your data, when it becomes sad to do so in front of your peers."Is there any chance of that happening? Mayer says there are "bright spots" in privacy; he is working on the "Do Not Track" system. But others in the industry point to the differences between the US and Europe – the strong data protection legislation in the latter, and its almost total absence in the former – and suggest the gulf can't be bridged; our data will always flow downhill towards the area that lets companies make as much (profitable) use of it that they can. The columnist Helen Popkincommented despairingly: "Facebook is the slowly-warming pot of water and we, my friends, are the frog. By the time we noticed our peeling skin, another hunk of our privacy is long gone." But that was in March last year. Since then more and more chefs have continued to gather around the pot. Do you want to find friends already using this service? Is it getting warm in here?• This article was amended on 29 February 2012. A line in the original said that "Google had hacked past the default privacy settings of Apple's browsers on the iPhone, iPad and desktop so it could track people's use of the web ". Google points out that this was an unintended consequence. The story's wording has been changed accordingly.
Apple is expected to launch the third version of the iPad next Wednesday after sending out invitations accompanied by an image of what looks like an iPad touchscreen.The company, which had been widely tipped to reveal the third version of the tablet device close to the anniversary of the launch of the iPad 2, sent invites to journalists stating: "We have something you really have to see. And touch."Reports have suggested that the new iPad will have a "retina" screen – with four times as many pixels as the current model – and could include 4G connectivity for US high-speed networks.Apple didn't provide any details on the new device but the invitations are for the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts Theater in San Francisco, where the company holds larger launch events. A UK event will be taking place atKing's Placein London on the same date, 7 March.Apple invite for 7 March 2012: 'we have something you really have to see. And touch.'The website iMore says the device will have a quad-core processor – compared with the dual-core A5 chip in the current iPad model. The increased screen resolution would increase the apparent detail on images while not requiring software developers to rewrite their products.The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) says it will also include 4G connectivity (also known as LTE), which offers connections at up to 100Mbps, but in smartphones has been found to be a serious battery drain.The WSJ says that the LTE version will be sold through AT&amp;T and Verizon, the two largest carriers in the US. Apple told the Guardian that "Apple does not comment on rumours or speculation."While the iPad launch has been expected – last year Apple's iPad 2 was launched on Wednesday 2 March – there is no indication yet whether the company will also unveil its much-anticipated new TV system at the same time. Expectation has been growing that Apple will move into the burgeoning "smart TV" market, either offering a new version of its Apple TV set-top box, or offering integrated TV sets with internet connectivity.The rumours of an impending launch have been heightened by some reports in the US that the current Apple TV device is in short supply – usually an indication that the company is about to revise it.Apple's iPad 2 went on sale within days of its public launch. That brought a dual-core processor and faster graphics processing, and while reviewers were underwhelmed at what they perceived as a lack of difference from the first version – which went on sale in April 2010 – the iPad models have sold strongly, selling 14m in three quarters during 2010, and 40.5m in 2011, including 15m in the Christmas quarter.But the iPad faces challenges from Amazon's low-cost Kindle Fire device, and the expected arrival this autumn of tablets running a version of Microsoft's new Windows 8 operating system. Google is also rumoured to be working on its own brand-name tablet, for launch perhaps in April, to compete with Amazon's 7in Kindle Fire.
The mobile wallet payment systems being developed by Google, Vodafone, Orange, Visa and Mastercard could be out of date before they come to market, according to internet bank PayPal.Google and others are promoting Near Field Communication technology, which involves replacing credit cards with phones which can be tapped on a reader at the till. NFC is the most high profile of the array of new mobile payment technologies on show at this week's Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.But it requires complex alliances between banks, mobile phone operators, software developers and handset makers. Shops and restaurants must install new equipment at tills, and customers need NFC enabled phones.PayPal's head of mobile, David Marcus, is sceptical: "For NFC to succeed you need consumers to have the handsets, and merchants to install the terminals. It will take time for NFC to get mass adoption. By the time NFC catches up, we'll be in a world that will move away from the point-of-sales terminal."PayPal and Apple are working on alternatives which could be simpler to install. On Tuesday, PayPal announced a partnership with Yotel, the hotels group, which will let customers book and pay for rooms at Gatwick, Heathrow and New York in under 60 seconds from Yotel's website.In the UK, the Pizza Express restaurant chain already has a PayPal app which sends the bill to a customer's phone and allows them to pay without using a till or a credit card. In future customers could scan the barcodes of items they wish to buy using their phones, click a button on their screen to pay, and leave the shop.Apple has similar technology on trial at its stores in the US, using iTunes as a virtual bank. The technology is being used for buying accessories. The customer scans the barcode with their iPhone, then enters their Apple ID username and password. Payment is taken from the credit card linked to their iPhone account. The entire transaction bypasses queues, tills and sales assistants."We are not trying to replace a swipe by a tap," Marcus told the Guardian. "We are trying to change the way people pay in shops. We want to remove friction from the payment experience. We are very technology agnostic and we are not dependent on NFC. If NFC doesn't happen we will still succeed."PayPal processed $118bn (£74bn) in payments in 2011, up 29% year on year. Of those, $4bn were by mobile. The mobile total is expected to rise to $7bn in 2012, up from $150m in 2009.He said Paypal was the only payment method created for the internet age, and that it already had 106 million active customers and supported payments in 25 currencies. Its business model is difficult for rivals like Google to replicate, because this requires negotiating a multitude of foreign exchange, tax and legislative barriers.NFC payments have been slow to come to mass adoption because mobile operators would like to take a commission on payments and banks have been reluctant to allow this. In the US, Google Wallet has been frustrated by a rival service being developed by AT&amp;T, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless.In the UK, Everything Everywhere, O2 and Vodafone are developing a joint initiative as well as working on individual solutions, such as the deal between Vodafone and Visa announced this week, and they have been reluctant to work with Google."We are not sitting in the middle with only parts of the solution," said Marcus. "That is why we are truly in a unique position."
While the media was getting obsessed with Google+… the world actually got interested in Pinterest. What's more, Google's nascent social network, despite having seen a growing number of signups, only managed to attract visitors for an average of 3 minutes in the entire month of January - and that was a fall from the 4 minutes it achieved in December.New data from the web measurement company ComScore say that the figures for Google+ in the UK are even worse: having hit an average per user of 3.5 minutes for the month of December, that fell to 2.5 minutes in January.Meanwhile Facebook remains the monolith of the web - taking almost 18% of people's entire internet time in the UK during January. None of the other social networks managed more than 1% of UK "user minutes" for the same period; the blogging site Tumblr.com managed 0.55%, followed by Twitter, with 0.27%, and the "business social network" LinkedIn with 0.22%. Google+ and Pinterest both had 0.01% of total internet time, by ComScore's figures.Time spent on various sites (excluding Facebook), worldwide, January 2011-2012. Source: ComScoreWhile the figures for worldwide visitor numbers to Google+ are impressive - hitting 88.3m in January, not far behind LinkedIn's 100m, though some way short of Twitter 181.8m (and Facebook's 805m) - the brevity of visits, and the apparent fall in interest compared to December suggests that the company has not found a simple way to retain user interest.Visitors to Google+, Twitter, Pinterest and others January 2011-2012. Source: ComScoreBy contrast, Pinterest, which attracted almost no media interest before 2012, and which has not announced signup figures, has seen steadily growing figures both for users and for time spent since May, says ComScore: in January 2012, 13.76m people worldwide visited, and spent an average of 89 minutes there. The pattern is repeated in the UK, where steady growth saw 250,000 Britons visit the site in January, and spend an average of 25 minutes for the month. That contrasts with Google+, whose UK figures showed 3.8m visitors spending far less time on the site.The data will be uncomfortable reading for Google's chief executive Larry Page, who has committed the search giant to focussing on "social search" to the extent that the company has beenaccused of skewing its search results to push Google+ contentabove the position that it would normally merit on previous Google algorithms.Page made much of the number of Google+ signups during the company's fourth-quarter earnings in January,saying that 90m had signed upand then added "Engagement on [Google]+ is also growing tremendously. I have some amazing data to share there for the first time. [Google]+ users are very engaged with our products. Over 60% of them engage daily and over 80% weekly."But that statistic, while appearing to make Google+ look attractive, in fact only means that those people use services like Google Search, Docs, Mail and other products with that frequency - not Google+ itself. The company has not released its internal data which would show how long people spend on the site, in contrast to Facebook.Google is trying to get Google+ to rival Facebook and Twitter so that it can expand its advertising business; the two networks are increasingly protective of their content. Facebook prevents Google from indexing the majority of its content, while Twitter declined to renew a contract to provide its full "firehose" of tweets to Google when the two could not agree on how much Google should pay it for what would in effect be lost revenue from advertising to Twitter through the lack of visitors compared to the amount Google would earn from showing ads against searches which included Twitter content.The ComScore data does come with caveats. Rather than coming directly from the sites themselves, it is estimated via a user sample who have a toolbar installed on their desktop or laptop PCs - and so does not record visits to sites made by people using tablets such as the iPad, or from mobile phones. Facebook and Twitter have significant use via mobile phones. It is unclear how much use Google+ gets from mobile phones; it is now built into Android phones, which have dominant market share worldwide, and is available on Apple's iOS, the second best-selling smartphone OS.The ComScore data also only offers a mean value - which may disguise large variations in the time people spend on sites. Some Google+ users report being very engaged with the network, spending hours on it – which implies that some of the visitors spend scant seconds on the site during the month.Other sources suggest that Google+ is failing to engage users:speaking to the Wall Street Journal, John Schappert, the chief operating officer of games maker Zynga, known for its "social game" Farmville, said that the network had been "slow on the uptick with users right now". Intel's social media manager Ekaterina Walter said that response on Google+ was "not as great as were hoping it was going to be" and pointed to the fact that its Facebook page has millions of fans and gets thousands of comments - while the Google+ one gets dozens.But inside Google, there is no alternative: Page has declared that staff bonuses will be dependent on the success of its social efforts - though it is not yet known what measures will be used to determine that success.Facebook dominates web use both in terms of visitorsVisitors worldwide to Facebook, Twitter, Myspace, Pinterest, Google+ January 2011-2012. Source: ComScoreAnd in time spent:Time spent on Facebook, Twitter, MySpace, Google+ and others, January 2011-2012. Source: ComScore.
Apple is working on a new audio file format that will offer "adaptive streaming" to provide high- or low-quality files to users of its iCloud service.The new format could mean that users can get "high-definition" audio by downloading to an iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch. Alternatively, it could offer a streaming service – like that ofLala.com, the music streaming and online storage company, which Apple acquired late in 2009.The new system would adjust itself to the bandwidth and storage available on the receiving device.It is believed that Apple will use the new file type to upgrade itsiTunes Matchservice, which allows users to re-download music from iCloud to their Apple devices.A source with inside knowledge of the process says Apple has asked a London studio to prepare audio files for a new streaming format that will adapt to bandwidth or hardware capabilities."All of a sudden, all your audio from iTunes is in HD rather than AAC. Users wouldn't have to touch a thing – their library will improve in an instant," said the source, who requested to remain anonymous.Potentially, it will allow an iPhone user to access smaller file types to avoid using significant mobile internet bandwidth, but allow those with a fast connection to download or stream studio quality music.It is unclear whether the files will convert to the smaller types such as AAC in real time, or if Apple will convert the master file to several different types upon submission to iTunes.Asked for comment, Apple said it "does not comment on rumour and speculation".The timing of Apple's commission suggests it will showcase the new streaming technology alongside the announcement of the third generation of its iPad tablet, expected on 7 March. It is unclear whether the audio will stream in real time and compete with Spotify, or simply download a copy to the device for later use.In January, musician Neil Young claimed Steve Jobs had been interested indeveloping high-resolution audio optionsto combat the loss in perceived audio quality when compressing files. "What everybody gets [on an MP3] is 5% of what we originally make in the studio," he said. "We live in the digital age, and unfortunately it's degrading our music, not improving."Areport last week on Ars Technicadetailed recent moves by Apple to encourage submission of files in the 24-bit/96KHz standard. That means that the analogue audio is sampled and digitised 96,000 times per second, and encoded with 24-bit precision, allowing 16.7m different volume levels. When supplied on CDs, the music is "mixed down" to 16-bit precision, allowing 65,536 volume levels, and sampled at 44.1KHz – which theory shows is sufficient to encode any sound up to 20KHz, the top range of human hearing.A special landing page on iTunes showcases content that has been mastered specifically for the platform. Recording studios typically record in 24-bit, and while 44.1KHz is sufficient to record all audible sound, some studios use the higher 96KHz to ensure quality.Apple has released aset of guidelines for mastering to iTunes, which hints at the potential for interplay between iCloud and iOS devices: "As technology advances and bandwidth, storage, battery life, and processor power increase, keeping the highest quality masters available in our systems allows for full advantage of future improvements to your music," says the guide. "These masters matter – especially given the move into the cloud on post-PC devices."Offering high-quality audio may help combat music piracy by attracting fans to iTunes, but the source says the real winners here will be mastering studios."It's payday for mastering engineers," he said. "There could be calls for thousands of albums to be remastered, and at over £1,000 to master a mainstream album, it's going to be a healthy boost for the recording industry."
MTV is launching an iPhone and Android app called Under The Thumb in Europe, which will enable people to watch its shows while chatting to friends, and also control playback on their TVs.MTV worked with creative agency AKQA on the app, which was unveiled at the Mobile World Congress conference in Barcelona. It's due to go live on Apple's App Store and Google's Android Market in March, in seven European countries."It's connecting the traditional MTV business together with our mobile business," said Michel Dupont, senior vice president of MBL, north and international, at parent company Viacom Media Networks.Ben Jones, European director of technology at AKQA, said at the launch event that the app is aimed at the "Millennials" generation."They're basically kids or people who live life at the pace of digital. They need to have content wherever they are, at any point, on any device... A lot of kids nowadays don't necessarily watch TV any more, they consume the majority of their [TV] content on their laptop, smartphone or tablet."The app will stream MTV's shows on-demand, with an in-app chat feature for people to talk to friends about what they're watching. There's also something called "polymorphic interface control", which turns Under The Thumb into a remote control app for a TV.Jones said it will give viewers "the ability to control the stream, pause play ans ao forth, direct from your phone, and then that device becomes the controller for a larger screen too... No one's really done this before."The feature works by pairing the Under The Thumb app with a browser on a computer or connected TV – similar to the wayrecently-launched app Clikstreams YouTube videos to larger screens from mobile devices.The app gets people to connect it to their Facebook accounts for the social features. Its "co-viewing" features are focused on friends watching the same show at the same time, while chatting about it.People will flick between viewing and chatting by turning their phone from portrait to landscape, while co-viewing sessions can be scheduled by sending invites to friends with a specific time and date. If friends don't have the app, the invite and a download link will be posted on their Facebook walls."It was conceived not just as an app, but as a platform for the future, and a platform with content at its heart," said Mike Betts, product strategy director at AKQA.The app is being launched out of the MTV MBL division – MBL stands for Mobile Brand Licensing, and is MTV's unit for partnerships with mobile operators in Europe.It currently has partnerships in six European countries: Germany, Holland, Switzerland, France, Italy and Belgium, with one more to be added in March, when the app goes live. Dupont says MBL currently has 2.5m users across these countries.Under The Thumb will be a free download in these countries with limited content, and there will then be a paid tier with more shows. A third tier with even more content will only be accessible to MTV MBL customers.There are no plans to launch Under The Thumb in the US, said Dupont. "Of course, the US is aware of this and are following it. But we don't have short-term plans to launch it there."Clarification: Ben Jones' quote about kids' viewing habits refers to them watching TV still – just not on a television set. He wasn't suggesting that kids have stopped watching TV shows full stop.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSources: Apple not pulling Evi app, working with developers to avoid confusion &gt;&gt; The VergeDespite what True Knowledge told TechCrunch, the app remains in the App Store, and according to sources familiar with the matter, Apple is attempting to work with the developers on bumping out those similarities, rather than just pulling the product.Indeed, the app is still there; Apple seems to have mollified its stance. We still haven't heard from the company."Make sure we're winning" &gt;&gt; Marco.orgMarco Arment on Andy Rubin's comments about "doubling down" on tablets:Assuming that Google is firmly planted in reality, what are they actually going to do to meaningfully improve Android's disappointing tablet sales and lack of much good tablet software? More importantly, what can Google do? With the realities of the tablet market (excuse me, "other platforms"), and with the existing Android hardware ecosystem and the software policies that let it get there, I don't think I have a realistic, practical answer to suggest. I honestly have no idea what Google could meaningfully do about their tablet problems.Worth reading just for the footnotes.The reluctant sex lube salesman &gt;&gt; Kottke.orgNick Bergus recently posted a link on Facebook toa 55-gallon drum of personal lubricant sold by Amazon-- it's only $1500! Then the post got sponsored and his family and friends started seeing it when they used Facebook,turning Bergus into a pitchman of sorts for an absurd amount of sex lube... Get used to this...promoted word of mouth is how a lot of advertising will work in the future.Ew.Google to 'double down' on Android tablets in 2012, says Andy Rubin | The VergeAndy Rubin:"I can't force someone to write a tablet app," he said, adding that developers are "looking at market share and... being frugal." But he said that it was Google's responsibility to evangelize the platform and sounded optimistic about the overall momentum of Android on tablets. "We're now starting to get on the radar, and I'm hoping people decide to put in the muscle and make their apps work great on tablets."Correction: Amazon is starting to get on the Android radar. Not Google.The business of bookmarking (PDF) &gt;&gt; PinboardMaciej Ceglowski:Right now there's an agency problem with large web businesses that collect user data. People upload photos, videos, email, and all kinds of valuable personal information to websites large and small on the assumption that someone there will take appropriate technical measures to safeguard their stuff. Most of those websites don't get their revenue from users. Instead, they rely on some form of advertising, or on investor money they receive in return for telling a credible story about future advertising. And since the job of advertisers, by definition, is to persuade people to buy things they would not otherwise purchase, the third leg of this relationship is somewhat adversarial.The solution: pay. Money. (Guardian Technology has a paid account which it uses to collect each day's links.)Apple (mostly) isn't to blame for the patent mess &gt;&gt; ForbesTimothy Lee, who wrote the article on Ars Technica about how the iPhone drew on earlier work:From the perspective of patent law, the question is whether the improvements in question (putting multitouch on a phone, adding a graphical indicator to slide-to-unlock) would have been "obvious" to someone of ordinary skill in the art. But thisis just re-stating the same subjective question in slightly different terms. If you polled a bunch of engineers or patent lawyers, you'd likely get widely varying opinions. And yet patent law imposes harsh penalties on subsequent innovators who stray outside these extremely fuzzy legal boundaries.True, though he's clearly wrong about multi-touch; Apple bought Fingerworks, which had been working on multi-touch long before Jeff Han showed it off.Google, please don't kill video on the web &gt;&gt; MicrosoftDave Heiner, deputy head lawyer at Microsoft:Motorola should honor its promises, and make its standard essential patents available on fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory (FRAND) terms. Microsoft is certainly prepared to pay a fair and reasonable price for use of others' intellectual property. Within just the past few years, Microsoft has entered into more than a thousand patent licenses. We know how it's done. Unfortunately, Motorola has refused to make its patents available at anything remotely close to a reasonable price. For a $1,000 laptop, Motorola is demanding that Microsoft pay a royalty of $22.50 for its 50 patents on the video standard, called H.264. As it turns out, there are at least 2,300 other patents needed to implement this standard. They are available from a group of 29 companies that came together to offer their H.264 patents to the industry on FRAND terms. Microsoft's patent royalty to this group on that $1,000 laptop? Two cents.Mentioned in our story yesterday. We await Motorola's response.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Sports broadcaster ESPN has launched a new global football app for its Soccernet brand, offering news, live scores, audio and video content.TheESPNsoccernetapp is initially being released for iPhone, with Android, Windows Phone and Symbian versions to follow. Commercial director for ESPN Digital Media Robin Ashton says the app's launch reflects ESPN's growing ambitions in mobile."Of all platforms, mobile is growing the fastest for us. It's becoming pretty much one of our most important screens," he says."Mobile is perfect for our audience, who are more likely to have smartphones and browse the web on them. In the next two years, combined traffic to Soccernet's mobile website and this app could overtake the main website."The new app's global launch follows ESPN's UK success with itsESPN Goalsapp, which relaunched at the start of the current football season.It's a free app offering video clips of every Premiership goal shortly after they're scored (except for matches kicking off on Saturdays at 3pm, which due to UEFA rules can only be delivered from 5.15pm).The app has been downloaded nearly 2m times in the five months since its relaunch in the UK. "The usage we're seeing on it is incredible," says Ashton."We're serving around 40m page views a month on ESPN Goals in the UK only, and on the video front we're serving around 7m match highlight clips every month too."Ashton also says that there has been a "phenomenal response" from advertisers too. ESPN Goals was a paid service in the 2010/11 season, but switched to free and ad-funded for the current campaign. Brands advertising in the app include Electronic Arts, Continental Tyres and Mentholatum."It's working phenomenally well from both an audience and revenue point of view," says Ashton. "It's the holy grail for all of us who work in this sector: to create something we can say is a disrupter. It's changing the way people follow football on a Saturday."So to the new app, ESPNsoccernet, whose global focus is a big opportunity for ESPN, but also a challenge on the rights side: the broadcaster has rights for mobile video in specific countries for specific leagues.The app will walk the line between localised content and coverage of competitions like the English Premier League with broad global appeal."We're very conscious that it cannot be a one-size fits-all approach for any market," says Ashton."We don't want to dictate though: we have massive audiences in Australia, Singapore, Malaysia, the US, Canada… And the Premier League is still very important for them. If you're in Nigeria, we're not going to default you to Nigerian scores. We'll allow you to set it up and add in the leagues you want."Where it has video rights and broadcast assets, ESPN will use them. In the UK, that means ESPNsoccernet will get analysis and opinion from its team of pundits – Ray Stubbs, Kevin Keegan and John Barnes – whereas in the US there will be clips from its US sports coverage.Ashton says that mobile is becoming much more integrated into broadcast rights packages, rather than hived off into separate bundles as has been the case in the past."We would prefer all media for any rights we go after, but it's not always possible. It's getting much more difficut for rightsholders to segment those packages."There are quirks though. ESPN's deal with the Premier League is based on the capabilities of the devices receiving the content. ESPN Goals is unavailable to Wi-Fi-only iPod touch users as a result.Ashton points to other grey areas, like the way in the UK Yahoo has internet rights to Premier League highlights, but ESPN has mobile rights. "Is a laptop with a 3G dongle stuck in it mobile or not? From our perspective it has to get cleaner, but we're very happy with the package we have at the moment."ESPN has been notable in its efforts to go cross-platform with its apps. ESPN Goals is available on iPhone, Android, BlackBerry, Windows Phone and Symbian, while the company has also invested in its mobile websites. In 2011, users spent an average of 158 minutes a month on ESPN mobile sites, generating 63.4m monthly page views."ESPN has a mission statement about serving the fan wherever they want to consume sports, so we were first on Android – we pushed out ESPN Goals on that last year before a lot of more established apps were there," says Ashton."We've also been working closely with Microsoft on Windows Phone. The usage numbers are not up there with iOS, but I believe they'll grow."ESPN is also working with Nokia on its ESPN Hub app, which will be an exclusive preload on that company's Lumia Windows Phone handsets.Ashton is also keeping tabs on trends including second-screen apps – used on a smartphone or tablet to complement watching TV on a bigger screen – and social networking."I get an email proposal about second-screen every five minutes, and it's an area we're looking at, but we don't want to do it just for the sake of it," he says."It's got to give fans something useful, and provide extra value. But we do see that something like Twitter is making sport more engaging in many ways. People care about what other fans are saying."
A selection of 15 apps for you today:Skype for Windows PhoneMicrosoft has released a "pre-release" beta version of Skype for Windows Phone, offering voice, video calls and instant messaging. It's in advance of the full version coming later this year.Windows PhoneOpera Mini NextBrowser firm Opera is giving Android owners a sneaky peek at future features for its Opera Mini mobile browser, although the company warns that Opera Mini Next is not designed for "everyday browsing". In fact, it's as much about getting feedback and bug reports on the new features.AndroidBarbarian – The Death SwordVenerable 8-bit game Barbarian – of foe-beheading infamy – has been updated for the apps era. The graphics have been beefed up, obviously, and there's also a local network multiplayer mode. And yes, the decapitation move is still present and correct.iPhoneNYTimes Election 2012I wrote about the New York Times' presidential election appwhen it came out on iOS. Now it's been ported to Android, offering a similar mix of news, views and – as the campaign swings into action – live results and vote projections.AndroidiAlbumsiAlbums is an intriguing iPhone music player app that pulls in biographies, reviews, lyrics, photos, videos, tweets, interviews and other content for the songs that you play. More than 600k artists, 1m albums and 10.5m songs are covered. The app is in "alpha", with a final release scheduled for June.iPhoneTales for Great GrandchildrenAuthor John Jackson has brought his collection of folk and fairytales from India and Nepal to iPad in a beautiful-looking book-app. Aimed at 7-12 year-olds, it includes 13 stories for free, with in-app purchases unlocking another 12 either individually or as a collection.iPadCodeRunnerCodeRunner is the latest new-wave location game for iPhone, which puts you in the shoes of an espionage agent roaming the real world for some "hacking, spying, sabotage and murder". Cleverly, its missions adapt to work around the world, so you're not tied to a specific city or country to use it.iPhoneVimeoVideo site Vimeo has apps for a number of platforms, but now its iOS version has been upscaled for iPad. That means a new user interface designed to make the most of the larger tablet screen.iPadThe Social Radio for TwitterHere's something fun: an app that plays the music stored on your iPhone, but also reads out your Twitter stream in between songs. "Listen to your Twitter timeline, lists, trending topics, funny hashtags and searches; everything beautifully mixed with the music you love. The result? Your own perfect experience of online radio." It can even read out some emoticons.iPhoneClickBerry for FacebookClickBerry is an interesting idea: an app for uploading videos to Facebook, but also for inserting tags and Like buttons inside them. "Tag the Eiffel Tower from a video you shot while in Paris and link it to Wikipedia... tag your brother in your Halloween party video and add a link to his Facebook profile... Select an actor you like in a captured clip from your TV and put a 'Like' button on him inside your video."iPadMeltdown on Mars THDHardcore Android gamers should definitely check out Meltdown on Mars, an action / tower-defence game from Thumbstar Games that's just been released for tablets. Well, some tablets: those using Nvidia's Tegra processor to be specific. Smartphone support is apparently following.AndroidDenon DJ EngineAudio firm Denon's latest app is aimed at DJs: an iPad app for rooting through their tracks stored on a USB drive or hard drive. It works with Denon's range of "Engine-Ready" products.iPadABRSM Aural TrainerMusical assessment body ABRSM has launched an Aural Trainer app to help people improve their sight-singing, sense of pulse and metre, and musical memory skills. Designed around its testing criteria, the app comes as a Lite version with in-app purchases for Grades 1-3 and 4-5, althoughseparate paid appsare available too.iPhone0870Simon Maddox has brought his 0870 app to BlackBerry, providing a quick and easy way to get cheaper numbers for British companies' 0870, 0845 and 0800 customer service lines – even the latter can cost up to 35p a minute when called from a mobile phone.BlackBerryPingMe MessengerBlackBerry's BBM messaging remains hugely popular, especially among teenagers. RadiumOne Labs is one of the companies hoping to compete by being cross-platform: it's already on Android and iOS, and is now taking the fight to BBM on its home turf, BlackBerry. The twist being that this version is BBM-connected: "You can connect friends and colleagues on BBM easily..."BlackBerry
Welcome to Tuesday's Chatterbox. Let's do what we're here for – let's chat about games.
Google will up its challenge to Apple's iPad this year, says Andy Rubin, the head of Google's Mobile and Digital Content division, who has overseen the rise of Android to dominance in the smartphone space.At the same time he announced that Google is now activating 850,000 Android devices via its servers every day, with 300m having been turned on during the operating system's lifetime.The numbers do not include millions of Amazon's Kindle Fire tablet, Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook e-reader, or a number of other devices including smart TVs which use "forked" versions of the Android software but do not sign into Google's servers when they are activated.Speaking at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Rubin said that there had been 12m tablets running Android activated so far - a figure he called "not insignificant, but less than I'd expect it to be if you really want to win."By contrast, Apple sold 15.4m iPads in the Christmas 2011 quarter alone, and more than 50m since going on sale in April 2010.Persistent rumours have suggested that Google will offer its own Google-branded tablet, possibly as soon as April. The company has made no announcement.According to Rubin, the weakness of the existing Android tablet platform was that "there's no organised way for consumers to recognise it as a viable platform" and that he wanted people to see the devices as part of the wider Android ecosystem of apps and accessories.In apost on the Google Mobile blog, Rubin said that Google's mobile software platform has seen year-on-year growth of more than 250%. "These numbers are a testament to the breakneck speed of innovation that defines the Android ecosystem," he noted. The Android Market has seen the number of apps available triple from 150,000 to 450,000 in the year since the last Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, with more than 1bn app downloads each month.Android handset devices activated and per-day activations. Source: Google. (Not all data was supplied.)Rubin dismissed the idea that Android tablets lacked apps which would show off tablets to their best advantage. "Android's unique in that it's a single platform that spans device types," hetoldNilay Patel of The Verge, adding that "developers have to do the work" of creating apps that would recognise when they were running on a tablet and take advantage of it: "they're already doing that work for other platforms," he said.He said that "2012 is the year that we're going to double down and make sure we're winning in that space".Rumours about the Google tablet suggest that it would be sized to compete with Amazon's Kindle Fire, which at 7in has about half the screen size of Apple's iPad. Although Amazon has not released sales details for the Kindle Fire, the research company IDCreckonsthat about 5m Kindle Fires were shipped in the two months after it went on sale. That would make it a contender to have the largest share of non-Apple tablets.
The runaway popularity of&nbsp;photo-sharing site Pinterest, on which users&nbsp;mount images on virtual "pinboards", is generating some impressive statistics. Here's a key one: 97% of Pinterest's Facebook fans are women. Tucked among the millions of pinboards of crafts, clothes, cupcakes and cats, is there anything on Pinterest for men? Let's see …•Heineken keg R2D2 model. Typing "Star Wars" and "beer" into Pinterest's search engine seemed the quickest way to get started, but this model robot, made from a five-litre party barrel, was actually pinned by&nbsp;a&nbsp;woman.• A cool picture ofa guy cycling with his bike tyres on fire. A man put this one up, natch.• Interesting knives. From a&nbsp;board entitled"Sharp and&nbsp;pointy".•Sheds. Mostly twee and largely pinned by women, but worth sifting through.• Very expensive trainers. Like&nbsp;many objects of male interest, the&nbsp;best of these can&nbsp;be&nbsp;tracked down just by&nbsp;searching for the comment&nbsp;"Sick!"
Motorola Mobility (MMI), the struggling Android handset maker that is being bought by search giant Google in a $12.5bn deal, has come under attack from a German court and from Microsoft over its use of patents in legal fights.In a key decision in the ongoing smartphone patent wars, a German court rejected attempts by MMI to stop Apple's sales of several iPhone and iPad models through its German internet store. The decision reverses a ruling in December by a lower court.The court said that because Apple had improved its payment offer for the patents at stake – which cover 3G/UMTS wireless telephony standards – Motorola could not impose an injunction while Apple appeals the case, and that to do so would breach European antitrust rules. Those rules oblige it to license "standard essential" patents on "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory" terms to any company.Meanwhile Microsoft has complained that MMI is "on a path to use standard essential patents to kill video on the web" and that Google "doesn't seem to be willing to change [its] course".The German decision puts a question mark over the value of some of MMI's huge 17,000-strong patent portfolio toGoogle, which has received US and European clearance for its $12.5bn acquisitionof the struggling handset and set-top box maker, but is still awaiting approval from China and Israel before it can be completed. The search giant has repeatedly stated that it wants MMI's patents so that it can fend off courtroom attacks by Apple and Microsoft, which are using their portfolios of non-essential patents respectively to prevent sales of handsets running Google's Android software, and to extract per-handset payments.But if MMI cannot injunct Apple or Microsoft products from sale, nor force its own terms on licencees, then its "standard essential" patents lose their force in a court battle.MMI may also face an investigation from the European Commission for its attempts to use "standard essential" patents to force injunctions, after both Apple andMicrosoft lodged complaintsover its legal tactics. In giving his assent to Google's takeover of MMI in early February, the European Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almuniawarnedboth companies that "Today's decision does not mean that the merger clearance blesses all actions by Motorola in the past or all future action by Google with regard to the use of… standard essential patents."Standard essential patents are submitted by the inventing company to standards bodies for inclusion in emerging standards. If accepted, they become obligatory for use to comply with a standard, but have to be licensed at agreed rates and equally to all applicants. Apple and Microsoft have both complained that Motorola is discriminating by trying to vary their licensing terms for standard essential patents, some relating to the H.264 video codec and others to wireless communication."Motorola has broken its promise. Motorola is on a path to use standard essential patents to kill video on the Web, and Google as its new owner doesn't seem to be willing to change course,"wroteDave Heiner, a senior Microsoft lawyer.He said that MMI was seeking huge payments for use of its H.264 patents: "Motorola has refused to make its patents available at anything remotely close to a reasonable price. For a $1,000 laptop, Motorola is demanding that Microsoft pay a royalty of $22.50 for its 50 patents on the video standard, called H.264. As it turns out, there are at least 2,300 other patents needed to implement this standard. They are available from a group of 29 companies that came together to offer their H.264 patents to the industry on FRAND terms. Microsoft's patent royalty to this group on that $1,000 laptop? Two cents." MMI's demands were based on the retail price of the device, said Heiner – which would make it $45 on a $2,000 laptop."Microsoft is not seeking to block Android manufacturers from shipping products on the basis of standard essential patents," wrote Heiner. "Rather, Microsoft is focused on infringement of patents that it has not contributed to any industry standard."Meanwhile, Apple is seeking to ban sales of a number of mobile handsets using Google's Android software, including MMI and Samsung, in a number of European countries and the US, claiming that they infringe patents it owns which have not been declared standards.The latest decision was handed down in the Karlsruhe Higher Regional Court, which heard an appeal from Apple over a verdict given by the Mannheim court in December. The court decided that Apple's amended terms for licensing MMI's patents should be acceptable at least for the course of the appeal, which according to the independent patents blogger Florian Müller could take a year or more.Müller suggested that the decision may mean that German courts – previously seen as less friendly to companies which are trying to license FRAND patents - are now not inclined to allow injunctions on those patents. "Google's public statement on the post-acquisition use of MMI's patents proposed the German approach to FRAND as the way forward for the whole world," hewrote on his blogfollowing the announcement. "With today's ruling, [Google-Motorola's] strategy has failed even before the companies have formally merged. This is such a major blow to Google's patent strategy that, from a mere shareholder value point of view, it should now give serious consideration to the possibility of coughing up the $2.5 billion break-up fee agreed upon with MMI's board of directors and walk out on this deal."MMI, he said, is now faced with the problem that if it continues to refuse Apple's licence paymen offer, it might be judged as breaching EU antitrust rules. That could lead to fines of up to 10% of the company's global turnover.MMIlast week won a separate patent judgement in Germany against Apple covering push email, which is not a "standard essential" patent and so carries no obligation to license it. That has forced Apple to turn off parts of its iCloud and MobileMe email and cloud services in the country.
Block 18.40am:Hello and welcome to day one of the Mobile Phone World Congress in Barcelona, with me Juliette Garside.A year ago Nokia chief executive Stephen Elop announced at this event that he would be dumping the "burning platform" of the Symbian operating system in favour of Windows Phone. Six months later Nokia launched its first Windows Phones. Today Elop is here to explain how the world's largest phone maker is progressing with its plan to catch up with Google, Apple and Samsung in the smartphone race.Elop is on stage.We introduced three new Lumia devices ahead of schedule, establishing beachheads from which we will continue to grow our smartphone strategy.In North America we have started our reentry into the United States with T-Mobile and sales have exceeded our expectations.In Singapore we've had consumers lined up along the street and around the corner.Block 28.48am:Two new Asha devices announced, the Asha 202 and 302. Aimed at emerging markets, these are keyboard smartphones which can run web apps like Facebook and run on Nokia's Symbian operating system.A new feature is that the Microsoft Exchange email will work on the Asha 302. Includes synchronisation of calendar, email and contacts. Priced at €95 at retail.Described as a low cost entry point to data consumption.Block 38.52am:Elop says Nokia's smartphones are setting a new pace. The 4G Lumia 900 was launched in the US with AT&amp;T.I'm pleased to share that we are going to extend the Lumia 900 beyond the US. It will be available in Elop's home country of Canada.Jo Harlow, Nokia's smartphone lead, takes the stage.We shouldn't forget that in many countries around the world LTE networks are not deployed. That shouldn't stop people from being able to enjoy the superior content experience. I'm pleased to announce that we will be bringing the Lumia 900 to other countries around the world.The Lumia 900 - photos of a white case, for the first time. Nokia Drive turns any Nokia smartphone into a personal navigation device. You can set speed limit alerts on the latest edition of Nokia Drive.A new feature called Nokia Reading with news stream. A single hub for news, books, audio books. News stream aggregates feeds on favourite topics from favourite sources, which can be pinned to the start screen, with breaking stories appearing in the live tile. Free like Nokia Drive on the 900.Block 48.58am:The Lumia 900 also allows video calling.Terry Myerson, head of the Windows Phone Division at Microsoft takes the stage. The beta for Windows Phone of Skype will be available from today on Windows Phone.Since the beginning of our partnership with Nokia, the range of applications to our market place has trippled. Windows Phone has been made compatible with mobile operator networks in China.Harlow says that means Nokia will bring Lumia to China. In the coming months they will introduce a range of phones to the Chinese market.Myerson says Microsoft has lowered the system requirements for Windows phone, to make it available to lower end, cheaper smartphones. The total addressible market has expanded over 60%.Harlow announces a new device, the Nokia Lumia 610, the fourth in the Lumia range.The perfect introduction to Windows Phone for a younger audience. The 610 delivers the best mobile gaming device with Xbox Live. Playing on the mobile will increase your console score.Includes Nokia Transport, with underground and overground transport information, with maps and timetables, in 500 cities in 46 countries. Comes free with the phone.With four phones delivered within one year we are able to cover a range of needs and a range of price points. Lumia 900 estimated retail price of €480, expected to start shipping in Q2. The Lumia 610 will ship at around €189 and is expected to also ship in Q2.Block 5Introduces the Nokia 808 PureView, a Symbian phone that looks like a camera. Harlow says it "ushers in a revolution in smartphone imaging".Features a 41 Megapixel sensor, with a Carl Zeiss lens to set a new standard in image qulaity. The iPhone 4S, by comparison, has an 8 Megapixel camera, a level of resolution which is common even among lower range digital cameras. Pictures can be saved in compact files sizes for emailing, sharing and uploading to social networks.We intend to introduce these features into other Nokia smartphones in the future.Estimated retail price of €450, it will start rolling out in May. In white, red and black.Last year when Stephen and I stood on this stage, we hoped we could deliver one Windows Phone smartphone and we delivered two. We now have four Lumia products ready to roll out around the world. I'm looking forward to bringing you even more in the next year.Stephen Elop returns to the stage. Says Nokia Maps new edition features 50 times more places.Nokia Drive turns a Lumia into a fully fledged navigation device. These applications are incredibly powerful but they are just the beginning of what we can unleash with location based services. There are three questions that guide most of us throughout the day - what, who and where. Today the internet provides many answers to the what and the who. We, Nokia, will answer the where, by building a where enabled platform. Nokia Drive and other apps are built on Nokia's location platform. My commute will let you know if you need to leave home early to get to work on time.We are happy to announce today that we are entering into a partnership with Groupon, with daily deals to Nokia consumers around the world.Says Nokia on a mission to create a third ecosystem. With the location based where platform that is precisely what we are achieving. Nokia apps have had 65m downloads. There are more than 200,000 app developers for Nokia in India. Have operator billing with 150 opeartors in 40 countries, things like in app purchasing, in app advertising.Data shows purchases increase up to five times with operator billing versus credit card alone. We can offer developers access to consumers in all markets at all price points and we will continue to push this further and faster.It's been one year since Nokia said it was embarking on a new journey. Since then we've introduced four devices. We are connecting the next people to the internet with Asha, a new cloud based browser. We are differentiating the Nokia experience with great design, new location based services, all of which is providing developers with a new gateway to the world. It has been a very challenging year for Nokia and it has also been an amazing year for Nokia.Block 69.26am:So, that's the end of the presentation. To summarise, Nokia will roll out its LTE Lumia 900 in countries outside North America, presumably that includes Europe, and to China. The PureView camera phone, with a 41 Megapixel camera, making it by miles the most powerful smartphone camera in the world. The other European device is the lower price point Lumia 610, aimed at younger users.Elop is asked if these phones will save the company.We are demonstrating the action necessary to improve the fortunes of Nokia. Identifying strategy and executing very aggressively against that.Block 72.49pm:Vodafone chief executive Vittorio Colao has called for an end to European imposed cuts to the price of calls, accusing regulators of running on "autopilot" and endangering jobs.Colao was speaking this morning at the Mobile World Congress ahead of a vote by European ministers this week on a new round of cuts which will set the price of using a phone abroad for the next ten years.The reductions are to the wholesale price operators charge each other, which is intended to flow through into retail price cuts, but the telecoms chief said that previous cuts had not benefited consumers.People think every time there is a reduction there is more money in the pockets of customers. This is not true.Over the last year, European operators have seen their revenues decline across the board as regulator imposed cuts begin to impact. Regulators have recently pushed through cuts to mobile termination rates, the wholesale cost of calling a mobile from a landline or another mobile phone.The European Commission, said Colao, estimates that for every €10 in cuts, only €2 are passed on to consumers through lower retail prices, with the balance being held back by operators. He said:We need to stop this autopilot regulation mentality that is still prevailing in many parts of the world. We should stop all these cuts, we shuld stop having this continuous intervention on prices and let the industry reinvest the money.He said fibre was one of the areas in which operators needed to invest. Vodafone has already acquired and built extensive fibre optic cable networks around Europe, in order to provide faster connections between masts to suport mobile internet.Vodafone and is considering a bid for Cable &amp; Wireless Worldwide, the UK fixed line business telecoms group whose extensive fibre network would greatly reduce the mobile group's need to rent cables from other operators.Block 87.10pm:That's all from today's Mobile World Congress, back tomorrow evening for the keynote with Google chairman Eric Schmidt.
A Cambridge company whose Evi app can do many of the same functions as Apple's voice-operated Siri system has been warned that it will be removed from the App Store – because, it is suspected, it is too good at its job.William Tunstall-Pedoe, chief executive of True Knowledge – whoseEviprogram is available on both Apple's App Store and for Google Android devices – told the Guardian that he had been contacted by an Apple representative on Friday and told that a decision had been made and that the app would be removed imminently.At risk is Evi, which – unlike the US-centric Siri –can look up British businesses and maps, and which the makers say is better at handling regional accents, which can befuddle Apple's speech analysis system.Tunstall-Pedoe told the Techcrunch blog, and confirmed to the Guardian, that Apple's representative Richard Chipman had indicated that Evi was being reviewed under condition 8.3 of theApp Store's terms and conditions(PDF), which bans apps that appear confusingly similar to an existing Apple product.Evi's resemblance to Siri goes deeper than the name: both offer voice-driven speech analysis to find data to help users. While Siri is more deeply embedded into the iPhone 4S – the only handset on which it is available – it cannot do UK-focussed searches.Evi uses the same speech recognition system, Nuance, as Siri, but depends on its own set of servers to work on the content of the user's request. It also works on any iPhone handset, as well as the iPad tablet and Google Android devices.As of Monday afternoon, the app was still available in the UK and US stores, and Tunstall-Pedoe said that he was waiting for further information from Apple, which had not responded to a request for information as this story was being prepared for publication.Apple rarely removes apps from the App Store wholesale, unless they are found to have sneaked extra functions past its team of checkers who manually review every app before allowing it to go on sale.It has previously done this for acamera app which used the iPhone volume button as a shutter release, and one whichmade a game out of shaking an onscreen baby.Tunstall-Pedoe said Evi has been popular on both the Apple and Android stores. Having been available for three weeks, it is approaching half a million downloads in total.While the Android version is free, because it uses Google's voice recognition system, the iPhone version costs 69p, to cover the cost of the Nuance voice-recognition system which turns users' requests into machine-readable text.Even so downloads are running at equal levels on the two platforms, said Tunstall-Pedoe.
A private detective at the centre of allegations that computers were hacked for the News of the World has been jailed for illegal "blagging" in a separate case.Philip Campbell Smith was one of four investigators who have become the first to be jailed for accessing private information for cash.Along with Daniel Summers, Graham Freeman and Adam Spears, he was involved in a blagging conspiracy where they accessed confidential information at the behest of wealthy clients.Smith, a former army officer, who also admitted possessing three rounds of ammunition in a separate case, is under investigation over allegations he hacked the computer of a former British army intelligence officer for the now defunct tabloid in 2006.Some of the hacked information allegedly related to two IRA informants who were both high-profile assassination targets including Freddie Scappaticci, codenamed Stakeknife.Sentencing Summers to 12 months, Spears and Smith to eight months and Freeman to six months behind bars, Judge Andrew Campbell said: "You knew it [the information] would be obtained by using criminal deception."The fact is you were all charging for your services and in some cases charging very considerable sums."I am satisfied that each of you knew that if you were caught you were likely to face a charge that carried imprisonment. Indeed Mr Freeman wrote an email advising a client of that very fact."Sandip Patel, prosecuting, said Summers - a self-confessed blagger - was the lynchpin of the conspiracy, using his skills to get confidential information from banks, holders of medical records, HMRC, the DVLA, the Criminal Records Bureau, Interpol and others by pretending to be the individual concerned or from a bank or other legitimate institution.Operating from his flat in Teddington, Surrey, the 32-year-old, who describes himself as an information broker, was subcontracted to get the details by Smith, 53, and Freeman, 51, who ran the private investigation firm Brookmans International.Freeman, who lives in Spain, would email or phone Smith about the work and investigators believe Smith would then pass the work on to Summers, charging clients up to £5,000 a time.In an email to a client about why their charges might seem high, Freeman wrote that police and Interpol databases that might be accessed were "not open to the general public and are tightly regulated", meaning that "should we be apprehended a custodial sentence" may be handed out.Summers was also asked to extract information by Spears, 72, a retired Metropolitan police detective inspector, for his consultancy firm Global Intelligence Services Ltd.The quartet were caught out when an undercover police officer bought Summers's laptop from him for £590 in October 2008 and a forensic examination retrieved evidence of his activities, which Summers thought he had deleted.When he was arrested in May 2009 Summers, who is said to be an alcoholic, told police: "I'm in the biggest shit imaginable. Do you want to talk now? I'll sing like a canary."He admitted he knew that what he had been doing was illegal and revealed his three main clients were his co-defendants, who were subsequently arrested. He later said: "I'm glad this has happened because now it has stopped. I can't do it any more."The four pleaded guilty to conspiracy to obtain information by false representation between January 2007 and May 2009 but claimed some of those they investigated were criminals themselves.In one case they investigated suspects accused of duping hundreds of members of the public in a multimillion-pound fraud.But although a judge said in some of the cases those investigated had almost certainly committed crimes it was no excuse for what the defendants did.Kingston crown court heard that some information came from corrupt police and there was the suggestion hacking could have been used, but this did not form part of the prosecution case against the four.However, a source with knowledge of the case, which was brought by the Serious Organised Crime Agency, said: "There could have been hacking. There is some suggestion they got mobile phone passwords and pins to hack voicemails and text messages."The source said computer hacking with a trojan virus was also possible.Smith, a former intelligence services officer, who served in the British army between 1986 and 1991 including tours of Northern Ireland, is now understood to be under investigation by a Scotland Yard inquiry, Operation Kalmyk, which is examining allegations that email hacking may have been used against several dozen targets.The computer that Smith is suspected of hacking belonged to the former British intelligence officer Ian Hurst.It is claimed that this was commissioned by Alex Marunchak, who was a senior editor on the News of the World when it was edited by Andy Coulson. Marunchak denies the allegations.The material accessed by the hacker included messages concerning at least two agents who had informed on the Provisional IRA: Scappaticci and a second informant known as Kevin Fulton.Both men were regarded as high-risk targets for assassination. Hurst was one of the few people who knew their whereabouts and the emails contained information capable of disclosing this.Hurst found out Smith had hacked his computer and went on to tape him confessing to it. Sections of that confession were broadcast last year as part of a BBC Panorama programme.Smith is also alleged to have hacked the email of a former police officer who was acting as a police informer known as Joe Poulton between September 2005 and January 2006.Operation Kalmyk is investigating the allegations in the BBC Panorama programme.Smith, who has a previous conviction for soliciting a woman for prostitution in 2004, was further sentenced to four months for possessing three rounds of ammunition which were found in a cupboard at his home. This will run concurrently with the eight-month sentence for blagging.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 25 FebruaryPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Uncharted: Golden Abyss(16+)PS Vita (100)12 (–)Fifa Football (3+)PS Vita (100)13 (1)UFC Undisputed 3 (15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)24 (2)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (32)Wii (6)PSP (5)225 (–)Rayman Origins(7+)PS Vita (63)PS3 (22)Xbox 360 (10)Wii (5)86 (4)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (64)3DS (36)137 (–)Syndicate(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (27)PC (8)18 (3)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (43)PC (3)Wii (2)169 (5)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (35)PC (9)1810 (6)Final Fantasy XIII-2(16+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (48)411 (–)Wipeout 2048(7+)PS Vita (100)112 (9)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (34)PC (15)1613 (7)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (43)Xbox 360 (32)PS3 (17)3DS (8)1314 (10)Just Dance 3 (3+)Wii (83)Xbox 360 (15)PS3 (2)2015 (–)The Last Story(16+)Wii (100)116 (14)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (81)Xbox 360 (15)PS3 (4)4817 (–)Fallout: New Vegas Ultimate Edition(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (35)PC (9)118 (8)The Darkness II(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (34)PC (2)319 (16)Rage(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (38)1520 (17)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (37)15UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Theatre is and always has been interactive, from the city-wide mystery plays of the middle ages, to the modern era's improvised comedy nights and experimental promenade performances. And though it may seem strange to draw parallels between this ancient artform and the world of video games, it's the sense of interplay between audience and spectacle that can unite them.This summer, the young theatre companyGoat and Monkeyis running a performance and alternate reality gaming (ARG) project named,The Seed. Based around the stories of Victorian botanists who would travel the world seeking rare seeds, the project starts on 28 May at a dedicated website, where viewers will read the blog of a fictitious researcher at the Millennium Seed Bank who is on a quest to find a 'missing' seed. As she investigates its whereabouts, she'll write about the histories of Plant Hunters and also asks players to help, both by answering questions and by deciphering a range of puzzles.The ARG story then culminates with a series of performances in great gardens around Sussex, including Wakehurst Place, High Beeches Gardens and finally at Borde Hill Gardens. For some of these, audience members are given wireless headsets and must follow instructions and story fragments, through the landscape. The narratives revolve around different tales of Victorian seed hunters and explorers, and participants will be able to pick up clues to the whereabouts of a hidden prize."Each of the four performances is a different story and takes a different form," explains Goat and Monkey spokesman, Martin Shippen. "Two of the four are short promenade pieces where the audience will wear wireless headphones and follow a trail from one scene to the next. The Wakehurst performance takes place in a yurt but will involve problem solving and the final performance is a promenadepageant piece told in the style of traditional Mummers."Within each performance there are clues to help the players solve the mystery of the missing seed and find the treasure buried in the real world. Our ARG heroine will be in attendance at several performances allowing the players to talk to her. The final run of performances at Borde Hill Gardens also has more obvious game qualities as it involves audience members hunting for clues/scenes unguided by performers in a dark wood!"This modern notion of interactive theatre, which combines location, narrative and interaction with actors has been growing in popularity for the last five years. Protoganists such asPunchdrunkanddreamthinkspeakusually take over non-theatrical venues like abandoned industrial units, shops and factories, combining traditional plays with interactive elements. In 2010, Punchdrunk put on The Duchess of Malfi at an old pharmaceutical headquarters in the Docklands, and last year terrified audiences at Salford Quays with its Dr Who-inspired interactive play about a downed alien spacecraft,The Crash of the Elysium.Other artists and studios such asBlast Theoryand Hide&amp;Seek have blurred the boundaries even further, turning installations into 'urban games' complete with video game-like plots, characters and objectives. Bristol has an annual festival namedIGfest, dedicated to pervasive and social games that take place in various areas of the city, often with narrative and theatrical elements.The usual response to the concept of interactive theatre tends to be, well, aren't British audiences too reserved to get involved? "All of our performances require the audience to 'play along' to various levels of involvement and they will be unable to be passive onlookers," says Shippen. "However, we cater for a wide demographic and enable individual players and audiences to engage with the game elements to different degrees."The Seed is part of Ahead of The Game Festival, an arts project organised in West Sussex to mark the run-up to the Olympics. Ticket details can be found at theChichester Theatre Festival box office.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle may enter tablet market with 7-inch design &gt;&gt; CNET NewsGot a salt shaker to hand?Wondering when Google is going to jump into the tablet fray? It may happen later this year, a DisplaySearch analyst told CNET. The Google-branded tablet will have a 1280x800 resolution 7-inch display, according to Richard Shim, an analyst with DisplaySearch. Production is slated for April. The initial production run is between 1.5m to 2m units, according to Shim.This report is presently bouncing around the blogosphere. We'll see whether this is a general-purpose tablet, or the fabled "home streaming" device, or just a unicorn. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link that linked here.)Flashback Mac Trojan Horse infections increasing with new variant &gt;&gt; The Mac Security BlogIntego:We recentlyreported about a new variant of the Flashback Trojan horsewhich is using novel techniques to infect Macs. Since then, we have discovered a number of samples of this latest variant, Flashback.G, and have seen evidence that many Mac users have been infected by this malware.What's not explained is what "many" is (even compared to Intego's client base) or what this novel infection method is. Flashback is a password-stealing program. Presently easy to detect: o open Terminal.app o type cd /Users/Shared o type ls -l o look for any file ending ".so". If you're infected, you've then got a problem. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Publisher drops ownership claims to time-zone data &gt;&gt; Wired.comMassachusetts-based publishing house, Astrolabe, abruptly dropped its months-old database case Wednesday after getting legal threats from the Electronic Frontier Foundation. The EFF said the lawsuit was an affront to the legal system, as historical facts are not subject to copyright. "Thus, we can only conclude that neither you nor your client conducted even a cursory legal or factual investigation prior to filing the complaint, much less a reasonable one," EFF attorney Corynne McSherry wrote to Astrolabe. The EFF also sought sanctions unless the lawsuit was dismissed. The publisher markets its data to astrology buffs "seeking to determine the historical time at any given time in any particular location, worldwide," and claimed ownership to the data in its "AC International Atlas" and "ACS American Atlas" software programs. Astrolabe took EFF's threat seriously, dropped the case and issued a public apology.Don't mess with the EFF. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Setting the record straight on Google's Safari tracking &gt;&gt; Web PolicyJonathan Mayer, who discovered Google's workaround, points out that: o you didn't have to be signed in for the circumvention to be done o identifying and identifiable information was collected o it's not a commonly accepted business practice. Safari has been blocking third-party cookies since it was released in 2003, according to various web reports. This puts Google's actions in a rather.. darker? light.iPhone sine qua non &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu:The following diagram shows my estimates for this cost structure for the fourth quarter given both bill of materials estimates and the other parts of the cost of goods sold and operational expenses and even ancillary sources of revenue.Cost of manufacturing per phone: $15. Each phone takes 24 hours to make.pxldot (Android Measuring Stick)Fascinating analysis by Chris Suave:It's clear that Gingerbread has disseminated into the market much more slowly than either of Froyo or Eclair. In fact, it took Gingerbread about 17 weeks longer to reach a version distribution milestone (10%, 20%, 30%) than its two predecessors. While it is too early to fairly judge ICS's trajectory, it certainly appears to have started at a slower pace than did Gingerbread (more on that later). A seemingly endless string of devices entering the market with Honeycomb and few older devices being upgraded to ICS makes it unlikely that we will see the Android version distribution improve in the near term.He reaches the same conclusion aswe did in December- that 2012 will be the year of Gingerbread. It's noticeable that phones being introduced at MWC, for instance, are on Gingerbread, not ICS.Right versus pragmatic &gt;&gt; Marco.orgMarco Arment:We often try to fight problems by yelling at them instead of accepting the reality of what people do, from controversial national legislation to passive-aggressive office signs. Such efforts usually fail, often with a lot of collateral damage, much like Prohibition and the ongoing "war" on "drugs". And, more recently (and with much less human damage), media piracy. Big media publishers think they'rerightto keep fighting piracyat any costbecause they think it's costing them a lot of potential sales. It is, but not as many as they think, and not for the reasons they think.Intelligent, and well-argued.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
In secretive online chat rooms, away from the glare of police, small groups of elite hackers plot attacks against multi-national corporations and governments.But in a quest to expose what they see as a conspiracy of high-level corruption, the hackers – affiliated to cyber-activist network Anonymous – have in recent months expanded their targets, becoming increasingly unpredictable and callous in the process.2011 was a significant year for Anonymous, both in terms of activity and evolution. The chaotic collective, born out of online messageboard4Chanin 2003, continued to grow, partly fuelled by the social unrest that has gripped the world.Its members helped revolutionaries in Tunisia, Egypt and Syria counter government censorship, and temporarily disabled the websites of powerful financial institutions for refusing to process WikiLeaks donations.They havetaken part in traditional protestsas part of the worldwide Occupy movement andled a challenge against new lawsthat they say would stifle internet freedom .At the same time, however, an aggressive and volatile faction within Anonymous has also flourished – and that is causing a degree of internal division.Made up of a small highly skilled hacker team which carries out attacks under the name Operation Anti-Security – or AntiSec – it includes some of those previously involved with the group LulzSec, which for two months last year attacked a series of major targets including Sony and the US Central Intelligence Agency.Unlike the majority of mainstream Anonymous participants, AntiSec's core members – numbering up to 10, with around three or four key hackers, according to sources close to the group – do not often participate in distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks that flood websites with traffic and force them offline for a temporary period.Announced by LulzSecin June 2011 as part of an offensive against government agencies and what it called profiteering gluttons, AntiSec's elite – like a clandestine special-forces wing of Anonymous – devote themselves to far more precarious and controversial activity.The group breaks into servers, exposing security vulnerabilities while mining data – often including passwords and credit card numbers – that it ultimately dumps onto the web for anyone to download.Partly inspired by a13-year-old hacking movement of the same name, since December 2011 AntiSec has embarked on a seemingly unstoppable rampage.It hasintercepted an FBI/Scotland Yard phone call, and attacked a well-known thinktank, a number of US police forces, a law firm and even US consumer watchdog the Federal Trade Commission. Almost nothing, it seems, is off limits."Generally we target government systems, police systems and evil corporations," says an AntiSec hacker, who asks not to be named ("I don't need the heat"). "But law firms do usually contain a wealth of private information, and when they are representing people who are already in our crosshairs, it's fair game."On 24 December, AntiSecbroke into the website of Stratfor, a US security and intelligence thinktank that specialises in geopolitical analysis.Aiming to expose "rich and powerful oppressors", it stole a huge 200GB cache of data from Statfor's servers, including 5m emails and 75,000 credit card numbers belonging to the thinktank's subscribers. The emails werehanded to WikiLeaks, which on Monday began publishing selections of them.But the credit card details were simply dumped online for anyone to download, leaving thousands of Statfor's customers – among them ordinary citizens who paid to receive updates on world affairs –open to exploitation by fraudsters.There had been more unwitting victims on 3 February, when AntiSecattacked law firm Puckett and Faraj, which represented Frank Wuterich, a US soldier convicted for involvement in the killing of 24 Iraqi civilians in 2005.The hackers were outraged when Wuterich, who admitted issuing an order to shoot first and ask questions later, avoided a jail sentence for his role in the incident, winning leniency through a plea bargain that carried no punishment beyond a reduction in rank and a pay cut.AntiSec broke into Puckett and Faraj's servers, obtained nearly 3GB of emails (numbering tens of thousands of messages and dating back two years), and posted them onto the internet "to expose the corruption of the court systems and the brutality of US imperialism".The trove included emails showing how Wuterich's lawyer, Mark Zaid, planned tomeet Republican congressman Duncan Hunterabout "making this whole case go away". But it also contained a mass of highly sensitive information from an array of cases unrelated to the Wuterich incident, such aswitness statements from victims of sexual assault.The indiscriminate release caused unease among some members of Anonymous, with a statementpurportedly from a disenchanted group(for it's impossible ever to say what is officially Anonymous policy; the group's inchoate structure means there's no such thing) declaring that a silent majority was growing uncomfortable with this new and inaccurate meaning for Anonymous.It said that the hacks are actually not the work of Anonymous: "Yet again, the corporate or government provocateurs at #Antisec have continued their smear campaign to ruin the name of Anonymous by using it for increasingly destructive action."AntiSec, however, has remained unapologetic."When justice cannot be found in the courts, it will be found in the streets – or in this case, the internet," says a hacker involved in the attack on Puckett and Faraj, adding that the group still has access to a private email account used by Neal Puckett, the firm's founder."Generally, we do work to redact information on bystanders – for example, in all of our police attacks, we have carefully redacted prisoner/parolee information. [But] it is the firm's responsibility to protect the information of their clients."Will there be more attacks on law firms in the future? "If law firms stick their necks out in defence of notoriously corrupt corporations – especially if it is shown that wrongdoing was involved – then yes, I'd say that could be possible."Adopting such an increasingly militant approach has gained AntiSec a number of vocal critics, most notably among organisations that in the past may have sympathised with the wider aims of the Anonymous movement.Alex Hanff, managing director at consultancy firm Think Privacy and former communications project leader at civil liberties watchdog Privacy International, denounced the group earlier in February after it posted the source code of popular Symantec anti-virus software online,rendering it potentially unsafe.Hanff, who keeps in regular contact with those involved in Anonymous actions, was asked to endorse the Symantec release by AntiSec. When he refused, saying it could make thousands of computer users vulnerable to criminals, a Privacy International affiliated website came under attack."People who hold Anonymous's cause close to heart are incredibly aggravated by the actions of AntiSec," Hanff says. "There is a very significant lack of social responsibility, morals and ethics – they seem to be a group that are bent on only pursing their own course, for their own purposes, without any awareness or even any care for what the consequences of that may be."Some believe the increasingly erratic attacks, perpetrated by small cells of hackers such as AntiSec, only serve to give governments justification for asserting greater control over the internet.At present, though, it seems even the introduction of punitive legislation would prove futile, because the most skilled hackers – as volatile as they may be – are able to outsmart and outstep the authorities at almost every turn, and, perhaps most crucially, are committed to stop at nothing."I don't want come off as someone who's saying that our particular grievance is going to be the thing that ruins America – that finishes it off – but that's what it's looking like from our standpoint," says Barrett Brown, an activist who works closely with AntiSec."This is going to turn into an actual shooting war. It just looks to me like things are accelerating ... if you're mad at us now, just wait a couple of years. No one's burning down villages; no one's dropping bombs – yet."
It's theMobile World Congressthis week, which means we'll be innundated with new smartphone annoucements over the next few days. You can check out ourlive coverage here, but for now my favourite revelation from the pre-show press conferences is the new Samsung Galaxy Beam handset, which can project photos, videos games and other digital content onto any wall, via its built in projector.According to Samsung, the device will chuck out a crisp HD image up to 50in wide – and is even bright enough to work outside. The 15 lumens projector is accompanies by a special app to make it easier for users to select compatible files from the 8GB of internal memory on the handset.Even with the projector built in, the phone is a respectable 12.5mm thick and 145.3 grams. It's a little chunkier than many of its rivals, of course – but can they put Angry Birds on your living room wall? No, they cannot.Interestingly, Samsung has specifically highlighted the gaming possibilities of its new phone, which runs the Android 2.3 Gingerbread OS and has a 1.0GHz dual-core processor. It will no doubt be possible to try any Android game via projection, though Samsung has pointed to the "1000s" of titles available via its ownGame Hubservice.I'm not sure how practical this will be, given that you'll need the phone to be steadily positioned to project an image, ruling out any accelerometer-based controls. However, simple touch games may well work – or gamers could employ one of the several Bluetooth joypads compatible with Android devices."The Samsung Galaxy Beam gives people freedom to share what's important to them instantly with friends and family," said Simon Stanford of Samsung's Telecommunications and Networks division. "With the Galaxy Beam, people can share content from their smartphone with people around them, using it like a pocket projector to create shared experiences – whether that's watching movies, sharing holiday snaps or a spontaneous presentation."So alongside projected smartphone gaming – an intriguing proposition – it looks like the dreaded era of the holiday snaps slide show might well be making a nightmarish return. Ah well, you have to take the rough with the smooth where technology is concerned.
Mobile World Congress has started, with delegates already charging around Barcelona's Fira complex grabbing fistfuls of collectible Android pin-badges – once again, Google is gamifying the show, while driving foot traffic to its partners' stands.Savvy showgoers are also stopping in at the stands of Japanese operator NTT DoCoMo and Korean operator SK Telecom, though, to see what new mobile technologies they're showing off. While some are quirky and unlikely to travel well beyond their domestic markets, others offer a glimpse of what lies ahead in the West.File under quirky NTT DoCoMo's "mobile infographics" app. It's a lock-screen application for Android smartphones that represents information including battery life, new emails and texts, and local weather data as an animated picture of a town.Tap on cars driving along the road, and you get a traffic report. Tap on a stadium to get live football scores. It's a bit like SimCity or Zynga's CityVille reimagined as a way to deliver information. And yes, there are very few arguments for doing it this way rather than as notification icons on a homescreen. But it's quite fun nonetheless.More serious is DoCoMo'sBoardwalkmobile ticketing service, which uses NFC technology to buy tickets – tapping your smartphone against a poster brings up information on a music concert or event and lets you buy a mobile ticket, with NFC also used to enter the event itself.DoCoMo sold 100m mobile tickets in 2011 using RFID technology and QR codes, but it's now looking to use NFC and sell Boardwalk to companies outside Japan.Over at SK Telecom's stand, the early buzz is coming from its Smart Learning section, and some little robots who interact with Android smartphones for educational purposes.I played a game where you tilt the phone to trundle around a map of the world, finding specific countries before the water runs out of a virtual goldfish bowl on-screen. Yes, quirky.SK Telecom's Smart Learning robots interact with smartphones. Photo: Stuart DredgeThe robots are also being shown complementing a physical book (pictured above), with their focus being very much educational aids for children, rather than geektoys for grown-ups.They're a calling card for SK Telecom's deeper Smart Learning services, including one called "English Bean".It's a cross-platform service for studying English, with students using their mobile phones to access daily reading material and video content within apps and on mobile websites, while also having video calls with their English tutors.Facebook-connected word games are also part of the service – an interesting take on social gaming for the academic sector.• This article was amended on 7 March 2012 because the original headline said NTT DoCoMo and SK Telecom's NFC tickets, when it should have said NTT DoCoMo and KT's NFC tickets. This has been corrected.
Buy a mobile phone, and get unlimited music downloads. If the idea sounds familiar, you're probably thinking of Nokia's Comes With Music – an ambitious service that launched in 2008, but flopped in the UK and other Western markets.It was dropped, although it continues to exist and do well in places like China and Brazil. But the idea of bundling music with a phone is now finding success in the biggest music market of all, the US, with a service calledMuve Music.Launched by mobile operator Cricket Wireless in January 2011, it started with an affordable Samsung non-smartphone, charging people $55 a month for unlimited voice calls, messages, data and music downloads from a catalogue including songs from all the major labels. Later in the year, an Android handset with a $65 plan was added."What's powerful about this offering is that the music feels free," says John Bolton, senior director of product at Muve Music. "That's important, because no one wants to pay for music. And one year in, we have 600,000 paying subscribers, making us the second largest digital subscription service in the US."That's behind Rhapsody, which has 1m, although Spotify was past the 300k US subscribers mark in mid-November 2011, putting it hot on Muve Music's heels.The key point about Muve Music is that it's not targeting people who already spend money on digital music. Cricket Wireless' customers skew more towards what Bolton describes as a "lower-income, younger and more ethnic" demographic. He says that's why labels like Universal Music and Sony Music are so keen on it."The biggest challenge for a new digital music service to get a deal with the big guys is cannibalisation," he says. "If they think you're going to cannibalise iTunes or established music businesses, they're not your friend. But we're monetising a segment of the population that nobody has until today."I spoke to Bolton at the ShowStoppers event in Barcelona on the eve of Mobile World Congress. Cricket and Muve Music's presence here is a sign that the service may expand beyond the US soon."For Cricket, it's lowering churn and increasing ARPU [average revenue per user], so we've been thinking that other carriers might like to have this," says Bolton."Muve Music is spinning off, and the goal is to get it working with other carriers. The labels are very excited and want to see it go international: they see Muve Music as the vehicle to take this model global. That said, we have no announcements yet."Muve Music customers in the US certainly seem keen: Bolton says the average user downloads 300 songs a month, and plays them for nearly 40 hours – an important metric, since Muve Music pays labels and publishers per play, rather than per download.Bolton is keen to stress Muve Music's difference to the reigning king of digital music, Apple's iTunes Store. He describes his service as a "win-win-win" for customers, rightsholders and mobile operators. As opposed to?"iTunes has been a win-lose-lose. Apple makes millions, but customers have paid a lot of money for music, and the music industry thinks it's lost out on a ton of revenue. You see the value that Apple created, and the value that the music industry had."It will be interesting to see what kind of operator interest Muve Music finds in Europe. It's certainly not the only digital music service looking for operator partnerships.Spotify is working with Virgin Media, Deezer has seen enormous growth in France through its partnership with Orange, and Norwegian firm Aspiro has a service called WiMP that has launched with a number of operators and ISPs on the continent.Comes With Music didn't have many fans among the operators, who felt that it marginalised them. Muve Music and its rivals will be hoping to fare better by partnering with these companies."The big question has always been how you make money with digital music," says Bolton. "The answer is you don't: you do it with other things like a wireless service, and voice, data and text messaging. We feel we've stumbled on something that's a real breakthrough."
A selection of 15 apps for you today:Adobe Photoshop TouchAdobe's Photoshop Touch tablet app made its debut on Android, but is now available for iPad too. It ports across popular Photoshop image-editing features to Apple's device, with additional touchscreen controls and use of the camera. The app supports Apple's AirPrint for wireless printing, and syncs back to desktop Photoshop too.iPadAR Flashcards-Animal AlphabetSceptical about the value of mobile augmented reality (AR) technology? Your kids may not be. This iOS app aims to teach them the alphabet using 3D animated animals that pop out of printed flashcards – the latter must be downloaded from theAR Flashcards websiteand printed out first.iPhone / iPadOxfam ShelflifeHere's an interesting idea from Oxfam, using QR codes to "discover the stories behind some of the items you find in Oxfam shops". Participating shops will hand out tags for people to create their own stories before donating items, with the app capable of making these, and scanning tags to read them. Initially, 10 Oxfam shops in Manchester are participating.iPhoneCollins Big Cat: My Bike Ride Story CreatorHarperCollins has released a new book-app in its Big Cat series, following two that came out in 2011. Focused on developing literacy skills for children aged four and up, it includes audio narration, music and sound effects. But also a "Story Creator" mode for children to make their own book using pictures and vocabulary from the main story.iPadTower Bloxx New YorkDigital Chocolate's Tower Bloxx games have been delightful fun on mobile for years now. This latest version continues the fun in a virtual New York, as you build a tower by dropping floors in block-by-block. It uses Qualcomm's AllJoyn platform to provide a live multiplayer mode too.AndroidThe V&amp;AThe Victoria and Albert Museum has a new official app for iPad: a monthly tablet guide based around a calendar UI showcasing exhibitions, displays, talks, tours and other special events.iPadPopsetThere's seemingly no end to the flow of social photography apps, with Popset the latest to get tech blogs in a lather. Popset is focused on creating group photo albums around particular events or gatherings, using Facebook for the social connections.iPhoneYo Gabba Gabba Glow Dancing!Surreal kids' TV show Yo Gabba Gabba has a new Android app that sees the characters dancing to the lights of a disco ball to whatever music you're playing at the time – although the theme song is provided for additional feet-fuel.AndroidSnackrSnackr describes itself as "Siri, if she were your own personal news anchor". Which means personalised audio news bites pulled from a range of sources, based on your preferences. It also reminds you of friends' birthdays, speaks the weather and provides sports scores.iPhoneBrussels Reality HDHere's an interesting use for "enhanced reality": an iPad app that shows the future impact of regeneration projects in Brussels, showing them on a map of the city.iPadStreetAction.org - Our StreetsThis iOS app shows photographs of children living on the streets in Burundi Kenya and South Africa, based on an exhibition that's currently touring the UK. You can buy prints, with proceeds going to charity Street Action, which works with these children.iPhone / iPadKid Creole and the CoconutsIt's a wonderful thing, baby: an official Android app for Kid Creole and his Coconuts. Expect news, photos, music and light social features.AndroidInside Soap UKGood news for fans looking to get their weekly fix of gossip about Eastenders, Corrie and the rest: Hearst Magazines has brought its Inside Soap mag to Apple's iOS Newsstand.iPhone / iPadMy Writing Desk for iPadThe excellent iA Writer has some competition in the minimalist tablet word-processing stakes, with My Writing Pad. Aiming to provide a similar "clean, distraction-free environment" for writers of all kinds, it also plays nice with iBooks, Dropbox, Evernote and Google Docs.iPadBeatblasterBeatblaster turns an iPad into a pseudo hi-fi, complete with virtual turntable and full-screen speaker graphics when playing songs. Ideal if you have an iPad dock connected to speakers. A separate Beatblaster Remote app acts as an iPhone remote control for the iPad.iPad
What a relief, Monday is here! How was your weekend then? Plenty of gaming we hope. Tell us all about it.
Samsung, the world's biggest smartphone maker, has unveiled a handset that doubles as a pocket home cinema, as the South Korean group prepares to join 1,400 exhibitors in a battle for attention at the world's largest mobile trade show, Mobile World Congress (MWC),  in Barcelona.Around 60,000 delegates arriving in Spain's second city to sample the latest in portable computing – at the trade show which starts on Monday – were greeted at the airport by promoters disguised as Android's green bug logo, while at the fair Samsung showcased the Galaxy Beam, which as well as making phone calls can project images directly onto walls, ceilings or any other flat surface.Video clips, maps, photos and games can be displayed in what the company claims are "crisp, high-definition images" bright enough to be seen outdoors.The phone, which runs on Google's Android operating system, is a standard size: 12.5mm thick and 4in wide, but strong backlighting allows it to project images up to 50in across."With the Galaxy Beam, people can share content from their smartphone with people around them, using it like a pocket projector to create shared experiences – whether that's watching movies, sharing holiday snaps or a spontaneous presentation," said Simon Stanford, Samsung's UK telecoms chief.Samsung has in recent years raced past eastern rivals such as LG and HTC, and trumped the embattled Japanese electronics giant Sony in the race to dominate the mobile market. In 2011, it overtook Nokiaand pipped Apple to sell more smartphones than any other company.The firm shipped a total of 95m last year, up 278% from 25m in 2010, and its adoption of the Android interface for devices that range from the affordable to the most technologically advanced has helped Google become the bestselling smartphone software maker.Delegates to MWC were also given what was for many their first taste of 4G superfast mobile internet, as Spanish telecoms group Telefonica announced a collaboration with network equipment vendor Alcatel-Lucent to offer a signal in and around the event.Larger base radio stations were supplemented with smaller cells dotted around the conference centre, each capable of supporting up to 30 people using the internet simultaneously, at a speed of 30 megabits per second (Mbps) each. The average fixed line home-broadband connection in the UK is 7.6Mbps, according to telecoms watchdog Ofcom, while today's average mobile broadband connection is as low as 1.5Mbps.Sony Mobile Communications,which rebranded in January from Sony Ericssonafter the Japanese group took full control of its loss-making mobile phone venture by buying out Ericsson's share, made its first appearance in Barcelona since the change.Sony, with just 10% of the Android market, focussed on its ability to sell consumers content from Sony's film and music studios, and make it accessible to a family of screens, from tablets and PCs to television sets and phones.Chief executive Bert Nordberg said "Now, as part of the Sony group, we are in an even stronger position to bring connected entertainment experiences to consumers around the world, and to bring these experiences to market even faster."Two Xperia NXT series handsets were unveiled on Sunday, promising screens bright enough to view while on the beach or on the ski slopes, and each with access to Sony Entertainment Network, which allows video and music content to be shared between devices.
BRIGHTONJay Rayner talks food, rockets and much more at  Brighton's LighthouseSTEPHEN HARRISOne of the most exciting chefs at work in Britain today, the Michelin-starred chef-patron of the Sportsman in Seasalter will be in conversation with Jay Rayner. With no formal training, Harris simply had a passion to use fresh local produce in exciting new ways.ZAHAAN BHARMALOne time policy adviser to the Cabinet Office, now Google's head of marketing operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Zahaan Bharmal's great love is space. Here he talks about his big idea: YouTube's Space Lab.WILLIAM NICHOLSON:  Q&amp;A WITH JASON WOODThe Academy Award-winning screenwriter and author will be in conversation with writer Jason Wood aboutShadowlands,Gladiatorand the Hollywood experience.MATT ADAMS: Q&amp;A  WITH HONOR HARGERKnown internationally as one of the most exciting artists using interactive media, Blast Theory co-founder Adams will talk art and technology with Lighthouse's director.BRISTOLEthical columnist Lucy Siegle, plus talks on race, green energy and wild swimming at the WatershedPAUL STEPHENSON  AND TONY BENNThe leader of the Bristol Bus Boycott, Paul Stephenson changed not just the face of Bristol but Britain too. A lifelong activist, he helped to pave the way for the first Race Relations Act. He'll be in conversation with his friend and supporter, Tony Benn.DALE VINCEA former hippy and member of the Peace Convoy, Vince founded Ecotricity, the green energy company which now turns over more than £40m a year. In conversation with Lucy Siegle.JULIAN BAGGINIWriter, philosopher and editor of thePhilosophers' correctMagazine, Baggini is no stranger to TED. More than 350,000  watched his last talk online; in Bristol he's going to talk about the need to reform capitalism.KATE REWWild swimmer and founder of the Outdoor Swimming Society, Kate Rew will talk about the joys of wild water and how to found a movement.MANCHESTERFormer deputy editor of Observer Music Monthly and Shaun Ryder's ghostwriter, Luke Bainbridge talks music and creativity at ContactROBIN INCEComedian, actor and writer Robin Ince is also fascinated by science and rationalism. He has toured with Brian Cox, spoken at TEDGlobal, and is now exploring whether you can be both happy and rational.KEISHA THOMPSONA poet and songwriter, playwright and and Contact Creative Expert, Keisha is just 22 years old, but a brilliant new creative talent and a  confident and accomplished performer.STEVE CONNORClimate change campaigner and sustainability expert Steve Connor is the founder of Creative Concern. Connor will talk about ethical business, creative communications and how to sell a sustainable future.RUSSELL GILLHow do good ideas spread? Russell Gill of the Co-Op will talk about why 2012 is the UN's International Year of Cooperatives and how a Rochdale shop spawned a global movement.LIVERPOOLFeature writer Tim Adams hosts writers and scientists at Liverpool's BluecoatFRANK COTTRELL BOYCECottrell Boyce, a long-time collaborator with Michael Winterbottom, is one of the area's most compelling voices. His work includesWelcome to SarajevoandA Cock and Bull storycorrect.ROBERT SIMPSONMore than half a million volunteers now undertake scientific research at www.zooniverse.org. Robert Simpson explains how citizen science is space's new frontier.JANE DAVISA teenage runaway, Jane Davis left school with two GCSEs. Literature changed her life and, as founder of The Reader, she is trying to bring about a "reading revolution".ROY BOULTER AND  SOL PAPADOPOULOSThe one-time drummer of Liverpool band the Farm and a former photographer and merchant seaman, Boulter and Papadopoulos founded Hurricane Films. Bafta-nominated forOf Time and the City, they work with different communities to help them get their voices heard.CARDIFFObserver feature writer  Kate Kellaway, Welsh male voice choirs and local food  at the Sherman CymruTIM RHYS-EVANS AND ONLY BOYS ALOUDBorn and bred in south Wales, Rhys-Evans and his choir Only Men Aloud were the BBC's Last Choir Standing. To keep the tradition alive, he launched Only Boys Aloud, whose 14- to 19-year-olds are the next generation of Welsh singers.JOHN BRADSHAWHow and why do dogs and humans interact? John Bradshaw, a fellow in anthrozoology at the University of Bristol, and author of the bestsellingIn Defence of Dogs, explains.STEVE GARRETTFounder of the Riverside Farmers' Market, the  oldest in Wales, which has gone on to spawn a mini empire, Garrett is a strong advocate of local, sustainable food, and believes that Cardiff needs a "Food Charter".MARK STEVENSONA writer, comedian and futurologist, Stevenson attempts to answer the question "What next?" A former cryptographer and pop singer, he's also a founder member of the League of Pragmatic Optimists.NEWCASTLEFeature writer and novelist Elizabeth Day hosts the day at the art deco Tyneside CinemaPAUL SMITH,  MAXïMO PARKThe charismatic lead singer of alternative north-east rock band Maxïmo Park  will talk about how his lyrics are inspired by ordinary life.JEREMIAH ALEXANDERThe founder and director of Ideonic, Jeremiah Alexander is trying to build a better world through games. He creates 3D simulations and Facebook apps which engage attention while spreading knowledge.TOM CHATFIELDJournalist, author and game theorist Tom Chatfield was a hit speaker at TEDGlobal in 2010. In Newcastle, he'll talk about intimacy and technology.KATHRYN HOLLINGSWORTH AND SINEAD BRADSHAWProfessor Hollingsworth set up the Street Law project to bring criminal justice to the streets of Newcastle. She'll appear with one of the project's student advocates.EDINBURGHKevin McKenna, the Observer's Scotland columnist, hosts a day  of ideas and talk at Edinburgh's Dovecot  StudiosJOHNNY LYNCHFence Records based in the village of Anstruther, Fife, is a record label dedicated to making music differently. Johnny Lynchcorrect, who co-runs the label, will talk and then perform.MEL YOUNGAs co-founder of theBig Issuein Scotland, Mel Young understands the problem of homelessness and has thought of a new way to try and solve it. He's the founder of the Homeless World Cup, a social enterprise dedicated to ending homelessness through football.ROANNE DODSDovecot's deputy director and a producer at the International Futures Forum is passionate about Scottish art and contemporary craft.
One of the groups appearing at TEDxObserver at Sadler's Wells on 10 March have added extra dates to their schedule. The Colombian Compañía del Cuerpo de Indias will perform three dates at the Lilian Baylis Studio in Sadler's Wells from 8 to 10 March. Compania del Cuerpo de Indias (a professional company drawn from Cartagena's El Colegio del Cuerpo) will performINXILE (The Trail of Tears).The original piece was premiered in Bogotá in December 2010 to help commemorate the bicentenary of Colombian independence.INXILEis a homage to the victims of forced displacement in Colombia and to the country's cultural and linguistic diversity.The first performance featured 300 people on stage – members of the Philharmonic Orchestra of Bogotá, 25 actors, 25 dancers of El Colegio del Cuerpo and 150 victims of displacement from all regions of the country.El Colegio del Cuerpo was established 15 years ago and draws many of its students from Cartagena's most impoverished districts. Many come from a shantytown called Nelson Mandela, home to many families displaced by  years of violence that pulverised Colombia in the 1980s and 90s, and which still exists today. Though Cartagena is increasingly seen as a tourist jewel in Colombia, the reality of life for much of its African-Colombian residents is one of poverty and few opportunities. El Colegio del Cuerpo is an organisation that gives some people a possible way out of thebarrio. Over the last 10 years many of the students have graduated to become professional dancers and the company have toured in Asia, Europe, the United States and South Africa.
Set in a futuristic Tokyo, where robots walk among us and have no idea they're not human, ostensiblyBinary Domainis so far, soBlade Runner, but what follows is a third-person, squad-based shooter, more immediately reminiscent ofGears of WarorMass Effect. The ability to bark headset commands at your team-mates serves as good preparation for next month'sMass Effect 3, which will offer the same feature to owners of Xbox 360's Kinect.Heading up a multinational undercover squad sent in to Tokyo to find and stop the creator of these humanised robots, players control Dan Marshall, a stereotypically gung-ho US agent. Any suspicion that you're playing a western-developed game is dispelled as soon as you enter the menu screens, finding an RPG-like structure of upgrades and stat-boosting skills for you and your team that betray the game's Japanese origin, but it makes for a solid shooter with an intriguing story, despite featuring some cringeworthy national stereotypes that the industry should long since have evolved away from.
A confession: I've never played the original and much-laudedSyndicategame, from 1993. So, when I say that EA's reimagining barely progresses beyond mediocrity, I should make it clear that this opinion is not one shrouded by misty-eyed nostalgia.The setting is a nihilistic, corporate-owned future, where addiction to tech has led to a world where cranial implants have replaced iPhones and political power has been superseded by the stock market. Playing as an enhanced agent of the monolithic EuroCorp, players perform hostile takeovers through the medium of bullets to the head. The ability to hack remotely into enemies' brain chips – turning them into ersatz grenades – or activate devices from afar is the sole differentiating factor from most other first-person shooters.Syndicatehas all the ingredients to be gripping science fiction but instead feels like regurgitated parts of any number of generic dystopias and in recent gaming gaming terms,Deus Ex. There are good ideas here, but it's few surprises, worth renting at best.
That it is blockbuster hero Nathan Drake leading the charge for the launch of PS Vita serves to confirm the eyebrow-arching adventurer as the closest thing PlayStation has to a Sonic or Mario-style mascot. But it also represents an assertion of the intent behind the handheld itself – to deliver full-strength console gaming in portable form without any of the usual compromises.On this count at least,Golden Abyssis proof of Vita's success. After a little adjustment for their relative dinkiness, the machine's twin sticks ensure that the game plays like its PS3 relatives, Drake swaggering through firefights and lurching over ledges. And the style of the game is largely intact, a steady third-person shooter made remarkable through an unusual investment in character, performance and the production of its motion-captured cutscenes.Not that the formula survives the transition entirely unmolested. WhileUncharted 3was characterised by – and occasionally criticised for – its reliance on spectacular one-off set pieces,Golden Abyssloses them altogether. This is presumably a technical limitation, but it has the effect of refocusing attention on story beats and the rhythm of the regular action. And while that story (itself limited by a prequel scenario) takes a while to get going, this balance makes for a cracking final third when it finally does.Another unexpected plus point is the use of the Vita's unique controls, which rather than being clumsily forced on to the game's mechanics like a too-trendy suit have instead been carefully tailored to its needs. Touchscreen controls smooth everything from gun-switching to grenade-throwing, while the gyroscopic aiming – tilting the handheld to target enemies – is accurate enough to bag regular headshots.It's all rather compelling and enjoyable, with just one lingering doubt – that for all its punch,Unchartedis the kind of blockbuster experience best enjoyed on a big screen at home, and doesn't solve Sony's problem of how to compete with the more disposable distractions offered by its mobile competitors.
Price £28,705MPG 50.2Top speed 115mph"Is it the one that looks squashed?" asks my autophilic neighbour (is that a&nbsp;word? I don't mean that he has sex with cars – he just likes thema&nbsp;lot).He's right, it is, but that's not the most striking thing about the Evoque. What really hits you about the latest Range Rover is that all the things that make a car a&nbsp;Range Rover – the epic scale, the biblical thirst, the colossal weight – have been stripped away to leave a car that is not some snivelling shadow of its former self, but a vehicle that is still indisputably a Range Rover.It was officially presented at the Geneva Motor Show a year ago, after months of burlesque-inspired teasers and press leaks. As the anticipation grew, so did the sense of impending doom. Another Range Rover? Really? We're a nation of fuel addicts with an unhealthy dependence on carbon, yet for the past few years we've been on a&nbsp;medically controlled diet of petrol-sipping hybrids, and now we're being tempted by a full-blooded Rangey?But we needn't have worried. The Evoque is an SUV with a difference. It's the smallest, lightest and most fuel-efficient vehicle Range Rover has ever produced. And it's had quite a year. Last month it won the coveted (in certain circles anyway)4x4 Magazine4x4 of the Year title – that's the big one for off-roaders. The award took the Evoque's total to 53. More than one a week since its reveal. The tally includes notables such as Car of the Year fromAutoExpress; Scottish Car of the Year;US Motor Trend'sSUV of the Year;Top Gear's Car of the Year and the Stunning Car of the Year from China's bestsellingOrient Car. It's going to be sold in 160 countries, and 40,000 orders have already been placed. Range Rover is particularly thrilled that nine out of 10 of the orders come from buyers new to the brand. By which it means increasingly young, urban and female. It's out with the labradors and in with the lattes.So what does the Evoque evoke? It's smaller than you'd think yet it has enormous road swagger. This is due in part to its huge face and a grille modelled on Desperate Dan's chin. The big head tapers away to a&nbsp;nimble and athletic rear end. It&nbsp;reminds me of an ad I&nbsp;once saw inLootfor a&nbsp;litter of bulldogs: "Five pups, brown, small, but all with massive heads."There is something pugnacious about the Evoque, which makes me think the name is all wrong. Evoque sounds graceful, elegant and lithe. But this is a pumped-up bully boy. The Range Rover Tyson might have been better, or Rangey Haye. Step inside, though, and there's nothing bellicose about the Evoque. At heart it is just a&nbsp;big softie with a twin-stitched leather and rubbery centre. The instrument cluster has a twinkle in its eye, and there are enough switches and toggles to exhaust a fiddly five-year-old. It's clever, too. You can switch between the standard four-wheel-drive system and an austerity setting for better fuel economy, though I'd have thought that should be the standard setting. It's not as if we often say: "Whoa, hold tight. Flat road ahead!"As in every new relationship there's a clincher. Here it's the "puddle lamp". As you approach, a pool of light is beamed from the side mirrors on to the pavement – and in the tiny circle of light floats a line silhouette of the car. An image of the Evoque basking in the limelight.What are Britain's best-value new carsThese are frugal times – and the car we choose to drive can make a large hole in our wallets. So what are the cars that will save you money further down the road?What Car?experts have chosen some of the best models on sale today, and then crunched three years' data to come up with best-value car in each category. This does not mean that they are the cheapest, as Chas Hallett, What Car?'s editor in chief, says: "A cheap buying price does not equal cheap motoring. When buying a new car, consumers need to take into account three years' running costs, including servicing, insurance, road tax, fuel and depreciation, alongside their vehicle requirements." So here, by sector, are the frugal-driver's 10 best buys:City carHyundai i10 1.2 Classic £6,995SuperminiFord Fiesta 1.25i Edge 3dr £9,354Small family carSkoda Octavia 1.4 S £11,222Family carVW Passat 1.6 TDI 105 S £18,506Executive carBMW 5 Series 520d SE £27,954Estate carVW Golf Estate 1.6 TDI 90 S £17,324MPVRenault Grand Scénic £16,646SUVBMW X3 2.0d SE £30,917CoupéVW Scirocco 1.4 TSI £18,740ConvertibleMini One Convertible 1.6 £15,062
Among all the excited commentary about the role of social networking in the Arab spring, one uncomfortable fact stands out: internet censorship and surveillance are alive and well in Tunisia and Egypt. They're being orchestrated and supervised by (mostly) different people, of course, but the intermediaries implementing it are the same as before: western technology companies that are apparently prepared to sell filtering and surveillance kit to anyone with a government purchase order. And the result is the same as before: a webpage saying "Sorry: the page you requested does not exist". Except that some regimes exclude the apology.As the internet becomes more central to our lives, the power of the commercial companies that mediate citizens' interactions with one another and with the state increases with every passing day. The Arab spring appeared to be a case study of this, but we got a brief glimpse of it here during last year's outbreak of recreational looting, when the prime minister irritably flirted with the idea of shutting down social networks and the BlackBerry instant-messaging service. The thought that this might be an infringement of our civil rights doesn't seem to have crossed his mind.It is, however, very much on the mind of Rebecca MacKinnon, a leading expert on internet censorship. She's best known for her work on Chinese internet regulation in which she demonstrated how an intelligent authoritarian regime can not only survive but thrive in the internet age with the help of domestic and multinational corporations. She has now widened her focus in a remarkable new book,Consent of the Networked, in which she airs her worries about "what will happen to the internet – and more broadly to the future of freedom in an internet age – if the world's democracies develop a habit of tackling problems in a shortsighted, kneejerk manner, without considering the long-term domestic and global consequences".One of the central ideas in MacKinnon's book is the concept of what she calls "sovereigns of cyberspace",  – companies like Facebook, Google, Apple and Amazon that now exercise the kinds of power that were hitherto reserved for real "sovereigns" – governments operating within national jurisdictions. Witness, for example, the way in which Amazon arbitrarily removed Wikileaks from its cloud computing servers without any justification that would have withstood aFirst Amendment legal challenge; or the way that Facebook took down a page used by Egyptian activists to co-ordinate protests on the grounds that they had violated the company's rules by not using their real names.The powers to curtail people's freedom of speech in this way were traditionally reserved for governments which – in democracies at least – theoretically derived their legitimacy from John Locke's notion of "the consent of the governed". (It's worth saying thatsome political scientistsbalk at the notion of companies as "sovereigns". After all, Zuckerberg can't lock you up, whereas a real government could.) The question MacKinnon raises is: in what sense do Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook, Larry Page and Sergey Brin of Google enjoy the consent of the networked?The lawyer's answer is that consent was obtained by agreeing to the terms and conditions when people signed up. If you don't like the rules then you don't have to join. That might work in contract law – and indeed was probably OK when these companies first opened for business. But it now looks a bit threadbare because of the way in which the platforms of cloud-based companies morphed imperceptibly into public spaces in which people expressed their opinions and values. So we've ended up in a situation in which we expect the norms of Speaker's Corner to apply in Westfield, even though a shopping mall is not a public space.Still, we are where we are. Facebook is now a semi-public space in which political and other potentially controversial views are expressed. Amazon is well on its way to becoming a dominant publisher. Google has the power to render any website effectively invisible. Given that freedom of speech is important for democracy, that means that these giant companies are now effectively part of our political system. But the power they wield is, as Stanley Baldwin famously observed of the British popular press in the 1920s, "the harlot's prerogative" – power without responsibility.The Leveson inquiry demonstrates that the problem so vividly described by Baldwin still endures in the offline world. Rebecca MacKinnon's book signals that it is manifest in a potentially more serious form in cyberspace.Which is why we can expectConsent of the Networkedto find its way on to reading lists in political science. And it may also be why the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard has just launched a course onpolitics and the internet.
Once upon a time, a "computer" was a human being, usually female, who did calculations set for her by men in suits. Then, in the 1940s, something happened: computers became machines based on electronics. The switch had awesome implications; in the end, it spawned a technology that became inextricably woven into the fabric of late-20th- and early 21st-century life and is now indispensable. If the billions of (mostly unseen) computers that now run our industrialised support systems were suddenly to stop working, then our societies would very rapidly grind to a halt.So the question of where this Promethean force sprang from is an intriguing one, as interesting in its way as the origins of the industrial revolution. And, as with most such things, we have a creation myth – which starts with Alan Turing and his idea of "a single machine that can be used to compute any computable sequence" and then forks into two versions. One is British and goes via the "Colossus" computer built by Turing's wartime colleague, Tommy Flowers, at Bletchley Park to enable the cracking of German Enigma codes. The other version is American and starts with the construction of theENIAC machineat the University of Pennsylvania in 1943 and continues through the industrialisation of that technology by companies such as Univac and IBM who made the huge mainframe computers that powered and shaped the industries of the mid-20th century. The two versions then converge with the arrival of Xerox, Apple, Intel and Microsoft on the scene, and we eventually arrive at a world in which nearly everything has a computer in it somewhere.In a remarkable new book,Turing's Cathedral, intellectual historian George Dyson sets out to give this creation myth a revisionist makeover. He focuses on a small group of mathematicians and engineers working on the hydrogen bomb, led by John von Neumann at theInstitute for Advanced Study(IAS) in Princeton, New Jersey (but not at Princeton University), who not only built one of the first computers to realise Turing's vision of a universal machine, but – more importantly – defined the architectural principles of a general-purpose "stored program computer" on which all succeeding computers were based. Dyson's argument, crudely summarised, is that the IAS machine should be regarded as thefons et origoof the modern world rather than the ENIAC or Colossus machines that preceded it.It sounds technical – and it is – but actually Dyson's account of how the Von Neumann machine was conceived and built is a beautiful example of technological storytelling – as good, in its way, as Tracy Kidder'sThe Soul of a New Machine(about the creation of a Data General minicomputer) or Steven Levy'sInsanely Great(which told the story of how the Apple Macintosh came to be). But because George Dyson is a kind of undercover polymath,Turing's Cathedralis much more than a chronicle of engineering progress: it includes fascinating digressions into the history and physics of nuclear weapons, the fundamentals of mathematical logic, the mathematical insights of Hobbes and Leibniz, the history of weather forecasting, Nils Barricelli's pioneering work on artificial life and lots of other interesting stuff.Accidents of birth and temperament gave Dyson a head start in this particular venture. His father, Freeman, is a celebrated theoretical physicist; his mother, Verena Huber-Dyson, is also a mathematician; and his sister, Esther, is a prominent technology investor and commentator. As a child, George lived at the IAS because his father was occupant of one of its prized professorial chairs. He ran away from this high-octane environment when he was 16 and wound up in British Columbia building kayaks to an ancient design. In the years since then he has oscillated between boat-building and exploring the history of technology. His 1997 book,Darwin Among the Machines, is one of the most thoughtful books I've read on the implications of distributed, networked computing power.Turing's Cathedralis a worthy successor to that earlier book. Having finished it, I emailed George Dyson to explore some of the ideas in it that had intrigued me. Here is an edited transcript of our online conversation.JN Why did you embark on the book? It was a huge undertaking.GDI had no idea how much work it would be when I started! But I believed that the role of the engineering work performed at the IAS was under-appreciated. And although I was using computers, I did not truly understand them, and the way to truly understand something is to understand how it began.JN But it's not just the engineering work that's been under-appreciated. After I'd finished the book, I went back to look at the accepted "popular" histories of digital computing, and it seems that the IAS machine has effectively been airbrushed out of the picture. In most accounts, the story starts with the ENIAC machine in Pennsylvania and the Colossus machine built at Bletchley Park. But these were not stored-program machines and so were not really ancestors of the computers we use today, whereas the IAS machine was. So were you also trying to rescue Von Neumann's architecture from the oblivion accorded it by popular history?GDThere are several levels on which to answer this. First of all, the book isnotabout the "first" computer. It is an attempt to tell the story of what really happened, not to establish who (except for Turing, in the mathematical sense) was "first".Secondly, there was an important twist to the story: the Von Neumann group designed the IAS machine, and developed the codes to run on it, and were then delayed by hardware problems for a couple of years. And during that period, while under great pressure to start running bomb calculations, they realised that they could go back and reconfigure the ENIAC as a true stored-program computer, so that it would run the kinds of codes they had written for the IAS machine. And this worked really well – so well that, like the proverbial time-traveller who goes back and kills his grandmother, they may have diminished their own prominence as pioneers. "Oh, that was already done on the ENIAC," some people say!The third level, as I hinted at in several places, is that for a long time the IAS actively avoided drawing attention to what had happened there. Partly this was distaste for engineering, and partly it was reluctance to get drawn into the ENIAC patent dispute (the largest case in US legal history, at the time). Personally I think it was also at least partly a result of the H-bomb work. Oppenheimer was in many ways a willing martyr to the public perception that he had opposed the development of the hydrogen bomb. It didn't fit with this public image to draw attention to the fact that much of the critical numerical work that led to the H-bomb had actually been performed, under his directorship, at IAS.JN How long did the book take to write?GDIt is now exactly 10 years since I decided to go to Princeton and start digging up material, and (thanks to Charles Simonyi) was invited to spend a year at IAS. I love doing research, I enjoy editing, but I have great trouble forcing myself to do the writing that is necessary in between. I cannot write at my boat-building workshop, because of the distractions, and I cannot write at home, because there are no distractions. So I end up going back and forth a lot, and eventually something begins to take form. From there it is all downhill, with something like 30 rewrites before anything is ready for print. The sobering thought is that the Bigelow-Von Neumann group conceived, designed, built, and began solving serious problems with their computer in less time than it took me to write about it!JN Where did the title come from?GDI owe the title to Alan Turing's views (as he expressed them in 1950) on how we should approach true machine intelligence: "In attempting to construct such machines we should not be irreverently usurping His power of creating souls, any more than we are in the procreation of children: rather we are, in either case, instruments of His will providing mansions for the souls that He creates."In 2005 I visited Google's headquarters, and was utterly floored by what I saw. "We are not scanning all those books to be read by people. We are scanning them to be read by an AI," an engineer whispered to me. And at that moment, I started thinking, "This isn't Turing'smansion, this is Turing'scathedral!" And that became the title of the book.JN You write very intimately about John von Neumann. Does this imply that you knew him well as you were growing up? Or is it just a reflection of the extent of your research into him and his contemporaries?GDThis intimacy is mostly a result of being granted access by the Von Neumann family to two decades (1937-1957) of private correspondence between Johnny and Klári von Neumann (née Dán): stacks of handwritten letters, recording both technical and intimate details of everything that was going on in their remarkable lives in those remarkable times. The power of handwritten letters is amazing (and I owe thanks to Gabriella and Béla Bollabas of Cambridge for their careful translation of the Hungarian sections – the letters drift back and forth between English and Hungarian, according to the subjects being discussed).Von Neumann had essentially left the IAS for his work as atomic energy commissioner in Washington by 1955, when I was two years old, so he was not a figure in my childhood. One of my earliest memories, however, is of being taken to a cocktail party and being placed in a crib in a child's bedroom, and I remember standing unhappily at the bars of the crib, unable to escape. A very cheerful, friendly man came into the room and spoke to me, and gave me a sip of his drink. Maybe this was Von Neumann, though probably it was someone else!JN The book made me realise something that I hadn't properly understood up to now – the intimate relationship between military requirements and the origins of computing. This is something that I guess most people nowadays don't know: they think computing began with IBM or maybe with Bill Gates. And your story is suffused with the complex inter-relationships between warfare and applied mathematics.GDWe may well owe the original development of the human mind to the development of command buffers for storing the sequence of movements necessary to hit a moving animal (or a fellow human) with a rock – with language developing as an opportunistic adaptation of those idle command buffers for something else. So, yes, poetry and violence were probably intertwined from the start.This inter-relationship is epitomised by what happened at Los Alamos: if the scientists designed the weapons, they could do all the pure science they wanted with the rest of their time, no questions asked. And we owe most of the great developments of the past century, from computing to our understanding of genetics, to work that originated in such military labs.JN Another theme that comes over strongly relates to WH Hardy's famous misconception about the "uselessness" of pure mathematics. You trace very clearly the progression from Hilbert to Gödel to Turing to Von Neumann to the IAS machine. My guess is that nobody at the time could have supposed that arguments about the foundations of mathematics would ever have a practical outcome.GDYes! It is quite astonishing, for instance, that Turing, who was more or less an outcast, except among a small group of fellow logicians, during the two years he spent in Princeton, was recently voted the second-most influential alumnus of Princeton University (and this from a field going back to 1746!).JN Another significant moral of the  tale is the importance of open publication. The documentation for the IAS machine was all published, which meant that the machine could be cloned elsewhere (and indeed was by commercial companies such as IBM, as well as other research institutes), whereas the guys who built the ENIAC lodged patents, started a company and in due course became enmeshed in litigation. In our time, the computing industry is increasingly enmeshed in the same kinds of patent wars, so maybe there's a lesson here for us. Is there a correlation between openness and innovation?GDYes, indeed. And what is amazing – and would horrify Abraham Flexner [the founding spirit of the IAS] – is thatacademic institutionsare now leading the way in proprietary restriction on the results of scientific research! Of course there are arguments that this will fund more science, but those arguments do not make sense to me. Again, back to the original agreement made between Oppenheimer and the army at Los Alamos: the weapons would be secret, but the science would be open. And the more we backtrack on that agreement (whether with the military or with industry) the more we lose.The inner sanctum of the IAS is the climate-controlled Rosenwald rare book room in their main library, which holds priceless classical manuscripts and later texts. A full set of the bound volumes of theElectronic Computer Project Interim Progress Reportsare now shelved there, next to first editions of Newton and Euclid, where they belong.• This article was amended on 1 March 2012 to make it clear that the "Colossus" computer was built by Dr Thomas Flowers, based on Turing's theoretical work.
Duran Duran, Stephen Fry and Microsoft's Steve Ballmer have all made guest appearances, and Carphone Warehouse founder Charles Dunstone likes to berth his yacht in the harbour for the week. The annual Mobile World Congress, which opens in Barcelona tomorrow, is the nearest the telephone industry comes to a Cannes film festival.This year there will be 60,000 delegates and 1,400 exhibitors, but the real business is done on the sidelines. Chief executives meet to negotiate deals worth billions of pounds. Barcelona is where the mobile operators, from Vodafone to Deutsche Telekom, go shopping – for equipment to run their networks and phones to sell their customers.Top of their agenda will be working out how to make money from the flood of internet traffic being generated by the explosion of smartphone sales in plugged-in countries such as the UK."Mobile phone networks were not designed to carry large amounts of data," says Mark Newman of analysts Informa Telecoms &amp; Media. "Operators are trying to find solutions for a problem they didn't know they would have five years ago, before the iPhone."Although its impact continues to reverberate, Apple has as usual declined to attend: it's so successful it doesn't need to. But Google, Samsung, Nokia and Microsoft will all be there. Among the many innovations on show, here are five that catch the eye.Windows 8On Wednesday, Microsoft will unveil a test version of Windows 8. This is the software firm's make-or-break chance to catch up with Apple and Google in the battle to control the computers of the future, be they smartphones, tablets or humble PCs. A radical redesign of the three-year-old Windows 7, it has been described as Microsoft's most important software release since the original Windows 1.0 in 1985, when the interface switched from a blinking cursor on a black background to graphics.Windows 8 will work with touch screens and its look has been inspired by Microsoft's mobile operating system Windows Phone, already installed on the latest Nokia and HTC handsets. It will work on the chips made by UK firm ARM Holdings, which are inside practically every tablet made today.Connected carsMobile network operators are now thinking beyond phones to other products. In-car computers, previously reserved for expensive brands such as Audi and BMW, are finding their way into more affordable vehicles. Ford, Toyota, General Motors and Volvo are among the manufacturers now equipping cars with software that can report engine faults, alert a breakdown service, navigate around traffic jams and relay internet radio stations.In Barcelona, Volvo and Ericsson will demonstrate an electric car fitted with a mobile internet connection. The driver can recharge using any power point, even at a friend's house – but the technology will enable the car's electricity meter to send the bill to the vehicle's owner.Internet mobile messagingFans of BlackBerry Messenger or Apple's iMessage prefer these apps to sending traditional SMS text messages because they are cheaper. These are called "over the top" services, because they use the internet to largely bypass the mobile phone network. So far mobile operators have shied away from offering similar services, unwilling to cannibalise their voice and text profits.This year, Europe's big five operators will change tack, unveiling a shared over-the-top service that will be pre-loaded into phones. But the technology will not carry voice calls, just messages, suggesting operators are some way from embracing the web with open arms.Waterproof phonesJapanese electronics firm Fujitsu will make its debut in the already crowded European smartphone market with a pragmatic concept – the waterproof handset. In Japan this feature is already commonplace, but in Europe water damage is one of the biggest causes of insurance claims for smartphones.Motorola is already usingAridion, made by Oxfordshire company P2i, a nano-coating that bonds with the surface of external and internal components and does not peel or scratch off. Instead of a coating, Fujitsu's handsets have a waterproof seal on the battery case, and resist leakage at a depth of up to 1.5m, which should make them at least loo-proof.Smart baby pyjamasThe news that your baby's nappy needs changing eventually reaches your nose, but that information could now arrive more quickly by text or email. Exmobaby will demonstrate awearable baby monitorthat can detect an infant's vital signs and relay them to phones, PCs and tablets. The sensors are hidden under layers of fabric, which the manufacturer says makes them virtually undetectable to human touch.The washable pyjamas pick up humidity, movement, skin temperature and heart rate. They connect to the internet using low-power digital radio… and are, of course, rechargeable.
Siri, the talking personal assistant that became an instant hit on the iPhone, now has a British rival called Evi.Impersonated by Robin Williams on chatshows and described by Google's former chief Eric Schmidt as a "competitive threat", Siri is credited with having given the iPhone personality, but it has often failed to impress British users.Unlike her American rival, Evi is able to look up UK businesses and maps, and the Cambridge scientists who created her say she isbetter at recognising regional accents.While Siri's qualities have been lost in translation when decoding Scottish, Welsh or Geordie accents, Evi has been among the most popular apps in Apple's UK store and is approaching half a million downloads worldwide in the three weeks it has been available.Illustrated by a cyclops smiley face whose single eye moves while she searches, Evi has the edge on her American rival because she works on both Android and Apple phones.The product of years of research into artificial intelligence, Evi is described by her creators as "smarter than a search engine", because her software understands what you want to know.While Siri relies on external databases for answers, such as the online encyclopedia Wolfram Alpha, Evi has a painstakingly amassed collection of 635 million facts on 28 million things. Her creator, the Cambridge start-upTrue Knowledge, is adding to the database all the time by scouring Wikipedia, Yellow Pages and other sources."Evi is self-aware, and can hold millions of simultaneous conversations," says William Tunstall-Pedoe, the computer science graduate who founded True Knowledge. "Siri doesn't really know things itself, it calls out to other services. Evi knows the answer, illustrates it with images, and you can ask follow-ups."Evi appears to be more interested in cooking than her counterpart. Asked how to make apple crumble, she shows a link to a recipe from Wikihow entitled "How to Make Apple Crumble: 10 steps (with pictures)". Siri simply asks if it should search the web.Evi does not yet know the weather, although forecasts for the UK and North America will be added within the next few days.She knows where a questioner is by using satellite information, and can work out new facts using her existing knowledge, to answer questions such as "Who was president when the Queen was a teenager?" By guessing the references are likely to be to the Queen of England and the US president, Evi works out when Elizabeth II was a teenager and finds the answer (Roosevelt and Truman).Designed to be culturally neutral but occasionally betraying her British origins, Evi asks users to "wait a mo" while she thinks. She responds to the question "What is the answer to life, the universe and everything" with a reference toTheHitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy,saying "Of course the answer is 42, but understanding the question is much harder."Evi's creator enjoys difficult questions. He is the developer of Anagram Genius, a program that solves cryptic crossword clues, which Dan Brown used to generate the anagrams inThe Da Vinci Code. "Apple is the world's largest tech company. We are a 20-person company in Cambridge that is taking them on," adds Tunstall-Pedoe.
Fallout 3: New Vegas Ultimate Edition, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Skyrim's older brother is back, bringing every single weapon and piece of downloadable content to the sprawling nuclear desert that near-future North America has become.Its signature levels of complete freedom let you evolve into the wasteland angel or ruthless tyrant of your choosing, as you soon get distracted from the main plot in a network of side stories and peculiar characters that will happily occupy hundreds of hours if you let them. Unutterably vast and as open-ended as current technology allows, it creates its own weirdly enthralling post-nuclear lifestyle.Bethesda, £19.99-£24.99Syndicate, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360SyndicateAside from its name, setting and the odd flapping trenchcoat, Syndicate has pretty much nothing to do with Bullfrog's 1993 classic. In place of its forebear's considered resource management and wry commentary on corporate excess is a brutal first person shooter blending parkour slides with the electronically enhanced ability to make enemies turn on each other, blow themselves up or simply make their weapons backfire. Tracking down rival corporate agents lets you extract their upgrade chip (through an eye or ear, a procedure that doesn't have a high survival rate) and use it to strengthen your own powers. There's fun to be had here, but the garbled plot and simplistic scenarios fail to match the current generation of shooters and squander the opportunities offered by a venerable franchise.Electronic Arts, £39.99UFC 3: Undisputed, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360UFC 3: UndisputedFor the uninitiated, Ultimate Fighting Championship has two mixed martial artists pounding and grappling each other into submission in a high-sided octagonal ring. And in the latest video game spinoff – providing you can stomach the endless tutorials – you'll discover a fighting system that demands timing as well as tactics to overcome opponents with wildly differing fighting styles. Interspersed with talking head clips of the strangely thoughtful tattooed musclemen that the sport's stars tend to be, career mode lets you develop a fighter from street brawler to world champion. The ability to incorporate any moves and styles you like gives an unusually fulfilling sense of ownership to the later victories.THQ, £39.99Games newsUnderground Mining SimulatorAlso out this week are PS Vita titlesAsphalt Injection, a middling driving game that's a pale imitation of console racers …Dungeon Hunter: Alliance, despite its addictive Diablo-lite trappings, feels like daylight robbery at £30 …Ridge Racerproves that refined arcade-style handling can't make up for anaemic tracks and events …Rayman Originsis a colourful platform-hopping extravaganza that looks more beautiful than ever on a small screen …Lumines: Electronic Symphonyis the definitive version of Tetsuya Mizuguchi's dance music-infused block matching puzzle game …Elsewhere, for non-Vita owners, there'sThe Last Story, the Wii's answer to Final Fantasy, containing the same recipe of labyrinthine plot and unlikely hair styling …Finally, for subterranean mineral extraction fans there'sUnderground Mining Simulator, whose utilitarian title accurately describes the content of the box.
There have been complaints that I don't get my girlfriend into this column enough. It's hard, though. She's bored by cars. A big screw-you Mercedes, worth the same as our house, can be delivered and she won't bat an eyelid. "Do you like it?" I'll ask. "Dunno," she'll answer. The only thing she's interested in is whether or not it has heated seats.This all changes with the arrival of a little red Fiat 500. "About bloody time," she says, charmingly. She has whined on at me, asking when we're going to try out a Fiat 500. It's the only car in the whole world in which she's shown any interest. I think she sees herself nipping round Milan in one, wearing Prada, stopping off for a macchiato, while handsome, dark-haired men "Ciao bella" her. Her mum had one ofthe originalFiat 500s, the spirit of which this car has recaptured – much more so than the Mini or Beetle reincarnations did.Well, I suppose she'd better drive then. Whoah, what the hell is that? When she turns the key, it clatters into life like no other car, something between aVespaand a&nbsp;Massey Ferguson. That's because it has Fiat's revolutionary new twin air engine.Time to get technical. There are only two cylinders for a start, like on the original 500. The air flows into the engine not through the throttle valve but through inlet valves, controlled by a new electro-hydraulic management system… Oh, never mind. What it means is that though the car has a tiny two-cylinder engine, it pulls surprisingly well. And its consumption and emission figures are excellent – the cleanest, greenest petrol engine in the world, Fiat claims. The only downside is the funny noise it makes.But no, not a downside. Once I&nbsp;realise it's not sick, I begin to enjoy it. So much so that we drive over to see Our Friend The Sound Recordist. To hear hisrecording of the car, click here. The first clip is from the front by the engine, the next one from the back, by the exhaust. See what I mean?Key test, though: what does my girlfriend think of the car? "Get me one," she says. There's zero chance of that happening. It does suit her, but still, there's not a lot of "Ciao bella"-ing going on. Possibly because she's got me with her. Or because she's in Dollis Hill, not Milan. Or maybe even because she's making a funny, loose, airy, fluttery, old-lady-farty noise, from behind.Fiat 500 TwinAirPriceFrom £12,760Top speed105mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11 secondsCombined fuel consumption69mpgC02 emissions95g/kmEco rating9/10Cool rating9/10• Sam Wollaston will be appearing at Guardian Open Weekend on 24 and 25 March,in a session entitledIs TV criticism dead?. Festival passes are now on sale atguardian.co.uk/open-weekend. Buy your pass before 1 March to ensure the best chance of booking reservations for individual sessions.
Age:Began with the first online browser – Tim&nbsp;Berners-Lee's WorldWideWeb – in 1991.Appearance:The internet.What's browsing?That's the technical term for&nbsp;visiting websites.OK. So what's your "browsing history"?That's a&nbsp;list of every website you have ever visited. Including the naughty ones.You mean the gossip sites?Yep. Red-hot gossip sites. Teenage gossip sites. Japanese animated gossip sites. That sort of thing.You know me so well.Those were just hypotheticals.Right. Duh. Good thing I delete my history.Clearly. Unfortunately, deleting your history only hides it from the people on your end.There are people on the other end?Yep. Millions&nbsp;of them, actually. But right now the ones&nbsp;you should be worrying about are Google. As&nbsp;of 1&nbsp;March, the company will be gathering data&nbsp;on you from every one of its services – including e-mail and YouTube – and collecting&nbsp;them in a&nbsp;big&nbsp;digital box with your&nbsp;name on it.Is that bad? Well, let's say you search the term "elf gossip" a few times and that goes into the Google database. You delete your history, so no one at home will find out, but Google still knows. A few days later, a friend visits YouTube on your computer and an ad pops up for "loose-lipped elves". Get the picture?I surely do. Although that elf thing was just the&nbsp;one time. Can I opt out?Well, they have pledged to give users a "do-not-track" button, but&nbsp;that'll only work when you're not logged into&nbsp;a Google account.Is that all?If you're quick, there's also still time&nbsp;to&nbsp;disable your web history in your account&nbsp;settings.OK done.Phew. So now they can't track me at all?&nbsp;Actually that won't stop them tracking you either, but they will have to make your data anonymous in 18 months' time.That's not very reassuring. Is there nothing&nbsp;else&nbsp;I&nbsp;can do?You could always not use&nbsp;Google.Ha! Good one.Thanks.Do say:"I'm just browsing."Don't say:"No idea what these ads for lederhosen&nbsp;are about."
A ticker on the front ofApple's websiterolls over relentlessly, increasing by about 500 a second as it moves relentlessly towards 25bn.It is counting the number of units of application software downloaded from the company's App Store – and the rise of a business that barely existed five years ago, but which now dominates daily conversation so much that the phrase, "There's an app for that", has become both an offer of help and a joke.The counter is expected to hit the target by early March. By then, users will have spent about £3.6bn buying apps through the store, of which Apple will have passed on £2.5bn and retained £1.1bn.In the last three months of 2011 alone, the company paid out more than £447m to developers for sales of their apps – a figure which does not include advertising revenues generated by free apps.Where once schoolchildren swapped the names of favourite bands, now they can name apps: Angry Birds, Cut The Rope, WhatsApp Messenger, Temple Run, FatBooth.The App Store contains more than 550,000 apps, some of which have made their authors rich, and many of which have offered a solid source of income for a new breed of business specialising in writing apps to order for clients large and small.In some cases, it is schoolchildren who are writing the apps: last year Robert Nay, then 14,hit the top of the App Store charts with his game Bubble Ball, which took him only a month to write but was downloaded millions of times."What we've seen over the last four years has been nothing but exceptional," said Matt Miller, co-founder of London studioustwo, which worked with Barclays on its recentPingit mobile payments app."The app industry has taken the world by storm, creating a micro-economy in its own right and creating jobs for hundreds of thousands of talented professionals worldwide. A successful app can now be the difference between complete anonymity and global digital fame."Apps are even changing our online shopping habits: more than 65 million people have downloaded eBay's apps for various devices, spending £3.2bn on the auction service from mobile devices in 2011. This is expected to rise to £5.1bn in 2012.Amazon has tried to encourage people to compare prices in stores with those online using its free app (in the hope of winning their business).But even as Apple prepares to celebrate its 25bn downloads milestone, Google's Android operating system is coming up on the rails: despite launching nearly two years later, it has more than 400,000 apps, and in December 2011 passed the 10bn downloads mark.Even Research In Motion's BlackBerry App World, which is rarely held up as a success, has generated 2bn downloads from its catalogue of 60,000 apps.Apple boss Steve Jobs at first resisted the idea of apps – fearful that a malicious app could bring down whole networks and, with it, Apple's reputation.It took the combined efforts of Scott Forstall, the head of iPhone development, and Phil Schiller, Jobs's longtime head of marketing, to change the chief's mind. But once Jobs announced the change, in October 2007, the floodgates opened.Just as it did not invent the smartphone or digital music player, Apple did not invent mobile applications. They had been around for years on phones from companies such as Nokia, and PDA devices from Palm and others. But they had tended to be awkward to use.As with the iPod and iPhone, Apple took the clunkiness out to make browsing, buying and downloading simple. And it rebranded the little computer programs as "apps", complete with catchy slogan and TV ads.There have been surprises along the way – such as the success of fart apps, which just make rude noises, or the bizarre "I Am Rich" app, which did nothing except show a red glow but cost $999 (£630).Industry analyst Juniper Research estimates that more than 31bn apps were downloaded to mobile devices in 2011, and predicts that by 2016 mobile apps will generate $52bn of revenues – 75% from smartphones and 25% from tablets.Apps, in short, have become a thriving business segment – available to everyone from the bedroom coder (who, for $25, can write and upload an app to the Android Market; for Apple, the cost is higher – you have to write it on a Mac and it costs $99 a year) to the biggest companies.Apps also play a crucial role in many of the business models disrupting established entertainment and media industries. Music service Spotify's mobile app has been a key factor in its growth, with 85% of its 3 million subscribers paying £9.99 a month to get mobile as well as desktop access.Apps have also been important for streaming TV and film services such as Netflix and Hulu, as well as for the BBC's iPlayer and BSkyB's Sky Go – the latter now attracts 1.5 million unique users a month.The top five free iPad apps are for TV catchup services. "I wouldn't want to be a broadcaster or advertiser looking at this," said one insider.In the games world, apps have been at the forefront of new "freemium" model where games can be played for free but make their money from in-app purchases of virtual items and currency.For the best-known app company – Finland's Rovio, whose Angry Birds is played even by prime minister David Cameron on his iPad – it's a huge winner. This year the company expects revenues of up to €400m (£340m).Meanwhile, newspapers and magazines hope apps will provide a stable subscription-based revenue stream to make up for declining print sales. UK publisher Future took £638,000 in new digital revenues within a month of launching 65 of its magazines as apps on Apple's Newsstand store.Yet amid the celebrations for apps, there are some dark clouds. Initially, Apple was criticised for its almost random approach to preventing apps going on sale. More recently there has been unrest from iPhone games developers about blatant "clones" – fakes which look like famous games.Earlier this month a fake Pokémon Yellow app was at one point the third highest selling game on the App Store, despite being just a collection of screen shots of Nintendo's DS game. It has since been removed.Meanwhile the Android Market is one of the biggest sources of mobile malware, according to studies by antivirus companies, which regularly find apps that will steal data or send pricey text messages. Although Google can yank such apps both from the market and users' phones, the issue remains a concern for businesses and government.But apps are here to stay, according to Forrester, an independent technology and market research firm. In fact, they will become even more embedded in our lives: entire businesses will start to revolve around them, both externally (through customer orders – think of boarding passes for air journeys) and internally (as staff use specific apps to get things done).Even so, there can be wrinkles. Plans by the US special air forces to replace their heavy flight manuals – which can weigh up to 18kg (40lb) in total – with iPads were put on hold after military chiefs discovered that the app needed to read the manual was written by a Russian. Apps may be a new frontier, but they are still subject old prejudices.Top paid apps1Angry Birds (game)2WhatsApp (social networking)3Doodle Jump (game)4Fruit Ninja (game)5Angry Birds Seasons (game)6Cut The Rope (game)7TuneIn Radio Pro (music/radio)8Monopoly (game)9Angry Birds Rio (game)10FatBooth (fun)Top free apps1Facebook (social network)2Skype (internet phone)3eBay (auctions)4Google Earth (mapping)5Google (search)6Twitter (social network)7Paper toss (game)8Bump (social network)9BBC (news)10Shazam (music identification)
