A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft confirms Kinect hackers to get official developer kit &gt;&gt; Pocket-lint"Microsoft has confirmed that it will release an SDK for itâ€™s Kinect accessory for the Xbox 360 allowing developers to create third party applications for the motion controller on other devices like the PC and Mac. The new Software Development Kit will be released in March and be limited to non-commercial use to start with however Microsoft has said that it will bring a commercial verison out as well so developers can make money from their work."Facebook chat in Hotmail now available everywhere &gt;&gt; Windows Team BlogCountdown to a privacy showdown starting...now!Government Tries to Keep Secret What Many Consider a Fraud &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThere by the grace of God. "The software he patented – which he claimed, among other things, could find terrorist plots hidden in broadcasts of the Arab network Al Jazeera; identify terrorists from Predator drone videos; and detect noise from hostile submarines – prompted an international false alarm that led President George W. Bush to order airliners to turn around over the Atlantic Ocean in 2003."Middle East Internet Scorecard (February 13 – 20) &gt;&gt; Arbor Networks Security"Overall, our data shows pronounced changes in Internet traffic levels in two Middle East countries last week: Bahrain and Libya. While network failures and other exogenous events may play a role in decreased traffic volumes, we observe the changes in Bahrain and Libya are temporally coincident with the onset of recent protests."Another misleading story reports that blogs â€˜râ€™ dead &gt;&gt; Scott Rosenberg's Wordyard"So the actual story – which, to be fair, the Times' article mostly hews to (it's the headline and lead that skew it more sensationally) – is that blogging keeps growing, but it's losing popularity among teens."An Open Letter to Apple &gt;&gt; Readability Blog"Before we cool down and come to our senses, we might as well share how we're feeling right now: we believe that your new policy smacks of greed. Subscription apps like ours represent a tiny sliver of app sales that represent a tiny sliver of your revenue. You've achieved much of your success in hardware sales by cultivating an incredibly impressive app ecosystem. Every iPad or iPhone TV ad puts the apps developed by companies like ours front and center. It was a healthy and mutually beneficial dynamic: apps like ours get exposure and you get to show the world how these apps make your hardware shine. That's why we're a bit baffled here."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Cambridge-based computer chip maker CSR on Monday announced a $679m deal to buy Zoran, the US imaging technology group.The all share merger, which will see CSR hold 65% of the combined company, opens the door for CSR to add imaging and video to its Wi-Fi, bluetooth and GPS products, such as location-aware digital cameras. The merged company's customers will include Sony and Samsung.Joep van Beurden, the chief executive of CSR who will head up the combined group, said on Monday: "The combined entity is going to be in a position to be very relevant to camera manufacturers. The same is true for digital televisions, in cars, in gaming and in handsets."You will absolutely see combinations of imaging, video technology, and connectivity in one product," he said. "This is an exciting transaction on both a strategic and financial level."Shares in CSR were down 8% at 399p at 1pm on Monday, as investors expected that Zoran investors may well sell shares in the combined group. Its stock has risen 34% in the past three months.Zoran, which is listed on Nasdaq, had $260m of cash on its balance sheet. CSR said that it would return up to $240m to shareholders through a share buyback programme. Shareholders in Zoran will receive 1.85 CSR shares for each Zoran share, implying a 40% premium to Zoran's closing price on Friday.CSR, whose competitors include Broadcom and Qualcomm, has lost ground on the booming demand for internet-enabled mobile phones. Announcingbetter than expected full-year resultsearlier this month, Van Beurden said the company aims to increase its share in the smartphone market by 2012.The company, which also supples Wi-Fi chips to carmakers including Audi, Ford and Toyota, saw its full-year revenues rise 33% last year, with operating profit tripling to $79m.Dr Levy Gerzberg, the co-founder and chief executive of Zoran, will join the CSR board as non-executive director along with another, yet to be named, Zoran executive.The deal is expected to be finalised in the second quarter of this year, subject to shareholder and regulatory approval.
Anyone wondering why so many mobile developers have Apple blinkers on when deciding which smartphones to support should take a look at the latest research from IHS Screen Digest.As outlined by AppleInsider, it puts numbers to the sales on the four largest app stores in 2010: Apple's App Store, Google's Android Market, Nokia's Ovi Store and Research In Motion's BlackBerry App World.Unsurprising: the App Store comes top by a huge distance. IHS estimates that apps generated $1.78bn (£1.1bn) of revenues on Apple's store last year, accounting for an 82.7% share of the four stores' total.Surprising: Android Market was not the second or even the third most lucrative app store for developers according to this research, which ranks BlackBerry App World second with $165m of revenues in 2010 (a 7.7% share), and Nokia's Ovi Store third with $105m (4.9%).Android Market in fourth place.Android Market is in fourth place with an estimated $102m of app sales in 2010, and a 4.7% share. These figures appear to cover app revenues, which may not include in-app advertising.Even so, they show why developers are excited about the momentum behind Android, but rather more cautious about the current potential to make money from paid app sales on the store.Other figures worth noting from IHS's research: it expects mobile apps to generate $3.9bn of revenues this year, and claims that games accounted for 52.2% of all app sales in 2010.This year will see growth in app sales coming from outside the four stores listed in IHS' research, though. Last week, Amazon published new details about its soon-to-launch Amazon Appstore for Android, flagging up to developers its ability to promote apps across Amazon's site."Out of the gate, your app will show up in search results across Amazon.com.  That's the no-brainer," explains its blog post. "Amazon has also come up with quite a few algorithms that display items relevant to the browsing customer – meaning, we deliver a more targeted audience to developers and vendors.  Simple, right?"An example is provided of an Amazon customer buying a new Android tablet, then using the store to buy apps and games. "When another customer is looking at the Android tablet in Amazon's tablet store, they may see the apps I downloaded in a section called 'Customers Who Bought This Item Also Bought'," explains the blog.This is the other important thing to consider when it comes to Android, for which Android Market is just the official store. Amazon, along with mobile operators, handset makers and other brands are launching or have launched their own Android-focused stores to sell apps too.In other words, Android Market will likely provide the largest chunk of Android app revenues for some time, but it won't be the whole pie.
Sony's flagship first-person shooter provides a nice illustration of the PlayStation 3's progression to maturity: the original Killzone was delayed and, frankly, a bit ropey in technical terms, the next iteration vastly improved, and Killzone 3 is a mighty impressive beast indeed.It picks up the story exactly where Killzone 2 left off, before flashing forward six months, chronicling the efforts of Sevchenko and Velasquez to escape Helghast, after their assassination of Scolar Visari (which, initially at least, aren't exactly helped by the officious Captain Narville, although he redeems himself later).The nuked ruins of Pyrrhus set a magnificent graphical tone which the rest of the game sustains, and Killzone 3 addresses a criticism of its predecessors by employing varied locations – including a colourful alien jungle, a space-station and a polar outpost.The gameplay is satisfyingly varied from the off, with plenty of vehicles to pilot (including a spacecraftand an exoskeleton), great machine-gun-equipped jet-packs, some monstrous Helghast weapons (such as multiple-rocket-launchers that can be ripped from their mounts) and even a touch of stealth at one point.There are some highly memorable boss-battles, particularly the one that involves taking down a 20-storey-tall super-mech called a MAWLR. Guerrilla Games clearly set out to create something as cinematic as Call of Duty, and this time around, it succeeded impressively.Story-wise, Killzone 3 also towers above its predecessors, with plenty of cut-scenes depicting the hubris and arrogance of the Nazi-like Helghast (whose leading protagonists are voiced by the likes of Ray Winstone and Malcolm McDowell). Sevchenko and Velasquez still aren't going to win prizes for their profundity, but the spiky dynamic between them and Narville at least lets you glimpse the personalities they previously lacked.The only criticism you could level at the game's single-player campaign is that it's a bit short, which is very much the modern way, but need not be so – as Dead Space 2, for example, ably demonstrated. Technologically, though, there's no doubting that it's a tour de force, an impression enhanced by the fact that it works in stereoscopic 3D and can be played using the Move and Motion Controller.This is precisely the stuff for which Move was invented, so it's pleasing to report that it works beautifully with Killzone 3, adding some well thought-out tweaks to the control system, such as twisting to reload and a melee attack which is launched with a stabbing motion.Online, Killzone 3 isn't going to cause mass outbreaks of tumbleweed on CoD and Battlefield servers but, once again, it improves on Killzones 1 and 2. The objective-based Warzone mode is back, with a number of improvements, such as five classes which give you special abilities at a much earlier stage, and quicker access to heavy weapons, vehicles and, especially, jet-packs. It also adds a Team Deathmatch mode, which should prove popular.Overall, Killzone 3 proves to be the top-notch first-person shooter that we hoped versions 1 and 2 would be. The PlayStation 3 is now reaching the middle of its life-cycle, and thanks to games like this, it should end up being just as legendary (and successful) as the PlayStation and PlayStation 2.• Game reviewed on PS3
When Steve Boxer got his hands on the new Wii tablet peripheral uDraw last year, his early opinion was moderately favourable. "uDraw is by no means an earth-shatteringly clever input device like Microsoft's Kinect, and it would never make any grandiose claims about changing the face of gaming," he said, "but it should prove pretty attractive to parents worried about their offspring spending all day in front of their Wiis without achieving anything concrete."So how does it fare six months on, now that the finished article and the three launch title games are about to hit the shelves? Pretty much exactly the same.Everything about the uDraw is reasonably capable. The one pure art package, uDraw Studio, is indeed, as Steve suggested, more powerful than it looks; and, while it requires a great amount of practice to perfect, even if you can face the time investment, the rewards are only moderate and by their nature – even with the SD card option to save them – fleeting.As with cheap packages that give the impression of oil painting techniques or introduce children to certain aspects of art, uDraw Studio perhaps has some value. Whether it will ever replace pen and paper (or canvas, cardboard, chalk or any of the other "surfaces" it allows you to draw on) is doubtful.Also released is an "adventure" title called Dood's Big Adventure which, again, takes time to master the actually quite simple but rather badly explained controls. Things do gradually click and the various platform-style games should have a childish appeal but this is little more than a DS game on a bigger screen.Ironically, the best game of the three launch titles is Pictionary, the old pen-and-paper board game given a 21st century twist. As with the recent DS version, the introduction of technology is both a bonus and a drawback.As with the conventional game, the purpose of Pictionary is to guess what your teammate is drawing. A correct answer earns a roll of the die, and you move your team's piece around the board until someone finishes the game.In this incarnation, instead of a physical board, counters and a die, everything is on screen; to roll the die, you flick the pen across the uDraw tablet. The colour of square you land on determines what sort of subject you draw next – person, animal, object, etc – and whether you're drawing just for your team or as an "All Play" option. The use of the TV here certainly comes into its own, although you do have to rely on everybody closing their eyes as onscreen prompts have replaced the cards.As well as a freehand option, the uDraw offers various choices of line and shape tools, colours, line type and width. Chances are, however, you won't. With only 90 seconds to guess, and a tablet that takes some getting used to in terms of pressure, these extra options generally just slow you down.Where the game and technology work best is with the second game variation, Pictionary Mania, which adds some interesting variations to the theme – such as having to draw without looking at the screen, or having to draw while the screen rotates. They're fun variations that breathe a little new life into the game.Whether it's enough to justify a uDraw purchase is highly debatable. As a peripheral, the uDraw should have potential but, at this point, it doesn't feel like it's being fully explored.
Twitter has reinstated the banned BlackBerry and Android apps, UberSocial and Twidroyd, aftera weekend in the sin bin for privacy and trademark violations.The popular UberMedia-owned apps were suspended on Friday for a number of serious-looking policy violations affecting "a large number of users". UberMedia estimates its apps have "millions" of users."These violations include, but aren't limited to, a privacy issue with private Direct Messages longer than 140 characters, trademark infringement, and changing the content of users' tweets in order to make money," Twitter said on Friday. The$10bn-valued companyreally did pull no punches.UberMedia's polished apps were allowed back into the ecosystem on Sunday night. Twittersaid: "We've given the developers of twidroyd and UberSocial for BlackBerry (formerly UberTwitter) access to the Twitter API again."Our initial review indicates that steps have been taken to remedy the violations for these applications."The Bill Gross-fronted company, which isreportedlyclose to adding TweetDeck to its formidable roster, has every right to feel aggrieved by Twitter's short shrift.Gross claimed that the ban "completely took us by surprise" and that Twitter "didn't raise [the issues] before" – despiteTwitter's insistencethat it had been speaking with UberMedia about "policy violations" since April last year.UberMedia has simply been made an example of. Some of the violations UberMedia was alleged to have made – particularly using the tweet-elongation servicetmi.mewhich could publicly display some users' private Direct Messages, and changing tweets to make money – could have seriously damaged the third-party developer's reputation.According toSeesmic founder Loic Le Meur, UberMedia apps carry as much as 20% of the tweets carried worldwide on a daily basis. This at a time when Twitter is boosting promotion of its own mobile apps.Gross explainswhat went wrong with his apps on Q&amp;A site Quora. But the affair has left a bad taste in the mouth. As Mark Suster, a prominent venture capitalist and angel investor,says:"Yes, and it's total coincidence that on the day they were suspended Twitter ran the promoted Tweet #TwitterMobile and that UberTwitter was never suspended before being bought by Bill Gross &amp; raising $17.5m."As a long-time user of UberTwitter I find this kind of platform behavior offensive. Not as a VC or as somebody who loves Twitter &amp; always has. But as a user of a product Twitter chose to punish. It sure would have been nicer on your users if you issued a public warning and had given them 72 hours to respond. Who got fucked today was me. A loyal Twitter user."
In the village of Harefield, a surprisingly quiet and leafy enclave amid the urban sprawl of north-west London, a group of schoolboys are warming up for football practice. It is an icy cold January afternoon, and once inside the warehouse-sized dry training facility, the temperature seems to drop considerably. The boys, though, have filed in quietly and professionally, and they go about their exercises with a genuine sense of purpose. But then, this is not an average school PE session. These may well be future England stars.Four years ago, Watford football club teamed up with the newly openedHarefield Academyschool and devised a new way to train the next generation of professional football players. As part of the school's innovative Gifted and Talented programme, skilled boys from throughout the south of England can apply to study and train here.They get a full education in a well-equipped, high-tech school (when we're shown into the main auditorium, we're confronted with a Virtual Learning Area with 60 PCs and  large plasma screens on the walls showing rolling news) but on top of that, football is a key element of their timetable. Two graduates, Adam Thompson and Gavin Massey, are already part of the first team at Watford, and several others are on the England youth squads.Less chaotic lifestyleWhile standard football club youth set-ups will provide kids with between three and five hours of training a week, the boys at Harefield get up to 15 – all of it overseen by Watford's own youth academy coaches. "It's a less chaotic lifestyle than traditional youth systems," says Nick Cox, the academy manager for 12- to 16-year-olds. "They're not arriving and training in the dark – our boys will get in early in the morning, they'll train twice day, they eat properly, and they get home at 7pm rather than 10pm."When the under-12 players come out onto the astroturf surface, their shirts bear a familiar sponsor:Sports Interactive. The developer of theFootball Managerseries has been funding this section of the programme for two years. Miles Jacobson, the company's managing director, is a lifelong Watford fan, but it seems the support of the academy is more about the company's interest in grassroots football, which has already seen in its support for the youth team at Luton FC."It's a brilliant set-up here," he says. "They've had Ajax turning up and saying it's better than their youth system, which is globally recognised. I hope that more clubs look at what they're doing here and rip it off! It's the best thing for British football. We just wanted to be part of it."That would also seem to explain another of the developer's shirt sponsorship deals. In 2002, when the FA controversially ruled that Wimbledon FC could be relocated to a plush new all-seater stadium in Milton Keynes, a group of disgruntled supporters set upAFC Wimbledon, a fan-owned club that would eventually get its own ground at Kingsmeadow in Kingston-Upon-Thames."I was listening to Five Live when that was happening," says Jacobson. "They were interviewing Ivor Heller, who is now the commercial director. We had a conversation in the office and we were saying, well, how would we feel if this happened to any of our clubs? So I got Ivor's contact details from the radio station, phoned him up and said, 'how much do you need to set up the club?' He told us, and we worked out a sponsorship deal based on that amount."Media stormThis turned out to be a canny marketing move. The formation of AFC Wimbledon became a global news story, and Sports Interactive found itself at the epicentre of the media storm. Almost a decade later, this is still a fan-run club (there are over 100 volunteers on a match day, and only seven full-time paid staff) but it's now just another non-league side battling its way through the divisions.On the Saturday we arrive to speak to Miles and Ivor, the club is gearing up for a game against Fleetwood Town; the small press area is half full – these are local reporters and staff from the club'sown radio station, the mainstream media has long since moved on. And yet, Sports Interactive is still here, renewing its sponsorship contract on an annual basis. "It's just fantastic to be involved," enthuses Jacobson. "We're down here quite a lot, we love coming here. None of us was a Wimbledon supporter before, but its everyone's second team now."Beyond marketing and certainly beyond any sense of altruism, there are tangible benefits to these grass roots sponsorship arrangements. SI's long-running series of management simulations has featured non-league and youth teams for years, and spotting cheap talent down there is a key part of the sim. "We've learned a lot about the non-league game," says Jacobson. "We've learned about the budgeting and how the transfer system works down here. It's also about being around people who work inside football and learning from them. And they ask about how our match engine analyses player performances, they use our database … they learn from us, too."True football geeksIt's also about fandom and obsession; the same obsession that Football Manager fans have for this idiosyncratic franchise. For two years, I worked on Future Publishing's sadly defunct Official Football Manager Magazine. I know SI well and one thing that needs to be understood is that they're true football geeks; they love the game itself, but they love the system, too – the architecture of the sport, the complex FA pyramid, the background machinations. There are also biographical parallels between AFC Wimbledon and Sports Interactive. In 2004, the developer broke its ties with Eidos, the publisher that owned the Championship Manager brand, and that had overseen the simulation series since 1992. Once free, SI quickly bought the Football Manager brand, well-known from the 8-bit series of football management titles, but it would have to build this franchise from almost nothing. Just like AFC Wimbledon."This deal fits in with the ethos and development of the studio," says Jacobson. "Moving from working for Eidos, to owning the Football Manager name, and then signing with Sega who had just pulled out of the console market and were back to being a smaller company, they were exciting times. A lot of people thought we were mad breaking up with Eidos, but we wanted that, we wanted a new beginning."Ivor Hellor, who owns a factory down the road from Wimbledon's old Plough Lane ground, certainly appreciates the symbiosis between SI and his club. "We'd talked to a couple of other potential sponsors, but then I got an email from Miles. I didn't know who he was, or anything about Sports Interactive, but I contacted him and as soon as he got on the phone, I knew they were going to be our sponsor. Miles said they wanted to be involved because they believed in the Dons trust, they wanted to see us in the football league – those were the magic words. There's a feeling of having a body of people behind us, a worldwide brand, that could have gone to any league club they wanted. But it's more than a business relationship, they're our friends."Educational benefitsNick Cox, too, sees the educational benefits of linking with FM: "Video games are a great way for the players to relax, and perhaps Football Manager stimulates them to think about tactics and the responsibilities of a coach – the psychological aspects of managing players. It gives them an early insight, a different perspective on the sport."Back at the Harefield Academy, I have to ask Nick the obvious question – why is it that England is proving so ineffective on the international stage? Why don't English players shine against their Continental European opponents? Cox says there are myriad reasons, including the fact that we simply and continually overestimate the international standing of the English side.But he provides a telling scenario: "If you took two Spanish under-11 teams and asked them to play until there was a winner, they would play a brand of football that was possession-based and would involve a calculated passing game, with players in every position dropping off and defending. You take two under-11 teams in this country, they'd kick each other, they'd run around, they'd work hard; the managers on the touchline would praise effort and energy rather than technical ability. It's our culture, it's our society."But at Harefield, that culture is being quietly challenged. I watch the training session for half an hour and the emphasis is on quick accurate passing and intelligent movement. In the background, there's a progressive, scientific approach.The academy has a huge state-of-the-art gym, complete with cameras that analyse the performance of students; the food at the cafeteria is scrupulously healthy. The pupils on the Gifted and Talented scheme are taught about the mentality of competition, as well as the physical effort – they are apparently among the most academically successful students at the school.If more clubs do adopt this approach to youth development (and it's possible – Liverpool, Manchester City and Celtic have all sent representatives to view the programme), we could see a gradual end to the monosyllabic British slogger. Within this context, Sports Interactive's sponsorship is very fitting: a developer that has intricately tracked the progress of the sport over the last twenty years, may well end up playing a small part in changing it forever.
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 19 FebruaryPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (4)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (38)PC (4)Wii (3)152 (–)Marvel vs Capcom 3: Fate Of Two Worlds (12+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)13 (2)Dead Space 2(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (43)PC (4)44 (1)Test Drive Unlimited 2(12+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (34)PC (2)25 (3)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (32)Wii (6)DS (6)216 (7)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)197 (5)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)148 (6)Mario vs Donkey Kong: Mini-Land Mayhem!(3+)DS (100)39 (9)Grand Theft Auto IV: Complete Edition (18+)PS3 (63)Xbox 360 (32)PC (5)210 (10)LittleBigPlanet 2(7+)PS3 (100)5UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
The weekend's Gamesblog Live event, at which attendees were able to get their hands on three games published by Electronic Arts – Crysis 2, Dragon Age II and Shift 2: Unleashed – plus hear talks by three of the key men behind their development, was the first of what we hope will be a number of such events. So we were unable to resist the temptation to grab some attendees for vox pops detailing what they thought of the games and the event.Pretty swiftly, some recurring themes emerged. Everyone canvassed said they valued the rare chance to get some hands-on experience of the games before they reach the shops. Given that games can cost up to £50, we'd always recommend that you hunt down any opportunities to try them before you buy them.Cassidy Hansen said: "I've never had the chance to get hands-on experience of games before they come out, really. But this has provided a great taste of three games, and I really liked it." Sami Darweish was in agreement: "It was a great chance to play games before they have come out. I always wait a while after a game comes out. It's like buying an album. You hear a single, which might be good, but you're not sure if the whole package is great. Sometimes you get an album that is not all great. And likewise, sometimes you get a game which has great single-player, but the multiplayer is lacking, say."Dragon Age II lead designer Mike Laidlaw takes questions from the floor at the Gamesblog Live event in London. Photograph: Teri Pengilley for the GuardianThe talks also seemed to go down well, with attendees appreciating the opportunity to hear the key players behind the games talk about their latest opuses, without being filtered through journalists.Ben Walke said: "The talk by the Dragon Age II guy [lead designer Mike Laidlaw] was interesting. It's good to hear about the story processes they have, and how they make the games. It's not the sort of thing you normally get to hear: you don't really get to read about those sorts of things in magazines. Even if you see a write-up on a website or whatever, it's completely different from hearing it from the developers themselves. You can hear the passion and emotion coming from them."  Sami Darweish was in agreement: "It was great to listen to those people, who you always think of as being based in some faraway place. But they were answering our questions and we were able to actually hear how the process of making games works."Questions regarding the relative merits of the games on show highlighted how personal tastes vary as far as games are concerned, just as much as they do in any other sphere of the entertainment world. Cassidy Hansen's favourite was Crysis 2: "I liked the way that it flowed very well – it's a very fast-paced game. The processes in it are very good."Lee Williams said: "Dragon Age II I'm quite curious about, because it's much more like a console game. The first one was very good, but it wasn't really like a console game. So it was good to see how they have fixed a lot of those things. With the combos, it reminds me a lot of something like Fable now – it's not about going through a lot of menus." Sami Darweish initially singled out Crysis 2: "It looks fantastic graphically, and should be a great game. Everything I've seen in Dragon Age II looks like it's a lot more fun than in Origins. I've played some racing games in the past, and they're not really my favourite. But Shift 2: Unleashed looks amazing – everything in it looks real."As we suspected, there seems to be a genuine appetite among Guardian readers to get up close and personal with the most anticipated forthcoming games – so watch this space for details of future Gamesblog Live events. And if you can't physically get to the Guardian's Kings Cross headquarters, you can still get involved by commenting on the articles we post. We're always keen to find out what games you most want to get your hands on, and that could help us shape future Gamesblog Live events: so don't be shy.
Gaming time was severely limited for me this weekend. International Cricket 2010 got a – World Cup inspired – quick go but most of the gaming time I had was spent on the move.  A four hour train journey – to Rochdale and back – was enlivened by a host of iPhone games. The clear winner wasSacred Odyssey: Rise of Ayden. You can probably guess the genre – RPG  - from the title alone but this is a cracking little Zelda clone. Actually it's not that little – Ayden is a meaty action adventure that is as close as you can currently get to Zelda on the iPhone. It will probably lose some appeal when Ocarina of Time arrives on the 3DS but I think Ayden will be in my pocket for a few months yet.  Anyway, what about you? How was your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Once, the currency of wisdom seemed to consist in knowing who one's father was. Latterly, in these business obsessed times, knowing your own customers seems to have become more important. Which, of course, was the promise of the internet for harassed newspaper owners. So much for the anonymous news stand buyers – the future, instead, would consist of joyous readers in a harmonious (and more profitable) relationship with publishers, their contact information visible for the first time. Plus, readers would probably be prepared to pay as much or almost as much as in the costly ink-on-dead-trees era.Then, along came Apple, and we've all been feeling post-lapsarian ever since. Last week, the computer giant decided to reread its terms of service for publishers bold enough to be part of its iPad/iPhone experience. Lest there had been any doubt – Apple wants 30% of the revenue from any subscriber signed up through its App Store and it will hang on to the customer information, thank you very much. Oh, and as Josh Halliday reports , if you are on the App Store, you are not allowed to offer cut-price services via another platform. Hmm.You can argue, if you must, that this is not such unfamiliar territory for a consumer media business. A newsagent – remember them? – typically takes a fifth or a quarter of the sale price of a newspaper for itself. It costs money to come up with iPads, and it is not unreasonable for Apple to charge a subscriber management fee. That's fair enough, but nobody was preparing to give Apple the right to take over every function of every newsagent worldwide. It will not quite be enough, the next time you see deserted shops, to reflect that it's OK, Apple has a gross margin of 38.5% and is delivering for its shareholders.There are other questions about Apple's dominance. Apple has made it hard for some content creators to get their work on to its App Store. For example, the American satirical cartoonistMark Fiorefound his work rejected because "it ridicules public figures". He only got on to the App Store last year after winning a Pulitzer Prize and a mini-media outcry. Not everybody, though, can do that to get past Apple's move into content censorship.Of course the music industry has been here before. The shops – Woolworths and Virgin Megastores – are mostly gone and in their place is the iTunes monster that is the place where most peoplebuytheir music. Yet, sales in the music business continue to tumble as digital growth begins to stall – suggesting there are limits to what even Apple can do. For all the merits of the latest iPod, Apple gets in the way of an artist and their fans. Which helps explain whyRadiohead didn't bother with iTunes for the first stage of Friday's release of King of Limbs– a short trip to the band's website armed with £6 in a bank account and one's email address was enough to get hold of an open, non-Apple MP3 format.Radiohead may be one of the ultimate examples of the "band as brand" phenomenon, but even they hardly demand the same loyalty as newspapers or magazines, where readers are expected to pay up or turn up every day, week or month. In principle, then, the sentiment necessary for a direct consumer relationship is there, and as the Times paywall experiment shows, it is possible to convert some of those readers into paying customers via a website rather than an iPad. That said, it would be a brave media organisation (Radiohead apart) that would be willing to cut out Apple. The point, rather, is that Apple is throwing its weight around – and regardless of how much some of us like the iPad or whatever devices the company creates, we should not have to accept everything that comes with it.No longer the Apple of every publisher's eye, page 6
Guardian Hacks SXSW started with an itch. I wanted to explore some more experimental coverage, and was frustrated by the grind of relentless tech blogging and the feeling of being disconnected from the creative development community. Couldn't we collaborate on something? How about building a team of journalists and developers to cover theSouth by Southwest festival?Two months later, Google agreed to sponsor what became Guardian Hacks SXSW. Last weekend, 100 developers, designers and journalists – including several from continental Europe – spent the weekend at the Guardian creating a collaborative, experimental toolbox of tricks for next month's SXSW music, film and interactive festival in Texas.From the hardened war reporter who'd never been to a hack weekend, to the seasoned developer with a string of successful hacks under his belt, no one was quite sure what was going to be built over the next 36 hours. The combination of games designers, music data specialists, journalists and data wizards certainly made for a rich mix of ideas. But what characterised the group was a curiosity and an openness, which shows in Articlr, the winner of best hack, made up of a team who didn't know each other before Saturday morning.Articlr represented a big theme of the weekend: productivity. A simple, full-featured composition tool for writing news on location, it drew coos of approval from the journalists in the audience, though these Zemanta-like applications have been at our disposal for many years. Another, built by developer Iain Collins and two of Le Monde's technology team, improved on Cover it Live, the live blogging software, while Fluffbox helped news editors compile tagged footage from social networks within one editing tool. All these were the product of probing conversations with frustrated journalists.Many of the hacks of the weekend could be seen as complementary to editorial, from contextual music players to playlists for SXSW that day. The Guardian's own developers worked on a group of hacks that populate SXSW artist pages with videos, biographies, tunes and links, which rolled out live on&nbsp;guardian.co.uk three days later.We can claim this project as a success, not least because as a result of all this collaboration and hard work it looks as if several hacks will be developed into standalone commercial products. A bidding war has already unfolded over one of them. That's the ideal result: commercial success for the developers, and a wake-up call to the news publishers.Why should this kind of imagination and insight be at the fringes of what we do? Why do journalists have to struggle with outdated and inefficient tools, when just a peek at the outside world reveals how simple the alternative is? Charged with curating the world's information, with mastery of storytelling and with the responsibility of speaking truth to power, journalists have no less of an obligation to explore and exploit the very best ways to develop their craft. But institutionalised journalism has built a wall around itself, a wall that conceals and disconnects, one that rewards introspection and laborious conventions. For one weekend we breached that wall, but our bigger challenge is to knock it down.Here isthe full list of the winners.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPaul Miller And The Five Rules Of Stunt Resignation &gt;&gt;TechCrunchHow to go out in a burning blaze of ignomy, by Paul Carr: "So who can blame Miller for wanting to quit Aol while it was behind? Well, actually I can. Not for his motives – it's always heartening to see someone taking a stand – but for his methods. In fact, Millers's resignation broke every one of the Five Rules Of Stunt Resignation."Goodbye, Engadget &gt;&gt; Ross MillerStrike two: "As for the reasons why, I won't get too far into it. The AOL Way isn't the sole reason, but it's certainly a catalyst, a symptom of concerns I've had for a while. I worry about the long-term viability of what I foresee is the future business model."Some Thoughts On Public and Private Markets &gt;&gt; Fred Wilson: A VC"I think the SEC needs to rethink the capital market regulations and structure we have in our country. The secondary private market is a good thing and does allow great companies to stay private longer while providing liquidity for founders, angels, and early VCs. But there are issues with the secondary markets as they exist today. There are no disclosure requirements. There is little or no way for individual investors to participate. The 500 shareholder rule is creating all kinds of problems for companies. And we don't have a public market system that allows companies to be public at lower valuations with less capital raised. Alan believes we need a "new nasdaq" where companies can list for $250mm or less and have liquid markets in their stocks that individuals can participate in."Poll results: looking forward â€" WP7 evolution &gt;&gt; Nokia Conversations blogNokia's official blog (the one that's not called Engadget) seems to suggest that what most interests developers and others about Windows Phone 7 isn't its unique UI, or Xbox games, or rapid update schedule, or Windows desktop integration, or IE9, or integrated Outlook... nope, it's that well-known feature, "Other".  Mm-kay.Why Wi-Fi sucked at the Mobile World Congress &gt;&gt; MuniWireless"Actually having everyone on the network is NOT the problem. The problem lies with who's in charge of the Wi-Fi network and in this case, the culprit is the event organizer itself. When Cisco asked the event organizer if they could install more access points to handle the huge traffic, the organizer limited the availability of the free network to 10 percent of locations at the conference (because the organizer wanted people to pay for WiFi access). That was a huge mistake. So large numbers of people began congregating around the areas where there was free WiFi. According to the CNN story, 'the press room access point, designed to supply connections to 200 clients, had 700 people accessing the network.'"  Yup, it sure was impossible to get Wi-Fi unless you were plugged in. In which case it was Ethernet.How Apple will crush its competition with iTunes Online &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott sets out his expectations for an iTunes music subscription - which he thinks could come as soon as this summer.The price of Windows Phone: Nokiaâ€™s evaporating smartphone share &gt;&gt; asymcoLook at the must-have contents for a Windows Phone: "These donâ€™t add up to a product that can be sold profitably at $200. The bill of materials is likely to be in that range (and one has to add $15 for Microsoft). "So there are two possible implications for Nokia's new smartphone strategy. "1 - Windows Phone will be ported to lower spec/cost hardware to allow the traditional Nokian market growth model to continue and perhaps combat Android proliferation 2 - Nokia's smartphone portfolio will consist of high-priced products, and exclude mid-to-low price products."Obama friends Zuckerberg &gt;&gt; FlickrFrom the high-powered tech dinner in Silicon Valley. Mark Zuckerberg in a suit?From the White House: tech dinner in Silicon Valley &gt;&gt; FlickrSee if you can name the very famous people around the tablet with President Obama. Questions to ponder: does the seating plan mean anything? Did they move after each course?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Sir Bernard Crossland, who has died aged 87, was one of the UK's most eminent engineers. He was appointed to the chair of mechanical engineering at Queen's University Belfast in 1959 by Sir Eric Ashby (later Lord Ashby), a reforming vice-chancellor who, like Crossland, was a passionate believer in the importance of technological education for society. Both shared the view that engineers were often more widely informed than students of the humanities. Crossland once told the professor of history that he possessed – and had read and enjoyed – two of his books, and followed up by asking his colleague whether he owned any books on engineering; the answer did not surprise him.His highest-profile work came after he left a thoroughly transformed department in 1984. He was one of the four expert technical assessors for the investigation into the fire at King's Cross underground station in 1987, which had caused the deaths of 31 people. The resultingFennell Reportrecommended a thorough overhaul of fire detection and&nbsp;prevention measures, and an extension of the ban on smoking in sub-surface areas to all parts of the underground system.Crossland chaired the inquiry into the roof collapse at Bilsthorpe Colliery, Nottinghamshire, in 1994, and served on the inquiries into the collapse of the passenger walkway at Ramsgate Harbour, Kent, in 1994, and the rail accident at Ladbroke Grove, west London, in 1999. Abroad, he was an expert witness from 1984 to 1987 on the investigation into the causes of the explosion at a liquid gas plant in Qatar.Crossland was born in London, the third child, and second son, of Reginald and Katherine Crossland. His father, grandfather and great-grandfather were all engineers. Reginald opened a garage and engineering business in 1926 in Whitstable, Kent, and the young Bernard was educated at the Simon Langton grammar school, Canterbury. At the age of 16, he determined to become an engineer, notwithstanding the opposition of his headmaster.He obtained an apprenticeship at Rolls-Royce in Derby, with day-release studies at the regional technical college. It was wartime and the company was developing its Merlin engines, which powered the Hurricanes and Spitfires of the Battle of Britain. In 1941, Crossland was awarded a bursary to complete the external London BSc (Eng) at Nottingham University College (later Nottingham University). He graduated in 1943 and returned to Rolls-Royce to work on problems of engine vibration.In 1945, Crossland took up a lectureship at Luton technical college and a year later was appointed to an assistant lectureship in mechanical engineering at Bristol University. His life as an academic engineer, with a strong practical bent, had begun. Many of his students were ex-servicemen who demanded good teaching. With his towering height and "gargantuan" voice (his description), he was an imposing force in the lecture theatre and – as his non-engineering colleagues quickly discovered – in the committee room.He possessed an infectious enthusiasm and his classes were enlivened by attention-grabbing experiments. One of his early students recalled that "all who met him could not fail to become interested in engineering". He developed two main areas of research: high-pressure engineering, which had important practical uses, for example, in the production of polythene, which was becoming widely used throughout industry, and the manufacture of thick-wall cylinders; and in explosive welding and forming methods, which had many applications, from the manufacture of stainless steel dental and cranial plates, to the repair of faulty tubes in heat exchangers, particularly those in nuclear&nbsp;reactors.When Crossland went to Bristol, engineering teaching was shared between the technical college and the university. He was involved in the integration of the two institutions and with the design of a new building and laboratories. This experience was invaluable when he arrived in 1959 in Belfast, where mechanical engineering was taught in the college of technology a mile or so from the university. The workshops contained machinery that deserved to be in a museum.A new building on the university campus was already at the planning stage, but for some years Crossland carried out research in a laboratory set up in the front room of the house he and his family rented from the university. From such humble domestic beginnings emerged a department with a world-wide reputation.As head of department (1959-82), dean (1964-67), and pro-vice-chancellor (1978-82), Crossland carried a heavy burden of administration, made no easier by the outbreak of civil unrest in the mid-1960s and later by reductions in per capita university funding. In 1982 he resigned the headship of the department and took up a research chair. Two years later he retired.Retirement for Crossland meant a quarter of a century of engineering research, industrial consultancies and dedicated public service. He was a member of numerous committees and councils supporting economic development and education in Northern&nbsp;Ireland.Crossland had become a member of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers in 1942. Forty-four years later, he was elected president. He had a pivotal role in the establishment of the Irish Academy of Engineering, and his awards&nbsp;included the James Watt international gold medal (of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers) and the Kelvin gold medal (of the Institution of Civil Engineers). He was elected a fellow of the Royal Society in&nbsp;1979 and knighted in 1990. In February 2010, he received the Royal Academy of Engineering Sustained Achievement award.Crossland is survived by his wife, Audrey, whom he married in 1946, two daughters and a granddaughter.• Bernard Crossland, engineer and public servant, born 20 October 1923; died 17 January 2011
"News-jacking" – piggy-backing on a trend or breaking news item to promote a message – is now seen as a crucial way to gain publicity. This weekend it also becomes a sport.More than 100 teams drawn from communications companies, artists and advertising consultancies – including Google, M&amp;C Saatchi and aNew Yorkercartoonist – are to go head to head in a worldwide race to see who can spread their message furthest.TheUrgent Genius Weekendercompetition has been launched by iris worldwide, a creative consultancy. Its social media expert, Jon Burkhart, said that competition entries could include pictures, photographs, graphics, games or films, but must be "seeded" on the internet by 7pm tomorrow."We want to create crack units of real-time content-makers who supplement ad campaigns with ideas that help brands find their own voice in hot-topic conversations," said Burkhart.Preparation for the race began on Friday when seven rival British teams met for a briefing on a secret "topic of global interest" at 6pm. Teams taking part in other countries were also briefed remotely and then, at 7pm, all the competitors – drawn from companies such as&nbsp;Google, Firecracker Films (producer ofMy Big Fat Gypsy Wedding) and advertising agencies BBH and DDB – were challenged to come up with the winning content.In order to go on to win the race, entrants now have to generate more internet traffic than anyone else. The amount of interest online will be measured by the judges in terms of the number of "likes, shares and views" each entrant can attract in the seven days following the competition's launch.The work that is judged to be the best will be showcased later in the year and then displayed in a book celebrating the competition. The results of the Urgent Genius contest will be adjusted using a formula developed to take into account each competitor's established networks, in an attempt to allow individual "lone&nbsp;rangers" to compete on a level playing field.The importance of "news-jacking" is growing in the advertising industry in an age when the end of conventional advertising on television and in newspapers is widely predicted. The shift to online news products and the move away from scheduled television viewing both make it much harder for advertisers to reach the right audience. Yet media experts have also been forced to admit that, as technology changes fast, new ways of reaching potential customers or clients are easy to miss.Simple "product placement", or even "going viral", are no longer enough. Advertisers need to understand the way to boost interest in a corporate message or in a political campaign by attaching it to something that already has a topical following."News-jacking" can be called many things, from "issue-jumping" to "trend-tagging", but it always involves publicists responding at speed to a window of opportunity. Recent examples of images or ideas that have circled the globe on the back of a new trend or hot topic of discussion include last summer's craze for downloading the voice of an ex-American footballer from an Old Spice advertisement. When the original aftershave commercial began to make an impact on Twitter, the company quickly put out custom-made videos for social media users. At least120 videoswere posted on YouTube over 24 hours, while the star, Isaiah Mustafa, busily replied to hundreds of tweets, including many to famous Twitter users, such as the showbiz blogger Perez Hilton.Old Spice suddenly became YouTube's most popular sponsored channel to date,  accruing 40 million views. A live "voicemail generator service" followed a day or two later, allowing users to tailor their own messages. When the public logged on to the right site, Mustafa, or "the Old Spice guy", would customise a message for their voicemail.Another successful commercial campaign followed Kraft Foods' decision  to hire a homeless American man called Ted Williams as the voice of their products,  after Williams had given an eccentric online interview to a local news site in Ohio that quickly went viral.
In January 2008, someone uploaded to WikiLeaks a cache of documents, including hundreds of pages of internal correspondence of a major Swiss bank, Julius Baer. On closer inspection, the cache appeared to show that large amounts of money – sums ranging from $5m to $100m per person – were being, er, shielded in the Cayman Islands from tax authorities in various jurisdictions.It was all, of course, perfectly legal: wealthy people put capital into trusts based in the Cayman Islands. This allows them lawfully to avoid paying tax on profits from investments, because legally those profits belong to the trust which, as a Cayman "resident", itselfpays no tax. But the trustees can distribute money to the trust's beneficiaries, who may be residents of the UK and indeed, for all I know, pillars of society or even members of the Tory party.Legal it may be, but mostly these folks don't like knowledge of their ingenious wheezes to enter the public domain. It's sovulgar, don't you know. And the banks that handle their money like it even less. So Julius Baer went apeshit about the leaks. Its lawyers persuaded a judge in California to shut down wikileaks.org and that, it thought, was that.You can guess what happened. In no time at all, mirrors of the WikiLeaks site popped up everywhere. The First Amendment crowd in the US started taking an interest. Suddenly, the whole world knew about Julius Baer's wealth-management services. The California judge had second thoughts, wikileaks.org was restored and CBS News reported the decision under the headline "Free speech has a number: 88.80.13.160" – the IP address of the WikiLeaks site. And a major Swiss bank retired to lick its wounds.What's instructive about the Julius Baer case is how clueless the bank and its agents were about the net. They looked like blind men poking a tiger with a stick. It was amusing at the time, but it was too good to last. It was inevitable that the corporate world would wise up and in the past few weeks we've begun to see some of the results of that re-education process. And it ain't pretty.What's driving things now is the conjecture that the next big WikiLeaks exposé concerns Bank of America. And deep in the lush undergrowth of corporate America, security, consulting and PR companies have perceived lucrative business opportunities in helping putative WikiLeaks targets get their retaliation in first.We got a glimpse of this twilight world when the activist group Anonymous hacked into the servers of an internet security firm, HBGary Federal, and posted on the internet a huge cache of internal emails. Some of these messages discuss how the firm, in conjunction with two other companies, Palantir Technologies and Berico Technologies, mightpitch for workfrom the law firm that represents Bank of America and other prominent outfits.Among the ideas discussed is a focus on WikiLeaks supporters in the media such as Glenn Greenwald of salon.com. "I think we need to highlight people like Glenn Greenwald," writes Aaron Barr of HBGary in an email dated 3 December 2010 andreproduced on salon.com. "Glenn was critical in the Amazon to OVH transition [in which WikiLeaks moved to another hosting service after being dropped by Amazon] and helped WikiLeaks provide information during the transition. It is this level of support we need to attack. These are established professionals that have a liberal bent, but ultimately most of them if pushed will choose professional preservation over cause, such is the mentality of most business professionals. Without the support of people like Glenn, WikiLeaks would&nbsp;fold."One of the most interestingdocuments unearthedby the Anonymous attack is a PowerPoint presentation outlining the proposed pitch and the competencies of the three companies involved. Among the "Potential Proactive Tactics" is "Cyber attacks against the infrastructure to get data on document transmitters… Since the servers are now in Sweden and France putting a team together to get access is more straightforward."Since the story broke, Palantir has apologised to Mr Greenwald and severed its contacts with HBGary. Shortly afterwardsBerico did the same. HBGary issued a terse, non-committalstatementwhen withdrawing from a trade show. The company did not respond to phone and email queries about the authenticity of Mr Barr's message of 3 December.I could go on, but you will get the point. Bank of America and its lawyers are, of course, horrified by all of this and point out that they have had nothing whatever to do with it. Which is just as well, because they may soon have their hands full dealing with other matters.
ForPeter Beaumont, this newspaper's foreign affairs editor, the revolution in Egypt revealed more than the power of the people in triumphing over repressive regimes; on a personal level, he discovered something new about his working practices.Beaumont trained as a journalist in the days before the world wide web, but, like most of his profession, he has integrated new technologies into his news-gathering techniques as they've emerged. Covering the events in Cairo during the internet blackout in Egypt was like taking a step back in time."We went back to what we used to do: write up the story on the computer, go to the business centre, print it out and dictate it over the phone," he says. "We didn't have to worry about what was on the internet; we just had to worry about what we were seeing. It was absolutely liberating."The web's effect on news reporting is considered the most clear evidence that this is a revolutionary technology: news editors – and in some cases, the governments that they observe – are no longer the gatekeepers to information because costs of distribution have almost completely disappeared. If knowledge is power, the web is the greatest tool in the history of the world.The process that happens before a story is published has also been transformed. The web has become the go-to point for the globe when it comes to getting information; it's the same for reporters. Online, they find a multiplicity of perspectives and a library of available knowledge that provides the context for stories. Increasingly, the stories are coming from the web.Emily Bell, director of the Tow Centre for Digital Journalism at Columbia University and former editor of Guardian.co.uk, identifies coverage of the attacks on the World Trade Centre on 11 September 2001 as the incident that foreshadowed how events are covered today. "Linear TV just could not deliver," she says. "People used the web to connect to the experience by watching it in real time on TV and then posting on message boards and forums. They posted bits of information they knew themselves and aggregated it with links from elsewhere. For most, the delivery was crude, but the reporting, linking and sharing nature of news coverage emerged at that moment."For reporters in Egypt, however, their greatest frustration was not that they were disconnected from the context provided by the network, but that they struggled to get their stories out. In fact, Beaumont found the silence a relief. "The way [Egypt] was reported didn't have all the ifs and buts coming from looking over your shoulder to try to figure out what the world is doing at the moment or who's saying what. You just had the news and the news was happening right in front of you."More generally, technology has improved the processes of identifying stories that are newsworthy. Feeds from social networking services such as Facebook and Twitter provide a snapshot of events happening around the world from the viewpoint of first-hand witnesses, and blogs and citizen news sources offer analytical perspectives from the ground faster than print or television can provide. Paul Mason, economics editor on BBC2'sNewsnight, uses these tools to get an angle on what's happening and what's important. "If you are following 10 key economists on Twitter and some very intelligent blogs," he says, "you can quickly get to where you need to be: the stomach-churning question, 'OK, what do I do to move this story on?'"None the less, such tools are still only one element of the news-gathering process. This may mean that large organisations appear to break stories days after they've appeared on Twitter. "First-hand witnesses cannot see the big picture," says Yves Eudes, a reporter with French broadsheetLe Monde. "They're not trained to understand whether what they're seeing is relevant to the big picture or to see what really happens. They're trained to see what they want to see. If you only rely on Twitter or Facebook, you might end up howling with the wolves."Indeed, in 2009, American TV networks found themselves in a very public mess when they reported the"Twitter line"on the story of a killing spree by Major Nidal Malik Hasan at Fort Hood US army base – that the killer had terrorist links. The details turned out to be false.Eudes's caution does not mean he discounts the value of the tools the web offers its army of citizen journalists;Le Mondewas one of the organisations, along with theGuardian, that worked with Julian Assange to publish the WikiLeaks cables last year. "Suddenly, we have all these new competitors that, if they're bold and well-organised, can change the course of news worldwide in a way that was completely unthinkable before the internet," he says. And loose organisations such as Global Voices, a network of international citizen journalists reporting on a global platform about local stories, offer windows on events around the world that are increasingly ignored by local papers.Ultimately, however, Eudes believes the fundamentals of news-gathering have not been transformed by the web. "I need to know how to write or take a photo and I need to be good at analysis," he says. "Learning how to use tools is different from saying everyone is a reporter. Anyone can make bread, but it's lousy bread. You need to spend time like a true, professional baker to learn to make good bread."Part of that learning process for newshounds, it seems, involves leaving the web and pounding the pavement for stories. For Beaumont, working from Tahrir Square without web access was a reminder of a purer form of journalism. "You forget that the internet, for all its advantages, is a distraction: you're always wondering whether what you're reading by others matches what you're witnessing yourself. If you don't have to worry about that, you can concentrate on pure observational reporting. Which," he says, "is a pleasure."A pleasure that can only come from going offline.
Like its predecessors, the third game in the Marvel vs Capcom beat-'em-up series brings together the cast of the famous comics universe and a wealth of characters from the titular video game company's extensive back catalogue. The result is an extravagant fusion of geek culture, where the likes of Spider-Man and Thor can lock horns with classicStreet Fighterwarriors and the stars of titles such asResident Evil.The gameplay itself offers close combat tag-fighting cut from the classic arcade mould, and delivers an ambitious variety of melee styles, including fantasy martial arts and weapon-based face-offs. It's unrelenting from the opening seconds of your first bout. Flurries of punches and kicks quickly evolve to become elaborate special moves that fill the screen with colour. It is, then, a very pretty game, but its extravagance can be bewildering at times. For that reason a simplified version is provided for beginners.Those prepared to invest a few hours overcoming the rather intimidating complexity of the core game will enjoy it most, however, as a wonderfully refined combat system is hidden behind all the excess that guarantees countless hours of frantic excitement; all of which is further bolstered by a robust online mode.
The rising cost of making games discourages publishers from investing in riskier, more creative concepts, with familiar formulas and recognisable brands almost guaranteeing an easy profit. Thankfully, inventive ideas are increasingly finding a home on the downloadable services, andStackingis another title that eschews conventional thinking; certainly, it's hard to think of another game where a tiny Russian doll attempts to rescue his family of chimney sweeps from an immoral industrialist.Double Fine's latest imagines a Depression-era world populated by matryoshkas. As the smallest, Charlie Blackmore can climb inside others and use their unique abilities to solve puzzles – luring a guard away from duty with an attractive female doll, for example. Each problem has multiple solutions, and while finding one to move forward is simple, uncovering them all requires some creative thought.The silent-movie story interludes are utterly charming, and there's real joy to be found in simply interacting with these characters. Additional rewards for slapstick "high jinks" and a genuine compulsion to collect every unique doll add layers that, rather appropriately, make a small game that much larger. An essential download.
There's no fundamental shame in being derivative. Heaven knows the film and music industries have lately been seeking to make a positive virtue of their lack of meaningful innovation, offering instead umpteen variations on well-worn themes as a kind of salve against the uncertainty and unpredictability of life in general. It's slightly different in the games industry. There's no shortage of lazy thinking or recycled ideas in gaming, of course, but the audience at large is less indulgent of it. Gamers tend to expect at least a gesture towards a unique selling point in their otherwise imitative experience – so what they'll make ofKillzone 3is anyone's guess.KZ3is a first-person shooter, a genre that established its criteria early on and has evolved at a glacial pace ever since. So already we're in over-subscribed territory where original thought is at a premium. And whileKillzone 2had a little furrow of its own – one single, gigantic and linear military campaign with little scope for the usual FPS heads-down-and-charge heroics –KZ3lifts liberally from its rivals. If you've a passing interest inFear,Socom,Deus Exet al, nothing here will startle you.On the plus side, it looks good (if rather repetitive within levels), particularly in 3D, and it's got some tremendously OTT voice-acting in the between-levels plot expanders from Malcolm McDowell and Ray Winstone (competing to see who can get their eyes bulging furthest from their heads by the sound of things). And there are jet-packs, which is never a bad thing. Plus there's a stack of smaller co-op and online features, which is where titles likeKZ3get a lot of their longevity.The demerit column, though, is by no means empty. Reloading your weapon of choice takes an eternity, the pace of the gameplay is at odds with the responsiveness of the controls and there's an unbelievably ill-judged "stealth" section halfway through. Plus, it's all very well for your comrades to be able to revive you in extremis, but can't they take you just slightly out of the line of fire before they do so? Being healed in order to be immediately re-blown to bits is frustrating in the extreme.Killzone 3brims with testosterone, like a fight outside a nightclub, as noisy as thrashing a big stick around inside a metal bucket and as bereft of originality as anX Factorcontestant,KZ3could nonetheless easily fill that FPS-shaped hole in your existence until the next identikit replacement comes along.
As the app market develops, it's able to support applications for a variety of markets at a variety of prices. Many may balk at the idea of spending more than a couple of quid on mobile software, yet many successful apps aimed at niche markets are able to charge far more.TheF1 2011 Timing App CP(£19.99, Soft Pauer, iPhone) is one such example. The price tag is pretty steep, but it provides a service that will have petrolheads everywhere drooling. It offers live, up-to-date timing and track positions for the forthcoming Formula One season, with an impressive moving 3D map displaying the position of every car on the track. There's also live commentary, to immerse yourself a bit more in the action, should you be stuck away from the TV.However, with the release of theBBC iPlayer app(free, iPad and Android) the chances of being without TV are becoming less and less. Previously available on the internet browser, a dedicated app offers improved navigation and the promise in the future of downloadable content to view. An iPhone version is expected soon.Finally,Grim Joggers(59p, 10tons, iPhone) hits the sweet spot for app gaming and pricing. Less than a pound,GJoffers hours of frustrating fun as you guide a gang of eager joggers across a series of hazardous worlds, tapping to avoid Venus fly traps, spike pits and polar bears and leave as many of the gang alive for as long as possible. Simple it may be, but it's certainly value for money.
The macho world of go-karting – stalwart of a million stag nights and much podium-topping laddishness – is changing gear and reinventing itself as a carbon-neutral, eco-friendly pastime for environmentally enlightened speedsters.TeamSport, the country's biggest indoor-karting operator, has just opened Britain's first green go-kart venue. The double-storey 750m  track has been created in an old industrial unit in Bermondsey,  just a 10-minute walk south of Tower Bridge in London, and the karts themselves are completely silent and fully electric. Ultra-light, they offer astonishingly abrupt acceleration. Each one costs £6,000 and can reach speeds of up to 40mph on the straight. In fact the karts, specially developed by Enfield-based Biz Karts, are so powerful they outperform their traditional petrol-engined cousins.America is well ahead of the game when it comes to eco karting and many of its indoor venues already run electric cars. But this is the first one in Britain. However, TeamSport's ambition has been to create an entirely carbon-neutral arena,  from the karts to the building. As director Dominic Gaynor explains: "The energy the karts use is relatively small; the real issue is the power needed to run the heavy-duty extraction units that recycle the air when using petrol karts. Here there are no emissions. So the power savings are enormous." And even these reduced-energy needs are  being offset with projects in China.Arriving at the venue on the opening night at the end of January, the first thing that struck me was how clean and polished everything is. It's clearly aiming for the corporate market. The changing rooms are all matt-black walls, red details and uplighters, and wouldn't look out of place in a high-end Japanese restaurant. As it's the first night, the publicity team has invited the Stig along to show us amateurs how to do it. It's not the new Stig though – rumoured by some, gasp, to be a woman – or the one who outed himself recently as being an actual man and not an alien after all. No, it's the original Stig. The one who wore all black and drove off the Ark Royal in an old Jag at 109mph, never to be seen again.Yet here he is. And he hasn't lost his edge. He posts a lap time that's five seconds faster than anyone else's. But His Stigness has a bit of local competition. TeamSport have their own man. They can't call him Stig (for legal reasons), so they've called him, erm… Bruce. This being an eco-conscience venture, Bruce is all in green, which makes him look like a&nbsp;human-sized praying mantis.Like Stig I, Bruce is pretty handy on the track, but when I ask him what he thought of the eco karts in the bar later – which is tricky as he won't/can't take off his full-face green helmet – he just nods slowly. In his visor I&nbsp;see my own sweaty face reflected and for a crazy moment I&nbsp;wonder if he is, in fact, a robot from another planet. Then I notice he's wearing old tennis trainers, and one is untied, so on balance he's probably not. Later I&nbsp;learn his real name is actually Matt…We pull on our helmets for the final race. There's a&nbsp;frenzy of squealing tyres, the racing is fast, furious and clean, but soon enough the yellow hazard flag is flying as someone spins. Then it's bumper-to-bumper stuff for another six laps. I manage to cling on to a flukey second place. And the fact my average speed is only 13.7mph doesn't tarnish the silverwear at all.Sessions from £42.95pp. To book call 08444  109 109, or go toteam-sport.co.uk/towerbridgeCars reunitedWhen Laurie Cross's dad decided he wanted to track down all the past cars he'd owned in his life, Laurie saw an opportunity to let the internet do the work. Along with his brother, the three of them have now set createdclassiccarlink.com. It's a sort of Friends Reunited for much-loved vehicles. If they can bring enough people together, then they'll be able to build a site through which past and present owners can share stories and photographs. The site has only been running for a month or two and currently has just over 300 members, but already they've managed to reunite one fellow with his old cars after 45 years. Sign up and see whatever happened to that Austin Healey you wished you'd never sold.Peer pressureThere's only one way to find an honest opinion about a particular model and that's to speak to someone who already owns one.Autotrader.co.ukhas just launched an Owner Review section and in the first two months has already attracted a jaw-dropping 9,000 reviews. From a consumer perspective, these owner reviews allow people to get the low-down on cars from people who've owned them for a longer period of time – so you'll get the truth whether it's good, bad or ugly. But what are the car's most people want to talk about? Here's the site's current top 10:1. Ford Focus hatchback (2004–2011)2. Ford Focus hatchback (1998–2004)3. Volkswagen Golf hatchback (2004–2008)5. Volkswagen Golf hatchback (1997–2004)6. Ford Mondeo hatchback (2000–2007)7. BMW 3 Series saloon (1998–2005)8. Ford Fiesta hatchback (2002–2008)9. Vauxhall Corsa hatchback (2000–2006)10. Vauxhall Vectra hatchback (2002–2008)Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place• The following correction was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday 27 February 2011. We said Team Sport's electric go-karts were the first in the UK, but other operators, including Teamworks, have been running electric go-karts for some years.
The presence atGamesblog Liveof Crytek's Nathan Camarillo, executive producer of Crysis 2, provided a unique chance to explore the implications of one of the games industry's least savoury recent stories: the leaking and subsequent downloading and filesharing of an unfinished build of the PC version of Crysis 2.Digital piracy may be a fact of life these days, but it still hits those on the receiving end of it hard, as Camarillo recounts: "We were really high off the feeling that wow, we've got this really awesome game that came together, that we want to play and which will be a lot of fun. Then, getting that kind of news swings your emotions in completely the opposite direction. Our offices are generally really energetic, upbeat and excited but suddenly, everyone was deflated and walking around with their shoulders hunched. We're normally very communicative at the office, but people just weren't talking to each other like they normally do – it hit really, really hard. We went through all the phases that you do when you experience a loss – denial, anger and depression. That's the one that sat in the longest."Ironically, it was the flipside of the download-culture that ameliorated Crytek's collective moping – namely, the support of the online community that flourished around the company's games. Camarillo explains: "What really got us out of that was our fans and the community, and even people who haven't been the biggest fans of Crytek, all jumping to our side. They were saying, 'Don't download it, don't post anything from it, don't participate in file-sharing of this – it's not the final version, so it's not what they want you to see. Don't spoil  it for me – I want to see the final version. I'm glad, at least, that it runs on your PC – it runs on my PC as well, but you still shouldn't have downloaded it.' Everybody was very supportive, and the community exercised self-policing in that regard, so it didn't quite erupt like when, for example, a final version is leaked."Crysis 2 ... the legal version is coming to your PC on 25 MarchCamarillo provides an unimpeachable reason for resisting the temptation to download the leaked code: "For us, the bad part about it is that this isn't the game that we wanted you to see. With a team of 250 people working on the game, 1,000 bugs get fixed in a heartbeat. A lot of time has gone by since that build went out – even though the leak was recent, that build was over a month old, so a lot of things have got better in the game, and a lot of things have been fixed. If people are excited about that early version, that's great. But we only want people to see the final version, which is why we've been working so hard and putting in so many extra hours for months."He also pointed out that anyone who wants to experience Crysis 2 can download the demo: "That's been a really big success for us – we had well over a million and a half people download the demo and play it online, which is a huge positive response. We collect telemetry showing the way people play, how long they play and how many matches they play, and people really stuck with it and played it a lot. That's a good sign for what the size of the community will be when the final game releases."If you want to show solidarity with Crytek – and the company deserves it, as spending two years sweating blood over a game, only to see it pirated before it is finished, must be a sickener – you can. Camarillo explains how: "Our community has been really super-supportive and responsive to the situation, and the best thing I can ask for is that if you're going to buy the PC game, show us that you're out there and pre-order it. Even if you're not going to buy the PC version, you can still go and pre-order it to show us your support. Because we can kind of see how many people have downloaded it, and the community made a lot of postings in support of us, but we can't read all of them since there are so many. However, we see the pre-order numbers every week."
The world of video games has staged a takeover of the Guardian's Kings Place building, with the inauguralGamesblog Live eventkicking off this weekend. A sell-out crowd (at least for the morning sessions – if you're quick, there are some tickets still available for the afternoon repeats of the talks) assembled in anticipation of angled talks by three of Electronic Arts' top developers.Namely, Mike Laidlaw of the legendary RPG specialist Bioware, Nathan Camarillo of Crytek and Slightly Mad Studios' Andy Tudor. Laidlaw, executive producer of  Dragon Age II, opted to concentrate on "the importance of narrative and storytelling in gaming", something for which Bioware, through games such as Mass Effect and Knights of the Old Republic, as well as Dragon Age, is justly renowned.Camarillo chose to expound on: "Creating stunning graphics and expanding into the multiplayer universe;" which made sense given Crytek's reputation as one of the most cutting-edge developers around in technological terms. Unsurprisingly, given his game Shift 2 Unleashed's stunningly life-like look and feel, Tudor chose as his subject: "Creating realism and simulation in games."The rare chance to gain an insight into the techniques and thought processes of key men working on three of the next few months' most hotly anticipated games is by no means all that Gamesblog Live attendees have to look forward to: all three games have been set up in the building ready for hands-on action. We'll undoubtedly bring you some impressions from readers as the day progresses.We'll also be bringing you any nuggets of news that arise during the day, and next week, we'll be uploading video of the event, so keep your eyes on the Gamesblog for that.
The Lisa Simpson Book ClubA great collection of Simpsons book references, focusing on Bart's little sister, Lisa, who is very well read for an eight-year-old – but then she has been an eight-year-old for 24 years, so she's had plenty of time on her hands. While her brother is off causing mischief, Lisa can invariably be found consumed by her latest literature discovery, flicking through the New Yorker, or daydreaming about "grown-up nerd" Gore Vidal. As you'd expect from The Simpsons, some of the spoof books are brilliant. Of special note here are tween magazine Non Threatening Boys; How To Get Rich Writing Cartoons; The Joy Of Sax; and The Big Book Of British Smiles, waiting-room reading at the orthodontist before she received braces, which includes the full horror of Prince Charles's nashers.Class Of 808Sy-Kick.Class of 808 celebrates the golden age of acid house, including the parties, the music, the visuals, the fashion, the artwork and the drum machine that gave this blog its name. This time-trip comes courtesy of DJ Bill Brewster, who keeps smileys to a tasteful minimum. As well as highlighting classic tracks from the period – such as Sy-Kick's Up Side, which included about every hook of the acid house era within its six minutes – there are mixes, posts on forgotten wonders like Rave: the board game, and vintage flyers including the Haçienda's Chicago House Party. Among the videos is a 1988 BBC News report polling shoppers' opinions on this new "sinister and evil cult", as one lady puts it: "They ought to be ashamed of themselves."Blog roll: Comic booksTrue Grit.Comics AllianceWalking Dead figures revealed, the fake safety Spider-Man and the importance of Bane.Our Valued CustomersComic shop workers spill the beans on their rudest customers.Forbidden PlanetWonderful blog delving into UK alternative press titles, comic-book festivals, graphic novels (below) and superhero franchises.A Moment Of MooreDaily blast of Alan Moore, with scripts, cuttings, strips and tributes to mankind's most biblical beard.Hero ChanMock comic-book covers - including Wolverine's disturbing crossover Muppets special.What we learned on the web this weekThe Big LEGOwski.The BigLEGOwskiis not as moving asJoy Divisionin PlaymobilThe differencebetween English and Canadian EnglishWhat thecars of the 1960s should have looked likeWhere towatch the best new music videosRussian playgroundsare creepyWhy baconevokes carnivorous desires in vegetarians50 thingsto improve your lifeThe perilsof small keypads and old handsMario hatesthe copsFacebook andTwitter, so eashy to confushe, hicThe exactlocation of the pedestrian crossing of doom
Trino, Xbox 360If you can soldier your way through the appalling, ill-conceived mess that Xbox insists is an interface for buying downloadable content (complete with making purchases in "Microsoft points" when this country already has a perfectly functional currency), you may be able to discover Trino nestled amid the barking lunacy of much of the indie games catalogue. To the tune of floaty synth music, you have to trap enemies that drift past by clicking three points on the screen, creating a triangular net. Once captured, enemies drop a power-up that you have a few seconds to collect before moving on to your next prey, all the while avoiding any collisions. Its addictive satisfaction comes from creating combos of successful nettings as levels start arriving in awkward shapes and enemies get more wily and aggressive. Still, if you thought finding Trino was hard, try renewing your Xbox Live gold membership, which has a difficulty level up there with legendary pain threshold-tester, Demon's Souls.Trino Team, 240 Microsoft points (about £2)Battleheart, iPad, iPhone &amp; iPod TouchBattleheart.Real-time strategy games for PC tend to be resolutely poker faced; from the grimly martial Command And Conquer series to Starcraft II's battle-hardened space warriors, there's nary a smile among them. Transpose the genre to iPhone and things get much sillier, usually supplying legions of easily explodable zombies to dispose of in comedy fashion. Battleheart, while mostly zombie-free, is just as lighthearted, getting you to assemble parties of four cartoon knights, wizards, monks and barbarians to take on a series of cute assailants. Characters' special abilities expand as you win fights and gain experience, with the steady "grind" of improvement as you repeat earlier battles to gain enough power to take on more taxing later ones, proving as addictive as ever. In this case it provides a framework for a sizeable game that prompts natural experimentation with its range of armour, spells and new powers. Fights themselves are tense, tactical engagements, which, while brief, go to pieces if you take your eyes off them even for a second or two. For those who like their games with a mildly strategic leaning, Battleheart is fun and unusually extensive.Mika Mobile, £1.79Loco Launcho Feat Kick Buttowski, iPadLoco Launcho Feat Kick Buttowski.Advergames are digital toys made to promote an advertiser's product or service. Unlike that age-old toe-curler, "edutainment", a word that carries with it the suggestion of something that will neither be educational nor particularly entertaining, advergames surprise by the frequency with which they are actually rather good. It's into this category that the elaborately named Loco Launcho featuring Kick Buttowski falls. Literally, in this case, with Kick's antics (to promote the eponymous Disney cartoon) reduced to two stages: a launch ramp where you tap the screen every time the turbo dial points to green, followed by a longer section in which you do your best to stay airborne and perform stunts. Extending your flight relies on finding suspended aerial ramps, flying through rings to perform tricks and avoiding obstacles that sooner or later destroy Kick's rocket sledge, leaving him floundering earthwards. It's very amusing and the hour or so it lasts is one you will never begrudge it.Disney Interactive, free
Do I know how to start it, asks the man from Volvo. Hey, come on, I'm an experienced motoring journalist – of course I know how to bloody start it. Leave me alone. So he does. And within half an hour or so, I'm on the move. You have to insert the key fob thing into the key fob dock thing, put your foot on the brake, then hit the start button. Remember when cars had ignition keys? Wasn't that so boring? And straightforward. Anyway, thank God I'm not a getaway driver. I wouldn't have got away.Some of this car's toys are more useful, such as the safety ones. So you're driving up the M1, distracted by something (the kids or the dogs fighting in the back, say), you start to drift into the neighbouring lane... beep beep, beep beep, says the car. That'll be the Lane Departure Warning kicking in. Or you actually want to change lanes, but you're too old and stiff to look over your shoulder. You can't see anything in the wing mirror, it's probably clear... except suddenly there is a yellow light in the mirror, the Blind Spot Information System telling you another car is there. More lights appear on the windscreen if you get too close to the car in front. There's also a City Safety System, which makes the car automatically brake if the vehicle in front slows down or stops: this car is constantly sending out radar and sonar and what have you to keep me out of trouble – it's like driving a bat.There's even something called Pedestrian Detection that looks out for person-shaped things on the road in front, warns you, then brakes if you decide not to do anything. I&nbsp;want to test it out, with my girlfriend as the person-shaped thing, but she won't, unsportingly – says she's worried that after all the Christmas bingeing, she won't be recognised as person-shaped. How embarrassing would that be?Volvo has always led the way in safety, but all this takes it to a new level. Of course, the car is not impossible to crash (there's a danger that all the kit will lull you into a&nbsp;false sense of security), but it does make it as hard as it possibly can.What else? Well, I've never liked Volvos, or the people who drive them – smug, Islington types with too many children and dogs. The massive one, the XC90, is possibly the least excusable car currently on the road. But theV60is far less offensive. The one I'm trying has the smaller of the two diesel engine options, but is still surprisingly nice to drive, muscly and firm round the bends. It would be easy to forget it's an estate – sorry, "sports wagon" – if&nbsp;it wasn't for the cacophony of woofing coming from the back. Does&nbsp;it recognise dog-shaped objects on the road in front, I wonder.Volvo V60 D3 SE Lux PremiumPrice£33,290Top speed137mphAcceleration0-60mph in 8.9 secondsAverage consumption51.4mpgCO2 emissions144g/kmEco rating6/10Bound forCruftsIn a wordSafe (old meaning)
As far as Twitter suspensions go, it was relatively quick and painless.But there are plenty of unanswered questions aboutTwitter's immediate suspensionon Friday of the popular third-party apps, UberTwitter, UberCurrent and Twidroyd.Update:UberMedia explains "privacy issue" and "changing Tweets to make money" accusations below.Twitter shut down the three UberMedia-owned apps for "violating our policies", the company said ina short statement on its official blog.This is big news in itself. UberMedia, whichrecently acquired UK-born  TweetDeck, carries more than 20% of tweets sent daily, across the globe,according to Seesmic founder Loic Le Meur. It could easily be construed as a vituperative broadside against Ubermedia, with the backdrop ofTwitter heavily promoting its own alternative mobile apps.A fuller statement emailed to the press, however, sheds just a tantalising fraction of light on the ban. Twitter said (with our emphasis):"Today we suspended several applications, including UberTwitter, twidroyd and UberCurrent, which have violated Twitter policies and trademarks in a variety of ways. These violations include, but aren't limited to,a privacy issue with private Direct Messages longer than 140 characters, trademark infringement, andchanging the content of users' Tweets in order to make money."We've had conversations with UberMedia, the developer of these applications, about policy violations since April 2010, when they first launched under the name TweetUp – a term commonly used by Twitter users and a trademark violation. We continue to be in contact with UberMedia and hope that they will bring the suspended applications into compliance with our policies soon."UberMedia has since resubmitted its apps, with the UberTwitter BlackBerry app re-emerging as UberSocial. Twitter doesn't like the marks "Tweet" or "Twitter" being used by third parties, we know that. And it could well be that today was simply a warning shot across UberMedia's bow on the eve (or aftermath) of its big TweetDeck acquisition.But how do you explain the "privacy issue" with direct messages? Or "changing the content of users' tweets in order to make money"? At the time of posting, we've not had any clarification from the Bill Gross-fronted company, despite numerous requests for comment andan exclusive fireside chat with TechCrunch.Gross said in UberMedia's statement:"We were immediately in touch with Twitter, and the changes they asked us to make were very small. As a result, we have completed the changes, and new apps are currently being posted to their respective stores. Twitter has assured us that as soon as those changes were complete, they would reactivate our applications."Twitter also asked us to modify the name of UberTwitter. We began a process of changing the name three weeks ago by polling our users, and we've decided based on their input to change the product name to UberSocial, which we completed today."Clear as mud? Thought so. We'll update with answers if and when we get them.Update:Gross has just offered a fuller comment on each of Twitter's accusations. Writing on Quora (where else?),the longtime entrepreneur explains:"1. Twitter said that in UberTwitter and Twidroyd we use a tweet-elongation service named tmi.me that allows people to write more than 140 characters, and that this service may post private messages on a public website. At their request, we have removed this ability."2. Twitter said that in UberCurrent we change links that are part of an affiliate program to be our own links. We don't currently do this, but we removed all changing of links to eliminate any possibility of this."3. Twitter said that they would like us to change the name UberTwitter, and we have changed the name to UberSocial, effective immediately."
Nokia stands to lose out substantially in the UK smartphone market this year because of itsswitch to Windows Phone– the new platform from Microsoft which may outsell Nokia's Symbian in the UK by the end of the year, according to a new forecast.Medicells, a research and insight company based in London, reckons that Symbian's share of the UK phone market, including both smartphones and simpler "feature" phones, will drop from 8% in 2010, which was behind RIM with the BlackBerry (11%) and Apple's iPhone (9%), to 5% in 2011.It is also forecasting that Symbian will be overhauled by total sales of Windows Phone on devices from manufacturers such as HTC and Samsung – and Nokia, if it can produce a phone running the new OS by the end of the year.That will create financial challenges for Nokia, which needs to keep selling its Symbian phones even while it has announced that its smartphone offering will be replaced at some point in the future by Windows Phone models. The Guardian has established that thefirst such models will not arrive until after October.Mediacells, based in Guildford, says: "A 'fire-sale effect' of Symbian devices will stimulate further growth in mobile media usage and signpost a concerted migration from native, non-smartphone OS platforms. The shift will largely be driven by price and availability, within the UK context."The fire sale may be a hard one. Nokia's new chief executive, Stephen Elop, would not give any commitments that Nokia would remain in profit this year, following three quarters of falling profits and downward guidance for the current quarter. He has said he expects to sell another 150m Symbian smartphones but they are likely to come under sustained price pressure from rivals and network operators which will know Nokia needs to sell them through."Feature phones" will fall from 55% of the UK sale to 31%, by the company's forecast, dropping from 17.5m to 10.5m while the overall market expands by just 5%. The principal growth in the UK mobile market, which has long been viewed as saturated, is in smartphones.The main beneficiaries of Symbian's fall will be RIM, Google's Android and Apple's iPhone iOS, according to the research, which sees them moving respectively from 11% to 18%, 8% to 16% and 9% to 15% of the fast-growing market. The number of smartphones sold in the UK is forecast to grow from 11.65m in 2010 to 20m, a 71% growth.The forecast also sees phones running Android outstripping Apple's iPhone, even with the expected launch of an "iPhone mini" later in the year.Microsoft's Windows Phone, which Mediacells estimates sold only 150,000 units in the UK in the two months of 2010 that it was on sale here, is forecast to build up speed and sell 2m phones, or 10% of smartphones (6% of total phones sold).However HP's new WebOS smartphones, announced earlier this month, will have little effect because HP does not have the "mature operator relationships" needed to drive sales penetration of its phones. Separately, HP has told the Guardian that it will aim to push its new TouchPad tablet to mobile networks and make selling its WebOS smartphones alongside it a condition of the contract.Mediacell forecasts that RIM, maker of the BlackBerry, will do especially well acquiring consumers from Symbian, because many consumers demand a QWERTY keyboard to update social networks and send texts. However QWERTY devices form a small part of the overall market - around 15%.UK mobile market: number of phones sold by platform (including feature phones) for 2010 and forecast for 2011. Source: Mediacells
17 years of interesting, thoughtful often exhilarating games. All gone. Today, the Liverpool-based developer Bizarre Creations closed down, after its owner Activision failed to find a buyer. Disappointing sales for the studio's under-rated racer Blur did the damage. "We are exploring our options regarding the future of the studio," said the publisher last November. Its options turned out to be limited.This is a difficult time for the industry. Publishers are streamlining, profit margins are being squeezed, the slow transition to digital distribution is proving painful and unpredictable. Often the victims are the developers. According to the industry trade body,Tiga, around 140 UK studios shut down last year. True, 100 more set up, but a massive majority of those are concentrating on smartphone and digital download games. Nothing wrong with that – it's smart business. But it won't bring Project Gotham back.Bizarre Creations' first major game, a scorching F1 sim for the original PlayStation, announced the intentions of the studio: authentic simulation matched with genuine pedal-to-the-metal thrills. While so many driving game developers floundered in the no-man's land between the sim and the arcade racer, Bizarre Creations – headed by perfectionist Martyn Chudley – just understood how to meet both criteria.The company's Dreamcast classic Metropolis Street Racer was a generation ahead of its competitors. Replicating three huge swathes of London, Tokyo and San Francisco it delivered over 250 circuits and a vast range of challenges and side-quests; its expansive, non-linear featureset heralded a new age for driving games. As a design endeavour, it was arguably as important as Gran Turismo. Also on Dreamcast was the criminally overlooked Fur Fighters, an inventive, anarchic and funny platform adventure that should be considered alongside Conker's Bad Fur Day, Jak and Daxter, and Ratchet and Clank.Then, the Project Gotham series, another sleek, sophisticated and brilliantly constructed driving franchise. Project Gotham 4, with its masses of DLC and clever introduction of theGotham TV channelwas another prescient achievement, hinting at the community-led digital features that now adorn the likes of Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit and Shift 2. And there was The Club, a brave experiment in genre-bending, bringing a driving game mechanic to the third-person shooter. And Geometry Wars, an authentic, thrilling 2D shooter, that got in early on the whole retro DLC scene and remained at its head.And Blur. Lost, perhaps in the packed 2010 release schedule, a little bit too idiosyncratic, not perfect – but another inventive, exciting title, packed with ideas and craft. As for Bloodstone... well, it was a considerable leap above most James Bond games without 'Goldeneye' in the title.I visited the studio several times, especially during the development of its Dreamcast titles. What a friendly, passionate, literate and talented team. What a waste that nothing could be done to keep them together.Goodbye Bizarre Creations.
iPad and other tablets have yet to deliver the rollicking revenues magazine publishers have been hoping for. Condé Nast is betting on a combination of customised content and Lady Gaga to build its App Store business, witha new US app released this week.Vogue's Lady Gaga iPad appThe publisher is one of those with first-hand experience of app disappointment: asMedia Guardian explained in January, its Wired US iPad magazine fell from 73,000 sales in its first nine days in May 2010 to 23,000 in November. The same month, Vanity Fair sold 8,700 iPad issues.What does the new app do differently? Called simply Vogue, it's cheaper at 59p ($0.99 in the US App Store). It's tightly focused in subject material too – a 'cover exclusive' spotlighting the US edition's latest cover star, Lady Gaga.Users get behind-the-scenes video from the cover shoot, alternative photographs and additional interview material, but nothing more: if they want the full issue, they'll have to buy the print edition.A paid-for app that functions as marketing collateral for print media – and without an argument over subscription revenues in sight? Perhaps Condé Nast has hit on a new way to make money from apps. The proof will be in the Paid Apps chart, and in sales of the Gaga print issue.
The opening line of the App Store description for Britannica Kids – Rainforests is wince-inducing: "Cool mums, hip dads, on-the-ball teachers, satisfied kids". However, the app itself is the latest example of educational publishers seeing to appify their content for a young audience.This app for iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad costs £2.99, and draws on material from the Encyclopaedia Britannica, adding mini-games and videos into the mix to hold the attention.Britannica Kids: Rainforests iPad appThe app is aimed at eight- to 12-year-olds, with a promise of curriculum-based content to get teachers onside. As its title makes clear, rainforests – and the wildlife, plants and people found within them – are the key focus.Games include memory matching and jigsaw puzzles, and there are social features too, such as the ability to email photographs from the app to friends. Quiz answers can be tweeted and shared on Facebook too.At 192MB it's a big download, but that means it's usable offline, and won't suck up users' data allowance if they're on a 3G connection. The app is part of a series, with previous Britannica Kids apps covering volcanoes, dinosaurs, the solar system and ancient Egypt.The iPod Touch will be an important device for this app, since Apple's non-cellular player is increasingly popular among pre-teens. You can imagine parents giving the app to their kids in an effort to tear them away from Angry Birds.The company behind the app is also significant. The App Store is cluttered with apps aimed at kids, and many of them are distinctly low quality. The presence of a familiar brand will be reassuring for parents parting with their cash on behalf of a child.Just this week, US company Kirkus Reviews announced plans to launch a 'discovery engine' for children's book apps in March, to help parents find the best. Filters are perhaps more needed in this area than any app genre. Kirkus' initiative is one, but familiar brands like Encyclopaedia Britannica will be another.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Without doubt my iPod. I got my iPod as a Christmas present three years ago and couldn't believe I could just carry around, in that small space, all the memories of my life. It was just amazing.When was the last time you used it, and what for?This morning in the gym. I've got a section of jogging music, which is all upbeat tunes, and a bit of rock. You just work harder if you play it.What additional features would you add if you could?I'd like a coffee percolator on it. I'd like to be able to get up in the morning, turn it on, listen to some music and have it make my coffee.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Without a doubt. There is no bit of kit which is now lasting five years, let alone 10 years. There'll be something completely different, I couldn't even guess what.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I'm a technophobe, I just don't understand it. I can't work it out, somebody has to sit down and show me – I find it terribly frustrating. I still struggle to work the telly – I often have to shout up the stairs for the kids to come down and put it on to DVD for me.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I hate it all. I enjoy it, but if you handed me a piece of kit now, I would be scared. I'd hand it back to you, and say, 'just show me how to use it'. Two things in life I hate – one is technology, the other is forms. I just have an aversion to them. I'm lucky – I've got teenage kids, and I've got a very clever girlfriend who's a lot younger than me, so between them they do everything.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Make friends with teenagers – they will show you how to get the best out of your technology. If there was a disease which wiped out all the teenagers, none of us would be able to use anything.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Definitely a luddite. I mean, phones – I just hate phones. You can't get a phone any more that just makes phone calls. And that's all I want to use it for. They do so many things – I'd have them all smashed up, and just have phones that make phone calls. I really am a proper technophobe – I get nervous at a doorbell.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My car. My Lexus has got a central panel where everything works off a touchscreen computer – the stereo, the phone, the air conditioning, the satnav. I mean, that is very impressive. And the satnav they've built into it reroutes you if there's congestion, which I find incredible.Mac or PC, and why?PC, because I can use a PC, and I use Outlook Express – I run my life with Outlook Express, which I love. A Mac, I've got no idea how it works, I wouldn't go anywhere near it – although Macs look prettier. Oh, and I play really big strategy war games on the PC.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I download music, I don't buy CDs any more, but I still buy DVDs.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Yeah, brilliant idea. I don't believe in I, Robot, that great film with Will Smith – they're not going to go and take over the world. When was the last time you got mugged by a toaster? It's a wonderful idea. What we really need, though, is a robot kitchen porter to do your cooking prep.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A slimming machine – very much like a sunbed, where I could eat as much as I wanted and as long as I lay under the slimming machine it would extract all the fat. That would be a brilliant thing, wouldn't it?•MasterChef is on BBC1
Cancel everything else you had planned, this is going to take up the rest of your afternoon. In this special edition 'Best Of' bundle package, we start with a run down of the Chatterbox activity from February 7-11, edited by Angryman13. Then there's video and photographic evidence of this year's Chatterbox Awards ceremony, which took place in the snug top room of the Blue Posts pub on Rupert Street, Soho. Our thanks to the accomodating staff.Finally, there's a report from Goody on the PES Live tournament that took place earlier on the same afternoon at the excellentJetlag Sports bar.Yes, it's a veritable hurricane of Chatterbox action, so shut the doors, lock the windows and hide under the bed covers with a torch and your laptop, and enjoy...Monday February 7The morning after two nights before. Today was the first day of service after the Chatterbox Awards 2011.Like many of us, EnglishRed had got caught up in the emotion of the evening and was in an apologetic mood:"I apologise to onedave for patting him on the top of the head""I apologise for continually grabbing (in a non-Gypsy way) Tim""I apologise for slapping Limni (I have vague memories of your startled face)""I apologise for telling Hayers he looked like Michael Sheen, and saying that he was sexual".During the course of the weekend decalcoman1a had acquired a strange houseguest:"Thanks to St00, who was an excellent (non-stabby or flanky) houseguest. I'm still finding bits of pumice around my flat for some reason. Still, if you are going to make the effort of carting rocks down south, best to go for something light."onedaveofmany summed up how a lot of people felt in a few succinct words:"SuperSmashin remains the paragon of friendliness. Lazybones has the creased eyes of a man who smiles a lot and means it."In fact, the overall verdict was one of almost sickening good feelings. A cracking time was had by all and the next shambolic meet up can't happen soon enough.It took the notorious bile of Sheep2 to give a bitter-sweet edge to today's summary and bring us back down to Earth:"HereComesTreble won everything of note by a mile. The high point of his life? Undoubtedly. Like a true internet person he missed it"TuesdayLooking old enough to buy booze vs. The joy of being asked for ID. That was the sleepy start to the day which suggested that one or two were still feeling the effects of the weekend's awards. There was some discussion on either side of the argument about looking old, which in part just highlighted the huge age range of regular bloggers on the Chatterbox.Generally the tone was one of righteous indignation at being well over 18 and of course Rollmeister's proclamation of:"Haven't been asked for ID since I got married. Not quite sure what that says about married bliss."After that it all got a bit strange and can only be described as the random naming of TV programmes and films. ID, Scum, Green Street, Cass, Prisoner Cell Block H, Oz, Tenko, Porridge, Open All Hours? This was list blog gone mad. Blatant geek one-upmanship with no focus. Thankfully, Makar put an end to proceedings: "Examples of things that are better than other things. It's no substitute for actual humour or interesting chat".And the afternoon was no improvement, in fact more like a debasement. Racism / Xenophobia  blog was sparked by Steve Coogan's condemning of Top Gear. It all got a bit heated but no decision on what is right or wrong was reached (which is about as much as can be expected from the bloggers).[Steve Coogan was right – Keef]To end on a high, Umboros23 released the results of the Chatterbox games of the year for 2010 (as voted for by the bloggers). Red Dead Redemption won by a good margin with the remainder of the top five being made up of BFBC2, Mass Effect 2, Demon's Souls and Gran Turismo 5.Quote of the Day:"What an odd day in the blogosphere. If this is your sole contribution to society then I fear for your human world."EnglishRed, from his saucer hovering above London.WednesdayWednesday grabbed the baton by talking about the surprise TV hit, "My Big Fat Gypsy Wedding".[Uh-oh – Keef]Bloggers were discussing how much cleaning a single caravan could actually take. Piip just said, "I'm appalled by the lot of you".Some work-related news for one of the bloggers led to a discussion about recruitment agencies. In typical style, Catzilla was sitting on the fence:"The kind of people who deserve to have boiling bleach poured down their throats and beaten by midgets with cricket bats."Dead Space 2 had been out for long enough that people were posting up opinions of it after completing the game. Everyone seemed pleased enough with the bulk of it, but perhaps were let down at the end. There was also a mention for the excellent mobile game, Game Dev Story.[If you haven't played it, download it immediately – Keef]For reasons perhaps best left alone, Lazybones decided to tell all that he, "wouldn't put my hand in a sausage machine for love."[Isn't that a Meatloaf song? – Keef]SerenVikity decided she wouldn't put her hand in a sausage machine to go to Edinburgh. MilkNCheese asked if, "anyone would put their hand in a sausage machine for a hand".HereComesTreble had an idea for a career change and asked for help on getting his new venture started. There were plenty of volunteers which is odd as there's probably not much call for a permanent Rodeo in the Northwest of England.As the afternoon wound up, 'Favourite' War blog reared its head. EnglishRed's logic was hard to argue with: "The 100 years war, for three reasons: a) it was against the French; b) it gave value for money; and c) it didn't last for 100 years." Come in Simon Schama, your time is up.ThursdayEvidently, Thursday was a slow day in work for much of the box, as we managed to breach the 1,000 comment mark. So what drove us to break this momentous boundary? Well, needless to say, much of the talk was the usual mix of BFBC2 (with BeardofBees finally tasting the excitement that accompanies blowing up your first tank with C4) Blops, Neptune's Pride, Blood Bowl, KZ3 and numerous other titles.The first major discussion of the day started with HereComesTreble asking a seemingly innocuous question regarding an upcoming move:"Leeds bloggers - What are the pros and cons of living and working there? I've been a few times for work, and once to an Ashes game at Headingley. I really liked it. Everyone up here though looks at me with a kind of blank fear when I mention that I'm thinking of moving there. What's so bad about it?"Although Fegbarr described it as, "the most generic Northern city you can think of", some bloggers took an even more critical view, with Sheep2 announcing that, "Leeds was the inspiration for Mordor in Lord of the Rings".There were very few voices of dissent amongst the crowd; the best the city's defenders could muster was to list numerous other places that were even worse. Coventry, Huddersfield and Rotherham all received a mention and were themselves subject to the critical eye of 'Box living standards. R042 coming up with this gem:"The only reason John Betjeman didn't write 'Come Friendly Bombs and Fall on Huddersfield' is because Slough is easier to rhyme with."Quote of the Day"You're right, for some reason, ever since I started posting on here my inner geek has come to the fore. It's a rocky dark road I'm walking that'll end with me just wearing black T-shirts and getting a subscription to SFX while I dig out my old Ork horde from my parents' loft. I'm really going to have to go to the pub more."Thebuat – determined to get his life back on track... right after just one more game of Dwarf Fortress.FridayAs the weekend loomed, and the juggernaut of Awards Chat slowly ground to a halt, an early morning scandal rocked the 'Box. It seemed that the typically dependable Simian had 'rage quit' a Blood Bowl game on none other HenryPootle. A stunned world demanded the truth, various bloggers expressed dismay and surprise. The explanation was a more prosaic Steam connection issue. However, we will always have the image conjured up by St00's imagination to remember the affair by: "I can see him now, expletives and flecks of banana issuing fourth from his monkey mouth. He replaces his controller with monkey pooh, which he flings at his monitor whilst screeching."Another Blog diversion of late has been Neptune's Pride with various bloggers trying to wrest control of a fictitious galaxy from one another at glacial pace. Evidently, some betrayal and conspiracy had blown up in the latest outing and erupted onto the blog in a hissy-fit between RustyJames and Limni. The argument was put to bed by Limni declaring:"I have more ships, more industry, better weapons and faster ships. Truth and justice are nice concepts, but they don't win intergalactic battles."[This speech is even better if you imagine Patrick Stewart delivering it – Keef]HereComesTreble showed us the form that earned him Blogger of the Year, ruminating on his recent rough time at work and concluding:"I've taken Monday off to try and sort my life out. I'll probably just play games in my dressing gown."Nobody could sustain such a frenetic pace and the afternoon inevitably petered out into list-blog (Whisky – not for the first time). This had an equally predictable effect on a Friday afternoon; a welter of bloggers listing their favourite drinks. Same time next week?End gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – 'Planet Claire' by the B-52s.Check theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This week's 'Best of' was ushered into existence by Humofevil, Alexp, Bobbobbob, PicPicPic, Pdmalcolm. It was wrestled into shape by Angryman13.Chatterbox Awards 2011Limni has gathered photographic and video evidence of the Awards ceremony. The video footage is onLimni's YouTube channel. The photos are up on Facebookhere. If you were there, see if you can spot yourself; if you weren't have a look and see what you missed!PES Live 2011On the afternoon of February 5, Chatterbox regulars held a PES tournament at theJetLag Bar. Goody wrote the match report...There are moments in games which result in pure unadulterated joy. Beating that end of level boss after saying to yourself, 'just one more go', or catching and beating the leader of a race on the final home straight. For many readers of the Gamesblog, PES online has been responsible for some of these moments. Seeing that perfectly connected shot fly in to the top corner will often result in physically jumping off the sofa and a small fist pimp. While I'd like to imagine the recipient of that goal all those miles away is probably cursing, for the scorer, often the only person who can share in this moment of ecstasy, is the player's other half, who by now will probably be looking up, rolling her eyes and considering what she ever saw in you. In order for more people to share in these moments of judgement and ridicule, Gamesblogers from all over the country would converge on a central London venue and take up the cudgels in a series of face to face encounters. In the words of a higher power, 'health insurance was checked and ambulances were on standby'. This is the story of PES Live 2011.In attending the JetLag bar, several bloggers showed an impressive sense of dedication. Silveryfox and UncleBen caught trains to attend, while AngryMan postponed his yearly skiing trip, and SirGiggedy even took to the skies. Rumours were also abound that the mythical creature, TonyHayers, may attend, no doubt to defend his 'unbeaten' crown which stretches back to two games in PES 2009. This wasn't the case in the end and everyone breathed a sign of relief.On the morning of the event, mind games were in full force. SilveryFox, determined to knock out his opposition by any means necessary, left UncleBen at their meeting point at Euston station. Luckily UncleBen was able to find a soapbox to stand on, look over the crowds, and identify the nearest tube station and start his journey on his own. By 12.15 there was mild anticipation of the draw. With no Missus Goody to play my games or pull teams out the hat, two less attractive people stepped in. Within three teams being pulled out rumours had spread of a fix. The current reigning champion, Rivaldo, had drawn Athletico Madrid, the best team of the bunch. Heads dropped and AngryMan even offered to give him the prize straight away. People soon cheered up though, when Newcastle, arguably the worst team that has ever been represented on a computerised football game, was given to yours truly. The celebrations had already started. As long as one person failed, the day would be deemed a success. As Guavs mentioned, today everyone (minus one) would be supporting 'ABG' – Anyone But Goody.Pre-match preparations were in full force. Cobra got out his full Bournemouth AFC kit, (with accompanying scarf) to a small round of applause. Fox took PES witchcraft to new level, not just by assigning Fifa controls, but by changing the shoulder button functions, possibly to 'auto tackle' and 'auto goal' respectively. If Worv was here, Fox would have been subject to a full frontal assault from the Ivory Towers. Rivaldo even attempted to lure people in to a false sense of security by looking like an accountant.Smellavision and BarryEans kicked off proceedings with the big Italian Derby. Barry's Juventus started strongly but it soon emerged that it would be a battle of attrition. Long ball after long ball meant chances were few and far between. The watching crowd soon started discuss penalties. 'How do you take them?' was regularly asked. 'I've never seen one scored', quoted another.However, these comments were premature when BarryEans stepped up in the 88th minute, and put the eight-foot HD screen to good use, with a 30yard piledriver. The competition had come alive and BarryEans had set a precedent. In the other legs, Ben had a chance for retribution for Fox's earlier antics. True to form, an early reducer from the Notts based blogger had set the scene. Unfortunately for him, this was his highlight as a solitary route one goal from Fox's PSG sent him out. Elsewhere, SirGiggedy was up in arms, losing to Cobra's Shaktar Donestk despite having 57% possession. A number of bloggers informed him that the goals column is more important and the Scotsman sat down fulfilling the Scottish football stereotype, full of resentment, yet thinking reaching the first round equated to a success. Last years PES live champion, Sheep, fell in the first hurdle in a thrilling 0-0 to ChairOfRust. Curses were uttered, 'why weren't Toulouse allowed in the draw?'.As the matches unfolded the traditional favourites emerged unscathed, with Guavs and Rivaldo progressing past Angryman and AndyJ respectively. Goody's Newcastle quietened the crowd after sneaking past Rivaldo's mate on penalties. Up next were ChairofRust's Bordeaux for the baby dragon and penalties were needed again to set up a semi-final with BarryEans, the victor of DaveFalse. Fox's hearing slowly started to deteriorate. Continuously put off by the other game's whistle blowing, he allowed the fancied Guavs to take  PES to another level by scoring three goals and knocking him out.This was it, our four final participants. Three with PES pedigree. The other one, well, he was just making the numbers... wasn't he? The winner of the two giants, Guavs and Rivaldo, would face the feared Goody, or the underdog and celebrated BarryEans. Juventus versus Newcastle kicked off proceedings with a near sell out crowd.  The game was all Newcastle when suddenly the game turned. The Newcastle keeper came running out to clear a through ball, only managing to kick it straight out to Barry's waiting midfield. 45 yards out and all to do, the Italian composed himself and hit a well placed shot in to the net. The room erupted. Barry was ahead. Goody was yet to score in open play, and Barry had yet to concede. Boos and jeers met every Newcastle touch as the Geordies tried to find a way through. Cheers echoed with every missed shot, but nothing could be done. The Baby Dragon was out, and a quick look at SirGiggedy confirmed that his 57% possession didn't mean you were through.Guavs and Rivaldo now took up the cudgels. Things didn't start well for the player with the most Guardian PES competition wins as Rivaldo finished smartly to groans in the crowd to go one nil up. Porto pushed for an equaliser and finished off a lovely flowing move. However, it wasn't to be and Rivaldo set added another two smart finishes to win 3-1. After a meaningless 3rd place play off finished (where Goody won via a truly remarkable own goal), a watching crowd gathered and a nervous looking, or possibly bewildered, BarryEans took centre stage to face reigning champion Rivaldo. Never once had a group of internet strangers, who had arranged to meet, had come together for one person. 'I guess I'm the away side' whispered Rivaldo as chants of 'Barry!, Barry!' echoed out from the crowd. Normal service soon resumed as another clinical finish (is there any other Rivaldo type?) meant that the crowd looked to be left disappointed. A few utterances of how Naboo  is actually an incredibly sporting player was heard and Rivaldo's reputation was tarnished even further.Behind and with little hope, there were expectations he would cave, but not reading the script, BarryEans managed to pounce, sliding a bobbling ball under the onrushing keeper, to score the most undeserved of equalisers. The jubilant crowd erupted, as despite Rivaldo's best efforts, BarryEans somehow managed to hold on to take it to penalties, and suddenly everyone became experts at penalties, advice was given and BarryEans looked even more confused. Up he stepped, and disaster! BarryEans had obviously listened to advice and missed his first penalty. Four more penalties dispatched successfully and Rivaldo, sensing he should really try and make friends with the baying crowd, skied his penalty. Suddenly Rivaldo had to score to stay in the tie. Nervous anticipation had swept through the capacity crowd. Up stepped the Athletico striker... to send the ball wide of the post.We suddenly had a winner, one who now looked both incredibly scared and happy at the same time.  Cup shocks, such as Hereford v Newcastle and Wrexham v Arsenal, would now be accompanied by BarryEans v Rivaldo 2011. If this was a Hollywood Blockbuster, this would be 'PES Live 2011 – The BarryEans Story' (coming to a Cinema, Fall, 2011). While the crowd calmed down, BarryEans composed himself, collected his PES winners cup mug, and left not just with his peers respect, but also with the knowledge he would return to his mancave in hope of adulation from his awaiting partner, but would probably just get home to rolling eyes, judgement and some consideration of what she ever saw in him...All the PES live competitors would like to thank the JetLag sports bar in London for hosting PES Live 2011. Offering a 150" HD Cinema screen and the facility to play the Wii or SingStar, it offers a premier facility for hire in the heart of London.
Tomorrow sees the first everGuardian Gamesblog Live event, at which I'll be talking to the makers ofCrysis 2,Dragon Age 2andNeed For Speed: Shift 2. Ticket holders will also get hands-on time with the games! It's a great opportunity to get a behind-the-scenes account of the development process on these three highly-anticipated EA titles.There are two sessions on Saturday – the early one has sold out, but we have a handful of tickets left for the afternoon sesh, which starts at 14:45. If you fancy coming along, we're offering a 50% discount on the last 25 tickets!Just headhereand sign up, using the promo codeinthegame50. It would be great to see a few Gamesblog regulars in the audience.
The novelty may have worn off for more hardcore gamers, but the Lego titles are still going strong. Kids love the relatively simple yet well-designed action; adults adore the nostalgia and humour.Lego Pirates of the Caribbeanis on its way, but for now the focus is back on the franchise that started the Lego games off – Star Wars. For LSWIII the action has moved from the flms to the Clone Wars animated TV series.  I recently spoke with the game's producer, Nicolas Ricks from Traveller's Tales.Why the Clone Wars?The story of Star Wars continues to be told with the Clone Wars TV show. There are still new stories, characters and new locations which lend themselves really well to creating an exciting and compelling Lego game experience.What are the main new features?The Clone Wars is characterised by the scale of the confrontation between separatists and republic. We've been able to re-create these epic battles in Lego form. Players are able to build and control immense armies of Clones, Droids, Walkers and Tanks but in a way that is familiar and intuitive. Additionally, our storytelling, space battles, graphics and many other areas have also seen considerable investment.Is it easier to design a Lego game based around a cartoon rather than live-action film?The narratives for the Clone Wars cartoon still encompass the same heroic elements as the theatrical releases – good v evil, etc. As such, we haven't found any difficulties working with assets from the TV show. Although we have also included encounters from the films as well so that the whole of the Clone Wars story is told.What sort of audience do you expect for LSWIII?As with all our Lego games, we'd hope there is a duality of appeal. Principally the game is aimed at 8-12 year-old boys, but we're confident that parents and teenagers will enjoy the challenges the game presents.How much freedom do you have when designing a game like LSWIII? Can you deviate from plotlines etc?We work very closely with LucasArts and this partnership means that we can tailor the game play to our needs when the medium of TV or film doesn't translate well to video games.Is it harder to design a game based around a series with hours of different stories rather than a two-hour film?Adapting the TV episodes has afforded us the ability to weave multiple story strands into the game. For the first time, the player can follow various paths which we've tailored to have different kinds of challenges in. For example, the pursuit of Count Dooku requires the player to master the ground battles, whereas confronting General Grevious requires more space combat.How do you choose what Clone Wars scenes and characters to include in the game?Certain scenes and characters choose themselves. LucasFilm do a terrific job of creating devious villains like Cad Bane and new heroes like Ahsoka Tano. However, as the TV show is a different medium, there are certain scenes that do not lend themselves to a video game. We pick out the seminal action filled moments so that players can relive these classic encounters.  Dialogue and story remains told through our cut scenes, which is where much of the well-loved Lego humour emerges.How important are the handheld formats – PSP, DS, 3DS – when designing LSWIII?These platforms are critical – we know many of our fans like to experience our Lego games on the move. Additionally, for our younger audience the DS or PSP may be their principal gaming device. As such, we always strive to bring the same level of quality and immersion to these platforms as with the consoles.What impact do you expect the 3DS to have?The 3DS is an incredible opportunity to literally bring a whole new dimension to our storytelling. It is an immensely powerful device, which brings console fidelity graphics and sound to handheld gaming. Additionally, the 3D enables us to increase player immersion as well as highlight key areas of the game in a whole new way.What criteria do you use when deciding which 'franchise' to Lego-fy next?It is a privilege to work with such renowned and well loved franchises as Star Wars, among others. The worlds are vibrant and filled with incredibly interesting characters – it is these elements that we look for in other universes. Where they dovetail with the creative characteristics that Lego play encourages, we see the best fit.How important is online to the Lego games?Co-operative play is at the heart of every Lego game. We feel that given our target audience, this is best served through playing side by side where sharing and dialogue is easiest.There are so many Lego games out now – how do you stop the game becoming a simple reskin of different film or book franchises?I've already mentioned the privilege that we feel about working with world renowned franchises. As such, great effort is made to distill the characteristics of a property and project them through the prism of Lego. To date I feel we've managed this very well and will continue to adopt the same approach and attention to detail that has been so successful in the past.You have done all the films and now the TV series. Is this the end for Star Wars Lego games now?All of our attention has been focused on making Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars the greatest game that we can and a worthy sequel. As such our plans are to enjoy the positive reception the game will hopefully receive and turn our minds to new horizons shortly.•Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars is released on 25 March on Nintendo Wii, DS and 3DS, Xbox 360, PS3, PC and PSP
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamJanuary 2007: Assessing Nokia's Competitive Response &gt;&gt; asymcoJuly 2009: the very first post on the Asymco blog by Horace Dediu, which used his internal predictive memo to forecast what Nokia would do - or not do - about the iPhone. And Nokia met every milestone of not-reacting, until the disruptive arrival of Stephen Elop - whose 'burning platform' memo fits nicely into Dediu's first forecast for 2011, made four years ago.This is why Apple's subscription system fails for consumers &gt;&gt; Ian Betteridge"[With The Economist,] I pay them a simple fee, for which I get the print magazine, access to the web site and its huge archives, the audio version of the magazine as a podcast, and the magazine on iPad. "Because they don't get access to information about who is buying via Apple's in-app purchasing, they simply can't offer the same deal through Apple's system – which, in theory, means they can't offer The Economist via iPad."Apple secures 60% of global touch panel capacity, causing tight supply &gt;&gt; Digitimes"In order to achieve its internal goal of shipping 40 million iPad products in 2011, Apple has occupied close to 60% of the global touch panel capacity causing tight supply among Apple's competitors, according to sources from upstream component makers."Â  That chimes with what we've been hearing from rival tablet makers: it's why they've been unwilling to offer prices or ship dates.And this is... &gt;&gt; Fscked.co.ukSometimes it's nice to know how people came up with domain names. Especially long ones about international data roaming.Forbes Accused Of Link Spam, Plays Dumb, But Forgets To Delete All The Links &gt;&gt; Techcrunch"Starting Monday Forbes started to delete the links from their site. We've been watching these links come down, but they seem to have forgotten one page. See the bottom right of this page for paid links to Netsuite, AppRiver, Bluepay, SquareSpace and others, all with very nice descriptive keywords like 'ecommerce,' 'Create a Website,' etc. Previous links to Siemens and AT&amp;T were prevalent, and those links still appear on eWeek and CIO Magazine."Graph: global recorded music industry turnover, 1973-2009 &gt;&gt; Bain ConsultingA simple but scary graphic. CD revenue actually peaked just as the first Napster was hitting its peak; ever since then digital has been failing to make up the gap. Note it's using RIAA figures, so it's recording industry, not the whole music industry. (It's unclear though whether the data is inflation-adjusted.)What sealed Nokia's fate? &gt;&gt; The RegisterLongtime Nokia- and Symbian-watcher Andrew Orlowski on why Nokia failed: "The problem Stephen Elop faces now is not a technical one. I'll offer another Unpopular Opinion here: that WP7 is really remarkably good already. If it wasn't called Microsoft Windows Phone 7, and had it instead originated with a plucky startup more people would be able to appreciate it better. The Microsoft imprimatur ensures WP will never be cool - but does at least give it some assurance of backing. "Elop is correct in identifying Android as a mad sharkpool of manufacturers thrashing around in pursuit of a tiny profit, eating each other in the process. If he had to plump for an OS to license, of the two, WP was the better choice. "Elop's problem is that historically you can't really take a large bureaucracy and expect a lean, mean fighting machine to emerge. You usually just get a smaller bureaucracy."Why You Wonâ€™t Beat the iPad by Building an . . . iPadÂ &gt;&gt; Stage Two"Where is the innovation from Apple competitors? Where is the tablet that has ten physical buttons (hyperbole here, to be sure, but why only one button)? Where is the tablet that is easier to hold? Where is the slide out keyboard? There are so many ways to create a unique tablet experience, but most tablets today are content with imitating the iPad."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Mobile augmented reality is a relatively young technology, but it has already attracted a great deal of hype and scepticism in equal measure.Overlaying digital information onto the real world, viewed through a cameraphone, is technically impressive, but the business models and usage patterns are still evolving.That's a polite way of saying mobile AR is cool, but nobody really knows what it's for, or how it will make money. One of the more interesting conference sessions at this year's Mobile World Congress aimed to answer the key question: what is it for?Tourism has been an early focus. Just this week, travel site TripAdvisor added an augmented reality feature to its iPad app (pictured above), while Lonely Planet has also used AR elements in several of its travel apps."You are most information-starved when you are in a completely new environment," said Jeremy Kreitler, vice-president of mobile at Lonely Planet. "Those are probably the environments where augmented reality will flourish the most."The Layar chief executive, Raimo Van der Klein, pointed to the popularity of Twitter layers in his company's app, which allow people to see local tweets superimposed on their camera view of the world around them."In the future, it will be the physical world that will trigger usage," he said. "Your dynamic and changing context, as you interact with different media, products, packaging and people, and you would like to make sense of what you encounter."Technology firm Qualcomm recently held an augmented reality contest for mobile developers, announcing three winners this week at Mobile World Congress. All three were games.Qualcomm's vice-president of ventures, Nagraj Kashyap, took the view that games are often a good proving ground for new technologies in their early stages, with AR no different."It's just something that appeals to a wide cross-section of users," he said. "But to have augmented reality become mass, we need to move out of just the gaming context."Qualcomm sees much potential in marketing, particularly when AR is used to add an interactive layer to print advertisements. Kashyap also thought educational and instructional AR content will be popular in the future. "Imagine pointing your phone at a newly bought washing machine and getting instructions for it on your phone."However, Philipp Schloter, chief executive of developer Abukai, said that looking for individual killer apps is the wrong way to approach augmented reality."This is really more of an enabler that sits across many different areas," he said. He was backed up by Peter Meier, founder of Metaio, the company which makes the Junaio AR browser app. "I always see augmented reality as a new user interface technology, and less as something for which there's the killer app out there," said Meier."For me, this is about accessing and understanding information more easily, and enjoying information that is somehow related to the real world ... I don't think there's a killer app. This is more like the next touchscreen for mobile phones – more like the next user interface revolution."BEP360 augmented reality mobile appMeier also talked about a recent Black Eyed Peas iPhone app created using Metaio's technology. It  puts fans 'inside' the band's latest video, spinning round to see the participants around them in a dancefloor scene. BEP360 is the highest profile entertainment AR app yet.David Marimon, who heads up mobile augmented reality and visual search for operator group Telefonica, suggested that new uses for AR will be found as different kinds of developers start to work with it, including visual and interaction designers.He also said that Telefonica is keen to help developers find new uses for AR by providing them with technology and APIs to tap into the operator's customer data."We know where mobile phones are thanks to GPS and other sensors, which is a very intuitive starting point to get the context of the user," he said. "We are also working on visual recognition to acquire that context: we need to know what the user is looking at, for which we can use the camera."What are your views on augmented reality – do any of the above sound like compelling reasons to use an AR app? Let us know with a comment.
As someone with valuable data at your fingertips you might be interested in what the newGoogle Public Data Explorerhas to offer.With the explorer now declared open, that means you are free to show off your data in the graphic displays Google have hatched. This is quite different from the platform being 'open' in terms of the software and the data used.But, before we get into the openness issues, let's start at the beginning with you and the data you're just dying to share.You don't actually upload data to Google, you just give a link to your data sets through theirinterface. If you are representing a company then you are taken to thiscompletely monster formabout the data held in your organisation.  But even though it is rather a task to complete, all of the description is necessary to use the data in a remotely sensible way. For example if it is geographic data then you are asked about the coding system used for the locations, essential for placing the data on a map.Once you're through the lengthy process of describing the data to Google, in return you have a display that is hosted by Google and you can embed in webpages. But you can't download and run the software yourself or even download the data displayed (see theFAQreply to "Can I download the data?") . If there was a mistake in the data then Google refer you through to the user who linked and described the data, so you'd better hope they're understanding.Even though there are restrictions on what you can do with the data, there still might be good data to explore.To guide you through what's available Google provide a list of thedata published so far.  There is already a range ofEuroStat datasuch asMinimum Wage in Europeandmonthly unemployment figures in Europe. To show their commitment Google have added some of their own data onsearch trendsin that case for interest in the term 'flu'. This kind of data has been shown over atInformation is Beautifulwhich demonstrates how the ability to combine data is so valuable.Can you combine this data in interesting ways? Not really. Not at the moment. But within one data set you can view it in a number of different formats and select from a range of different variables.The resulting graphs look very professional and adding a data set with your name attached is very good for being found on Google as these graphs turn up in regular Google searches if the key terms match well.We plan to take a closer look at the issues around the Google Public Data Explorer in another post, but these are first impressions. What do you think?
I have been a Gmail user for a number of years and found it superb. I have also been using Google Chrome as my default browser. Everything was going great until, inexplicably, I could open up a given email but not exit from it by the usual method. Also, after creating an email and selecting Send, there would be no indication that the email had, in fact, been sent, and after selecting Discard I'd find that the email had been sent again and again depending upon the number of times I had pressed the Send button. Chrome does work OK except when using Gmail. Both IE and Firefox work but I prefer using Chrome because I like the extensions and add-ons.Richard M DavidsonThis kind of problem is almost impossible to debug, because there are too many variables. First, Google changes Gmail on an almost continuous basis, and it will inevitably upgrade some mail servers before others. Second, Google regularly updates its Chrome browser in the background, so that's also changing. Third, Google has no control over your system set-up, which nowadays might be one of many different types of computer, tablet or mobile phone. Even if you are using Microsoft Windows – most people do – it has no control over the other software you have loaded. Anti-virus programs are a known cause of some Gmail problems, including theUnresponsive Send Button. Also, anti-virus is another example of software that can change frequently without your explicit involvement or consent.Gmail has roughly 200 million active users, so there are always likely to be a couple of million people with one or more minor problems, and a few with major problems. This is more than Google could afford to answer with a free service, though it has to be said, it doesn't appear to try very hard. I guess the assumption is that after the next update or two, minor problems will go away ... usually to be replaced by new ones.The main way to tackle Gmail problems is via the publicGmail Help Forum, where users attempt to answer each other's questions. Unfortunately, a large proportion of questions get no answer, and most get only two or three replies. I've triedKnown issuesand searched the forum without finding a solution, but you could try posting your question there.Gmail Help also has aTroubleshootingsection that might help. Try going throughLinks or buttons aren't working.If you really want to solve it yourself, start by clearing all your browser caches and rebooting your PC, so that you have a relatively clean basis for experiment. Then turn off, remove or uninstall all your Chrome extensions, to see if the problems go away. I know you like your add-ons, but one of them is most probably the cause of all your problems, which is why IE and Firefox still work correctly. You can add the extensions back, one at a time, until you find the one that's causing Gmail to fail.If Gmail still has problems, remove any recent or relatively untested features. Turn off Google Labs, for example, and remove Buzz completely. If there's a link at the bottom for "earlier version", probably under "Gmail view", revert to that. The ultimate reversion is, of course, to switch to "basic HTML". This will eliminate the hefty chunk of JavaScript code that Gmail downloads to your PCs memory, though I suspect you will not like the result. You can try it just the once by using the following URL:https://mail.google.com/mail/h/.I think you should also consider whether using Gmail via its web interface is actually the best approach. You can instead use it from a desktop email client such as Mozilla Thunderbird or Windows Live Mail or whatever. An email client could be faster and will usually offer more features, such as the ability to sort mail by size, sender, subject, reverse date and so on. All of these are beyond Gmail's capabilities. An added benefit is that desktop mail programs usually keep working when the web interface is down.Set up your desktop email client using the IMAP settings and you will have your own PC back-up of all your important emails. This will save your bacon if your Gmail account is hacked or you are locked out of your account for some reason. These reasons may include things to do with other Google services using the same log-on as Gmail, so the risk is bigger than you might think.Setting up email software does not prevent you from using Gmail's web interface some or all of the time. See my previous answer with the (perhaps unduly optimistic) headline:Solve email problems forever by setting up Gmail with your own domain.
A family is slaughtered during a summer getaway on a tropical island. That's essentially the narrative driving this astonishing trailer for forthcoming first-person shooterDead Island. Told in a reverse, in a style similar to Coldplay's video for The Scientist, it's an unusually affecting and emotional experience.But, centering as it does on the gruesome death of a young girl, it is also causing controversy. Some – includingMCV's Ben Parfitt– are questioning whether scenes of a family being hacked to death and a girl plummeting from the window of a tall building should be considered marketing material for a zombie slash-'em-up. Parfitt later linked tothis blog post, written by a father whose own young daughter died in 2007.I would suggest that horror movies have always traded on the emotionally wrenching duality of the zombie figure – part monster, part recognisable human. A couple of years ago,when I interviewedResident Evil 5 co-producer Masachika Kawata, he said that zombies are particularly resonant for the very fact that they were once fathers, sons and mothers. They speak to us about mortality; they are death. Kawata-san, too, knows a little about zombies and controversy – Resident Evil 5 was accused of racism for its trailer, which depicted savage-looking Africans attacking the white lead character.Anyway, due out later this year on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360, Dead Island is being developed by Polish veteranTechland, previously responsible for Western blaster Call of Juarez, for which the studio is also currently working on a sequel. It seems the plot to Dead Island follows a couple who crash land on a tropical island and find that it's infested with the undead. Players will have open access to the whole environment and can use any item they find as a weapon, a la Dead Rising.Perhaps you've had your fill of zombies after Call of Duty: Black Ops, Left4Dead 2, RDR Undead Nightmare and Dead Rising 2, but Techland is promising a more thoughtful game with RPG elements. It is certainly hinting as much with this gut-wrenching trailer.Let us know your thoughts ...
Inception: App Editionisn't an iPhone app. It's a "fully-loaded, connected viewing experience" according to studio Warner Bros, which has just brought its Oscar-nominated film to Apple's App Store, along with Batman flickThe Dark Knight.Get beyond the corporate flim-flam, though, and the apps are genuinely intriguing. Both went live on the App Store this morning, and offer the whole movies along with bonus content and social features. The apps are free to download, but then charge one-off in-app payments to unlock the actual films, which can be downloaded to the app or streamed.Perhaps the most interesting thing about Warner Bros' App Editions is their price. The studio is charging £11.49 in-app for Inception, and £5.99 for The Dark Knight. That compares to £9.99 and £6.99 respectively for the video-only versions of the films on Apple's iTunes Store, so Inception is cheaper as a video, but The Dark Knight is cheaper as an app.The apps have been launched in more than 30 countries, with Warner Bros keen to point out that some of those – China, Brazil and the Netherlands, for example – have not previously sold movies through Apple's iTunes Store. For now, the apps are iOS only.Releasing two movies-as-apps might seem like an experiment, but Warner Bros is pitching it as the start of a wider rollout. "In 2011, Warner Bros will release a full slate of App Editions including new release and catalog films," says Thomas Gewecke, president of the studio's Digital Distribution division.The advantage of using apps as a distribution mechanism for movies is the ability to wrap DVD-style extras and interactivity around them. The Dark Knight includes a trivia game, a soundboard and art gallery, while Inception bundles in five music tracks from composer Hans Zimmer. Both apps tap into social networks too, allowing fans to post quotes on Twitter and Facebook, while seeing a feed of what people are saying about the films.Perhaps the most interesting thing about Warner Bros' App Editions is their price. Warner Bros is undercutting itself, with Inception costing £5.99 through its app, but £9.99 as a more traditional video download from Apple's iTunes Store. The gap for The Dark Knight is less – its iTunes version costs £6.99 – but still noticeable.The biggest selling point for the apps is likely to be the streaming feature. The iTunes version of The Dark Knight takes up 1.67GB of space on an iPhone or iPad, while the App Edition is a mere 18.9MB. For people who don't want to watch the films offline, the fact that the apps are cheaper and don't clog up their device is likely to be extremely appealing.• This article was amended on 18 February 2011. An earlier version of this story stated that the in-app price for Inception was £5.99. It is in fact £11.49.
Fed up with your children leaving greasy finger streaks all over your iPad screen? Still want them to discover the emerging world of tablet gaming?LeapFrogmay have the answer.This summer the US company, known for its Leapster handheld gaming consoles, is launching the LeapPad, a durable mini-tablet complete with 5in screen, built-in camera, accelerometer and more than 100 available apps and games.As with the usual bunch of LeapFrog handhelds, games are based around the national curriculum and feature phonics, maths and science themes, as well as geography and languages.The company hasn't announced any brand tie-ins but most of its Leapster and Leapster Explorer titles are based around well-known franchises such as Toy Story, Ben 10 and Sonic the Hedgehog (my sons' favourite – it must be genetic). Children are also able to record and edit their own movies, as well as muck about with animation software. There's a stylus, too, for handwriting practise.Size-wise, it's more smartphone than iPad, but then, you probably don't want your four-year-old tearing around the house with a device that features a 10in LCD screen. The LeapPad will be out this summer at £79.99.
The 1984 filmThe Terminatorforetold of an epic battle between man and machine, each striving for dominance. Little did the writers know how prescient their tale would be.Fast-forward to 2011 and non-fictional humans are pitting their wits against a supercomputer – although this time in an effort to win US quiz showJeopardy, rather than guarantee the survival of humanity.Ken Jennings, the 74-time winner of the popular trivia quiz, and Brad Rutter, a 20-time champion, have gone head-to-hard-drive with an IBM supercomputer called Watson three times in the past three days. Unlike in The Terminator, they lost each time.The supercomputer, named after former International Business Machines corporation president Thomas Watson, is a showcase of the company's expertise in advanced science and computing.Watson showed off its encyclopedic knowledge of topics ranging from ancient languages to fashion design, along with a few glitches."Vedic, dating back at least 4,000 years, is the earliest dialect of this classical language of India," was one of the clues given by host Alex Trebek."What is Sanskrit?" Watson answered in the show's question-as-an-answer style, before going on to solve clues ranging from agricultural policy in the European Union to the designer Marc Jacobs.The latest challenge shows that IBM – which turns 100 this year – wants to stay at the forefront of the information technology industry, despite apparently being usurped by companies such as Google and Apple.What makes Watson particularly advanced, even compared with Deep Blue, IBM's chess-playing supercomputer that beat world champion Garry Kasparov in 1997, is its ability to find answers from ambiguous clues, such as this one: "It's a poor workman who blames these.""What are tools?" answered Watson.Watson was not perfect, however, and made some baffling errors such as coming up with "Dorothy Parker" instead of "The Elements of Style" and repeating other contestants' mistakes.In the end, Watson won with $77,147 (£47,812), while Jennings, who won 74 games in a row during the show's 2004-2005 season, came in second with $24,000. Brad Rutter, who has in previous appearances won a total of $3.3m, followed with $21,600. IBM plans to donate Watson's winnings to charity."I, for one, welcome our new computer overlords," Jennings wrote next to his last answer, displaying one human quality conspicuously absent in Watson – a sense of humour.The New York-based company Armonk spends about $6bn a year on research and development. An unspecified part of that goes to what it calls grand challenges, or big, multiyear science projects such as Watson and Deep Blue.IBM plans to use Watson's linguistic and analytical abilities to develop products in areas such as medical diagnosis.Jennings and Rutter managed to beat Watson in Final Jeopardy: they knew which city's largest airport is named after a second world war hero and second-largest after a second world war battle. While the human players responded with "What is Chicago?", Watson demonstrated its confusion with five question marks after its response of "What Is Toronto?????".
Just in case there was any doubt that youwon't be seeing any Nokia handsets running Windows Phone for sale before October, here's some other data from other reporters – who had the pieces of the puzzle before Wednesday but hadn't fitted them together.On Monday Ina Fried at the Wall Street Journal's All Things Digital Blog, which inMicrosoft to Add Multitasking, Internet Explorer 9 to Windows Phone Later this Yearquoted Andy Lees, Windows Phone unit president.He said that there would be two updates to Windows Phone this year. We know about the forthcoming minor one due in March: that's due to add copy and paste and some other minor enhancements.But, said Fried, "The more interesting of the updates is the second one–a major release – due later this year ... Windows Phone unit President Andy Lees told Mobilized that the new release later this year should answer critics who worried that Microsoft wouldn't be able to innovate fast enough to catch up or leapfrog over features available on rivals such as iPhone and Android ...The update later this year will be the one adopted by Nokia in its first Windows Phone, Lees said." (Emphasis added.)So when is that release – codenamed "Mango", as all the sites which follow Microsoft in microscopic detail have discovered – going to be released?Here's Mary Jo Foley, who is a reliable first-sourcer on things Microsoft,on February 10: "I first mentioned Mango a while back, noting that Microsoft was aiming to deliver that release in August/September 2011. From what I'm hearing from my contacts, getting the code to handset makers and carriers in time to get the Mango release to market for holiday 2011 is still the goal.""Deliver the release" means to deliver the golden master code to handset makers, who then have to make it work, debug it as necessary, and ship those working handsets to retailers and networks, who will then sell them on.Alternatively tryWinRumors from 14 February: "Microsoft isplanning to mark Windows Phone 7′s first birthdaywith a platform release to upgrade functionality and rebrand the platform. WinRumors spoke to Achim Berg, Corporate Vice President of Windows Phone Marketing, on Monday and he confirmed that the forthcoming changes are part of a platform release."So: Nokia's first Windows Phone to use "Mango" – confirmed by Microsoft.Mango not to arrive until later this year, probably with autumn shipments of code. Windows Phone's first birthday: October, when the first ones shipped.Thus despite the best (and repeated) efforts of Microsoft's head of PR Frank Shaw on Twitter toinsist that this is "speculation and not fact", I'm confident that despite any smokescreens to the contrary or intended vagueness on Nokia's and Microsoft's part about possible dates, you won't see a Nokia "Windows Phone" device before October.So what's in Mango? Details are thin (it's not the same as the small update due in March which will add Twitter to the People panel, copy+paste,Mango will add:• full Internet Explorer 9 support (which means HTML5 with features such as geolocation) using Trident 5 rendering engine. Presently WP7 phones run a mobile version of IE7 with some IE8 features.• no Flash "for battery and other reasons", though Lees said that "We're not allergic to Flash.. It's not in this update, but we're not making some particular statement that it will never be there."• probably no support for Silverlight - which at one time was Microsoft's answer to Flash.• full multitasking support for third-party appsBut not very much is known beyond that. Still, it's very slightly more than was known this time a week ago.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
