1949The world's first stored-program computer is built by Maurice Wilkes. It is the size of an average sitting room.'Computers in the future may weigh no more than 1.5 tons' - Popular Mechanics.'It would appear that we have reached the limits of what is possible to achieve with computer technology...' Professor John von Neumann, Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton.1999There are more than 100 million Internet users worldwide. A $1,000 desk-top personal computer can perform about 450 calculations per second.2009Personal computers with high-resolution visual displays come in a range of sizes, from those small enough to be embedded in clothing and jewellery up to the size of a thin book.A $1,000 personal computer can perform about a trillion calculations per second.Cables are disappearing. Communication between components uses short-distance wireless technology. High-speed wireless communication provides access to the Web.Most users have servers in their homes and offices where they keep large stores of digital 'objects', including their software, databases, documents, music, movies and virtual-reality environments (although these are still at an early stage).Computer displays built into eyeglasses are also used. These allow users to see the normal visual environment, while creating a virtual image, using a tiny laser built into the glasses, that appears to hover in front of the viewer. The majority of text is created using continuous speech recognition.The generation of paper documents is dwindling as books and other papers of largely 20th-century vintage are being rapidly scanned and stored. Documents circa 2009 include embedded moving images and sounds.Most routine business transactions (purchases, travel, reservations) take place between a human and a virtual personality. Often, the virtual personality includes an animated visual presence that looks like a human face.Although traditional classroom organisation is still common, intelligent courseware has emerged as a common means of learning.Pocket-sized reading machines for the blind and visually impaired, 'listening machines' (speech-to-text conversion) for the deaf, and computer-controlled orthotic devices - 'walking machines' - for some paraplegics result in a growing perception that primary disabilities do not necessarily impart handicaps.Translating telephones (where you speak in English and your Japanese friend hears you in Japanese, and vice versa) are commonly used.Accelerating returns from the advance of computer technology have resulted in continued economic expansion. Price deflation, which had been a reality in the computer field during the 20th century, is now occurring outside the computer field.Intelligent roads are in use, primarily for long-distance travel. Once your car's computer guidance system locks on to the control sensors on one of these highways, you can sit back and relax. Local roads, though, are still predominantly conventional.Privacy has emerged as a primary political issue. The almost constant use of electronic communication technologies is leaving a highly detailed trail of every person's every move.The neo-Luddite movement is growing, as the skill ladder continues to accelerate upwards.In the arts, human musicians routinely jam with cybernetic musicians. Musicians generally use electronic controllers that emulate the playing style of the old acoustic instruments, but there is a surge of interest in 'air controllers' in which you create music by moving your hands, feet, mouth and other body parts.In warfare, humans are generally far removed from the scene of battle, which is dominated by unmanned, intelligent, airborne devices. Many of these flying weapons are the size of small birds, or smaller.Bioengineered treatments for cancer and heart disease have greatly reduced the mortality from these diseases.2019Computers are now largely invisible and are embedded everywhere - in walls, tables, chairs, desks, clothing, jewellery and bodies.A $1,000 computer device (in 1999 dollars) is now approximately equal to the computational ability of the human brain.Three-dimensional virtual reality displays, embedded in glasses and contact lenses, as well as auditory 'lenses', are used routinely as primary interfaces for communication with other persons, computers, the Web and virtual reality.Keyboards are rare and most interaction with computing is through gestures and natural-language spoken communication.Nanoengineered machines (machines built atom-by-atom) are beginning to be applied to manufacturing and process-control applications.High-resolution, three-dimensional visual and auditory virtual reality and realistic all-encompassing tactile environments enable people to do virtually anything with anybody, regardless of physical proximity.Paper books or documents are rarely used and most learning is conducted through intelligent, simulated software-based teachers.Blind people routinely use eyeglass-mounted reading-navigation systems. Deaf people read what other people are saying through their lens displays. Paraplegic, and some quadriplegic, people routinely walk and climb stairs through a combination of computer-controlled nerve stimulation and exoskeletal robotic devices.The vast majority of transactions include a simulated person.Household robots for performing cleaning and other chores are now ubiquitous and reliable. Automated driving systems are now installed in most roads. While people are still allowed to drive on local roads (though not on highways), the automated driving systems are always engaged and ready to take control to prevent accidents.People are beginning to have relationships with automated personalities, which have reliable memories and programmable personalities, and use them as companions, teachers, caretakers and lovers.People attempt to protect their privacy with near-unbreakable encryption technologies but privacy continues to be a major political and social issue. The existence of an underclass continues to be a subject of concern. While there is sufficient prosperity to provide basic necessities without significant strain to the economy, old controversies persist regarding issues of responsibility and opportunity.Cybernetic virtual artists, usually affiliated to human individuals or organisations which have contributed to their knowledge base and techniques, are emerging in all the arts.In warfare, the primary threat to security comes from small groups combining human and machine intelligence using unbreakable encrypted communication. These include disruptions to public information channels using software viruses and bioengineered disease agents. Most flying weapons are tiny - some as small as insects.The human lifespan has increased to more than 100. Computerised health monitors, built into watches, jewellery and clothing, diagnose sickness and provide a range of remedial recommendations.The subjective experience of computer-based intelligence is seriously discussed. Machine intelligence is still largely the product of a collaboration between humans and machines, and has been programmed to maintain a subservient relationship to the species that created it.2029A $1,000 (in 1999 dollars) unit of computation has the computing capacity of approximately 1,000 human brains.Permanent or removable implants (similar to contact lenses) for the eyes, as well as cochlear implants, are now used to provide input and output between the human user and the worldwide computing network.Direct neural pathways have been perfected for high-bandwidth connection to the human brain. A range of neural implants is becoming available to enhance visual and auditory perception and interpretation, memory and reasoning.Human learning is primarily accomplished using virtual teachers and is enhanced by the widely available neural implants. Automated agents are now learning on their own, and significant knowledge is being created by machines with little or no human intervention. Computers have read all available human- and machine- generated literature and multimedia material.The prevalence of highly intelligent visual navigation devices for the blind, speech-to-print displays for the deaf, nerve stimulation and orthotic prosthetics for the physically disabled, and a variety of neural implant technologies, has eliminated the handicaps associated with most disabilities. There is widespread use of all-encompassing visual, auditory and tactile communication using direct neural connections, allowing virtual reality to take place without having to be in a 'total touch enclosure'.The majority of communication does not involve a human. The majority of communication involving a human is between a human and a machine.Human cognition is being exported to machines, and many machines have personalities, skills and knowledge bases derived from the reverse engineering of human intelligence. Unlike humans, computers consistently perform at optimal levels and readily share their skills and knowledge with one another. For reasons of political sensitivity, machine intelligences generally do not press the point of their superiority.The 'carbon-based' (organic, human) population has levelled off at about 12 billion. There is almost no human employment in production, agriculture or transport. Basic life needs are available for the vast majority of the human race.Cybernetic artists no longer need to associate with humans or organisations that include humans. Many of the leading artists - musical, visual and literary - are machines. There is a growing discussion about the legal rights of computers and what constitutes being 'human'.The life expectancy of humans is now around 120 years. There is growing recognition that continuing extensions to the human life-span will involve further use of bionic organs, including portions of the brain. Nanobots (self-replicating robots created using nanotechnology) are being used as scouts, as repair agents in the bloodstream and as building blocks for bionic organs.Controversy persists about whether or not machine intelligence equals human intelligence in all of its diversity.Machines claim to be conscious. These claims are largely accepted.2049The common use of nanoproduced food, which has the correct nutritional composition and the same taste and texture of organically produced food, means that the availability of food is no longer affected by limited resources, bad crop weather or spoilage.Nanobots are used to create visual-auditory-tactile projections of people and objects in real reality.2099The reverse engineering of the human brain appears to be complete. The hundreds of specialised regions have been fully scanned, analysed and understood. Machine analogues, which have been enhanced and extended, are based on these human models. There is a strong trend towards a merger of human thinking with the world of machine intelligence.There is no longer any clear distinction between humans and computers.Most conscious entities do not have a permanent physical presence.Machine-based intelligences derived from extended models of human intelligence claim to be human, although their brains are not based on carbon-based cellular processes, but rather electronic and photonic equivalents. Most of these intelligences are not tied to a specific computational processing unit. The number of software-based humans vastly exceeds those still using native neuron-cell-based computation.Even among those human intelligences still using carbon-based neurons, there is ubiquitous use of neural-implant technology, which provides enormous augmentation of human perceptual and cognitive abilities. Humans who do not utilise such implants are unable to meaningfully participate in dialogues with those who do.Because most information is published using standard assimilated knowledge protocols, information can be instantly understood. The goal of education, and of intelligent beings, is discovering new knowledge to learn.Life expectancy is no longer a viable term in relation to intelligent beings.Some many millenniums hence...Intelligent beings consider the fate of the Universe.• Copyright (c) Ray Kurzweil, 1999. Extracted from The Age Of Spiritual Machines by Ray Kurzweil to be published on Thursday by Orion Business Books at £18.99.To order The Age Of Spiritual Machines for £15.99 plus 99p p&amp;p (rrp £18.99) freephone 0500 600 102 or send a cheque payable to The Guardian CultureShop, 250 Western Avenue, London, W3 6EE.
I regularly use this site for research. There is an impressive amount of high-quality Christian academic material available on line. The Vatican has also started posting its documents.I consider myself a cybernun. I regularly communicate with other sisters over the Internet and there are open sites where nuns exchange information and ideas.The Internet is wholly compatible with religious order. Christianity is about spreading messages, and here we have the perfect media for putting messages in the public domain. On political and religious fronts, the Internet allows ideologies to be challenged.•  Sister Lavinia Byrne is lecturer in Christian Communications at the Cambridge Federation of Theological Colleges.
Banking is expected to be one of the prime financial services growth areas on the Internet in the next few years. Lloyds, Nationwide, the Co-op and Royal Bank of Scotland have fully fledged Internet banking services, while Barclays offers a PC-based service.Security is the number one issue for most users. Like telephone banking services, most Net banking services ask users to register a security pass code plus a memorable word, to be confirmed every time they access their account. Encryption technology protects users from hackers entering their accounts and switching money out.In June 1997 Nationwide Building Society offered the first online savings accountwww.nationwide.co.uk, and now has 60,000 Net customers. Its Net account operates in the same way as the society's standard FlexAccount, with the advantage of 24-hour, seven-days-a-week access. The only charge for the service is that of the phone call. Lloyds TSB,www.lloydsbank.co.uk, offers a similar service.Co-operative Bankwww.co-operativebank.co.uktakes the concept of accessibility even further. A prototype service allows users to connect via a palm-top organiser.Most Net bank users are 30-something, married males, according to Royal Bank of Scotlandwww.rbs.co.uk. Most users 'blitz' their accounts on the net once a month when the pay cheque comes in and the direct debits leak out.
The number of new financial sites on the Internet is exploding, yet the number of transactions by British consumers is still tiny. While telephone dealing has revolutionised financial services, battle has barely commenced on the Net.The Net's principal advantage for consumers is the ability to deal directly and immediately and to buy more cheaply by cutting out the middleman. Not so with financial services. Legislation and regulation make buying a Pep, pension or a mortgage over the Net slower and in many cases more expensive than dealing over the telephone.The Net's strength is in information provision and in transacting simple deals, such as buying and selling shares. "There are now many more highly informative personal finance sites than just a year ago," says Ian McKenna, director of the Financial Technology Research Centre. "You can look up the most up-to-date comparative mortgage data, credit card APRs and savings rates. I would recommend that anybody taking out a loan should check sites such as Moneyextra to ensure they are getting the best deal."Share dealing over the Net has swept the United States, with estimates that Net brokers such as Charles Schwab, Ameritrade and e-trade account for up to 50 per cent of trading activity on some days on Wall Street. A price war has taken the cost of share dealing over the Net to as little as $8 (£5.50) a trade. In the UK, Net share dealing is in its infancy, and prices are no cheaper than telephone dealing. However, the largest retail broker, Barclays Stockbrokers, is running a pilot Net trading scheme, and Schwab and NatWest Stockbrokers are developing their Net offerings. A price war is needed to bring down charges to American levels.The biggest hurdle for electronic trading is the Inland Revenue's rule that financial products such as Peps must be accompanied by a signature.Financial organisations are lobbying hard against this and recently scored a notable success. The Inland Revenue has decided that new Individual Savings Accounts can be opened online without a written signature. Fidelity Investments, one of the biggest investment managers in the US, has launched a pre-ISA Net system which allows investment of up to £7,000 via a feeder account into an ISA when they become available in April.But the techie financial product buyer faces other obstacles. Financial regulators demand in-depth fact-finds to ensure that a financial purchase is suitable. These can be filled in online but are highly time-consuming. For example, a telephone fact-find to buy a pension can take up to an hour, even with the assistance of an expert at the other end of the line. Not surprisingly, pension telephone selling has failed to take off, and few experts believe the Net will be any more succesful.Another obstacle is the efforts by regulators to prevent drug traffickers and criminal organisations laundering their ill-gotten gains through the world's financial system. Money laundering rules now oblige a product provider to verify the identity of anybody investing more than £10,000. Inevitably this involves more paperwork.But the biggest obstacle for many investors is fear about security. "People are generally very uncomfortable about typing their credit card details into the Net, yet they happily give the number out over the phone, which is less secure," says Mr McKenna. He adds that new '128 key encryption' technology should provide a secure firewall against hackers and give comfort to investors. Yet horror stories abound of outfits that label themselves along the lines of BankofBritain.co.uk but are actually fronts for fraudsters operating out of offshore locations. Pornographers have also invaded every corner of the Net, even the corridors of banks. For example, BankofLondon.com is not a bank at all but an adult nudity site.
In November last year computer services company Logica received 66 CVs over the Internet, made job offers to 21 of the candidates; 19 were accepted. By the end of the year the company estimates that 90 per cent of its recruitment will be conducted electronically.Oracle, the US database company, currently receives hundreds of CVs each month via its Web site from recruitment agencies or directly by e-mail to its personnel department. It plans to insist that all technical staff must apply for jobs over the Internet by the end of of the year.To anyone without a PC at home or work, the prospect of their dream job staying out of reach for the lack of a link to the Internet will be distressing in the extreme. In truth, the electronic revolution has so far failed to touch huge swathes of British business and is restricted largely to the computer and telecommunications industries.There are a few jobs in other sectors that need electronic information to feed their business. Travel agents, for instance, have been linked up to international information networks for years so some electronic sites contain adverts for jobs in the travel business. Estate agents have their needs catered for bywww.estateagency.co.ukand engineers can look for jobs onwww.agency-personnel.co.uk.In the City there are jobs to be found for people who want to join investment banks on the sites likewww.taps.comandwww.monsterboard.com, though these are usually restricted to the computer department, sales and marketing or personnel.Recruitment specialist Dr Mark Parkinson says universities are also familiar with recruiting over the net. "Students can submit a UCAS entry form for university electronically after they have searched for courses on the Internet."Most other sectors and professions have yet to catch up. The public sector is notable by its absence, as are the metal-bashing companies in the Midlands, still recruiting by and large in the same way they did 10 years ago. Few people in these areas have connections to the Web, so few recruiters believe it is worthwhile advertising to them via Web sites.Andrew Harley, a psychologist who has advised several major companies on their recruitment strategies, says the problem goes deeper. "The majority of companies treat recruitment as an occasional activity driven by need. Using the Internet and e-mail, you can develop recruitment as a continual process that you either intensify or relax depending on internal demand."He says they are also stuck with old practices that are too slow for the electronic community. "I did some research for a computer company that found it took eight weeks on average to sort through CVs, reply to candidates, carry out interviews and make job offers. Most of the people they eventually offered jobs to weren't interested."The biggest advances have been made in the US where there are some 35,000 sites advertising jobs. In the UK there are considerably fewer, but by the end of this year most of the recruitment agencies, trade magazines and newspapers will have fully-fledged working web sites with huge numbers of jobs on view.The Guardian, which carries the largest amount of recruitment advertising among national newspapers, is going further and developing a site designed to be an aid to working professionals called Work Unlimited (www.workunlimited.co.uk) to run alongside its current jobs site containing hundreds of recruitment adverts - Jobs Unlimited (www.jobsunlimited.co.uk).Even the computer companies Logica and Oracle have only recently begun to build their recruitment business around the Internet. Vance Kearney, the head of Oracle UK's personnel division says: "In the past we said to people: 'We'll keep your CV on file' and what we meant was 'We'll stick it in a filing cabinet and forget about it'. Now it is a reality."Oracle can sift through CVs using its own human resources database, but is also reliant on web sites like Taps. People who sign up with this service get access to hundreds of employers. Once they have indicated which types of job they want, they are put on a mailing list that will automatically e-mail them when jobs come up.Dr Parkinson, who works for recruitment consultancy the Morrisby Organisation, says some companies are looking at conducting as much of the interviewing process over the Internet as technology will allow. He develops psychometric testing systems that many of his clients would like to let candidates fill in on their own PC after downloading from a company web site.At the moment the Data Protection Act is more of a barrier to the idea than any lack of technology. The Act prevents companies from using any software that screens candidates because it can be used to discriminate against certain groups.Margaret Little, head of personnel at Logica, says she would resist the use of screening software even if the law allowed it. She says the company gives candidates access to all relevant information about the job needed to make up their minds. "Candidates are pre-screening themselves because after they have been around the site and read our in-house magazine, they know if they want to join Logica and if they have the skills for the job."She says job hunters that don't have access to a computer are not penalised "and we would never just rely on electronic CVs. We take MBAs, non-IT people, sales and marketing people. Not all of them have access to the Internet".Several job-hunters have sent CVs from internet cafes in recent months, but have failed to give a forwarding address. Other candidates come via the Yahoo search engine, which flashes up an advert for Logica every 20 hits on its web site, and the BBC Impressions site.For most people, though, the best part of searching on the web is the ability to find information about potential employers. Alas, when you do find one they are more likely to want a CV on parchment than via e-mail.
William Doherty reached for his PC when he began to think about a new job. A personnel manager with a firm of management consultants, he wanted a job in one of the booming industries full of what he calls "cutting edge" companies that spent lots of money on caring for their staff and offered international travel. Very quickly he homed in on the computer industry.He avoided the horde of recruitment agencies bulging with jobs in computer companies only because he thought it would be interesting and more innovative to surf the Internet for clues about a new career.It wasn't long before he started to see jobs that fitted the bill. "I used several search engines, which all threw up interesting jobs. Yahoo was the search engine I used the most and Oracle's name kept cropping. I knew it was a huge and exciting company, so I called up its web site."Many of the search engines commonly displayed by Internet Service providers (Compuserve, America Online and Dixon's FreeServe) advertise jobs, though mainly computer jobs. Mr Doherty said he quickly saw a job that fitted the bill at Oracle, which makes most of its money from selling databases, other related software and services.Nearly all the information he needed to make up his mind was displayed on the company's web site, including details about a satellite office only a cycle ride from his Manchester home. He got the job as a skills development manager soon after and now travels widely, using the office near his home as a base.New Zealander Richard Inder arrived in the country last week and immediately set about trying to find a job as a journalist using the Internet. He says that being digital on the job market has become an expensive necessity."Access to information technology is assumed by employers and recruitment agencies," he says. "Job applications must be prepared on a word processor, while many recruitment agencies and employers ask that applications be faxed or e-mailed."Mr Inder now relies on Internet cafes and friends for the technology he needs. But the costs can be fairly significant - as high as £12 per hour including Internet access charges at the cafes that can now be found in most of our major cities.But he said the Worldwide Web had proved an invaluable resource. By far the most useful site waswww.hotmail.com. It and a number of similar sites give users a mailbox facility that allows them to send and receive e-mail without having a dedicated connection to the Internet."I have given my hotmail address to prospective employers and have used it to keep in contact with my family and friends while in transit," he says. He also uses the mailbox as a store for his personal information. Several versions of his CV are stored on the site as well as a variety of the letters sent to different employers.
Anyone preparing to search the Internet for a job should first ready themselves for a slightly different experience to the usual form filling and letter writing.First on the list for a makeover is the CV. For many years now, most recruitment experts have advised against letting your paper-based CV run on to more than two pages. In the world of the Internet, the experts reckon that every word you need to describe yourself must fit on one screen. Anything else will be hidden from view. Useful tips on how to prepare for electronic recruitment can be found on generic sites likewww.taps.comand the Guardian's own site,www.jobsunlimited.co.uk. Next task on the 'To Do' list is to carry out a little online research. The web sitewww.ukbusinesspark.co.uktells visitors about how well different sectors of the economy are doing - ideal for people who want a particular type of job.If you find what you want at a job agency site, remember the interests of the candidate and the agency only coincide in that they want someone to fill the job vacancy. How they persuade employer and job candidate to get together is not always in the interests of either. Making a direct approach to an employer is likely to give your CV a better chance of being read and of a straightforward reply.
Before I discovered the World Wide Web, I felt I had done and seen almost everything. When I saw the Internet, I realised it was a whole new arena that I knew nothing about. I was in at the deep end, where I like to be, and there was no turning back.I first became aware of it through my son’s interest in his computer. When he started getting programs, I joined in and it took off from there. Through the photo-manipulation package Photoshop, I began working with digital images and when I discovered e-mail, I began to realise that the Net might influence my professional life. It allows for a kind of playfulness that appeals to me – the fun of exchange.Maybe because of the age I was when I came to the Net, I didn’t notice its geek image. I was past caring. The first site I built was an art site, initially to display only my own works. The Net excites me primarily as an artist, but the fact that I could serve my own purposes by selling works through it made me think it was even more exciting. Then I expanded the site to showcase other people’s work, people who didn’t have gallery representation and could make their address a website. Anyone wanting to buy could get directly in touch with them. It seemed a good way of disseminating not just digital art, but work by sculptors and painters.The site became Bowieart.com and is slowly but surely expanding. My own website came into being when seven of us got together in a think-tank to thrash out ideas. Most rock artists’ websites, with the exception of Peter Gabriel’s, are incredibly standard. They are put out by their record companies to shift a few units and are not regularly updated. I wanted mine to be a small concern, an individual operation which meant there could be real quality control at work.I am obsessive about the quality of the content and the graphics. Graphically, it must be really cool. One thing that is guaranteed to lose a user’s interest is lack of activity on the site. I update it on a daily basis. There is always a new story to find or my own spin to put on an old one. I discovered the other day that there is a new holiday resort in Thailand called Ziggy Stardust — just the kind of amusing observation I like to put on the site.We get a lot of feedback from users because their comments aren’t edited before going on the site. Everybody is free to say what they mean. I love the chat rooms, because you get to hear what people genuinely think. The communication between me and my Web audience has become more intimate than it’s ever been. It is a feeling I enjoy because it is new to me. It is adventurous, it is a new positioning of what the artist is, it is a demystification.At the same time, interaction on the Web is a little like a mirror, like communicating with a manifestation of yourself. Because it is so chaotic, so decentralised, I find that using the Web becomes like communicating with a hardware version of me. It’s not exactly a doppelgänger, but an alternative version of myself.I am dying to do something like release a CD exclusively on the Net. I am creating a CD on-line service called Live and Well, and so far I have put seven songs on it, recorded during last year’s tour. I am adding a couple more each month and am hoping to get up to 28 songs so that eventually there will be a complete album there.Ultimately, this route leads to a situation where the users can decide on the album packaging for themselves. Hundreds of submissions have come in, of photographs, tickets and memorabilia collected by fans at the tour. Users could download a selection of these images and make their own booklets, printing it out, putting it in a case and eventually downloading the album itself from the Net.At the moment, however, there are still a lot of ambiguities surrounding Web-based music contracts. Public Enemy recently put a few tracks up on the Web without asking their record company’s permission. It caused a lot of trouble and record companies are beginning to get very nervous. At the moment they only use the Internet to sell their products in the traditional way, via mail order. I would like to be the first to oppose their point of view.The exciting part of music on the Internet is the impact it could have on delivery systems. I would like to see record companies changing their delivery systems so that they could send MP3s (an instant free download) straight to the record stores via an ISDN cable. The stores could then burn the CD for them on site. It would reduce the packaging costs and they would make a fortune out of it. It would be good news for the consumer, too, who by choosing the individual tracks or making a compilation of various artists would in a sense become the producer. They could then download their own choice of packaging from a catalogue of images and take as much biography as they liked. Once users can get hold of material like this, the whole idea of intellectual property is thrown into the air.Not surprisingly, there is a lot of resistance to overcome and it grows out of that typical committee mentality where everybody talks but nobody will make a decision. Record companies may resist the Web until the last minute before being forced into action. My record company isn’t exactly jumping on board, but I’m indifferent to it. You don’t have to stay with a record company forever. I get bored of those interminable situations.Change is just around the corner. The new currency is going to be taking music that is already up on the Net and manipulating it into something new. It has already happened to me. A few days ago a kid downloaded one of my songs from my Website. He re-recorded it at home, changing the bits that he didn’t like and then put up his version on his own site. The new version is written his way, with changes to the melodies and some of the lyrics and it is available as an MP3. It is unbelievable. If he can do that, imagine what can happen in the future.Of course a lot of artists are absolutely terrified by the idea, but I love it because I love process. To me, the end result is not nearly as interesting as the process of getting involved in something. In fact the lack of control which people criticise the Internet for is what I’ve found most attractive about it. I love the quirky sites, I think the Slap A Spice Girl site is hilarious and the kind of thing that makes the Internet so attractive. The idea of formalising the Net is awful — and it won’t happen.As for music piracy, well I’ve been known to do a fair amount of appropriation myself (in a spirit of post-modern irony, of course). But on the issue of straightforward piracy, I tend to go with the flow. I am not indifferent to it, but I look on it as a lost cause. The way our society constantly breaks down parameters has led to the disintegration of intellectual property. Whether that’s a good thing or a bad thing is to an extent irrelevant, without a doubt things in the future are going to be different.What is worrying about the Net is the amount of personal information that can be gained from it about you as a consumer. Cookies are burrowing into your system every second and it’s worrying because you don’t know what information they are taking away with them. But if you go with the flow and allow yourself to become excited by it, you are going to benefit a great deal more from the Net. You are going to feel invigorated by it.The problem in Britain is that if you are enthusiastic about things, you are regarded with suspicion. Artists starting out now are coming from a place where they don’t see a problem with Web interaction. Sampling music and putting it on the Internet just strikes them as the way things are done. And even though I’ve been involved in Net production for some time, I still find it exciting when put against the traditional way of writing songs.In fact, if I was starting out on my career now, I might even be more interested in the Web than in music. It’s absolutely the new way of communicating. To me, music was never just about being a musician. It was about what you could do with it, how you could bend it and twist it. If I was starting out in music now, I think I’d look on rock as a stodgy, traditional format and the Internet as what’s happening tomorrow.David Bowie was talking to Emma Brockes
"It is Criticism," said Wilde, "that leads us", but that was 100 years ago. Does anyone credit the critics anymore? Polls suggests that most movie-goers are wooed by advertising and publicity. Word-of-mouth grabs the others. A handful heed reviews.It was no accident that Channel 4 called its recent hatchet job on the profession Critical Condition. "The great days of criticism," says the Guardian's Derek Malcolm, "are over".
Towards the end of his BBC career, Barry Norman would claim that, regardless of how he reviewed a film, if his viewers liked the extract shown they'd go and see it anyway. The Times undermines its own reviews by suffixing them with the "Snap Verdicts" of teenagers.It all points to a gulf between how Joe Public and the critics think about film. Elizabeth Karlsen, the producer of Little Voice, who took the unusual step of writing to the Guardian Letters page last November in response to negative comment on that film, is confused: "My first film as producer &#91;The Neon Bible&#93; was well reviewed by The Guardian and didn't make a bean. This time most of the broadsheets didn't particularly like the film, yet it's been playing very well."Guy Ritchie, director of last year's surprise hit, Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels, believes this split between critics and the public is not unusual. "Critics as a whole don't reflect people," he says.The Internet couldn't be arriving at a better time. Film criticism in this newest of media operates as amplified word-of-mouth. In the States, where slacker "fanboy" Harry Knowles' all-conquering Ain't It Cool News website wields make-or-break clout, reviews and gossip on the Net have thrust a spanner in the Hollywood hype machine."There is a place for conventional film criticism," Knowles told me in our Internet-conducted interview, "and there is a place for film lovers to speak. For film lovers, sometimes they find their cuddle corner on AICN, sometimes they find their ‘shared' voice on the Net."The Ain't It Cool community has helped democratise the process of receiving film, to a point where punters can add a public voice to the critics' and publicists' cacophony, influencing the impact a movie makes. "The public like to share their thoughts about a movie," Knowles says. "It's an enriching experience. It's not the critics that are conventional, it's the one-sidedness of the medium. You can't talk back as a reader, it's all a one-way street."Truly, it's good to talk, and Guy Ritchie welcomes the dialogue. "Absolutely. I'm a great fan of listening to the people." Karlsen agrees: "If the Internet works like word-of-mouth, it'll be fantastic. As a film-maker you really do want to hear what people have to say." Of course, the Internet allows that chat to be reciprocal: the New Zealand director at the helm of the forthcoming Lord Of The Rings trilogy, Peter Jackson, is preparing those movies in public, courting advice from Knowles' readers as he goes.On Film Unlimited, the Guardian's new film website, we want news, views and reviews from the public. Equally important, we want reactions from the film-makers themselves. If they want the opportunity to reply to a hostile review, Film Unlimited provides it."You do sometimes feel that your hands are tied," Karlsen says, describing film-makers' understandably tentative feelings about reacting to hostile press. "If the Internet opens up more of a dialectic between readers and the press and film-makers then that'll be an interesting process."When we ran the London Film Festival website last year, not only did we post up comical and serious user reviews, daily, for a fortnight, but our talkboards hosted an impassioned debate about the British movie Fast Food, to which the film's producer felt compelled to contribute. The effect, in Harry Knowles' words, is "to give readers more options to read about films", and we'll drink to that here at Film Unlimited.We don't believe that conventional criticism is exhausted: Derek Malcolm (whose Century of Films series we're already giving the kind of creative coverage no newspaper could accommodate) argues that "there are quite a lot of people who still want a reasonably authoritative voice."At Film Unlimited, which will be the biggest and best film site in Britain, we'll encourage the obsessed voice, the interested voice and the involved voice to oppose, abuse, agree or add to authoritative criticism and comment of every colour. Why not pitch in? We're all critics now.Film Unlimited highlightsPersonalised listings:Type in your postcode and we'll keep you up-to-date with what's on in your area. 
Video mood-matcher: You tell us how you feel, we'll suggest a movie to match.Critics matrix:Find out what all the top reviewers are saying about all the movies available to see.Reel Britannia:We'll be covering everything that moves in British movies — the stars, the films, the rumours.Star Power Index:Our rolling review of who's hot and who's not in the world of cinematic celebrity.Strictly Hush Hush:A weekly column sifting through rumours, leaks and outright lies about soon-to-be and may-never-be movies.Guardian/NFT Interviews:Exclusive broadcasts, soundclips and transcripts of the Guardian-sponsored interviews at the NFT.Guardian film reviews and articles:A comprehensive database of all the newspaper's film writing.Documentaries:In-depth reports on funding and the Lottery, on censorship, awards and festivals.
Read this: BTW IMHO you deserve a :-* i'm sure you get plenty ITRW ;-). From my POV, you sound luscious (:-*;-*) and I'd like to spend time with you 24/7.That's not a Grauniad printing mistake, it's cyberlingo (it translates as: By the way, in my humble opinion you deserve a kiss. I'm sure you get plenty in the real world. Flirtatious wink. From my point of view, you sound luscious (kiss, kiss) and I'd like to spend time with you, twenty four hours a day, seven days a week.)The Internet is set to transform - purists will swiftly howl, corrupt - our use of the English language. There are obvious ways this will happen as more and more of us communicate for work and for leisure through Internet and intranet. Given the domination of the US on the Net, Americanisation is inevitable. But there are more intriguing issues around the collapse of grammar and punctuation on e-mail and what that is going to do to the structure and precision of language.The Net is about the revival of the written (or rather typed) word. Since the highwater mark of the printed word at the end of the 19th century with emerging mass literacy and cheaper printing, the 20th century has seen the inexorable march of the spoken word and the visual image - telephone, photography, film, radio and television. It's probably only a matter of time before the Net becomes primarily an image and audio medium, but in the meantime, the Net empowers the literate and deskills everyone else. Fine, if you like words and know how to use them to express yourself. Forget it, if you communicate primarily through facial expression, body language, voice intonation and silence.The Net is another manifestation of how, ever since the Reformation, language - written and spoken - has dominated our understanding of communication; it has given us great precision, but has marginalised those experiences we cannot articulate in words - unless we are great poets. The Net is no help there, and possibly by extending the babble of Babylon, might reduce even further our time and capacity for them.Equally intriguing, and vast in its potential impact on our lives, is how the Net will transform our sense of self. Who we consider ourselves to be is a social construct; it is through communicating with our friends, colleagues and relatives that we compile our sense of what we are and what we are not: bossy, shy, good sense of humour or flirtatious. The Internet is destined to become a crucial arena in which personal identity is formulated. As a male colleague found when he registered as Marilyn Monroe on the Guardian's website, you can be anyone on the Internet; you can develop an infinite number of personalities in discussion groups and chat rooms. You can change sex, age, tastes, opinions, values, even beliefs - endlessly.Cyber-junkies defend this versatility vigorously, arguing that it gives you unprecedented opportunity to explore and develop different parts of your personality. This is the next stage of a development over the last two hundred years in which personal identity has moved from being a static given to being an active process. Each wave of communication technology - roads, railways, cars, planes, printing etc - has expanded our choice of personal identity in a way that the medieval peasant, living in the same village with the same neighbours and family, never had. That process - the development, discovery and expression of your identity - has become the purpose and meaning of life: your life project.A vast industry has grown up to service this life project - psycho-analysts, therapists, counsellors - while a predatory consumer culture makes vast profits from it as it persuades and seduces us that it is through consumption that we establish personal identity. If we buy these designer labels, that loft apartment, take these holidays we will know, and signal, who we are. As a preoccupation with self has been the trademark of 20th century industrial consumer culture, so a preoccupation with our many selves will be that of the information revolution. We are only beginning to understand how flexible and diverse our selves can be - another sex? another nationality? We will discover portfolio personalities and will need cybertherapists to help us manage the competing, conflicting roles these personalities demand of us.What portfolio personalities will exacerbate are two current trends: firstly, we have become obsessed with authenticity, rooting out hypocrisy, neurotic about the deceptiveness of image and its gap with reality - politicians have been the first to fall victim. We search for our true selves as for some Holy Grail. Through the Looking Glass and Alice's concern with who she really was, stand as a prescient warning that in the 20th century, fantasy and reality would become blurred; the lives of soap stars followed as keenly as those of friends. Edmund Gosse's father objected to fiction because it was not true - rich, coming from the Creationist who opposed Darwin. How much greater will that tension become when we live a large part of our lives on the Net ? Is virtual real? Is there any measure of truth independent of the power of our imaginations?The second trend is that the preoccupation with self impoverishes our collective culture. It takes time, thought, effort and imagination to manage a portfolio personality and pursue as your Holy Grail, some vague concept of integrity and integration - being 'centred' as pop psychology describes it. It's a highly individual endeavour, although it is emphatically not a private one; we are compulsively voyeuristic and self-revelatory.However, that public discourse has no goal beyond providing us with the odd insight into our individual life projects. In industrial consumer culture, millions of us, to a greater or less extent, are wrapped up in internal monologues, so when people hail the Internet as a tool for communicating with people all over the globe, they overlook the fact that the people we most want to communicate with are really ourselves.
The Parents Information Network, set up in 1994 in response to growing media hype about computers, offers advice on buying a computer and how best to use it at home to back up school work.It reviews all educational software published in the UK, though PIN director Jacquie Disney points out that educational benefits can come from programs not specifically aimed at children. For example, a word processing package can help to develop writing skills.PIN recommends: for under-fives, Knowledge Adventure's Adiboo. The I Can Read and I Can Count features offer simple games for numeracy and literacy.Broderbund's Carmen Sandiego games and The Logical Journey Of The Zoombinis (a charming maths adventure) do the best job of integrating learning with game and entertainment elements.For children around 10: Dorling Kindersley's Pinball Science, the latest CD-Rom from David Macaulay, author of The Way Things Work; and Disney Interactive's Maths Quest With Aladdin.Call: 0891 633 644E-mail: post@pin-parents.comVisit: www.pin-parents.com
THE new iMac computer that Apple boss Steve Jobs announced last week at MacWorld in San Francisco (Online, January 7) will be available in the UK by the end of the month.It's a bit faster than the last version - the processor runs at 266MHz instead of 233MHz - and a bit cheaper at £915.33 (inc VAT) compared with £999. But the main difference is that it will be available in five colours: red, green . . . Sorry! In strawberry, lime, blueberry, tangerine and grape.Jobs said: 'For most consumers, colour is much more important than the megahertz, gigabytes and other gibberish associated with buying a typical PC.' Anyone who still longs for an original Bondi Blue version of the iMac should be able to get one for £200 off ( £797.83) while stocks last.The real question is: when will Apple produce an iMac in the colour it pioneered 22 years ago with the Apple II, and continued with the Macintosh in 1984? Answer: as soon as someone comes up with a believable fruit that's coloured beige.MAC users who need to run programs that are available only for Wintel PCs (ones based on Microsoft Windows and Intel processors) may be able to solve the problem by running these programs via PC emulation software such as Connectix's Virtual PC.Connectix may also have the answer to the Mac's shortage of action games: Virtual Game Station software that emulates Sony's best-selling PlayStation games console. There's no news about when the $49 program will be released in the UK, but a list of compatible games is online at www.virtualgamestation.comMICROSOFT is increasing its involvement in the PC games market by taking over Fasa Interactive, a Chicago-based developer. The name may be unfamiliar, but not the products: it's responsible for developing the BattleTech series, including MechWarrior and MechCommander.MICE, joysticks and touch-screens may be hazardous to your health, but very little research has been done into the ergonomic effects of using these relatively new input devices. The Health and Safety Executive (HSE), a government agency, is therefore funding a two-year study, which will be undertaken by researchers at the universities of Surrey and Loughborough.The results will be used to update the advice the HSE gives British companies on the use of computer equipment. So will they test the £29 key-flipping keyboard that Blue Egg will launch next month? (http://www.keyflip.net) This has buttons on the side, for playing pinball, and Empire's TimeShock game is supplied.
Fancy some action? But genuine action - not some simulated shoot 'em-up? Then point your browser in the unlikely direction of Rome and the Missionary News Service (MISNA) at www.misna.org/eng.It offers enough bloodshed and suspense in an average month to satisfy the most insatiable adventure freak.Last week, the agency notched up a remarkable scoop: that Congolese rebels had shot and hacked to death 500 civilians in what could be the worst atrocity of the five-month struggle to overthrow President Laurent Kabila.What makes MISNA special is not so much the quality of the journalism, but its feeling of immediacy. Many of the 'sources' are clearly missionaries who work with, and live among, the people directly affected by the dramatic events. And many of its reports have evidently been written by people who watched those events unfold.Here, from December 23, is a dispatch from Mexico: 'Armed with sticks and firecrackers, to simulate rifles and bullets, the Tzotzil Indians of Acteal (Chiapas, Mexico) yesterday performed a heart wrenching re-enactment of the massacre perpetrated by 'Special Units' of the paramilitary on the 22nd of December of 1997. Some 3,500 villagers, including 2,000 masked supporters of the Zapatista rebels knelt and prayed on the gravesides of the 21 women, 15 children and nine men who were tortured and then viciously murdered with machetes in a raid that lasted over eight hours.'At times, you can almost hear the tropical rain beating on the tin roof of some remote, Third World church.'It is time for peace and reconciliation.' These were the words pronounced by Msgr Biguzzi on Sunday morning to the faithful gathered for mass in the Cathedral of Makeni (Sierra Leone),' a MISNA dispatch recorded on December 14.That seemingly routine report was to turn out to be the start of the sort of 'thread' that is MISNA at its most gripping - enabling readers to follow the adventures and misadventures of real people in real time. In this case, the people are often missionaries and no one who consults the archive can doubt their remarkable courage and dedication.The Monsignor's words went unheeded. Eight days later, the agency reported: 'The village of Binkolo (12 kilometres north-east of Makeni) was attacked by other rebel troops. The sensation is that the situation is degenerating by the hour.'Two missionaries were reported missing in Binkolo, but 'all the missionary personnel of the city of Makeni, including the Bishop, Msgr Giorgio Biguzzi, have been evacuated and are safe. The only one left in the city is 56-year-old Father Vittorio Bongiovanni (of Mantua, Italy), who requested permission from his superiors to remain.'A heroic gesture,' the Bishop commented, 'considering the high risk that Makeni could be attacked by the rebels during the night'.' Then, the next day : 'Father Jose Angel Aguirre, Spanish Xaverian Missionary, is safe and sound at the Catholic mission of Kamabai. . . . Yesterday morning he had been reported missing together with Congolese Father Pascal Kasanziki . . . who is supposedly still hiding.' Six hours later, and two days before Christmas, the glad news breaks: 'The second missionary . . . was just traced.'
What's in a name? When it is a name like www.yahoo.com quite a lot.The Internet keeps track of all these names in a directory called the Domain Name System. This DNS can convert the human-friendly www.yahoo.com into the computer-friendly Internet Protocol (IP) address 204.71.177.71 your computer understands.Without DNS, we'd have to remember that 204.71.177.71 is where we go to search Yahoo! When you type www.yahoo.com into your browser, your computer needs the address of the Internet computer it must contact to receive the Web page. So it asks the DNS to change the name into its numeric form.Each name is divided by dots which distinguish levels in a hierarchy of names. The topmost, or rightmost, is usually a country, like .uk or .fr, or one of the generic top-level domains like .com or .org. The generic domains represent companies (.com), networks (.net), non-profit organisations (.org), educational establishments (.edu), government (.gov) and the military (.mil).These names are like postal addresses. A letter sent to Bath would have the address Bath, Avon, UK. The UK is the top level specifying the country, then we have the county and finally the town.On the Internet the name www.yahoo.com has a generic part (.com), specifies a company (.yahoo) and within Yahoo! the computer referred to is called www. (Had the Web's designers thought about saying the tongue-twisting www, we might have ended up with a name like web.yahoo.com.) All the generic domains, except the .gov and .mil domains, are handled by the US company Network Solutions.The individual organisations tack on their own www or online to make the names we are familiar with. From the Network Solutions site at www.internic.net you can find out where a domain is located and who is the contact. Take a Web site name, say www.internic.net, strip off the first part and enter the remainder -in this case internic.net - in the search box.In the UK, domain names are handled by the UK Network Information Centre, or NIC, at www.nic.uk, with names split into ac.uk (academic), co.uk (corporate), gov.uk (government) and others for non-profit organisations and limited and public companies. To look up The Guardian, for example, go to www.nic.uk/whois.html and enter guardian.co.uk. The information returned gives you the address of the machine used to look up the IP address belonging to The Guardian. That's the machine queried when you want to view OnLine on the Web.The UK NIC and Network Solutions have the top level computers called root servers which process requests to find other servers that can convert names into addresses. The root server knows where to find yahoo.com or guardian.co.uk's own DNS machine but not the whole address www.yahoo.com or whatever. By delegating authority to each individual domain, the DNS system is easy to control.Every computer using the DNS gets set up with the address of a nearby server, a specialised computer dedicated to a specific task, that can handle requests for changing names to numbers. When you dial into your ISP your computer learns this address automatically.When your computer wants to contact www.yahoo.com it asks the computer your ISP has assigned to the task. Usually that computer will reply with the address from a local cache, or list of commonly used addresses. If you were the first visitor to Yahoo! your ISP's DNS computer would itself need to learn the address.The .com portion tells the DNS computer it must ask Network Solutions' root servers where to find yahoo.com. The root server replies with the address of a DNS computer at Yahoo! Then your ISP's DNS computer asks that Yahoo! machine where to find www.yahoo.com. The reply is sent back to your computer. After all that your browser is ready to contact the Web site. The process starts all over again for each site you contact from Yahoo!• John Graham-Cumming works in Silicon Valley, designing software to manage computer networks.
Cheating and Australia. The two words are snug partners if we are talking cricket. But what about Australian university students cheating to get their degrees . . . on the Net?Too right, mate! Most academics in Australia have had to deal with it to some degree, says Jenna Mead, Senior Lecturer in the School of English and European Languages and Literatures at the University of Tasmania in Hobart: 'No one wants to admit the size of the problem and the difficulty of the problem.'But it is a huge problem. There are literally thousands of cheat sites on the Net and the potential to undermine academic standards is alarming, says Mead. So she, along with academics at the University of Birmingham, has begun to fight back.Malcolm Coulthard, Professor of English Language and Linguistics at Birmingham, and his colleague, David Woolls, a computer consultant, have developed a program to detect whether an essay has been copied by checking its lexical vocabulary of nouns, verbs, adjectives and adverbs. These features carry most of the content of an essay and are subject to much greater individual variation than other words. But the software does rely on any cheating being widespread.'By its nature the software will only assist with Internet cheating if more than one student makes use of the same essay, not an impossibility given a group of 200 students,' notes Woolls.'It was also designed with the awareness that it is very easy to share disks or send e-mails these days.' Jens Schriver, who runs the Web site Cheathouse (www.cheathouse.com) and claims to offer 9,500 essays in 44 categories online, refuses to take a moral stand.'How people use the product or service is their responsibility. If you want to use my service in a socially acceptable way, that is possible. The kids know what they are doing and they know the consequences.' He insists the site is used like a library or database by many students . . . and by academics, too, presumably.
INTEL finally announced the name of its next processor (drum roll) and it's the Intel Pentium III.This must have required a huge amount of thought, following as it does the Pentium, Pentium MMX, Pentium Pro, and Pentium II processors. Intel's marketing department must long for the good old days when chips had names like 186, x286, x386 and x486, and naming the next in line was easy.A great name was announced at last week's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, too. Intel, Microsoft, Compaq and two dozen of their supporters announced Universal Plug &amp; Play (UPnP), which is designed to connect up computers and consumer electronics devices. Curiously enough, Sun Microsystems is about to announce a similar Java-based system called Jini (genie), probably on January 25. The timing must have been a lucky coincidence. . . .Another company with names on its mind is Acorn Computer, Britain's version of Apple. Acorn is going to change its name today. The betting suggests the new name will be Element 14 otherwise known as Silicon. Long-term Acorn users, a class apart, will put up their hands and "please sir, please sir" wonder why Acorn chose the 14th day instead of this week's BETT educational technology show.Part of the answer is that last week, Acorn sold its half share of Xemplar, the educational computer supplier, to Apple for only £6 million. So, it's goodbye Acorn, goodbye education, but as a contact at the company confided: "It's not a market we've made very much money out of for a long time." Acorn is not out of the woods yet: it's still based at Acorn House, Cambridge. Will the name be changed to Element 14 House?Talking of which, Silicon Graphics Inc (not Element 14 Graphics) is also changing its strategy, its business model and some of its technology. On Monday, this famed supplier of Unix workstations broke with tradition by launching new Visual Workstations (below) running Microsoft's Windows NT operating system. (If you can't beat 'em, join 'em.) These are not only far more original than the average PC, they sport interesting shapes and colours. However, there is no iMac influence: SGI was selling colourful, curvey computers while all Apple's machines were still beige.
Cancer research laboratories in the pharmaceutical companies and universities are working intensively on totally new ways to treat tumours.These strategies are made possible by a mountain of research accumulated over the past two decades about how cancer cells live and die. Now, we finally begin to understand why cancer cells are so successful in creating tumours and destroying human life.A tumour is no more than an aggregate of cells arising at one or another site in the body. They all descend from one cell that began, years, perhaps decades earlier, to double uncontrollably. Only when a billion or more cells accumulate does the tumour become detectable.This raises the question of what caused the founder cell to begin its runaway growth. The tools of molecular biology have been used to uncover the submicroscopic answers hidden deep inside individual cancer cells. We now know that genes inside the normal cell control its proliferation, telling it when to grow and divide and when to desist. These genes - often termed oncogenes and tumour suppressor genes - suffer damage in tumour cells. So the cell receives faulty instructions from its growth programming machinery and uncontrolled multiplication begins.How can this information be used to treat actual human tumours? These days, the best strategies involve the surgeon's scalpel and a host of chemotherapeutic drugs. The latter are potent toxins and, with luck, are better at killing the cancer cells than the cells in surrounding normal tissues. The side-effects of these drugs are legion. Equally importantly, most types of cancers are only temporarily slowed by the drugs, giving the patient a bit more time but not a cure.Virtually all the anti-cancer drugs we use these days have been developed 'empirically' - a fancy way of saying 'hit or miss'. Thousands, indeed hundreds of thousands of chemical compounds have been tested for their ability to affect cancer cell growth and to kill cancer cells. Some compounds, such as those used to treat certain types of childhood leukaemias and adult testicular cancers, have been spectacularly successful.But for most of the commonly occurring tumours, the gains have been at best incremental. In truth, these drugs were developed without any knowledge of how or why cancer cells grow. But new information makes 'rational' drug design possible: for the first time, we see clearly the Achilles' heels of the cancer cell. The new drugs are being tailored to attack these weak spots and promise far greater potency in wiping out cancer cells in the body while sparing cells in normal tissues.The most obvious chink in the armour has been revealed by research over the past five years into the machinery that decides the life or death of the cell. All cells, normal and malignant, carry within them a built-in death machine that can be triggered to eliminate them rapidly from tissues. This suicide machinery choreographs a series of changes termed apoptosis.The body exploits apoptosis to eliminate cells for a variety of reasons. During normal embryological development, for example, the cells that initially form extensive webs between the embryo's fingers are induced to activate their apoptotic programmes. The body also uses apoptosis to combat cancer. Incipient cancer cells are induced to commit suicide by apoptosis, if and when they begin to grow abnormally. Somehow the inappropriate growth behaviour is sensed within the cell and activates its always-alert apoptotic machinery.Indeed, it seems millions of small nests of cancer cells are formed in the body during the course of a normal lifetime. Virtually all these clusters of incipient cancer cells are eliminated by apoptosis. Only on rare occasions does one or another cell learn how to evade apoptotic death and begin unfettered proliferation, having subverted one of the body's prime defences against malignancy.This dynamic has been illustrated nicely by the work of Dr Gerard Evan of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund in London. He has shown that the activation of a growth-promoting oncogene within a normal cell induces it into strong proliferation. But this cell's sentinel, which monitors the signals fluxing through its innards, senses something amiss, and sounds the apoptotic alarm. The alarm attempts to abort this cell's agenda of unlimited proliferation. Soon this cell or its descendants are consigned to death by apoptotic suicide. On rare occasions, however, a descendant cell may sustain another change that cripples the apoptotic alarm, thereby enabling this cell to: i) enjoy the proliferative benefits conferred by the initial growth-promoting oncogene, and ii) escape being pushed into apoptotic death. The result is a successfully growing cancer cell.The cancer cell, at least for the moment, has succeeded in shifting the balance between life and death in favour of life and unlimited proliferation.But its hold on life is precarious. Its death machinery, derailed for the moment, lies waiting for the chance to strike and kill the cell around it. In fact, cancer cells are constantly dying at high rates, a testimony to the fact that they have not totally neutralised their apoptotic machinery.Knowledge of cell suicide casts a dramatically different light on how cancer treatment has worked in the past and how it may succeed in the future. Once, we thought that anti-cancer drugs succeeded by flooding the cancer cell with toxins, bludgeoning it to death. We now know that the existing drugs, to the extent that they succeed, operate in a much more subtle way: they tweak the levers inside the cancer cell that turn on its apoptotic suicide programme. Because this programme has not been totally neutralised in cancer cells (only muted), these cells are much more susceptible to killing by many drugs than are normal cells, in which this alarm programme remains inactive.How can we take advantage of this increased vulnerability to create much more effective drugs? Over the past two years, researchers have been laying bare the complex circuitry that operates within cells, normal and malignant, to determine whether or not the apoptotic alarm is sounded. This circuitry operates much like a small computer, with signals coursing from one element to another, and decisions made by the concurrence of a network of such elements. In this instance, the elements of the circuitry are various inter-communicating cell proteins that send signalling fluxes to one another.We now begin to perceive the fine balance between life and death in all cells, governed by constant struggle between the pro- and anti-death proteins within this circuitry. We have begun to learn with precision how these proteins work, what activates the death proteins, what mutes those favouring life.So the pharmaceutical companies have moved in, as well they should. They know that these life and death proteins represent highly attractive targets for a new generation of compounds, tailor-made to attack this apoptotic circuitry and force the hand of the cancer cell.Over the next five years, we will see a flood of new compounds. They will be designed rationally. They will tip the balance. We now, for the first time, have a clear view of how to kill the cancer cell.• Robert Weinberg is director of the Oncology Research Laboratory at the Whitehead Institute in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and professor of biology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.His new book, One Renegade Cell: The Quest for the Origins of Cancer, is published next week in Britain by Weidenfeld &amp; Nicolson, price £12.99.
By now, Christmas seems a distant memory. But while Santa slumbers, the toy retailers are frantically preparing for next year, in a desperate quest for the New Furby.This week's Harrogate International Toy and Christmas Fair is a strange mixture of high and low-tech. After the revival of yo-yos and Rubik's cubes, toy manufacturers seem undecided as to what Millennium children hope to pull out of their stockings. At one end of the scale is the High Performance Desert Tenere, an electric motorbike (with stabilisers) that allows six-year-olds to reach speeds of up to five miles per hour around the sitting room on Boxing Day.If all this sounds rather too exciting don't worry: plenty of old-fashioned stuff is available. If Ideal's missile-firing radio-controlled robot seems frightfully vulgar, all sorts of quaint little wooden figures can be snapped up (in recycled brown paper bags, natch).Next New Year's Eve should be memorable. Black Cat Fireworks is chasing a killing (as it were) with a range of Millennium-themed rockets. The sky will be raining firework debris, it hopes, with the Big Ben Bomb, Millennium Magic and, best of all, The Return of Hale-Bopp. And if after a few drinks you don't feel fit to orchestrate a pyrotechnic extravaganza, you can always opt for the display-in-a-box, which comes loaded with 200 shots and one big fuse - to ensure that in your drunken haze you don't send the family pet on a return trip to the stratosphere.Millennial party supplies are sure to be big business this year, with the usual Christmas crackers, party poppers and silly hats being redesigned to fit in with the celebrations (ie having a great big '2000!!!' stamped on them). Dekkertoys had a range of celebrity masks on display, with Michael Jackson nestling between the Queen and Bill Clinton. Monica Lewinsky is currently breaking the mould.Disappointingly, there was a lack of really innovative toys. Saddest of all was Best-Lock, a shameless copy of Lego. Its boxes advertise 'compatibility with all leading brands,' and ask 'Why pay more for some logo?' But won't Lego sue for copyright infringement? "There is nothing they can do," said the Best-Lock salesman. There is no longer any copyright protecting the original bricks. Fair enough, but how about something better than Lego, rather than just cheaper?
Long ago, I worked as a securities analyst on Wall Street, following the fortunes of growth companies for investors. One stock I covered was Federal Express.Like most people, I kept files but rarely used them. One day, as I poked into the FedEx file, I found my FedEx airbills for some packages I had sent.Now, whenever I tell that story to a human, he or she laughs. But to a computer, it would seem perfectly logical.Second story: today, some friends were looking for an SGML editor (for Standard Generalised Markup Language, a favourite of document experts). One had done a Web search and found nothing useful. I fired off an e-mail to another friend who is an SGML nut, and got an answer in half an hour, with an e-mail address for the supplier.Third story: another friend sent me an e-mail. He wants to 'develop an infrastructure for using people's assessments of online documents for improved navigation, and apply them to Usenet messages'.What ties these stories together? They are all about how we find things on the Web. Business people are building so-called portals around search tools that aren't too good, so there are lots of opportunities to show people ads while they poke around. (The more mistakes, the more page views, which means the more 'ad impressions'.)So the portals want to make search results good enough to please their users, but not so good that customers pass through right away. There's a fundamental conflict here, and I think it's bad news for the generic portals. Even as Disney is creating the newest brand-name generic portal,Go,hundreds of other perfectly respectable sites want to become the medicine portal or the landscape gardening portal, with information organised in relevant ways.My third friend, Sasha Chislenko, wants to create tools and formats so that we can structure the Usenet, basically a huge collection of user postings, to categorise and classify it not only by topic, but by user assessments of quality, relevance, reliability etc.When you look for a store or restaurant or a place to leave the kids, you consider the neighborhood: Is it expensive? Is it a shopping district or a public park? Are the office buildings old or new? Then when you make your choice and walk into a restaurant, you aren't led to your table blindfolded.When you look at content, you want to know, similarly, what's the neighbourhood? Is the site well-visited? Frequently updated? Do a lot of other sites point to this site? Do visitors come from the financial district, or do they just want to send a package? The point is to focus not on faster queries (or trying to make them more accurate) but to do a better job of describing the Web, so that people can navigate for themselves, by starting in the right neighbourhood and following the right cues.This task is a huge one, well beyond the capabilities of any portal. You can buy search engine technology, but how can you buy or even manage a catalogue for the entire Web? Yahoo!, the only broad-scale portal that actually has a catalogue of the Web rather than a search engine, doesn't cover most of the Net's territory, and does so only broadly.The good news is that the Web is starting to describe itself. Sasha's project is more formal than most. Another company,Realize,wants to get people to rate one another's postings to improve the quality of discourse online.Everywhere, people are putting up signposts, building and sharing bookmark lists, and e-mailing links to each other. All the cross-references and hyperlinks you see on the typical Web site are just parts of the human-built structure of the Web that is slowly accreting over time.Now developers are building tools to detect and follow those links and aggregate them, then let people pick sites by whether they are hubs (with lots of outward links) or authorities (with lots of inward links).Other people are building different catalogues: systems that classify goods by price (or by some specific metric such as tube size for piping, skin tone for cosmetics, disease in medicine, chemical structure in proteins).Some people worry that there's no standard language for describing everything on the Web, but that's because there's no standard language for describing everything in the world. Right now we have a Web that's opaque and constructed artificially. The major way to find things is by brute force.But in a few years, most of the content on the Web will have become much better at describing itself, through a range of methods ranging form formal catalogues to the kinds of trails people leave by their behavior. And at that point the Web will be rather like the real world: comprehensible up close, and visible as clearly as it needs to be from a distance.
Some Japanese girls are waving and dancing three centimetres in front of my right eye. No one else can see them, or hear the music in my ear.I can, with a bit of focusing effort, look right through their bobbing heads. When the video clip ends, the inch-wide screen displays the Windows 98 desktop. Using the joystick mouse in my left hand, I click on the video icon and repeat the experience.I am wearing this computer. The screen is mounted on a headset like spectacles with only one lens. The computing power (equivalent to a 233MHz notebook) is held in what looks like a portable CD player weighing less than 300g, including the battery pack. It slips into a pocket or clips onto your belt. Connecting wires run from this unit to an earphone and the mouse, which can be held and operated with one hand. The mouse also has a built-in microphone, because this computer will also respond to spoken instructions. To wear one is to want one.This is the way computing is heading, according to IBM, the machine's developer. The wearable PC is part of the 'Ease of Use' initiative, designed to get everyone using computing technology - especially IBM's - and loving it. It is about to go into trials and the company hopes to market the first versions sometime next year.Within a very short time, emergency services personnel or aircraft maintenance technicians could be accessing online manuals while working, and commuters might download e-mail or surf the Web while watching the countryside through train windows.This new technology is Exhibit A in the attempt to prove that a once-dominant force in computing technology is back in business. Not so many years ago the popular definition of a PC was an 'IBM machine'; since then, the firm has almost crashed and burned. Karl Kummerle, director of the Zurich research laboratory where the Wearable PC and several other innovations are on display, understates the situation beautifully. 'A few things went wrong. IBM made some strategic mistakes.'These 'strategic mistakes' include selling off IBM's share of Intel, and ditching the mainframes business just before they were put to use as high-end servers for network computing. 'We had written them off and now it's a booming business,' Kummerle admits.But IBM's research divisions, based in eight laboratories around the world, plugged away at the fundamentals. They were successful, too, despite enormous cuts in the research budget. Kummerle's Zurich laboratory gained two Nobel prizes, in 1986 and 1987, for the Scanning Tunnelling Microscope - now a standard tool in almost every university physics department - and the discovery of high-temperature superconductivity.The research effort began to bear fruit in computing with the 1997 victory of IBM'sDeep Blue IIcomputer over the chess Grand Master Garry Kasparov. They have taken this success and developed Blue Pacific: currently the world's fastest supercomputer. Every second it can perform nearly 4 trillion operations (that's 63,000 years of using a handheld calculator), and its memory is equivalent to around 80,000 desktop computers. At the end of October, IBM's Deep Computing division delivered one to theUS Department of Energywho see Blue Pacific as a way out of the problems caused by the cessation of nuclear tests.The US nuclear stockpile has been sitting around for a few years now without testing. Blue Pacific is being used to run the Monte Carlo simulations developed to follow individual nuclear reactions; it does this fast enough to be able to work out the amount of degradation in the weapons' nuclear material, and run a test, simulating an explosion. That, says the Department of Energy, should mean no more underground tests will ever be necessary.Plenty of other lucrative applications are awaiting Blue Pacific: pharmaceuticals production and data mining (finding patterns in consumer behaviour, for example) are on the agenda. Just over a year ago, IBM signed a deal with biotechnology company Monsanto to hunt for hidden patterns in genetic information. Next year, Blue Pacific will be superseded by a machine that is 10 times as fast. Researchers are aiming for 100 trillion operations per second within a few years.This kind of progress requires research one step ahead of the next anticipated problem. IBM's rivals have openly acknowledged that, in one area of chip technology, they have been left standing. Last year IBM began producing a new copper chip that works up to 40 per cent faster than current silicon technology - with a 30 per cent reduction in manufacturing costs. Copper replaces the aluminium used to link transistors. It is a better conductor of electricity and so signals travel faster. But it is more difficult to connect to the silicon transistors, and has a tendency to contaminate the chip's other components. There is also the problem of inertia in the semiconductor industry: aluminium has been the standard for 30 years.However, miniaturisation has reached the point where aluminium's electrical resistance is becoming prohibitively high. IBM's breakthrough could not have come at a better time - and with a better head start. Intel, and most other major chip-producing companies, are 18 months behind.Rumours abound within IBM that while the company was trying to axe the copper chip project one researcher stubbornly refused to give it up. It is a process that Kummerle is familiar with: 10 years ago, while he was heading the Communications Research area of the Zurich laboratory, he produced a prototype machine that could integrate voice and data traffic.'We couldn't get the interest of the development people,' he says. 'They were impressed by the data part, but not with voice integration.' In the end Kummerle and his team gave up. 'It might have been the right decision then but, in light of Internet telephony, it looks a bit different now,' he says.
The barriers between the virtual and real worlds begin to dissolve as soon as I step off a plane bound for Silicon Valley, where I am based for many weeks each year.Arriving at the main port of entry, San Francisco, the cyberworld merges in and out of what used to be reality - appropriately enough for the place where hallucinogens once held sway and cyberpunk author William Gibson has based several of his Internet-inflected novels.With just under a third of its population online, San Francisco is officially the most wired city in the world, and the area from here to the edge of Silicon Valley in the south has the highest installed base of modems anywhere. Perhaps not exactly typical of the US Net world, but, say analysts, a probable vision of the not-too-distant Net future.Disembarking intoSan Francisco airportI wait for my baggage next to two geek-chic men with employer Web addresses on their T-shirts - the Valley uniform. Upstairs, in Departures, are the keyboard and screen-filled kiosks which made San Francisco International the first airport with general Internet access. Swipe a credit card and you're online, checking out the news and your stocks or downloading e-mail.The drive from San Francisco down into Silicon Valley means passing towering billboards for Web portals Excite and Yahoo, for networking equipment, for 56K modems. Nearly every advertisement for a non-computing company - Ford or Smirnoff or The Gap - includes a www.something.com address. There are company Web addresses in television and radio ads, on the side of milk cartons, chocolate, toothpaste, condom packs.A jet-lagged working day starts at 7am - after all, the East Coast has been up and online for hours, while the UK is racing eight hours ahead. Even before coffee, I log on, downloading e-mail plus most of the American technology Web site newsletters, filed to subscribers in the dark hours of the morning. Then I open my browser to a personalised news site which lists stories in categories I have chosen as well as technology stocks.Before 8am, the phone rings - a technology analyst responding to an e-mail query sent the previous day. Fifteen minutes later, the phone rings again - a technology company replying to another e-mail. Nobody in Silicon Valley, land of the all-night hack and 24-hour pizza deliveries, seems to think this a particularly unusual hour to conduct business.I check e-mail again, run through the morning stories on several technology news sites, then go for breakfast, leaving the computer to download some software for review over the second, Internet-only phone line my retired parents installed years ago. I keep the link up all day as the basic charges are minimal and local calls are free.Back to work. Seeking information on recent Internet-related legislation, I stop first at the US Congress site. For several years the American government has been legally required to place volumes of information online - I can get a Web page for every member of Congress, a list of all bills, searchable by topic, bill number or title, records of roll call votes, today's agenda. Similar information is available for the California legislature.I need flight information for a friend's afternoon arrival. There's a Web site which tracks all domestic flights. It reports his plane is now scheduled to land seven minutes early.I phone a computer games company executive in LA for comments for a piece. He sounds distracted. 'Can you hang on just until I die?' he asks. He's in the midst of an online team game of Quake, talking to me while blasting away at enemies over the Net. He soon dies, and we do the interview. As he talks, I call up relevant details from their site as well as a company history and print those out.I need some statistics on Silicon Valley schools. The hugeCalifornia State websitechannels me to a site with copious statistics on every school in the state. Number of computers in a given school, number of classrooms online, ethnic breakdown of students, national test scores - it's all there.E-mail flows in and out. One industry contact pops up on America Online's instant messaging and we have a virtual conversation about a tech company reception later that day. He uses the Net to pay his utility bills, do his banking, buy shares, file his taxes, buy gifts. He has a wireless modem that he uses with his laptop - get your e-mail in the cafe with your double latte! - a Web-based postage system, and Internet magazines scattered across his office. Like many individuals here, he pays for a high-bandwidth Internet connection which would be limited to businesses in the UK and would cost three times as much.Going to Yahoo's maps section, I type in the street name for the party, get a map printout and driving directions. I send a few last e-mails to friends who, over here, are more likely to check e-mail before phone messages. I finish writing a story and file it back to the office via e-mail, sending a duplicate to my free Web-based Hotmail e-mail account, which I use as a back-up file when travelling. Later in the evening I might go online again to check the film schedule at the local theatre, order Chinese food for delivery or chat with friends.I've been online for nine continuous hours. Or rather, the Internet has worked in the background for me for nine hours, handling tasks both quotidian and work-related. Because it costs little, the connection stays up all day. And because people are out there, online, all day, a rich Net universe of services has evolved in the US to cater to them.
If the bad news is that Europe lags a year behind the United States in its use of the Internet, the good news is that a year ago, it was two years.Now, the Net market is growing faster in Europe than anywhere else in the world, and by year's end, more than half of Net users will be non-American - if you believe industry analyst International Data Corporation. But such optimism is tempered by other studies.A report last September by Andersen Consulting warned that European executives are dangerously wary of the Net. And Britons are resoundingly suspicious. According to a Which? Online/MORI poll last November, 58 per cent of Britons believe the Net is a threat to morality, a third think it's a threat to security, half believe it encourages fraud, and 72 per cent believe it should be regulated. Contrast that to the 77 per cent of American Net users who say that Internet access has improved their lives.By most estimates, about 10 per cent of Britons are active Net users, compared to 20 to 25 per cent in America, and Britain looks unlikely to catch up anytime soon. Woking-based industry analysts Inteco predict that by year's end, Britons online will jump to 14 per cent of the population. But US users will increase to 36 per cent.Web resources are overwhelmingly American, forcing Europeans to surf across the Atlantic. One US study found that up to half of the traffic at some US shopping sites was generated from Europe. A search on any of the UK portal sites shows this as well. (Of course, most - Yahoo!, Excite, Infoseek, ZDNet - are regional branches of a US parent site.) Click into a subsection like 'Government', and 20,000 sites are offered for the US, while the UK has 700. UK sites often seem tentative - while the House of Parliament site posts searchable texts of bills, Commons debates, and other resources courtesy of Hansard, the pages are basic, don't link to individual MPs, and don't offer links to related, relevant sites.There is no clear, easily-accessible source of information from the Government on schools, either. The National Grid for Learning Web site is particularly Web-ignorant, requiring visitors to register without explaining why - an approach widely recognised as one of the swiftest deterrents for would-be users.A European online workday for a heavy Net user like me starts much later than it would in the US. While there are now several UK-based technology news sites, for example, most of the key news about issues and developments in the industry comes from the US, and won't start arriving until mid-afternoon UK time.Most of my UK contacts, even within the technology industry, do not use e-mail. More often than not, business cards do not even list an e-mail address, much less a company Web address. Therefore, I use the phone, worried that an e-mail might be overlooked.Throughout the day I log on and off at intervals, writing e-mail offline to save connection costs and as much as possible, reserving my research use of the Net for evenings when calls are cheaper. One eye is always on the clock, although I am resigned to hefty connection bills.Ask people in the Internet industry in Britain to list the main throttles to developing a UK Web culture, and access always comes first. "The cost of telecommunications is a serious inhibitor," notes Frank Boyd, director of the Arts Technology Centre and chair of the Digital Media Alliance.A stronger risk-taking culture, supported by venture capital, also spurs US Internet growth, according to Boyd. Mike Butcher, editor of the London-based industry newsletter New Media Age, says: "Here, even people with good ideas don't have the access to capital that they have in the States." Online advertising has been slow to take off in the UK, he says, which has limited the growth of British Web content.But with revenue predicted to jump from &#163;12-15 million last year to &#163;30-40 million in 1999, this may change. That could offer British content creators a global launchpad. "The area where we can possibly get an edge is in creative content," says Boyd. "But I think that window of opportunity is closing." Still, if the Internet is clearly not a mainstream medium yet in the UK, the nation is developing an Internet culture of its own, according to Yahoo UK director Ralph Averbuch. "There is a growing British Web culture, but it is highly fragmented and is evolving from very diverse sources," he says.Britons are both cynical and pragmatic about the Web: "Unlike the US where risk-taking is a fine art, in the UK Web culture, people want to pick over the fine detail repeatedly before biting the bullet." Nonetheless, IDC Internet analyst Barry Parr argues that we are heading inexorably towards a global Net culture. "This medium is so powerful it has a logic, a momentum, a force all its own,' he says. 'It's damn near unstoppable."
A row within the telecoms industry threatens to disrupt the free Internet service provided by Dixons to thousands of households.The telecoms watchdog Oftel has decided to try to broker a resolution to the dispute and safeguard consumers' access to low-cost Web-surfing.The row is principally between British Telecom and the telecoms group Energis but encompasses other telecoms companies which operate lines into homes, such as cable companies.The dispute centres on the way revenue from the Dixons Freeserve service is split between BT and Energis. The service is free of charges but the user pays a local call charge for connecting to the Net.Under a long-standing telecoms industry agreement, BT receives only enough revenue to cover its costs - the interconnection charge - when handling calls of this type. It gets about 30 per cent of the revenue. Energis receives about 70 per cent.The share-out is set under a tariff structure designed to allow call-company customers to ring anywhere in the UK at a local call rate. This was designed to help marketing initiatives and the calls were supposed to be brief.BT wants to reverse the revenue split, arguing that the Net calls are long, that it has to collect the revenue, and that it should be allowed to make a return on the cost of its investment in the local loop, the final link from the high-speed networks to homes.Energis chief executive Mike Grabiner is fronting a concerted campaign to preserve the present pricing structure. Energis has invested about £15 million to provide the service.One telecoms analyst said last night that changes to the revenue structure could 'overturn the financial model'.He said of BT: 'It has been spectacularly unsuccesful at the Internet, so it is trying to coin revenue from others' success.' Analysts have calculated that Freeserve could be worth £15 million in revenue to Energis next year.
By 2002, says an advert on an Internet search engine, $426 billion worth of commerce will be done on the Internet. And all the deals will be signed and documented using an encryption system. By 2002, some of them could be made possible by a new piece of mathematical privacy cooked up by a 16-year-old Cork schoolgirl who began to make history while doing work experience in Dublin.The teenager is Sarah Flannery, of Blarney. She is the daughter of a mathematician and she was, she says, switched on to maths by a set of evening classes given by her father, a lecturer at the Cork Institute of Technology. But first, the problem: if you want to send a secret message, or sign an agreement, or pay for something by credit card, you need to encrypt the information. To do this you use public key cryptography, and this is likely to be based on something called RSA.These letters stand for Rivest, Shamir and Adleman, three young graduates from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who in 1982 worked out the big answer, involving the product of two prime numbers each with 100 digits. A prime is a number not divisible by anything except itself, and one. If you know both these numbers, you can decode the message. If you only know the product of those numbers, you are stuck. The message remains clear only to the sender and the recipient. You can tell the whole world how you scrambled the message, and it would still have heads scratching forever. A computer makes the code, but no other computer so far devised could break it, not by what the professionals call brute force, even at 100 million calculations a second. Got that? You almost certainly have: 300 million copies of RSA have been installed worldwide.But privacy remains a problem: the hunt is always on for surer, simpler ways of wrapping up a message and a signature and then tossing it into an electronic marketplace occupied by 50 million potential eavesdroppers and electronic pickpockets. Sarah Flannery had a go last year, and her paper, Cryptography, The Science Of Secrecy, was good enough to win her a prize and send her to Texas to represent Ireland in a big international mathematics contest. She got third place.But she also got seriously interested. She applied for work experience with a Dublin outfit called Baltimore Technologies. This is an international business founded 22 years ago by Michael Purser, now 61. When Bill Clinton, and Ireland's Prime Minister, Bertie Ahern made history last year by digitally signing an electronic communique, the technology was provided by Baltimore Technologies.For years, Dr Purser said yesterday, he had looked for a new mathematics of encryption and digital signature. The first was no problem. The second was difficult. He wrote a paper, left it lying around the office, and went on holiday to Italy.'And this lassie Sarah Flannery came to do work experience from school. It was immediately perceived that she could do more than the tea, and they said can you program? and when she said yes, they said: 'Why don't you try and program this idea of Michael Purser's?' So that's what she did. She did it in three days, which was very remarkable.' Sarah produced a new algorithm - a step-by-step set of procedures for encoding and decoding - which was 22 times faster than the existing RSA standard. She called her entry in the Irish Young Scientist of the Year contest Cryptography - A New Algorithm Versus The RSA. The judges called it 'brilliant'. The prize is worth £1,000 and a place in a Europe-wide competition for young scientist of the year. Sarah has called her winning algorithm the Cayley-Purser code, after a Victorian Cambridge mathematician who worked on matrices - and, of course, Michael Purser.The surviving half of her inspiration was suitably impressed. 'She's a charmer: she wins the hearts of everybody who meets her, she's slightly shy and very modest and very concerned to give credit to other people, and she has a lovely smile and long hair and she's anything but brash,' said Dr Purser.'But she's very sharp. If you say something to her, she doesn't accept it like that, she analyses it. She has got a very good brain and she has a determination to understand, to make sense of what she is doing.' Sarah got the underlying maths, she said, by listening to her Dad, and yes, she was a bit frightened by what she had embarked on. She worked with numbers with more than 200 digits. 'So they are absolutely massive. To solve them by brute force with the fastest computers and the fastest methods for factoring would take 100,000 years,' she says. 'But it was just so interesting and it was weird to be doing it, and I'd come home from normal school and do something totally different, and it was so exciting I just couldn't stop.' She hasn't had time to think about it, but she isn't likely to patent and put a price on her knowledge. The other encryption codes are available for free on the Net, why would anyone buy hers? And, she says, can you actually patent a piece of mathematics? But she speaks as though she sees a career before her. The obsession with very large numbers did not interfere with all the other things that go with being a teenager, she says. She competes in basketball, studies karate, shows horses in gymkhana and plays both piano and tin whistle. 'A change is as good as a rest,' she says cryptically.And anyway, she would call it fun. 'It was cool, it was such a practical application, you could see things working. I could see the algorithm actually implementing and making text into gobbledegook, it was all really interesting and really new.' Mathematicians often do their best work very early in life. Dr Purser wasn't surprised to find someone who turned up for work experience solving a problem that had bothered him for years.'I think the young have more flexible minds. But it is not only to do with how good your brain is. It is a question of the hours you are prepared to dedicate to something. Young people will devote entire days to perfecting a trick on a skateboard, after all. Well, some people will do it in mathematics. Middle-aged people are much more concerned about catching the bus or paying the gas bill or taking the dog for a walk.'
Almost a million subscribers have signed up with Dixons' Freeserve Internet service in the four months since it was launched, providing a ray of optimism at an otherwise gloomy time for the electronics retailer.Sir Stanley Kalms, chairman of the group which includes Currys and PC World, said yesterday he feared the UK would slide into recession this year. But he said customers were still signing up to the Internet joint venture with Energis at about 40,000 per week. He said growth would be even faster but for limits on the speed with which new phone lines could be added.'It has been better than we had any right to expect,' Sir Stanley said. Some 700,000 subscribers were active users and were already making millions of pounds worth of web purchases. 'It is still peanuts, but it is growing every week. It is potentially a money-spinner, but it will take a few years.' The Dixons boss said the company was already making small profits from its share of the telephone charges but the main commercial benefits would come from sales through its web pages and commission from other retailers.'We will soon have a million people coming through the Dixons portal. We don't have any control over them once they are in but we have first call on them. They have got to come through our front door and we can direct them to our website and to other people's, who will pay us a commission. The secret is to learn how to present our shop window to exhibit our products effectively.' Dixons reported yesterday that computer sales have soared over the past six months, during which the PC World chain has overtaken the Dixons outlets in total sales. The number of computers sold has grown by about a quarter over the past year but, with prices falling by as much as 30 per cent, the value of sales has been flat and profits minimal.'Nobody makes a profit from selling computers. The profits come from the peripherals and the software,' Sir Stanley said.Sales from the 61 PC World stores reached £362 million in the six months to November, a third more than the previous year but only 3 per cent ahead if the impact of new stores is excluded. Sales from the 345-strong Dixons chain were £334 million, 1 per cent up.But Currys, the largest of the group's chains, saw comparable sales slide by 7 per cent in the aftermath of the 1997 windfall sales, which gave a temporary boost to sales of appliances such as washing machines.'White goods are really at the bottom of the cycle. Last year's boom has taken out about two years' purchases,' Sir Stanley said.The slow sales at Currys left the group's total sales 2 per cent lower than in the same period in 1997, new stores excluded. Christmas sales were 3 per cent higher, however.The group reported a 10 per cent drop in pre-tax profit to £69 million. Operating profit was marginally lower, reflecting lower profit margins from price-cutting as well as the lower sales.Sir Stanley said he was cautious about the current year, 'I am very nervous,' he said. 'The economy looks very fragile and I am not looking for much growth. I think we are actually going into recession.'
Game-show addicts will be able to take part in some of the most popular television contests around the globe 24 hours a day following the agreement announced yesterday by media group Pearson and an online entertainment company.Pearson, which reckons to own 90 per cent of the world's game-show formats, has sold rights to the US versions of TV shows Blankety Blank and Family Fortunes to E-Pub Holdings The deal allows the US group to run interactive versions of the games on-line for two years on its game-show website, Uproar.Apart from Match Game and Family Feud - the American Blankety Blank and Family Fortunes - the deal gives E-Pub access to the format for Password, which is not shown in the UK, and 100%, the Channel 5 show which is due to run on US television before the end of the year.Pearson said it was a 'toe in the water' to explore the potential for reviving game formats on the Net.Pearson will pay £80,000 for a 10.9 per cent stake in E-Pub, and take a share of revenues raised from the online shows. E-Pub, which draws nearly 4 million online contestants per month, was valued on Tuesday night at £138 million.The shows will make money through sponsorship and advertising.
The net may scare newbies and worry the less-than-young. But their terror appears slight compared to that of the west's intelligence and security agencies, to whom the arrival of free and unsurveilled global communications is anathema.Their response, on both sides of the Atlantic, is to seek to redesign the infrastructure of the Internet to make instant access net tapping a legal requirement - consuming resources in a way that experts say would cause "unavoidable and noticeable degradation in service".That plans to install traps in every nook and cranny of the net should have evolved identically in the US and Europe is no co-incidence to those who have been following the EU's secretive and unaccountable home affairs planning processes. Agents from the European Union countries, Canada, Australia, Norway and Hong Kong and the US met secretly at the FBI Academy and agent training centre at Quantico, Virginia in autumn 1993. There, they planned a new global system for telecommunications surveillance. The US then passed the Communications Assistance to Law Enforcement Act, requiring telecommunications operators to make an estimated $500 million worth of changes to their networks, to facilitate interception. Last September, the FBI presented new requirements to extend this system to the net, satellite and mobile phones, and to use mobile phones to track their targets' movements.In November, a series of leaked EU documents from the Council of Minister's police collaboration committee revealed that Europe was heading inthe same direction. Called Enfopol 98, the European documents set out proposals for new internet tapping laws to be passed in all member states. Internet Service Providers (ISPs) would have to provide high security "interception interfaces" on their premises, giving "real time, full time" access to all their traffic. Staff with knowledge of the interception arrangements would have to be positively vetted by MI5. It would be a criminal offence for companies or their staff to reveal how many people were tapped or how monitoring was done.In a heavily fortified building in London's docklands sits Linx, the London Internet Exchange. Linx is the heart of British internet communications. Its optical pipes and ultra-fast relaying equipment handle the majority of this country's net communications. It is the primary British site for anyone wanting to spy on the net. According to LINX chairman Keith Mitchell, the secretly evolving plans for tapping the net are as unaffordable as they are unworkable. The EU proposals, he says, "probably have astronomical cost implications." Mitchell and industry colleagues see the police response as the classic reflex action of a befuddled detective; throw the lot into a police van and take it down to the nickThe internet is the product of 30 years of evolution, which began with Arpanet, a US defence computer network designed to stay working even as nuclear attacks destroyed many of its constituent parts. Every message that traverses the net can be split into many constituent parts, each of which can take a different route to its destination, through whichever sites have capacity and connections. Net users can enter cyberspace at innumerable physical points, often acquiring an evanescent electronic identity that changes every time the net is used. The law enforcement agents response has been to demand that every item of data about every internet user should be downloaded into their computers. To be effective, this system would have to allocate everyone a lifetime net identity at birth, and register it in an international database, linked to DNA samples and fingerprints. Not even the FBI-EU group has proposed that. But in the chameleon-like world of cyberspace, nothing less would come within a hair's breadth of working against major targets. Rogue states or terrorists deploying weapons of mass destruction, or wealthy organised crime operators will not lose their ability to purchase or provide the means of evasion that they now enjoy. EU Ministers merely risk creating an electronic behemoth that widely threatens privacy and civil liberty with little benefit to the fight against terrorism and organised crime. The time to start talking about what should be in Jack Straw's new Interception of Communications Act is now, not when the oppressive requirements of the Enfopol planners are imposed on parliament by order from Brussels.• Duncan Campbell is an investigative journalist (not the Guardian's crime correspondent of the same name).
How safe is it to shop on the Internet?The dangers of e-commerce have been exaggerated. Stepping into the huge chasm of cyberspace does take a little getting used to, but in reality you take as big a risk handing your credit card to a waiter as you do when you enter the details into a website. 'There'll be the inevitable cowboys,' says James Woudhuysen, Professor of Innovation at De Montfort University. 'But it's a question of trust and growing experience.' It's also a question of being mildly sensible: check sites for 'real world' addresses, use a credit rather than debit card (because then whatever you buy is insured, and if nothing turns up you can reclaim the money), and print out copies of your transaction - just in case.Is it as easy and practical as Internet buffs promise?'It can be enormously boring, complicated and repetitive,' says Woudhuysen, and anyone who has spent any time watching sites download will agree. Many sites are cumbersome to get around. But on the plus side, it still takes less time to sit at your desk and order a CD from CDNow than it does to go to the shop. You just have to wait a little longer to hear it.Is it the shopping revolution we were promised?America is already seeing a massive boom in e-commerce. Here in Britain, more than 43 per cent of the country should be wired up by the end of the year, according to a Guardian/ICM poll, but both shops and shoppers are taking their time. Although the main supermarkets now offer Internet services, they are still limited to pilot schemes, and the same is true for most retailers.What can you buy?Almost anything: clothes, food, wine, computer software, music, health and beauty products, toys, plane and train tickets, cars and fridges. You can get information on house sales, check out mobile phones, source rare vinyl albums, track down model aeroplanes, rent a car or even send virtual flowers.How do you do it?It's not as daunting as it looks: if you want to find music, search for that and just check out the different sites as they come up. If you haven't spent any time on the Net so far it will take a while to find your way round, but after a couple of hours' browsing you'll get the hang of it. Some sites have shopping baskets, into which you can put your purchases as you go round and then have them presented to you with a bill when you get to the end. The smaller sites may ask you to email them with your details; you'll have to use paper and pen to note down details as you go along.What are the pitfalls?A few things to look out for: if you're ordering from abroad, make sure you work out how much the VAT and duty is likely to be, or you may end up paying more than you thought. US goods are often cheaper than English ones, but it's worth doing the maths first. Only imports of less than £18 are tax-free, and then VAT is 17.5 per cent across the board, and duty can range from 3.8 per cent to 13.2 per cent. The other problems centre on complaints and returns. If the seller is located in the UK (which can often be deduced from the .co.uk at the end of the address) that makes it easier: check to see if there's a phone number on the page, and that there's a guaranteed delivery time. If the company doesn't have physical outlets as well as its website, be particularly careful.What are the advantages?You can cyber-visit wee family shops in the Scottish Highlands or cottage industries in Devon, shop all over the country, at any time of day or night, and the only queueing will be the time it takes to download the site. E-commerce offers obvious advantages for physically disabled or elderly people, though it might actually be slightly less handy for incredibly busy people: while you might not have to go to the shop, if it's a bulky order you'll still have to be in when it's delivered. On those cyber surfboards, boys and girls.• To order a copy of the Guardian Guide To The Internet, priced £6.99, call 01483 268 888.
www.smokedproduce.co.uk: who would miss the chance to try smoked alligator or ostrich from a specialist supplier in Scotland? They do huge quantities of smoked salmon and every other sort of smoked food you can think of.www.lastminute.com: offers last-minute flights, theatre tickets and presents (eg beauty-treatment tokens, flowers) at sometimes bargain prices. There's a weekly 'ridiculously silly offer' that claims to have sent 'Matt' to Boston for £1.20!www.veganvillage.co.uk/ethicalwares: these boots are made for being very nice to every sentient being, thank you. Vegan boots by a company that doesn't want to hurt animals, humans, or the environment - and jolly good luck to them.www.travelselect.co.uk: extraordinarily useful site for finding and booking very cheap flights. It might not be the most beautiful site on the Internet, but it comes up with the goods.www.fatface.co.uk: funky ski/sportswear from a once-tiny company started by two ski bums who couldn't think of anything better to do. Cheap and cheerful.www.fortnumandmason.co.uk: good for those moments of vicarious luxury living: just reading the list of contents of their Mayfair hamper (fresh Beluga caviar, goose-liver terrine, blinis, blood-orange marmalade and Sacher Torte, anyone? Just £675) makes you feel a little more socialist.www.brasdirect.co.uk: hard to know if this site is genuinely useful (the online underwear shop shows lingerie models from 360 degrees, and also lets you click and zoom on particular bits that you like) or just designed to attract lots of pervy old men. Nice underwear, though.www.englishwine.co.uk: looking for a bottle of that Breaky Bottom Muller Thurgau '91? You can hunt out the vintage here and organise yourself a wine tour in the Sussex Weald at the same time.ds.dial.pipex.com/found/pinks.htm: the people who launched this website state: 'We're florists, not web designers.' Pinks By Post's page is about as basic as you can get, but it'll send baskets of fresh, scented Devon pinks, freesias and anemones anywhere in the country.www.sweetmemories.mcmail.com: just can't track down that Alma Cogan seven-inch? The enthusiasts at this vinyl record store might be able to do it for you - they've got 10,000 records online, and another 40,000 in the real world.
You've Got Mail, a romantic comedy due for UK release next month, stars allegedly chemical couple Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan as bookshop owners who hate each other in real life but fall in love in cyberspace. Plausibility of plot and sex appeal aside, the film delivers one interesting contemporary comment: it is now as likely for a woman to rush home to check her e-mail as for a man.Indeed, a recent study found that as many women as men, and nearly half of all regular users, considered themselves addicted to the Internet. Dr Helen Petri, senior lecturer in psychology at the University of Hertfordshire, who surveyed 445 Internet users from around the world as part of her research, was initially surprised at her findings. 'You don't expect women to be obsessed with the Net because it appears to be such a solitary activity. But they use it for chat activities, communication - the sorts of things that 20 years ago they'd have done around a kitchen table.' Internet use among women has risen steadily since the early nineties. In the UK, women make up more than a quarter of all Internet users and 52 per cent of members of leading service provider AOL are women, with those in their forties accounting for its fastest growing market.As more and more businesses go online, women have gained crucial access to new technology in the workplace, while its use in education has also increased. But the forthcoming Durlacher Quarterly Internet Report reveals that 30 per cent of residential users are women and AOL research identifies communication, convenience, online shopping and parenting support as key areas that attract women - all far removed from purely professional use.Melanie Howard, of think tank Future Foundation, argues that the generalisation that women cannot get on with technology is framed by a male-dominated perspective on IT. 'Women work on deliverables and practical benefits. They will not be dictated to or driven by the design of technologies and services provided on technological platforms (largely controlled by men), but will bend and subvert it to their own uses. In this respect, women have no problem using technology as long as it serves their purpose and their own lives.' Commentator and author Melanie McGrath accepts that women are traditionally slower than men to adopt technology. 'They are not creatures who enjoy tinkering under the hood.' An increasing growth of informal networks has been an important factor in encouraging women online. 'Women are recommending technology and packages to one another. It gives women the opportunity not to be isolated. If you have small kids or are elderly, it provides that casual contact you don't get when you are unable to do routine things.' At its inception, the Internet was invested with a hatful of expectations, particularly by women. Many believed the Web would provide a fresh new arena for political organisation and personal interaction. Sadie Plant, who founded the Cybernetic Culture Research Unit at Warwick University, wrote her acclaimed book, Zeros And Ones, about women and the Net. She developed her theories on the symbiotic evolution of women and machines through frustration at the Western, white male cliche of the computer age. By arguing that, as machines become self-organising, so do women, Plant concluded that the technology to which they are intuitively linked can undermine patriarchy and traditional gender definition.Plant traces women's intimacy with machines from their involvement with looms and weaving to their experience with the QWERTY keyboard, and questions the traditional feminist reading of technology as hostile to women. 'There has been an accidental conspiracy between the classic misogyny that says masculinity equals technical skills and residual eco-feminist theory,' she insists.It was Freud who famously said that women had invented nothing, except perhaps weaving. In Zeros And Ones, Plant finds a direct connection: Ada Lovelace, daughter of Lord Byron, worked on the very first computer with Charles Babbage, basing its design on the Jacquard loom, the first automated weaving machine. And it was Beatrix Potter whose analysis of lichens gave rise to the term 'internet'. And Grace Hopper who developed the key computer language COBOL in the 1940s and invented the word 'bug' for a computer glitch. Perhaps it should come as no surprise that a 16-year-old schoolgirl from County Cork last weekend flummoxed scientists when she designed a new e-mail code that is 10 times faster than the one currently used to convert confidential information.McGrath, however, remains sceptical about cyberfeminism and the concept of the Web as a women-positive space. 'All the Net can do is reflect the outside world. It is just a medium and the ways in which women use it are similar to the ways in which they conduct themselves in real life. Power relations are the same. For example, the ways men present knowledge in chat rooms are authoritative while women's are tentative.' Organised feminism has generally been at such a low ebb, notes Melanie Howard, that new forms of access and information are unlikely to make a difference. 'Technology will serve political movements rather than create them. If and when feminism is revived, then doubtless women will use technology to network effectively within the umbrella provided.' The Internet cannot provide a new way of playing out gender roles, McGrath argues, and women do suffer harassment on the Net. In a recent study by DP Connect, women rated highly concerns over security.Avedon Carol is a regular Net user and a member of Feminists Against Censorship. 'What I see most is women using the Net as an easy means of networking at a non-commercial level. Many women are building web sites that are mostly biographical and plenty are doing it to promote causes as well. Surprisingly, women appear in equal numbers to men on Internet relay chat,' she adds, 'where quite a few seem to be there principally for sex. Many don't even want to meet their partners. They just want to do cybersex on a casual basis.' For Camille Paglia, Internet intellectual and contributor to online Salon magazine, the Internet is nothing short of revolutionary. 'Wherever it goes, it brings democracy. Women have an innate facility of talk and the Net becomes an extension of women's historical connection to the telephone. The Net allows outsiders of any kind to have a voice.'• To order a copy of the Guardian Guide To The Internet, priced £6.99, call 01483 268 888.
Aviculture is a hobby of mine but I have never looked it up on the Internet. This is a detailed site and I might use it as a reference point. But I'm not an anorak. The Internet is going the way of the anoraks so I wouldn't sit down at it for hours to swot up on trivia.I see the Internet as two things: an electronic postman and a marketing device. It has sped up communications and it has opened up a world market for consumers. I buy CDs over the Internet and I use it for looking up prices and comparing them.I see it as an equaliser of prices, which is especially important in Britain where everything is so much more expensive than anywhere else.Why buy on the high street if it is cheaper on the Net? My studio has its own website for selling prints.I like the idea of being able to sell to someone in Kyoto so easily. I've never even considered the Internet as an artistic medium. I feel that it makes life a lot easier for the talentless people who want to copy other people's work. The Net has a dumbing down effect. It makes great people's work look mediocre and mediocre people's work look all right.I think that children should grow up with the Internet. My four-year-old has had a Mac since he was three-and-a-half. He isn't on-line yet, but it won't be long. My 11-year-old has a PC and he's permanently surfing the Internet. He's learnt how to turn off the time limit device on it. We have to watch him, or he'd be on it all night.• David Bailey's exhibition, The Birth of The Cool, opens at the Barbican Art Gallery, London, on April 15.
Silicon Valley may be a fairly open-minded place, but even Californian shareholders have limits.Those seem to involve key company officers espousing views that current Valley technologies perhaps emanated from alien crashes in Roswell, New Mexico, and speculation that Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry and Close Encounters director Steven Spielberg were fed secret information by a White House inner circle charged with preparing the American people for alien contact.Thus the hottest story this past week in technoland was the resignation of Joe Firmage 28-year-old founder, former CEO, and until last Friday, chief strategy officer of Internet consultancy USWeb. He acknowledged that his views, recently expressed in large ads in The Economist, Rolling Stone and the Harvard Business Review, might not be the best publicity for the company.Firmage's speculations on all things X-File-ish - from religion to Star Trek's 'Prime Directive' to crop circles - are outlined at his The Truth Web site, www.thewordistruth.orgThe resignation, a sharp move for a (former) strategy officer, should help bolster the value of Firmage's own $24million in USWeb stock.The football prediction Web site Fixed Odds, www.fixedodds.co.uk, 'utilises sophisticated neural network techniques to analyse a huge volume of form data, and to forecast which teams are most likely to win each week'. It also offers a 'perm of the week' for the match it thinks brings the best odds of beating the bookies. Unfortunately it had three straight weeks of wrong predictions in December.But it says it is constantly refining the software. Might a visit to Roswell help?Greenpeace has produced an elegant, redesigned site for its American chapter at www.greenpeaceusa.org which headlines major concerns and includes an action centre outlining key issues and what individuals can do.In an attempt to prove how very, very small the little gears, drives and microlocks of microelectromechanical systems, or MEMS, really are, Sandia National laboratories has assembled a bizarre 'Bugs on Devices' image gallery. Monstrous-looking spider mites are attractively arrayed on their nanomachines at www.mdl.sandia.gov/micromachineimages.htmlYou can enlarge the photos for a closer look.If you're an out-of-work Silicon Valley executive, how do you fill time while your multi-million dollar lawsuit against Hewlett-Packard is pending? By making money out of the Clinton impeachment, of course. Ron Jones, whose printer technology company collapsed after he devoted most of his resources to challenging H-P over a business deal, is offering America the chance to roast, literally, all its favourite impeachment figures.Clinton, Starr, Lewinsky and Co appear on marshmallows, which are available from www.politicalroasters.com. You might e-mail Jones and suggest Blairmallows and Haguemallows, too.If you have a good Net connection, the latest plug-ins, and a few hours to spare, trip on over to one of the weirdest sites on the Web, www.superbad.com, the unruly brainchild of a mild-mannered Website designer in (where else?) San Francisco. New pages are added regularly, and the site is nominated for a 1999 Webby (yet another annual awards event) in - surprise! - the Weird category.Drawing Shadows to Stone, at www.amnh.org/ Exhibition/Jesup/index.html, is an eloquent online display of photographs, correspondence and cultural items from the turn of the century documenting the daily life of the indigenous peoples of Canada, Russia and America.The items, assembled by the American Museum of Natural History, were gathered by the Jesup North Pacific expedition, considered one of the most important American anthropological treks. The crisp, evocative images include women riding reindeer-back, Eskimo dog-teams, carved totem poles and solemn tribal shamans. All download quickly. Even a pair of boots speaks volumes about rich cultures now almost lost but still coherent a century ago.Looking for hardcore furniture action? Want to put the love back in love seat? Then try Furniture Porn (www.fringenet.com/vgg/ furnporn1.html) which offers 'the tightest cushions on the Web'. Don't skip the 'ads' at the bottom of the page, and it's worth clicking on the Kremlin Fried Chicken banner ad at the top as well.Those intrigued or flummoxed by the idea of educating children at home rather than school will find the Education Otherwise pages, www.netlink.co.uk/users/ e-o/siteguide.html, helpful. Besides UK and international contacts and resources, the Online Educational Resources page will offer any parent scads of links for kid-centric projects and activities.
Light up the universe'People are talking about putting up a satellite that stays lit all night saying 'Eat At Joe's'. The astronomers are saying 'You can't do that, you'll block our view.' But space doesn't belong to astronomers. They've had access for several centuries, now it's time they shared with the other kids.' - Alan Ladwig, senior advisor to Nasa.Nothing like a dame'Despite high sex ratios, liberal maternity leave policies, creche facilities, and funds for daycare, women doctors in 1997 are still not taking leadership positions in hospital medicine, academic medicine, public health or private health care. In the 1990s half of Norwegian medical students have been female, but the new generation of female physicians is no more likely to be in leadership positions than the older ones. Do women simply lack ambition? Is equity in medical leadership an impossible goal? What do women doctors want?' - Elaine Showalter, professor of English at Princeton University, quoted in the British Medical Journal.Click on a mouse'Although it is true to say that the vast majority of medical innovations have involved the use of animals, this proves little because animals have always been routinely used. The key question is whether the same progress would have occurred without the use of animals - a much harder question to answer.' - Robert Gardner, reader in politics at the University of Leicester.
I met Christy early on a Friday evening. It had been much like any other day in Arcadium, a chat room I liked, and I'd met and written to a few people before I got chatting to someone by the name of Brown Eyed Girl. She was nonchalant in her conversation, but had an intelligence and an understated intensity about her that charmed me completely.When it was time for me to finish that night, instead of making my excuses and leaving, I suggested we exchange e-mail addresses so I could write to her again one day. Even as I typed the words, it felt somehow illicit, but at the same time thrilling, as though I'd crossed a barrier.I wrote to her the following Monday from work. The first few days of our correspondence were sweet and exhilarating. In the same way as meeting somebody you instantly 'click' with in real life, it felt somehow as though we already knew each other, as if this were destiny knocking on our doors. In a world of billions of people, we had found each other on a crowded Internet. Well, she certainly gave good e-mail.As the days became weeks, our writing became more intimate and we discovered that there was more to this than a simple early attraction. To my surprise I realised I was falling in love with a girl I'd never met.I would find myself eager to get back to my computer when I'd been away from it for a few hours, and reading her words filled me with the need to know everything about her.It was several weeks before we first spoke on the phone. One problem with e-mail is that it introduces a world of potential fiction into events. Even though you may think you're getting to know a 5ft 9ins red-haired girl from Alabama, you could in fact be pouring your heart out to a 6ft body builder from New York. It was with a measure of relief that I found out that at least elements of the story were true; she was a girl, and she was definitely from the Southern States.After those first faltering steps, our telephone relationship became a £150 a month telephone habit.E-mail was no longer enough.It wasn't long before we decided we had to meet. She was at college, and didn't have the money to come to England, so I flew out to meet her in New Orleans. It was incredibly romantic. Our eyes met across an emptying late-night departure lounge in the Big Easy, and even though we had never exchanged photographs we both just seemed to know. It felt perfectly right.Far from being some geeky caricature or adipose leviathan, she was a pretty, willowy, all-American girl. She had freckles and thick, red hair, and was feeling just as bewildered by the meeting as I was. We went out into the French Quarter and talked and just looked at each other. It was an amazing week.When I returned to London, our relationship continued with renewed passion. Even though we had had slightly less to say to each other in the flesh than we had via international telecom, it didn't feel like a hindrance. The Atlantic was starting to, though, and we had to work out how we could be together.I went back to America a few months later. After meeting, talking on the phone and writing longing e-mails wasn't enough. We both knew that if this was going to work, one of us would need to move, and to do that, we would both have to be absolutely sure - about everything.My second visit was to be a time when we decided whether this was something for which one of us would be prepared to switch continents. We needed to be absolutely certain, and we weren't. So we tearfully decided that this was not going to work, and that we should end our relationship.It's been nearly a year now, and romance has turned into friendship. We still write and talk on the phone from time to time and I count Christy as one of my dearest friends. Although ill-fated by geography, our Internet love affair was as wonderful and unspoiled as new love always is.Arcadium, the chat room where we met, closed some time ago.• You can e-mail Nick Gillett atnick.gillett@guardian.co.uk• Access the Guardian Unlimited network atwww.guardian.co.uk&lt;br• To order a copy of the Guardian Guide To The Internet, priced £6.99, call 01483 268 888
There are those of you, and you know who you are, who think the Internet is full of Lara Croft lookalikes and esoteric Web pages such as the Wisconsin Whimsies Appreciation Society. Time to think again. Many parents both in America and Britain have woken up to the potential of the Internet when it comes to getting information and advice - so much so, that the days of the baby guru are numbered.America is leading the way. Daily and monthly e-zines (magazines found only on the Net) provide anything from features on the latest childcare issues to online consultations with paediatricians. Dr Spock would have felt at ease here.But the Internet has one big advantage over the flesh-and-blood expert: the chat room. The ability to talk (or rather type) to someone else in real time is invaluable for those who want immediate answers to the anxieties of parenthood. Parent Soup, a large, American site, has a weekly timetable of chat rooms on a whole range of subjects from the 'Roller-coaster teenage years' to 'Dealing with infidelity' while a British site, UK Mums, tries to break the isolation so often felt by single parents and those with post-natal depression.For the technologically shy, forums are a better bet. These are virtual noticeboards where people can post up problems to which others can offer solutions. That way parents can read rather than participate in discussions. 'You don't get any of those beautifully made-up mothers with perfect children that make you feel pathetic,' says one online parent. 'Websites are more realistic.' Unfortunately, most parental websites are American. UK Mums tries to resolve this. 'I didn't want to talk to someone from Wisconsin,' explains Helen Humphrey, a 32-year-old mother of two and founder of the website. 'Also, a lot of the American sites are run by big corporations; I run UK Mums as a mother more than as a business.' An American site, The Cyber Mum, was also set up by an enterprising mother. 'I stopped work, had two small children and thought, 'great, I can use the Net',' explains founder Francine Shannon. 'The only stuff for parents was really dull so I set up a website with mum-to-mum chat rooms. The most fascinating part of the Internet for me is the interaction. Mums are the same everywhere." So it's lullabies for Luddites; the technological age is here. And guess what? It's actually of some help.
On January 1 1994 the Zapatistas rose against the Mexican state in what is now known as the first 'cyber' or 'Net' war. Even as the government mobilised its army to occupy the state of Chiapas and tried to deny the revolutionaries access to the mass media, they and their supporters were mobilising words and images to disseminate ideas electronically.The Net was used in several ways. To begin with, it became the only way of posting the Zapatistas' concerns and programmes for economic and social reform which were being underplayed, ignored or suppressed by the mainstream media.'Information was downloaded on to the Net, gathered from other sources and transformed into flyers, pamphlets, newsletters, articles and books detailing the torture, rape, executions and other violence being perpetrated by the police, military and the hired goons of the big ranchers. The material fuelled marches and vigils around the world,' says US academic Harry Cleaver, contributor to Zapatistas! (Pluto Press).It was then used to promote passionate discussion about society, the failures of global capitalism and market-driven neo-liberalism around the world. The same computer networks now post gigabytes of articles, speeches, reports, discussions and documents. They also report the 'Encuentras' (Encounters) that are now held by the Zapatistas across the world each year.Clearly the Zapatistas are winning the battle of ideas. Five years on, many of their concerns and analysies of poverty, land rights, justice, exploitation, the environment and society are part of the vocabulary of new democracy movements in many countries.Meanwhile the creaking, vulnerable Mexican state has tried to counter attack what Cleaver calls 'the autonomous appropriation of cyberspace'. It has been accused of tampering with computer communications, with networks 'going down' at critical moments, monitoring the net closely for counter-insurgency and trying to de-legitimise the Zapatistas' arguments.'Both sides are now active in a cyber-spatial dimension of a war which has raged out of Chiapas across Mexico and the world,' says Cleaver. 'They and their supporters have woven a new electronic fabric of struggle to carry revolution round the world.'
Twelve environmental justice protesters and a video activist walked into Shell UK's London HQ and occupied three offices last Monday morning. Almost the first thing that Undercurrents reporter Roddy Mansfield did was to set up his small digital camera and link it to a palm-top computer and a mobile phone. Despite Shell turning off the electricity and cutting the phone lines, within minutes he was broadcasting the protest live on the Internet, and e-mailing to the mainstream press. By 4 pm when the last people were evicted five 'broadcasts' had been made.Reportage of the future? A new tool of democracy? Illegal, irresponsible behaviour? Take your pick, but just as sixties' students took over printing presses to further disseminate their political message, so today's activists have turned as one to new electronic technologies.The Web and e-communications have revolutionised environmental and social justice campaigning and, arguably, helped to nurture a new north-south dialogue about democracy, social justice, development and human rights in an increasingly globalised world.Many non-governmental groups now depend on the Web and electronic mail to motivate, activate and communicate their uncensored messages. Most groups have camcorders and Web sites; all have e-mail.The obvious advantage of electronic communication is the ability it gives campaigners to network quickly and cheaply. Using e-mail and 'list servers' - where the same message can be sent to any number of electronic addresses in a few minutes - information can be passed around the world so that other groups can be alerted and global campaigns mounted quickly.A classic case of electronic media being used as a grassroots weapon of democracy, says Tony Juniper of Friends of the Earth, was the massive international campaign to ambush the Multilateral Agreement on Investment (MAI). If this inter-governmental agreement had been, as expected, nodded through Western parliaments, it would have superseded national laws. It was being debated in secrecy by OECD countries until a French environmental NGO exposed what was going on.Within days, the ramifications of a treaty which would have given massive legal and economic advantage to transnational corporations around the world, were being assessed by environmental and other groups. The MAI was interpreted as anti-democratic, unjust and a serious threat to civil society.The campaign to stop it depended on the Web and spread like wildfire. After two years, more than 600 citizens' groups, including unions, workers parties, consumer organisations, development and environmental groups in dozens of countries were exchanging information, co-ordinating opposition and alerting politicians, the media and civil servants.'Governments were ambushed by the detail of the information coming from other countries. I could speak to the British Government about the situation in France before they knew it. It &#91;the campaign&#93; created chaos, undermining individual countries' positions,' says Juniper. By November negotiations had been abandoned.Campaigners have also learned how to put companies into a spin. Shell, BP, Rio Tinto, McDonald's, Monsanto and many others with global ambitions have met ferocious global attacks in the past few years. Equally, the Net has been used as a defence by many campaigners trying to save wildlife, countryside or cultures. Indigenous groups and southern NGOs have all learned who their friends are in the north and have been quick to appeal for help, and many northern groups have learned tactics from developing countries.The globalised Web has become, says Juniper, 'the most potent weapon in the toolbox of resistance to globalism and the rampant free market.' This is ironic because globalism itself depends on the same technology to whiz trillions of dollars around the world every day. 'It has encouraged activism. People are more aware of what others are doing,' he says.For protesters it is heaven to be able to disseminate information across the world without having to persuade journalists, programme makers or editors. 'Our resistance is now as transnational as capital itself,' says a member of Reclaim the Streets (RTS) in London. RTS is the British link in a loose coalition of groups called People's Global Action. These come together, via the Web, for co-ordinated events like last year's Global Street Party which was celebrated in 30 places in 20 countries on the same day. On June 18 this year, there will be a series of co-ordinated demonstrations in the world's financial centres.Just as corporate globalisation and a plethora of international laws have led to a broadly similar 'neo-liberal' national politics around the world, so a globalisation of opposition is developing along with new links between NGOs.'E-communication allows far greater dialogue between like-minded groups and individuals, encouraging a consensus of views. Remarkably similar political and philosophical critiques of large-scale developments, corporate affairs and capitalism itself are now being developed in rich and poor countries,' says one commentator.The new dialogue is often leaving flat-footed mainstream media lagging. Within hours of the Far Eastern smogs, the Amazon burnings, and flood disasters in Bangladesh, Web sites were full of eye-witness accounts, and e-mails were alerting aid agencies and development groups.'E-mail meant we could respond far more quickly and effectively as well as inform the public here,' said a Christian Aid spokesperson. 'We knew what relief was necessary far earlier and could develop rehabilitataion programmes quickly.' The days when media were controlled by a few are effectively over. In the new world of e-communication, they are seen as increasingly elite, censorious agents of the establishment. Organisations like Oneworld, based near Oxford, transmit reams of information on the environment and social justice, receiving more than a million hits a week on their Web site which connects more than 250 social and environmental justice groups worldwide. Perhaps the most astonishing is McSpotlight website which in less than three years claims it has been visited more than 65 million times by people wanting to know about that dark side of McDonald's The success of the sites does not necessarily translate into change: McDonald's has continued to expand its outlets and profits in that time and the environment is still being trashed everywhere.The downside is also important. Overload of information is now common and the democracy of the Web can be at the expense of reliability of the information it offers. 'It's difficult to know who to trust, who is reliable and what information is correct,' says one development worker. 'We have to be on guard all the time.' Much of the new media is avowedly partial, subjective and committed. Pressure groups prefer to give only one point of view which can be dogmatic and often hysterical. This, say some, is a natural response to the equally flawed mainstream media's long neglect of certain issues, and the equally biased points of view of many journalists. 'It allows us to say what we want to say,' says Roddy Mansfield of Undercurrents. 'That's democracy.'
I hadn't been on the Internet before. I know that it's a lifesaver for school projects because my mum found me some really good stuff on Mount Vesuvius and the Net was useful when I was doing the Spanish Armada. But I didn't know that I could look up my hobbies on it. My hobby is keeping pet lizards. I've got a pet water dragon called Iggie who is 14 months old. I didn't know too much about him before I looked at this site. But it's amazing. It tells you everything. It tells you what to feed lizards, how to handle them. It tells you what it means when they rub their nose on the side of the tank. I've learnt loads from it.The Internet is good for finding out things. It's better than looking at a book because it's quicker, you can just click on what you want. And it's got more pictures than a book. It's really easy to surf.I can't wait until we get the Internet at home. I have to have my daily fix of computers. I spend about one to two hours playing computer games a day. I do my homework, then I have singing practice for half an hour and then I play Doom, Heretic or Blood.There's so much on it that I want to look up on the Internet. I want to look up Kiri Te Kanawa's website, I want to look up the All Saints and The Corrs and Furby. I could easily spend a whole day on the Internet. It isn't geeky, it's cool.• Charlotte Church, aged 12, is a soprano. Her debut album, Voice of an Angel, is released on Sony Classical. .
The Internet has changed my whole approach to print media. I find it a much more efficient and democratic way to monitor the press. I now have a lot less patience for papers piling up all over my floor. I don't read the New York Times in its print version anymore. I access what I want from it on line. The Internet has broken the hold that the New York Times and the Washington Post had over the media in the US until the 1990s. A wider range of voices are now being heard on line and the prestige of the elitist North East media pack has suffered. That is a very positive thing.I have been deeply involved with the Internet from the beginning. I consider myself the first Internet intellectual. I love the speed of the Internet and the capacity it gives me to break news. When Diana died, all the US papers had gone to bed. On the Internet we were able to comment directly. For an entire day there was nothing but us out there. It was quite exhilarating.People moan and lament and say that modern technology is the end of culture. I think that's a mistake. The Internet is not the end of culture, it's something new that we don't yet fully understand.• Camille Paglia is Professor of Humanities at Philadelphia University. She writes a weekly column for the online zinewww.salon.com.
There may be a huge vault of health information on Internet, but how healthy is using the technology itself? Researchers in the US have recently reported that people who spend even a few hours online become more depressed and withdrawn, while investigators into British attitudes to computer use believe up to 25 per cent of the population may be suffering from techno-anxiety.Since anxiety shunts up blood pressure, increases heart rate, and sends surges of adrenalin through the body, all of which have been linked to cardiovascular disease, reduced immunity and other long-term damage, one could be forgiven for thinking the World Wide Web should perhaps carry a health warning.Psychologist Dr Mark Brosnan, from the University of Greenwich, who's been studying technophobia in Britain, Hong Kong and Japan, says the buzz and hype that surrounds the possibilitities of the 'connected' world are obscuring the fact that people of all ages have real anxieties about using the technology: 'We expected levels of technophobia to go down in younger children, but our research into five-year-olds showed 50 per cent were computer anxious and didn't want to use them at all.' Worryingly, given the drive to get schools connected, Brosnan says they found the same computer-phobic levels among 18-year-old students at the University of Greenwich, and similar levels in the Far East.'This could be doing significant damage to our ability to learn,' says Brosnan. 'If you're anxious, you're not likely to be working or learning at your best, and you're likely to make more mistakes, which will reaffirm your anxiety.' He adds that the information overload posed by the Internet can make things even more stressed: 'Anecdotally, a lot of people say they can't cope with searching the Internet because most of the information it brings up is not what they want, but they still have to read it just in case before they can discard it - which is time consuming and stressful.'For girls, worries partly stem from images of computers as boys' toys and the competition to get screen-time. But both sexes suffer from lack of good tuition: 'Parents buy computers because they are afraid of depriving their children. But children get anxious because their parents can't show them how to use them. Once they get to school, anxiety rises with the competition and pressure.'Dr John Todman, a psychologist at Dundee University, who also studies the phenomenon, says first experiences set the tone: 'If people have a relaxed early experience with computers and feel in control, to some extent that inoculates them against later negative experiences. The trouble is that, for many people, the first time they're faced with using a computer is for a work or course-related procedure where they are being assessed. The pressure can cause feelings of anxiety. Many people feel the computer controls them rather than vice versa.'Only three to four per cent of people are likely to be true technophobes who will make serious life changes to avoid contact with a terminal, says Todman. But his research suggests that up to one in four people may have the sort of anxiety that interferes with their efficiency at work or at school.So what can you do to take the strain out of web-working? The most important thing, says Todman, is to play around and learn the general principles. 'You need to get familiar with the things that you want to do before you really need to do them.' Even better, find someone who is reasonably confident - not necessarily an expert - who can stand behind you and give you reassurance without interfering.And to combat information overload, says Brosnan, concentrate on building up a list of good reliable sites in your area of interest and search these for information rather than using general search engines. This keeps results more manageable, reduces the time commitment and removes the anxiety of getting information from unknown sources.• Dr Mark Brosnan's book, Technophobia: The Psychological Impact Of Information Technology, is published by Routledge, £12.99
It's estimated that the World Wide Web has more than 300 million pages. Both the leading Web browsers, Netscape and Internet Explorer, have 'Internet search' icons, which access search engines such as AltaVista or Excite, but the value of these tools in searching for health information is debatable.A search on AltaVista for arthritis, for example, identifies more than 433,000 Web pages. Not only is this number unmanageable, but the results will also contain good, bad and indifferent sites. Determining which is which can be time consuming and difficult. The solution is to search the Internet using an evaluated subject-specific gateway such as healthfinder or OMNI. These search the Web for all sites related to a certain subject, assess their credibility and ditch the dross.Healthfinder atwww.healthfinder.org/was developed by the US Department of Health and Human Services, and directs visitors to selected online publications, databases, websites, and support and self-help groups that produce reliable information for the public. In contrast to the 433,000+ sites identified by AltaVista, a healthfinder search for arthritis yields just 23 authoritative hits.OMNI atomni.ac.ukprovides the nearest UK-equivalent to healthfinder. Searching for 'arthritis AND patient' identified 14 resources. There is some overlap with healthfinder, but some specific UK resources were also found.MEDLINEplus atmedlineplus.nlm.nih.gov/was devised by the US National Library of Medicine. MEDLINEplus (an offshoot of MEDLINE, the world's largest database of medical papers) offers a variety of resources such as the latest medical news, medical dictionaries and, most importantly, pre-prepared searches which mean users don't have to worry about or understand the complexities of the MEDLINE database. For example, MEDLINEplus offers searches on arthritis (therapy), arthritis (diagnosis) and arthritis (juvenile).Other starting points...The Healthtouch website atwww.healthtouch.comis excellent and gives authoritative, patient-friendly leaflets on a range of topics. You can browse the contents or search the site. All the information is compiled from professional associations.Drug information atwww.intelihealth.comis compiled by the US Pharmacopeial Convention. This database provides authoritative information on numerous medications, their use and adverse effects. Aimed at the lay person, it is searchable and browseable by generic or brand name (note: brand names can differ between the US and the UK).www.healthcentre.org.uk/hc/clinic/websites/defaultcontains an index to UK health websites. For example, selecting 'pregnancy and childbirth' gives you a hypertext list of patient groups, including the National Childbirth Trust, and UK mums.Health news can be found atwww.reutershealth.com/frame-elineReuters Health eLine is a consumer-oriented medical news service that delivers clinically relevant healthcare news featuring stories on men, women and children's health, diet, exercise, treatment advances and disease management. Approximately 15 stories per day are carried by this service.Electronic discussion groups allow you to discuss, via email, virtually any topic. A database of groups and how to join and send messages can be found atwww.liszt.comAs virtually anyone can publish anything they like on the Web, it is important to critically appraise the information you retrieve. In particular, you should be suspicious of 'miracle cures' and sites which offer no independent evidence to substantiate their claims.Use the following checklist as a quick way to check the quality of information you find.1. Is the information current? A well-organised Web page will state when it was first written and last updated. Health pages that do not should be ignored.2. Is there a named author? If someone is claiming to be an expert in a particular speciality, run a search on MEDLINE to see if they have ever published anything in a peer-reviewed journal. If there is no identifiable author, the information should be treated with caution.3. Who is funding the site? The owner of a website should be prominently displayed along with any sponsorship or advertising deals that could constitute a conflict of interest.• Robert Kiley is manager of the Wellcome Trust's Information Service, and author of Medical Information On The Internet, Churchill Livingstone, price £18
Sarah Clayton feels bereft when forced to part with the Internet on the rare occasion her computer breaks down. Diagnosed with multiple sclerosis eight years ago, she's one of a growing number of people who see the Internet as an important vehicle for communicating with the outside world. Confined to a wheelchair and forced to give up her high-pressure marketing job, 33-year-old Sarah says subscribing to various newsgroups and buying virtual drinks for carefully chosen friends in the virtual pub has added new dimensions to her social life.But discovering the Internet has not just revolutionised Sarah's capacity to make friends. It has given her a powerful tool with which to challenge medical authority. Regular searching of the Web keeps her abreast of the latest scientific developments in multiple sclerosis research - knowledge that puts her in a position of power when it comes to getting what she wants.Two years ago, Sarah, who lives by herself, had a bad reaction to a drug commonly used by MS sufferers to relieve painful limb spasms. Her legs and arms became so floppy she couldn't move herself off her wheelchair to the toilet or the bed. The only alternative then on offer was tranquillisers, which Sarah refused because of their potential for addiction.But Sarah's Internet friends, many of whom live abroad, soon came up with a solution: 'I was told to try a drug called Zanaflex, but my GP had never heard of it. It was only available in America. I kept an eye on the Internet and discovered it was due to be licensed in the UK. As soon as it came on the market, I went straight to my GP, who then refused to prescribe it because it was a new drug and he was unsure of its history.' But she had more success with her specialist: 'The neurologist caring for me at the time had heard of the drug but he didn't have any experience of it. He was willing to give it to me, but I had to undergo tests every month for four months to make sure I didn't react badly. I was the first person he had prescribed it to.' The treatment was a great success and Sarah now takes the anti-spasmodic drug regularly, without fear of having her precious independence curtailed. Although the drug is now routinely used by patients throughout the country, Sarah's hotline to the Internet allowed her to access its potential long before the medical profession was generally aware of its arrival on the market.Her next coup came via her discovery of new scientific evidence reported in the Lancet - a prestigious medical journal also published on the Internet - which she scans avidly for new breakthroughs in her condition. The study that excited her showed that the synthetic cannabinoid 'nabilone', which is prescribed for pain relief to a few selected patients with cancer, also helped reduce symptoms in MS patients. That the drug had been tried in only a handful of MS patients - too few to draw definite conclusions - did not dampen Sarah's enthusiasm: 'It was said that the drug helped to relieve spasms, pain and problems with sleeping. For once, it wasn't the doctors deciding whether the treatment was working, it was the individuals themselves who reported an improvement.' Sarah was very excited by these research findings: 'I had already heard about nabilone and wanted to try it, but my GP wouldn't let me have it. When I discovered this research paper, I printed out a copy and gave it to him. I told him these were really positive results and wasn't it worth a try? It worked! I was prescribed treatment. The drug reduced my spasms and pain, and helped me sleep a lot better.' It is also a lot easier than trying to get hold of illegal drugs.' She adds: 'The problem with cannabis is that it is less controlled. You can't always tell what strength it is.'Sarah says she will continue to look for future developments on the Internet. 'It's the easiest place to look for information. And I really enjoy the way people are willing to share their news.' Another advantage, she says, is that nobody knows from what she types whether she is in a wheelchair or not. 'I am not prejudged by my appearance. There is a complete level of honesty. You can become very close to people. I recently poured my heart out to a virtual friend after a taxi driver asked me out of the blue whether I had considered killing myself.'The next plan, says Sarah, is to get up to speed with the latest information about beta-interferon drug treatment for MS, which many health authorities are refusing to prescribe on the grounds that it is expensive and of limited benefit. She is understandably nervous about approaching her doctor for the drug, but says: 'I will search on the Web and make sure I'm fully informed. If you know you've got the knowledge, it gives you confidence to ask for what you want.'Useful newsgroups for MS are:alt.support.multi-scleroandalt.support.multi-sclero.alternative.Sarah Clayton can be contacted onsarah@sattva.demon.co.uk.
The Internet positively bulges with health information - said to be second only to sex on the list of the Net's hottest topics. An electronic search on irritable bowel syndrome gives over 358,000 entries; on pain relief 420,000. Viagra boasts 42,675 entries, ranging from manufacturer Pfizer's scientific data to locker-room boasts and price lists.You can trawl websites of patient groups for treatment options, drop into chat rooms and message boards to exchange experiences with fellow sufferers, pick up the latest research findings from medical journals previously accessed only through medical libraries, order your own prescriptions, even have a virtual consultation from doctors or complementary therapists who inhabit the Web.This unfettered access to health information is set to blow away any vestige of the old power relationships between doctors and patients. As Lynne McTaggart, founder of patient lobby group What The Doctors Don't Tell You, says: 'The Web is the ultimate subversive medium. It allows people information they couldn't have got before. Doctors will just have to get used to patients with information.' Armed with knowledge from the Net, we can challenge our doctors' opinions, using material from sources once only open to medics, from the exponentially-growing conurbation of lay health sites, or from other specialists - such as the British patient with a brain tumour who made contact with a San Francisco neurologist, for a 'second opinion'.'The idea that doctors' views are somehow sancrosanct is as dead as a dodo,' says Claire Rayner, chairwoman of the Patients' Association. 'Patients are no longer doctor 'fodder', they are no longer people doctors do things to, but people with whom doctors work, and they need all the information they can get.' Sheila McKechnie, director of the Consumers' Association, describes herself as the 'patient from hell - a 50-year-old woman with access to information who comes to a consultation armed with a checklist'. At a recent conference, she predicted that with better informed patients, the heavy regulation around the supply of medicines could be 'deconstructed, diagnosis automated and doctors down-rated to prescribing advisers'.'There's no doubt the power relationship is changing, says Dr Catti Moss, chairwoman of the Royal College of General Practitioners patient liaison committee: 'Patients who have been on the Net and found things have got power - especially as they know they're probably better than their doctor at working the Net. And it's an empowerment that can spread into other areas because, when people have been able to find things out and talk sensibly about them with me, they often then feel able to talk sensibly - and with confidence - about other aspects of their health.' Almost every GP now has tales of patients who turn up with a bundle of print-outs from their net-surfing. But, says Dr Moss, they should be greeted with enthusiasm: 'It's good that patients are seeking their own answers and discussing them with doctors, rather than coming to doctors for answers. Health benefits are greatly increased when people have found the information themselves as they are more likely to do something with it.'But there are snags, and not just for doctors. 'There is a lot of good on the Internet,' says Rayner. 'But a lot of garbage as well, and not everyone can sort out the garbage from the useful.' On the Internet anyone can wear a white coat and there's no easy way of judging the quality of online data, or the bona fides of anyone offering you advice.German researchers reported last autumn that of 10 free and seven charging cyberdocs consulted about a fictitious, potentially life-threatening rash needing immediate treatment, only seven replied and only five gave accurate advice.There's also the problem of commercialism. Not only are there plenty of dubious cures for sale - a Japanese slimming soap said to wash away fat in seconds, an American herbal remedy claiming to help patients become 'cancer-free' in 10 to 14 days - but the Internet also allows sales of prescription drugs not licensed in the UK. Out on the wild Web, it's unclear who, if anyone, would be responsible for damage.And it's not always easy to spot the wacky medications: by using citations from serious journals - often in the basic research arena rather than clinical trials - unscrupulous companies can lead people to believe that their drugs are highly effective.After a 1996 case in which a US man poisoned himself on oil of wormwood ordered through the Net, the New England Journal Of Medicine warned doctors to expect an epidemic of 'Internet-mediated toxic diseases'.The Web also allows pharmaceutical companies to get around laws which in Britain prevent them advertising licensed prescription drugs directly to the public. A double-edged sword, this can help patients get the drugs they need, but also indiscriminately stoke demand for treatment.Lynne McTaggart says identifying the profiteers can be tricky: 'For example, I was looking for new research on how to treat Down's children. There's lots of new research about but there was also a bunch of people pushing drugs that are supposed to make the children smarter. In terms of patient empowerment, the Internet is great, but people mustn't take it as gospel.'There's no doubt working out what is kosher and what trash can put pressure on the doctor-patient relationship, says Cornish GP Dr Andy Stewart: 'My approach to the Net is very postive. People who go to the trouble of surfing the Net are usually quite motivated, and it's often those with conditions that conventional medicine can't do much about, like arthritis. But people have very high expectations, and they think you are just putting the information down because they've found it.'Though she's adamant doctors should give patient-found information a good hearing, Claire Rayner agrees - and cautions web-surfers not to act on the information they find as a first step: 'Use it as a springboard for discussion. You have a right to have your GP consider the information and have them explain why they think the information is or isn't valid.'For all the caveats, though, with a little care, and some maps to guide you through the jungle, the Net offers treasures for anyone keen to be more involved in their own healthcare.
I'm not ashamed to say that I don't know how to use a computer. I don't do anything on a computer, not even write letters. It's not that I'm against computers, I just live without them. So I was quite surprised by this site. I am constantly looking for inspiration for designs and much of it comes from fine art.I make a real effort to visit galleries and bookshops and walk around foreign cities looking at architecture but I hadn't thought about switching on a screen for inspiration.I like the idea that this site allows you to type in the name of a painter and access high quality reproductions of his or her work. It has a good link to several pieces by Lichtenstein, whose work I love.I'd definitely use this site if it meant that I could find rare pictures that had never been shown. I like the idea that you can type in the names of artists and access a list of all their current exhibitions.I find the whole idea of art on the Internet quite fascinating. Here's a medium that can be construed as totally uncreative and yet you can access programs to test colours and create designs.I have always felt that the Internet was a more important research tool for a writer than an artist. I think I would be more likely to use it to access concrete information about politics or human rights. I wanted to email Jack Straw before he made his decision on General Pinochet's extradition but I didn't manage to, so I ended up faxing him instead.I have vaguely entertained the idea of learning how to use the Internet and email. It looks easy, but I'm sure it's harder than it seems. Never having used a computer makes a big difference. I haven't a clue which keys to press.• Bella Freud is a fashion designer.
This site shows how the Internet is totally changing the face of music. Unsigned bands can now knock out their own music on their own label, download it and sell it directly on the Net, bypassing the means of production. It is the perfect means to short-circuit corporate capitalism. I have young friends in the East End of London who sell their music on the Internet. They were offered a record deal and they just laughed.What for, when they could plug their material straight into the Internet? The record company tried to buy them with offers of a rock'n'roll lifestyle but they'd already accessed that through the Net. I'm sceptical about musicians and writers publishing on the Internet. It's a fantastic idea to put your work online, but who is controlling and distributing your material? Who is behind the scenes making a profit out of it?Society is obsessing about Internet communications and I can see people going totally overboard before they stop and consider the Net for what it really is. It is just a screen, a computerised research tool. The danger of it is that it forces you to engage with information second hand. You become trapped in a cycle of webpages based on webpages. The reference point back to human experience disappears and it becomes stilted.It's like sampling music: initially, you produce some great effects. But when you start sampling a sample, it sounds dead. It doesn't seem real any more.The Internet will definitely change modern culture and I think it will have a dehumanising effect. I don't surf the Net, I've deliberately taken myself off it because I like people too much. If I needed to look something up, I'd rather go to the British Library.• Irvine Welsh's new play You'll Have Had Your Hole opens at LA2, Charing Cross Road on January 25
Drudge ReportYou used to know where you were with news. You'd switch on the TV or open a paper and there would be the news. Although you'd understand the bias in news selection, depending on who was delivering it to you, some news values, like fact checking, copyright and distribution were sacrosanct. Not any more. Meet Matt! Matt Drudge is to many hacks a pest who peddles in gossip and innuendo, yet it was his Report that broke the Lewinsky scandal and forced the American networks to review their core news values. Not bad for an unemployed twenty-something with a simple net connection and a typewriter.The OnionIf Drudge put the wind up news media, then the Onion has ripped it to shreds. A razor-sharp weekly net publication in tabloid US paper form, its mix of pseudo-science, inane features and biting satire on news values truly makes it America's finest news source. Sample headlines: "Animal Rights Activists Release 71,000 Cows Into Wild" and "Man In Chair Pauses To Consider Reclining Options".Alternative Press CentreAnother non-mainstream web news outfit, although this time without the humour of those above, is the Alternative Press Centre. With thousands of articles collated from obscure publications such as the Bulletin of Concerned Asian Scholars, this site is certainly different from the usual news feeds.NewsUnlimitedThe Guardian's news site offers world reports, in-depth documentaries and round the clock breaking news.  You can also see the full content of the Guardian and the Observer.CNNOne of the best US news sources, usually first to react, as in the Starr Report case. Its excellent financial site and other services tie in well with its TV programming.BBCGiven its massive news resources, it's little surprise that the BBC's news site is outstanding. Quick to react to breaking news, it offers  research and background material for all major news and current events. Not to be confused with the BBC's homepage which is cluttered with TV-based coverage.ITNAnother extensive news archive but this one has a difference: video archives.PAThis is what fills the net. News feeds have been in use for decades, but the immediacy of the net has seen articles copied and disseminated with lightning speed. Indeed, many people feel that the overall value of news has fallen, such has been the scale of the spread of news feeds. There is also the online version of Chinese whispers whereby news stories are slightly altered at every new site so as to become far removed from their source. So check the source here.NewsNowA collection of news feeds, this one is a must for every news junky and newsfeed addict.OneWorldFor charity, development and little reported international news, OneWorld has it covered. Taking news from obscure foreign sources, it gives a humanitarian view of world development events.
JobsUnlimitedThe Guardian's epic effort to bring you details of every job up for grabs in the UK nears completion with JobsUnlimited. Search the database of all the jobs which appear in the paper, use our career planner, chat in our graduate and charity forums and even look for recruitment consultancies. All you have to do is register - it's free to use. Go on spoil yourself, hand in your notice and get a new job.MonsterboardUS-based site with more than 50,000 jobs from all over the world to search from. You can even build your own CV and send it to the site. Just make sure your boss doesn't have the address.TopjobsSpecialist UK jobs and an up-and-down selection of international vacancies. Particularly good if you're looking for a job in the booming Polish market.Personal FinanceFT QuickenThe FT and personal software outfit, Quicken, share this personal finance site that includes that most elusive of services: independent financial advice.InvestmentMotley FoolIf you want some real laughs, go to the Motley Fool. Its policy: The Fool exists to inform, educate, and amuse the individual investor; to prove to you that the best person to manage your money is YOU. The Motley Fool has a very personal line. When Clinton and Blair launch attacks on Saddam, the Fool is quick to ask the question every investor is asking: How does this affect the rest of us and our holdings?InvestmentThe Interactive InvestorAnother investment site, this time backed by one of those finance magazines that you know you ought to read but never get around to it.Stocks and SharesElectronic Share InformationThe internet has done what Sid, Mrs Thatcher and Norman Lamont couldn't: make individual share ownership seem attractive. The Electronic Share Information pages cover all sorts of investments in an easy-to-understand way.Screen TradeInsurance. It may not be fun, but you know you should get yourself covered. Screentrade brings several top policies for car, home and travel insurance together and lets you pick the one for you. Your individual quote is held on the system for 30 days - just long enough to have spent the money on something more exciting. Definitely one to do in work time.Co-operative BankMost UK banks and building societies now offer some sort of online banking. The great advantage of this is that instead of sending a letter to your bank complaining about their charges, you can complain by email. The Co-op offers the best of all in our opinion, but do you really want to see how much you spent this Christmas?Bill Gates Personal Wealth ClockYou don't envy him. He's a humourless nerd with no style and the US authorities always on his tail. Look, really, you wouldn't want to be him. It's just that he has a tiny bit more money than you. You and the GDP of the smallest 40 nations in the world that is.
The Internet Movie DatabaseMany websites claim to be the real McCoy, offering not just listings but a "whole database" of information. The Internet Movie Database is the full monty. It has over 2.5 million information entries on over 170,000 films, regular film news and studio briefings. A must see for cineastes.FilmUnlimitedFresh from its stunning debut covering the London Film Festival last November, the Guardian's film site offers complete coverage of all British films, listings and reviews for the whole of the UK. There is extensive content that you won't see in print, such as the regular "hush-hush" column. And if you want to know what others thought of a film or to air your opinion, you'll soon be able to chat in the online foyer. A video-mood matcher, nationwide listings, a critics matrix and integration with the Internet Movie Database will soon follow.CinescapeThe web home of the popular science fiction and action adventure film magazine, with previews of hundreds of forthcoming movies, television series and books.Dark HorizonsChoose the path of destruction! So reads the introduction to Garth Franklin's site which covers gossip, rumours, trailers and posters for the film industry all over the world. 60,000 film junkies can't be wrong.Hollywood OnlineFor once, the US home of politics - Washington DC - shows an understanding of the West Coast community. The Washington Post's film site includes video and audio celebrity interviews and a fine video guide.Mr ShowbizThe Post's big rival ABC has a complete entertainment site including TV and games, but the film section includes a whopping 30,000 strong movie review database.Empire OnlineThe UK's premier film mag has a site worth seeing. It's practical too, with reviews of the week's releases and where they're showing. Plus games, a trivia quiz, top 10 lists, and reader reviews.PopcornWith Carlton's extensive film interests - from posters to production companies - it's little surprise that Popcorn, its recently unveiled film site, is an epic. Lazier film fans will appreciate the cinema finder which tells you how far from your home a film is showing.Coming AttractionsGiven the power of the studios and big media players, it's a pleasant surprise to see small independent sites building an audience. This Canadian site tells you what stage of development upcoming films have reached, from script stage to "in the can". You can review films by genres and read the latest gossip from insiders in the film game.British Actors And ActressesWe've all had this experience: you think of a British actor and, given the state of the film industry, you realise you haven't seen him or her on screen for a few years now. Then someone says, "Is he/she still alive?" and you have to admit you don't know. So find out here.
Classic GamingEducation, education, education may be the Government mantra for kids and the net, but for the bigger kids online its more a case of games, games and more games. The best place to start, especially for the more mature kids with a web connection, is the Classic Gaming pages. Even if you are more familiar with Galaxian and Asteroids than Quake, you'll have nothing to fear here, especially because you'll find out more about the games from this site than you could ever know when you were spending your lunch money down the arcade.Dave's ClassicsA real hardcore gamer's site with news of the latest technology in hardware and consoles, and some software demos.Pass The PigsIf you've ever had the chance to see adults arguing about two silver pigs lying on the table, then you've been lucky enough to see a game of Pass The Pigs. Although it looks simple, this is one of the most addictive games you can play against a computer and it will even insult you when you lose.YuckyKids everywhere know that there are some things that are just Yucky. Homework, kisses from elderly relatives and the opposite sex usually fall into this category. And so does the workings of the human body. Want to show them something totally gross? Then start with a graphic display of their intestines.InsectaIf it's not humans then it's animals that the little dears will want to play with. In this case, there's nowhere better than Insecta for the inner workings of the insect world -
includes Bug of the Month.Anagram Genius ServerWhatever your kids' names are, or those of their teachers' more to the point, you can run them through the Anagram Genius Server. I heed gut, Huge edit. However you like to read The Guide, its name can take many forms. And you can search the archive for the best anagrams: under Hollywood you'll find, for example, Robert De Niro becomes "Error on bidet", while Sharon Stone boasts "Not on her ass".CIA for kidsFor more interesting wordplay, they could pop into the CIA's site for kids. With headlines such as "What is intelligence?" you should be concerned. When you get answers like: "This question is not easy to answer and, depending on who you ask, you may get different answers," then it's time to panic.GodzillaThere's no shortage of retro film sites. You've seen the film and read the book, now play the game at Godzilla. Its G-database has everything you need to know about the big green one.Star WarsThe Godzilla site is bettered only by this one, the ultimate in sci-fi sites. As well as loads of previews and background info, this site has pictures of Ewan McGregor playing with his light saber. It's a must for all film fans.Cosmic YoyoAnother kids' favourite, now coming around again, is the yo-yo. This site is unashamedly commercial, but if you've ever wanted a cosmic yo-yo, now's your chance.
Most of us have something of a love-hate relationship with the Net. It is informative, entertaining, useful and home to some of life's more interesting characters. It can also be badly organised, difficult to navigate, confusingly technical and downright stupid.Thanks to the UK's ancient and impenetrable telephone pricing policies, using the Net from home can also be expensive, even if you take advantage of BT's cheap Click Plus offer. So, in the spirit of the New Year, we have compiled our own Guardian guide to 100 essential websites to set you on your way and save you money. With over 14 million web pages out there, a list of 100 cannot be comprehensive, but it can be useful. So, if you want to shop, chat, laugh, learn or even travel, keep this pullout near your PC.If you imagine the Net as a new world, there's just one piece of advice: ignore conventional wisdom. Confused? Well, let's take the following truisms:Don't talk to strangersOn the contrary, talk away. The Net is all about communication, so get chatting. Don't give away too much private information before you are sure who you're talking to, and be very careful with your details in personal chat rooms. But that aside, natter away.Don't give out your credit card details on the NetWell, let's be honest, you do this in real life. From waiters to telephone banking, your credit card details are about as secret as an entry in the Yellow Pages. Don't be put off spending online, but make sure that you have a secure connection to commerce sites (see the security sections in your browser to find out how). If you are at all suspicious, confirm the trader is legitimate with a phone call.No one knows youNot true. Everyone knows you online. Every time you visit a site, you leave information that identifies you, your e-mail address and the site you visited previously. Sites also track your repeat visits and, after a few weeks, you may start noticing targeted e-mails appearing in your inbox. Take time to learn about cookies (no, not the chocolate chip sort), security and general Net etiquette. You can find basic information about these topics in your browser menu.Finally, have fun...
