Google has celebrated the birth of the inventor of the petri dish, Julius Richard Petri, who was born on May 31, 1852 with a doodle on its home page.He studied medicine at the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Academy for Military Physicians in Berlin and later worked at the Imperial Health Office with Robert Koch who is considered the father of modern bacteriology.The doodle features six petri dishes which are swabbed by a hand. Images of bacteria grow and spread in the dishes.Petri was not the first to use agar, a substance made from algae, to culture bacteria but he invented the standard dish in which it was done. The petri dish allowed for the better identification of bacteria and the diseases they caused. Petri dishes later moved from the laboratory to the class room where they are used by every pupil of biology.Petri died on December 20, 1921.
Google donated little more than £20,000 last year to the charity responsible for policing child abuse images online – the equivalent of 90 seconds' profit for the internet firm.The search giant was one of a number of firms, including Facebook and Microsoft, that pledged relatively small amounts to the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) in 2012, despite their multibillion-dollar turnovers.Facebook made a baseline donation of around £10,000 and Microsoft's Bing search engine gave about £20,000, according to the IWF's own records.Keith Vaz, the chairman of the home affairs select committee, said internet companies needed to ensure the IWF was properly resourced to tackle urgently the proliferation of child abuse images online following the murder of five-year-old April Jones."I am shocked that, despite the importance they have said they place on its role in keeping our children safe, they have donated such paltry amounts to it, which for them represent a drop in the ocean. As it stands, it is difficult to take their commitment to protecting our children seriously," Vaz said.Google, Facebook and Microsoft insisted they had a strong relationship with the IWF and other child protection bodies. Facebook sponsored an event hosted by the IWF last year and made donations to agencies in other countries, it said.Sir Richard Tilt, the IWF's chair of the board of trustees, said it would welcome more money from members. "There's certainly scope for increasing our number of analysts and we know if we had more analysts we could do better. If we could get more money that would enable us to do more," he said.The scrutiny came after Mark Bridger was jailed for life for the sexually-motivated murder of April Jones, having earlier looked at child abuse images online. The biggest web companies – apart from Twitter and Amazon – are members of the IWF and block about 1,000 illegal sites at any one time.But the IWF's five-strong team of analysts has become overwhelmed as reports of child abuse sites soared by 40% compared with last year, to 40,000, or 150 a day. The body is pushing companies to introduce new measures in the next 12 months including a "splash page", which would warn visitors to websites showing unlawful abuse images.Tilt, a former director of the prison service, believes the setting will be a strong deterrent and potentially prevent further attacks. "Most of us who work in this area feel it will make a difference. There probably is a link that [online abuse images] make people more likely to commit dreadful offences, but the trouble is there isn't any clear evidence," he said.Deborah Denis of the Lucy Faithful Foundation, a children's charity dedicated to preventing child sexual abuse, called on search engines to become more involved. But she said more stringent measures for those caught with indecent images would be "unacceptable and unrealistic", and instead there should be better sex and relationship education in schools.Denis said: "If we attempted to lock up everybody who looked at indecent images of children, we simply wouldn't have enough space in prison. The police already do excellent work in this area, but it is a problem that is just too big for them to tackle alone."Google was singled out for criticism by Liz Longhurst, whose daughter Jane was murdered by extreme pornography user Graham Coutts in 2003, prompting her to campaign for internet firms to ban such images. She said internet firms must "get their act together" and start tackling violent online imagery. "What annoys me immensely is that Google won't block these sites. They say we've got to have freedom. All I ask them is where was my daughter's freedom – tell me that."There have been calls for Google to enforce its "safe search" option as the default setting, which would block pornographic material in search results. However, insiders insisted the move would be ineffectual as the stricter setting operates as an algorithm for legal content – and child abuse imagery is illegal, so is covered by extra blocking measures.Scott Rubin, Google's director of communications outside America, said the company has a "zero-tolerance approach" on child abuse images and added: "The SafeSearch filter, which is designed to prevent sexually explicit material of all kinds from showing up in your search results, should not be conflated or confused with our dedication to keeping illegal abuse imagery out of our products. We don't rely simply on filtering technology to block child abuse images; we go beyond that."We are very proactive and work with the right people, including the National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children in the US and the IWF, to keep child abuse content off all of our sites. Any implication we aren't doing anything or we refuse to be part of removing this material is wrong."A spokeswoman for Microsoft said: ""When we are made aware of any illegal content, we remove it from our services, including our search engine and report it to the police."Facebook said it has technology that scans for child exploitative content and automatically flags images to law enforcement. It added: "Facebook works closely with CEOP [the Child Exploitation and Online Protection centre] in the UK to help bring offenders to justice."
Mark Bridger spent a significant amount of time on the internet on the day April Jones died. Just after midday, he had browsed his carefully organised collection of child abuse images, child murder victims and photos of local girls.The library of material collected by Bridger illustrates his interests, mindset and the context to his behaviour, said prosecution Elwen Evans QC. The list of search terms and material found on Bridger's computer and mobile phone make for grim reading: victims of child murders, photos and cartoons of very young girls to early teens being abused. Other pictures were of local girls and friends of his own children, seemingly innocent pictures taken from Facebook. Bridger's web search terms included "ten year old girl naked" and "naked young five-year-old girls".The problem is 'epidemic and unpoliceable'Child protection expert Mark Williams-Thomas says there used to be some doubt about the correlation between viewing images and contact offences, but that view has changed. He paints a very grim picture of the scale of the problem which, he says, is epidemic and now unpoliceable.Though the law itself couldn't be better in the scope it provides for making, possessing and distributing child abuse material illegal, says Williams-Thomas, far more resources are needed to begin to tackle the problem. Software already exists that could identify thousands of people who have accessed or shared images of abuse. "But the criminal justice system couldn't cope. I'd like to see everyone who offends being prosecuted and sentenced to at least one year, but we don't have enough room in our prisons."Younger victimsThere are deeper, even more disturbing trends. Williams-Thomas says: "It used to be that the youngest child you would see in this kind of material would be six or seven, but now we see far more toddlers and infants because abusers know they could not identify them. Far more needs to be done to identify and help victims."Police sources have said that Bridger did use consumer search engines to find images of child abuse, which adds fresh vigour to the campaign for regulators and the industry to do more to prevent access and distribution of this material. Search engines, social networks and internet service providers currently work with the Internet Watch Foundation, which constantly updates a list of sources for child abuse pictures so that sites can remove those links.Google points to a software collaboration with the National Centre for Missing &amp; Exploited Children in the US in 2008 as proof of its commitment to child safety online; therecognition softwareto identity locations, people and even props to help identify abusers. It also has dedicated staff to remove blacklisted URLs, though Williams-Thomas is much more critical of Twitter, which he says is failing to tackle an issue that has "turned it into a porn site" – Twitter is currently not a member of the IWF.Googleisthe webFor many web users, Googleisthe web, the starting point for every online journey – but the consumer internet is the visible tip of an iceberg of content, much of it invisible and distributed on P2P networks.What of the internet service providers then, on whose networks this traffic flows? The Internet Service Providers Association would say suggestions to block internet access completely from convicted abusers would be unworkable because of cheap, internet-ready mobile devices, but also a more granular monitoring of the billions of pieces of material online would be impossible, logistically and financially.The most similar current model for content monitoring on that scale would be the Chinese government, which is estimated to employ around 100,000 people to monitor public and private networks; not a model which any free speech respecting government would want to follow.A technological problem requires a technological solutionThere is clearly a need for all of these stakeholders to level up what they do. It is too easy to describe the internet as ungovernable; a technological problem requires a technological solution, but it appears the priorities lie elsewhere.Our lives are not so much reflected online as magnified, intensified, edged steadily towards extremes, whether the subtle selectivity of the life we present on Facebook or the seeking out of obsessive fantasies that become intensified, confirmed and fulfilled. Crucially, whatever Bridger's psychological drivers, the scale and diversity of the internet means that even the most extreme behaviour can find a like-minded community and ultimately be normalised. That normalisation is the critical connection between casually, curiously exploring a perversion or taboo, and a spiral that ends up in the horrific murder of a young child.
At the end ofa curious interviewwith New York magazine, during which father-and-son film stars Will and Jaden Smith declared their certainty that there is a pattern to everything, which has yet to be understood because we have yet to evolve the necessary multidimensional mathematics that is beyond mathematical, 14-year-old Jaden revealed the family's sources. Will watches "hours and hours" ofTED talks.TED (Technology, Education, Design) is a global set of conferences in which speakers are given a maximum of 18 minutes to present their ideas. There are now more than 1,500 of these talks, ranging from the cosmologistSean Carrolldiscussing why we aren't a random fluctuation out of the nothingness, why we can't live in thermal equilibrium and how our own universe might have sprung from a universal chicken, to the rather more whimsicalNeil Pasrichaspilling the beans on theThree As of Awesomeness. These turn out to be Attitude, Awareness and Authenticity and his message seems to come down to being who you are; or possibly a three-year-old version of yourself.So which TED talks has Will been watching? A universal theory of everything is the holy grail of physics and if such an equation had been found you might have expected it to have reached the Nobel committee as well as the TED organisers. That it has come to the attention of neither suggests that Will is on his own here with this breakthrough. Or hasn't quite grasped the science.More likely, then, Will has been checking outSeth Godin's talk,"How to Get Your Ideas to Spread", in which Godin speculates that the only reason bad movies appear at the top of the DVD charts is because they are new and people haven't had time to realise how bad they are. (There's hope there for Will and Jaden's new film,After Earth.)What he clearly hasn't been watching is the one TED talk from which he could benefit as Will has detected patterns in things he says have been going for millennia, such as the best actor nominations for the Oscars and the two films he has made with Jaden.Michael Shermer's"The Pattern behind Self-Deception"argues that the more deluded and insecure a person is, the more likely they are to find patterns where none exist. Now that does fit a recognisable pattern.
Although E3 casts a considerable shadow over the annual gaming event calendar, the last day has shown that there are plenty of alternatives.Last night saw the official announcement ofGameCity 8, the latest instalment in Nottingham's wonderful annual celebration of game culture. This year, there will be no large tent in the Market Square; instead, the organisers are erecting two huge interactive screens in the space to show game content, while several venues around the city will host the rest of the event. Guest stars are set to include Phil Fish (Fez), Richard Lemarchand (Uncharted) and Vlambeer (Ridiculous Fishing)."It's impossible for us to ignore the recent discussion around diversity in the industry, and we need to play our part within that," says festival director Iain Simons who works with Nottingham Trent University on the programme. "Otherwise it feels like a waste of a perfectly good festival. What's the point of building this platform if you don't use it to make things better?"This year more than ever, we want GameCity to be a place where people feel they can belong - whoever they are, and whatever they play. It's always been implicit I think in everything we've tried to do, but I think we need to say it a bit louder. If videogames are going to be a part of grown-up culture, they need to participate in it with the rest of the world."Elsewhere, we have just announcedEToo, a sort of alternative micro-E3, to take place at the Loading Bar in Soho, from June 10-13. This started out as a vague conversation on Twitter between myself and game developer Georg Backer, and somehow escalated into an actual 'boutique event' that is not only going ahead, but is backed by Sony PlayStation as well as PlayJam, the manufacturers of forthcoming Android console, GameStick.That has all been a bit of a whirl. We just had this idea about celebrating the excitement of E3, but with an emphasis on indie developers and only a hint of mainstream – sort of the opposite of E3 in fact. We also have an ambitious and somewhat crazy plan to hold evening events that will livestream E3 commentary, analysis and trailers over the web.Considering that Georg and I only really had this vague idea less than two weeks ago, it's incredible how much support we've received from developers and the gaming community. For us, this is a non-profit endeavour, our sponsors are meeting the costs; we just wanted to get the atmosphere of E3 and give people somewhere to hang out and find new games. And it seems a lot of people want to do that.GameCity and EToo speak volumes about the inclusivity and positivity of gaming. The boundaries between 'players' and 'developers' are diminishing everyday with applications like GameMaker and Twine bringing development into the reach of gamers who never thought they could make their own projects. Meanwhile, developers are now much closer to their fanbases then ever before – the ability to distribute new titles directly to consumers via digital download, the ease with which social media allows the interflow of communication... all these are helping to turn the games industry into a network of close communities rather than a vast dictatorship of content.There is still a lot to organise with EToo, it is a huge undertaking, it is madness really. But we have received so many offers of help, and so much interest – the spirit that crackles through more established events like GameCity, like Rezzed, like SXSW, expands outward. This is a scene that is happening, but it is for everyone who loves controlling pixels on screens; it is bliss to be involved.
The business secretary, Vince Cable, has become the first cabinet minister to intervene over the "shocking" availability of illegal child abuse images online, urging Google to take more action to police explicit material.Cable said internet companies should act quicker to "cover the anomalies" amid fears from child protection charities that theproliferation of indecent images online is putting more children at risk.The NSPCC warned of a "worrying link" between child abuse images and the murder of five-year-old April Jones, whose killer Mark Bridgerwas jailed for life on Thursday.Cable admitted it was "very, very difficult" to police the internet, but added: "Mark Bridger appears to be influenced by watching child pornography on the internet. Ultimately, this has got to come from the public. If they see any evidence of this happening, of getting it to the police immediately."I think probably where there is some scope for taking action is getting the companies that host these sites, Google and the rest of it, to be more proactive in policing what is there."Asked whether he believed the problem was impossible to police, Cable told BBC Radio 5 Live: "Very very difficult. That's the nature of the internet. It is something that governments don't and can't control. But we've got to try to deal with that problem. Now we've had an awful case of people being influenced in that way we've got to try to find ways of covering the anomalies."Keith Vaz, chair of the Commons home affairs select committee, said he was "appalled" that child abuse images were so readily accessible online and urged the government to adhere to a commitment to establish a code of conduct with internet service providers."The Mark Bridger case has shown that we need to act to remove such content from the internet," he said. "The committee has in the past recommended that the government establish a code of conduct with internet service providers to remove material which breaches acceptable behaviour standards. I am very disappointed that although the government said it would engage with the industry on this issue, we are yet to see any action resulting from this."Google and other internet service providers had to take action to tackle the issue, Vaz added. "Internet service providers, search engines and social media sites are far too laid back about what takes place on their watch. Industry giants such as Google need to accept their responsibility to monitor and intervene."On Friday, a senior Google PR angrily denied it does not take appropriate action to remove illegal and extreme material from its search results, which act as a gateway to the web for many internet users around the world.There have been calls for Google to enforce its "safe search" option as the default setting, which would block pornographic material in search results. However, insiders insisted that the stricter setting operates as an algorithm for legal content – and child abuse imagery is illegal, so is covered by extra blocking measures.Google is regularly sent lists of illegal abuse sites and search terms from the industry-funded body, Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), which it then bans. The company said it had an internal structure operating around the clock to tackle these images, but declined to say how many employees focused on this issue or where they are based.Scott Rubin, Google's director of communications outside America, said: "The SafeSearch filter, which is designed to prevent sexually explicit material of all kinds from showing up in your search results, should not be conflated or confused with our dedication to keeping illegal abuse imagery out of our products. We don't rely simply on filtering technology to block child abuse images; we go beyond that."We are very proactive and work with the right people, including the National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children in the US and the IWF, to keep child abuse content off all of our sites. Any implication we aren't doing anything or we refuse to be part of removing this material is wrong."More than 1.5 million internet users in the UK mistakenly viewed child abuse images online last year, according to the IWF – but only 40,000 items were reported to its hotline. Google and other companies block around 1,000 sites over illegal sexual abuse imagery in a list compiled by IWF. Fewer than 1% of all the websites taken down last year were based in the UK.
Mozilla made a splash at Mobile World Congress in February with the official launch of itsFirefox OS for smartphones, with several manufacturers and 18 operators already on board. Now it's expected to turn its attention to tablets.Mozilla is holding an event on 3 June with Taiwanese firm Hon Hai, the parent of manufacturing company Foxconn, to unveil a new device running Firefox OS,according to Reuters. News site Focus Taiwan has an "industry insider" sourceclaiming it will be a tablet rather than a smartphone.Such a device would not come as a surprise. Mozilla has been active in the tablets market with its Firefox browser for some time:Firefox for Android tabletslaunched in January 2012, for example, and its UI designer Ian Barlow wasblogging a few months before thatabout the design lessons learned.Indeed, a Firefox tablet would go back to the roots of Firefox OS itself, as explained by Mozilla's vice president of mobile engineering Andreas Gal in aninterview with ZDNet in February this year at MWC."When the project started, tablets were the initial goal that we thought about, a year and a half ago. Initially we were thinking about tablets as it's a mobile device but it's more similar to the desktop — a bigger screen, you can consume rich content better," he said then."It became clear very quickly that the volume right now is behind smartphones. Tablets are an interesting next step... I can definitely see us going to tablets in future, right now a lot of opportunities exist in phones, at least for this year."Based on the first clutch of Firefox OS smartphones shown at MWC, a Firefox OS tablet is certainly viable. Also, Mozilla would be off to a running start in terms of getting apps for such a tablet, for the same reasons outlined by its senior vice president of products Jay Sullivan in February."There is no new ecosystem," hetold journalists at the MWC press launch. "If you're building for the web today, and most developers are building beautiful touch-friendly mobile websites to work in modern browsers… If you are building that, you are building a Firefox OS app. You may just not know it yet."The big challenge for a Firefox OS tablet will be distribution – at least if it's to become more than just a niche product for Mozillaphiles.The tablet world is a ferociously competitive place in 2013, with49.2m units shipped in the first quarter of 2013according to IDC: 56.5% of them Android devices, 39.6% iPads and 3.7% running Windows or Windows RT.Stepping up against Apple, Google and Microsoft (not to mention the manufacturing partners of the latter two) in the hardware market is a very different kettle of fish to the market-share battles in the web browser space. Much of whatCharles Arthur wrote about Firefox OS in Februaryrelates as much to tablets as it does to smartphones.That's true in smartphones, of course, where Mozilla is hoping its trump card will be strong operator partnerships – 18 were on board at the MWC launch, with a parade of telco CEOs appearing on-stage to praise Firefox OS at the event – and a focus on emerging markets rather than the big Western countries.Could such a strategy pay off for tablets too? A Firefox slate with cellular connectivity, subsidised by operators and making its debut in Latin America and Eastern Europe (the pattern for the first Firefox OS smartphones) would be an intriguing prospect indeed.Roll on 3 June, when we'll find out if that's on the cards.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.Looking for Android apps? Check this week's20 best Android apps roundup, which was published earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad apps posts).Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic (£6.99)Lots of excitement this week about the iPad port of BioWare's Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic game, originally released in 2003 and still one of the best Star Wars games ever. It's an RPG where you get to learn to use the Force, wander through a succession of famous Star Wars scenes, and can even turn to the dark side. Engrossing and epic in scope – including its file-size, which weighs in at a shade under 2GB.iPadMusyc (Free)Fingerlab is the very talented developer behind DM1 – The Drum Machine, which is still one of the funnest (as Apple would put it) iOS music apps. Their new release looks just as good: a music creation app where you draw shapes and watch sounds bounce around the screen, with 64 instruments to experiment with. As fun for children as adults, I suspect.iPhone / iPadAnalog Camera (£0.69)Developer Realmac Software made waves with its Clear to-do list app last year, with its slinky user-interface. Now the company is back with Analog Camera, pitching it as "the fastest and easiest way to take, process and share photos". It's not just an alternative to Instagram and the rest though: like Camera+ it's a strong candidate to replace the iPhone's default camera app.iPhoneWarhammer Quest (£2.99)What with Star Wars and this, it's a vintage week on the App Store for roleplaying fans. This is the first official iOS game based on Games Workshop's famous Warhammer world and games. This brings classic tabletop Warhammer to iOS devices, as you take a party of heroes into sundry dungeons for battling, looting and levelling up. It's excellent.iPhone / iPadNarcoGuerra (£0.69)Game the News is one of the more interesting indie game developers working at the moment: specialising in games based on topical news stories and campaigns. This one focuses on the war on drugs in Mexico, putting players in the position of the Mexican authorities as they try to defeat the drug cartels, as well as corruption within their own police force. Thought-provoking strategy.iPhone / iPadAdobe Kuler (Free)This is the latest creative app from Adobe: an iPhone app to "capture colour inspiration anywhere you find it". Which means pointing the device's camera at something that catches your eye in the real world, and turning it into RGB data for use in Adobe's various software applications.iPhoneDots: A Game About Connecting (Free)Having inexplicably missed Dots out of this weekly roundup when it came out for iPhone earlier this year, its release this week on iPad gives me a second bite at the cherry. It's a tasty cherry too: a really addictive puzzle game where you have to connect coloured dots, armed now with a pass-the-device multiplayer mode to spread the word among friends.iPhone / iPadMentor (Free)Mentor is one of a growing number of motivational apps that aim to help people achieve their goals, whatever those goals might be. In this case, the idea is that the app and its community bolster your efforts to exercise, read more books, practise an instrument and other goals, connecting you with other people doing the same thing, and keeping stats on your commitment.iPhoneAce Attorney: Phoenix Wright Trilogy HD (Free)The Ace Attorney games were great fun on Nintendo's DS handhelds, and they make a good fit for iOS – even if they've barely been changed in the transition. The games see you trying to solve a series of cases as keen young lawyer Ace, questioning witnesses and doing verbal battle in court to catch out the criminals. Two episodes are included in the free download, with others buyable as in-app purchases – £11.99 if you want the lot.iPhone / iPadCartoonitos and the Beanstalk (£1.49)Cartoonito is a popular pre-school TV channel here in the UK, and its parent company Turner has now launched an official app for kids to interact with on iOS devices. It's a collection of 15 mini-games, all based on a Jack and the Beanstalk theme – except in this case, it's the colourful Cartoonitos characters climbing the big plant. It looks well-crafted and fun.iPhone / iPadSequential (Free)Promising "digital graphic novels and sequential art taken seriously", Sequential is an app selling work by the likes of Alan Moore, Robert Crumb, Eddie Campbell and other authors / artists, with a built-in reader and audio commentaries. The actual works are sold as in-app purchases for anywhere between £2.99 and £12.99 depending on the title.iPadRecordium (Free)As a journalist, I can testify to the ongoing search for The Perfect Dictaphone App. Recordium looks a strong candidate, with its ability to not just record audio, but highlight sections as you record, while also adding notes, tags and pictures. Simple editing tools are also included to trim tracks or paste sections into new recordings.iPhone / iPadWorld War Z (£2.99)Zombies are big business in the entertainment world again in 2013, with the Brad Pitt-starring World War Z one of the movies hoping to capitalise. This is the official game: 28 levels of zombie pandemic action, with a mixture of exploration, hand-to-hand battles and sniping.iPhone / iPadGigglebug (Free)This fab children's app won't just get your kids smiling: it'll make you laugh too. It gets them to help a character named Gigglebug cheer up his grumpy animal friends by tickling them – physically tickling the touchscreen. The animation has bags of character, and there's a single in-app purchase for parents to unlock more characters and a story if they like the idea.iPhone / iPadThe King's Stilts - Dr. Seuss (£2.49)"Play is just as important as hard work," according to Dr Seuss' The King's Stilts, which has now been taken from book to book-app by developer Oceanhouse Media. It's the latest in its diligent efforts to appify the entire Dr Seuss catalogue, with voice narration and word highlighting designed for early readers' needs. You can also record your own voices reading the story, and share the audio with friends and family who have the app.iPhone / iPadDraw Team (Free)This is interesting: an iPad game designed to be played with the Apple TV set-top box by multiple players. The idea: one player draws their secret word on their iPad before time runs out, with other players having to guess what it is to win points.iPadMila (Free)"Unlock the talent of crowds to get your tasks done," suggests Mila's Google Play listing. In other words, find people near you to do stuff you don't want to do. "Are you looking for a cleaning lady, somebody to mow the lawn or to walk your dog? Or do you need help moving?..."iPhoneTo This Day (Free)This deserves to get plenty of attention: an iPad app based on a spoken-word poem with an anti-bullying theme, accompanied by clips from various animators. The idea being that each time you watch, what you see is different (or at least in a different variation).iPadUno &amp; Friends (Free)This Gameloft game is based on card game Uno. As the name (a hair's breadth from Zynga's 'With Friends' branding) implies, this is about playing against friends from Facebook, as well as other players around the world. This being freemium, there are in-app purchases for boosts and super boosts if required.iPhone / iPadClear Timer (Free)Finally, a very-handy productivity app to round this week's apps off. It's a timer/stopwatch app that can run several timers at once, runs in the background of your iPhone, and has a neat wheel UI to help you set it quickly. Simple in all the right ways, with lots of potential uses.iPhoneThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
The European commission is investigating whether Apple has used its influence to secure unfair terms from the mobile networks that sell its phones.The Guardian has been shown a questionnaire sent to mobile networks by the commission, and we are publishing a copy of the key passages below. Some of the wording has been changed to protect our source.The questions posed by Europe's top competition authority, to which mobile networks have been asked to respond by 17 June, make interesting reading. They give a rare insight into how a market leading company could squeeze out competitors.Apple says its contracts "fully comply with local laws" wherever it does business, including the EU. Proving that Apple is dominant would be difficult. The company is not the leading smartphone maker in Europe - that position is held by Samsung.In its preamble, the questionnaire sent out by the European competition chief, Joaquín Almunia, to mobile network operators in Case AT.40016 - Smartphone Distribution Issues, states:"The commission is currently investigating alleged anti-competitive behaviour in the EU/European economic area … relating to the distribution of Apple's smartphones ("iPhones") and the limitation or exclusion from use of technical functions on "iPhones"."The commission has information indicating that Apple and mobile network operators ("MNOs") have concluded distribution agreements which may potentially lead to the foreclosure of other smartphone manufacturers from the market. There are also indications that certain technical functions are disabled on certain Apple products in certain countries in the EU/EEA.If the existence of such behaviour were to be confirmed, it might constitute an infringement of Article 101/102 of the treaty on the functioning of the European Union and article 53/54 of the EEA agreement.The commission then goes on to ask the following:Does your company have to commit to purchase a minimum level of iPhones?- Does that contract have minimum volumes?- Does it set levels and time periods of volumes?- How much of your company's total demand for smartphones is covered by the volume commitments?- Do you have indications that Apple considers an MNO's total demand for smartphones when setting the minimum volumes? How does that mechanism work?- Do the minimum volumes lead your company to order more iPhones in practice than it would order without such minimum volumes, or does your company's demand for iPhones exceed the minimum volume?- Are the minimum volumes modified over time? If yes, according to which criteria?- What are the consequences if your company were not to meet the minimum volume commitment?Preferential treatmentDoes your company have to agree to any kind of obligation to treat the iphone in a preferential manner? If yes...- Is your company under any obligation to not market non-Apple devices to current users of Apple devices?- How does Apple enforce this?Subscription plansDoes your company have to agree any kind of subsidy plan for the iPhone?- How is the level and type of the monthly subsidy for the iPhone determined?- What are the criteria for setting the subsidy at a certain level?Is your company obliged to offer better services to subscribers who use the iPhone than to subscribers who use competing products from other manufacturers?SubsidiesDoes your company have to agree to any kind of obligation concerning the level of the subsidy for the iPhone?- How is the level of the subsidy for the iPhone determined?- What are the criteria for setting the subsidy at a given level?Do you have indications of how decisive the granting of an MNO (mobile network operator) subsidy is for the market entry or expansion of a smartphone manufacturer? What percentage of the smartphones that your company sells are sold with an MNO subsidy?Most favoured supplier clausesDoes Apple impose in its distribution agreements with MNOs most favoured supplier clauses or non discriminatory clauses, providing that a subsidy or other incentives granted by the sale of a smartphone other than the iPhone would need to be granted on the same or better terms to sales of the iPhone as well?Explain how the above informs your decisions to distribute or promote smartphones from other handset manufacturers.Does your company have a 4G network?Is Apple imposing technical or contract restrictions on the use of the iPhone 5 in your 4G network? For what reasons?How can those restrictions be lifted?
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android apps posts).Toca Hair Salon 2 (£0.64)Parents with iOS devices rightfully rave about Toca Boca's range of children's apps: well-crafted, creative and charmingly-quirky ways for kids to learn through play. Now the company is finally bringing its wares to Android and the Google Play store, starting with Toca Hair Salon 2. It gets kids to play hairdresser for six characters, cutting, styling and colouring to their heart's content with simple touchscreen gestures.Next Browser (Free)Next Browser is an Android web browser from the team behind the Go Launcher homescreen apps, which are hugely popular. It's off to a promising start too, with more than 100k downloads already. The idea: "fast and smooth web surfing" with tabbed browsing, lots of browser extensions and the ability to sync bookmarks across devices. It faces tough competition from Chrome and FireFox, but is worth a look.Camera 2 (£1.99)The Paper Camera photography app did pretty well on Android, so now its developers have returned with a follow-up: the logically-named Camera 2. Billed as the "ultimate real-time effects app", it offers a host of filters (including "old computer monitors"), as well as the ability to shoot photos and videos, and share the edited results to various social networks.Opera Mobile Classic (Free)Earlier this year, Opera launched a new Android browser, which has received a range of reactions from users. For those who weren't impressed, the company has now re-launched its original Opera Mobile browser with "Classic" branding. Judging by the reviews, the response has been warm.Duolingo - Learn Languages (Free)There's a mini-boom in apps aiming to help people learn foreign languages, with Duolingo the latest to make its way onto Android. It's a free app for studying Spanish, French, German, Portugese, Italian and English, promising "no fees, no ads, no gimmicks". Split into short'n'sweet lessons, it measures your progress and dishes out achievements to keep you motivated.Telly - Social Video (Free)Telly has been available for Android smartphones for a while now: a way to discover interesting videos from YouTube and other services, while also creating your own to share on social networks. Made by video-sharing startup Twitvid, it's now been launched for Android tablets too, for a better big-screen experience.ArtFlow - Sketch, Paint, Draw (Free)This is the latest arty app for Android tablets – a growing genre that's giving digital artists plenty of tools to use if they've opted for Android over iPad. It aims to "convert your tablet into a digital sketchbook" with more than 50 brushes and other drawing tools. Additional features are unlocked through an in-app purchase.NarcoGuerra (£0.69)Game the News is one of the more interesting indie game developers working at the moment: specialising in games based on topical news stories and campaigns. This one focuses on the war on drugs in Mexico, putting players in the position of the Mexican authorities as they try to defeat the drug cartels, as well as corruption within their own police force. Thought-provoking strategy.Gangstar City (Free)Gameloft's Gangstar games began life as homages to Grand Theft Auto, in the days before GTA was available on smartphones and tablets. This latest version sees you running your own city district, freemium-style, collecting money, completing missions and trying to take over LA.Forest of Doom (£3.99)Good news for Android owners with warm memories of the Fighting Fantasy books back in the 1980s: Ian Livingstone's The Forest of Doom has returned as a book-app, courtesy of developer Tin Man Games. It sees you reading and playing your way through the storyline, complete with virtual dice-rolling for the monster battles. And there are plenty of monsters to battle.Google Admin (Free)A serious app, this one, for admins of Google Apps for Business and other Google Enterprise products. If you're one of those, it's going to be invaluable though: an app that handles tasks like adding users, resetting passwords, managing groups and other domain settings from your smartphone.The King's Stilts - Dr. Seuss (£2.65)"Play is just as important as hard work," according to Dr Seuss' The King's Stilts, which has now been taken from book to book-app by developer Oceanhouse Media. It's the latest in its diligent efforts to appify the entire Dr Seuss catalogue, with voice narration and word highlighting designed for early readers' needs.After Earth (£0.50)Will Smith and his son Jayden have been inescapable on TV recently (including thismarvellous Graham Norton appearance). What they're promoting is After Earth, a new film, which now also has a spin-off game. It's an endless-runner with added beat 'em up segments, with 20 missions to play and nifty-looking graphics. No Carlton, mind.Uno &amp; Friends (Free)Another Gameloft game, this time a new title based on card game Uno. As the name (a hair's breadth from Zynga's 'With Friends' branding) implies, this is about playing against friends from Facebook, as well as other players around the world. This being freemium, there are in-app purchases for boosts and super boosts if required.Mila (Free)"Unlock the talent of crowds to get your tasks done," suggests Mila's Google Play listing. In other words, find people near you to do stuff you don't want to do. "Are you looking for a cleaning lady, somebody to mow the lawn or to walk your dog? Or do you need help moving?..."Ku: Shroud of the Morrigan (£1.70)Ku: Shroud of the Morrigan was an impressive adventure game on iOS, and it looks good on Android too. Armed with a storyline in which "Ireland's ancient past and economic present collide", it blends battling and puzzling as you try to retrieve an ancient Celtic treasure.SlamBots (Free)It's a good week for interesting indie games on Android. SlamBots is the work of Retro Dreamer: an arena battle game that pits you against hordes of robots, which you have to slam around the screen. Pixel-art and chiptunes add to its retro appeal.NodeBeat Special (Free)NodeBeat is one of a number of fun music-creation apps available on Android, with an intuitive interface to get you making sounds without any musical training required (note: I didn't say they'd necessarily begoodsounds...) Your creations can be recorded and exported.Cricket T20 Fever 3D - Deluxe (£0.66)With a summer of cricketing glory (possibly) in store for England, this new game from Indiagames may be just the thing for Android-based bat'n'ball action. Based on the Indian T20 league (but with Lords thrown in as one of the venues), it sees you playing quick matches, one day internationals and a hoick 'em up Power Play mode.Royal Envoy (£1.32)One final game: Royal Envoy, which sits somewhere between the time management and strategy genres. Your job is to rebuild nine islands, constructing homes and buildings using your best town-planning skills. Pirates are included.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
This week, Jemima Kiss reports on the tech scene in Sweden and meets the inventor and founder of theMemotoa clip on unobtrusive life-blogging cam that's set to add to the hype of the Google Glass.Aleks Krotoski reports from the Sydney Book Fair where she met up with the social innovatorRachel Botsmanabout the growing power of what she described as "collaborative consumerism" in her 2009 book of that title. Botsman talks about the growing power or peer-to-peer tech-based businesses such as Airb'n'b and One Fine Stay and why these digital business models are going to dominate in the next decade.Also we have a tech news roundup including growing concern around UK politicians' attempts to censor websites associated with extremists and the latest survey on illegal downloads.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Mirror's Edge 2 Is Probably A Thing Again | Rock, Paper, ShotgunIt is one of the more ignoble of ways to be seemingly announced, but the often speculated Mirror's Edge 2 now has a support page on EA's site. (Update: since deleted.)The game has appeared a couple of times on Amazon in the last couple of weeks, as an XBone listing for Italy and Germany, both of course rapidly removed.Could this be an E3 announcement? It would seem an audacious move for EA. The original game was a flawed masterpiece (which Ivociferously defended), but it wasn't a huge seller. Maybe a downloadable title for next-gen consoles? Whatever the case, I love John Walker's desperate plea at the end of his news story: "DON'T PUT GUNS IN IT".GameCity 8: Nottingham festival sees indies create unique projects | Digital SpyThe Nottingham-based games culture festival will reposition two large outdoor screens in the city's Market Square each day to create new games for the public to engage with.Example screen positions include placing them back-to-back, swinging from a crane or lying on the floor to create new gaming experiences.A number of high profile developers, including Fez's Phil Fish, Thomas Was Alone's Mike Bithell, Noby Noby Boy's Keita Takahashi and Ridiculous Fishing studio Vlambeer will be making new projects specifically for the two screens.This looks AMAZING. It's no secret that I love GameCity, it us one of the highlights of my year and this looks like a fascinating instalment. It's taking place from 19 to 26 October. Keep watchingthe office sitefor more info.EA Retroactively Killing Online Passes | www.GameInformer.comEA announced that it was abandoning online passes in future games a few weeks ago, and it appears that decision may be affecting games already in circulation. Whether it's by design or in error, players can now download online passes for 10 of the company's previous releases, including Mass Effect 2, Medal of Honor, and Dragon Age II.It is likely, of course, that EA is abandoning Online Pass because the next-gen consoles will have their own ways to re-monetise used games and online services, but still...Double Fine launches Massive Chalice on Kickstarter | VG247Double Fine has announced Massive Chalice and hastaken it to Kickstarter.The project is described by the firm as if "turn-based tactics and feudal fantasy had a lovechild, and that offspring founded a mighty century-spanning dynasty."Using the Buddha Engine, the title is slated for PC, Mac, and Linux.The firm needs $725,000 to make it a reality, and the counter is moving so fast I can't keep up, but as I type this $9,791 has been pledged by 253 backers.A few hours later and it's already on around $450,000. In the future, when a developer does well with crowd-funding, they'll just say, "We totally, Double Fined it!"IndieCade at E3 2013 | IndieCadeJoin us at the 2013 IndieCade Showcase @E3 to see the year's cutting edge independent games and industry trends, and the special opportunity to meet the creators. There is an explosion of creativity and innovation in the indie sector—and IndieCade is here to show you the game-changers that go on to transform the industry landscape.This year's amazing line up includes Guns of Icarus Online, In a Permanent Save State, Lovers in a Dangerous Spacetime and the hilarious social game QuickDraw from UK studioGreenfly Studios.Simon Brislin's Blog - Balancing Narrative And Gameplay | GamasutraClint Hocking coined the term in ("Ludonarrative Dissonance in Bioshock"). This is essentially when the narrative elements and the ludic elements are in conflict. His contention was that this is a problem with "Bioshock". He claims that there are two contracts on offer to the player: a personal power-seeking contract and a narrative contract to behave altruistically. The argument being that this is in conflict with the ludic contract.This is a really interesting developer-focused look at the dichotomy between narrative and gameplay – and how to prevent the two from hurting each other.Meet the V&amp;A's first games designer in residence | BBC NewsSophia George, 22-year-old BAFTA winner and Chair of Swallowtail Games, has been appointed as the first-ever Games Designer in Residence at London's Victoria &amp; Albert museum.The residency is a partnership between the V&amp;A, V&amp;A at Dundee, the University of Abertay Dundee and the Association for UK Interactive Entertainment (Ukie), the games industry body.The last timeI interviewed Sophiashe was struggling to stay in the industry; now she's going to be designing games for one of London's finest museums. It will be intriguing to see where this goes.The Fastest Way to Reach The End - Minecraft Wiki Guide | IGNSince the inclusion of The End, Minecraft is a game that can actually be "won". The bad news is it's one heck of a challenge to get there. With such a difficult goal you should be well prepared and know exactly what you have to do to complete your quest.I'm keeping this away from my sons, lest they becomecompletelyobsessed with the game.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Napster logo. Photograph: Mike Fanous/Gamma-Rapho via Getty ImagesA quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe aftermath of Napster: Incumbents slowed down innovation &gt;&gt; TechdirtBrilliant piece on why the fallout from Napster was so damaging, and what the music industry missed out on.Last fall, law professor Michael Carrier came out with a really wonderful paper, called Copyright and Innovation: The Untold Story. He interviewed dozens of people involved in the internet world and the music world, to look at what the impact was of the legal case against Napster, leading to the shutdown of the original service (the name and a few related assets were later sold off to another company). The stories (again, coming from a variety of different perspectives) helps fill in a key part of the story that many of us have heard, but which has never really been written about: what an astounding chill that episode cast over the innovation space when it came to music. Entrepreneurs and investors realized that they, too, were likely to get sued, and focused their efforts elsewhere. The record labels, on the other hand, got the wrong idea, and became totally convinced that a legal strategy was the way to stem the tide of innovation.Google Music 'All Access' iOS app coming within weeks &gt;&gt; VentureBeatGoogle pips Apple in the new digital music service race.Google Play Music "All Access" will be available for iOS within the next few weeks, giving iPhone and iPad customers the option of spending $10 per month to get all the streaming music they want from Google. The streaming music service itself is a mesh between Pandora's method of smart radio stations, meaning that music plays based on what songs you like and how familiar they are to other artists/tracks.Cisco owns the switching and routing world &gt;&gt; GigaOmEveryone seems to care about search market share, but what of the switches and routers that connect the world?While Cisco may see long-term threats to its business from software-defined networking, VoIP and competing collaboration and video conferencing products, the networking giant is sitting pretty with 54% of the market share in the six networking categories shown below for 2012. Research from Synergy shows that Cisco has the lion's share of the market in switches and routing, reaching roughly 65% and 70% respectively. In 2012 the six main segments within the enterprise networking market generated $45bn in revenues for technology vendors, with Ethernet switches now accounting for almost half of all spending.Motorola CEO confirms 'Moto X' phone coming this year, focuses on sensors &gt;&gt; 9to5GoogleMotorola just upped its game.At the D11 conference, Motorola CEO Dennis Woodside has confirmed that it is preparing a major phone called the Moto X for launch. The phone, he says, is heavily focused on sensors. For example, the phone is contextually-aware in that it could tell when you are in a car.Sony PlayStation 4 will be a games console first &gt;&gt; AllThingsDAfter the Xbox One's media hub stuff, Sony reminds us what a console is actually meant to be for:Where Microsoft has positioned the Xbox One as much as an entertainment device as a game console, Sony plans to tout its PlayStation 4 as primarily a device for games. "The most important thing we need to make sure we do at least initially is that we all agree and understand that the PS4 is a great videogame console that appeals to video gamers," Hirai said in a briefing with reporters after his onstage appearance at D: All Things Digital. "If we miss that part then I don't think we get the initial establishment of the console."World's largest Bitcoin exchange stops some anonymous operations &gt;&gt; MashableAnother sign alternative currencies are tightening up?Anonymity, one of Bitcoin's supposed biggest advantages over regular currencies, is all but gone on Mt. Gox, the world's largest Bitcoin exchange and trading website. The japanese-based Mt.Gox announced on Thursday that users who want to exchange currencies into Bitcoin will need to have a verified account, providing a photo ID and a document proving his or her legal residence. "The Bitcoin market continues to evolve, as do regulations and conditions of compliance for Mt. Gox to continue bringing secure services to our customers," read Mt. Gox's press release announcing the change. "It is our responsibility to provide a trusted and legal exchange, and that includes making sure that we are operating within strict anti-money laundering rules and preventing other malicious activity."Facebook shares jump as brokers say usage concerns overblown &gt;&gt; ReutersMarketers will find one billion users irresistible, say analysts.Shares of Facebook Inc jumped 5.6% on Thursday after two investment brokerages upgraded their recommendations, arguing that concerns over the waning engagement of younger users were overblown. Still, the share price of the world's largest social network is at a six-month low, partly due to fears that young users were beginning to cool their activities on Facebook, in favor of newer services like Twitter and the increasingly popular photo messaging application, SnapChat.US to loosen sanctions on Iran for mobile phones, gadgets &gt;&gt; ReutersThe United States was set to relax sanctions on Iran on Thursday to allow American companies to sell mobile phones, software and other technology used for personal communications to Iranians, two U.S. officials said. The move, expected later on Thursday, will allow Iranians to get access to the latest Apple phones and newest software that have only been available on Tehran's black market since sanctions were first imposed in 1992.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday. What are your plans for the weekend?
Google has turned its guns on Apple by revealing plans for low-cost, futuristic smartphones, assembled not in south-east Asia but by 2,000 workers at a plant in Texas.The factory in Fort Worth that 15 years ago built Nokia handsets is to start work this summer on what Google claims will be the only smartphones made in the US.The fruits of two years of work, since the company's purchase of Motorola in 2011, will go on display this autumn, when it launches an entirely new range of handsets led by a flagship device named the Moto X. It is claimed the phones will be able to predict what their owner wants to do next. The devices will be packed with sensors that can detect whether they are sitting idle in a pocket or in use on a car dashboard, and change their behaviour accordingly.While Apple's critics say the once wildly inventive company is running out of ideas, Motorola's chief executive, Dennis Woodside, has promised to bring "audaciousness" and "innovation" back to mobile computing.In a future-gazing presentation at theAllThingsDconference in California, Woodside, who has been charged with turning around the company that invented the first mobile phones of the 1980s, said he was also working on wearable technology.Motorola executive Regina Dugan, a former director of advanced projects for the US military who has been described as an "impresario of mad science", showed off an electronic "tattoo" and a pill which contains a transmitter whose battery is powered by stomach acid, both of which can be used to send signals that replace passwords for unlocking devices."That becomes my first superpower," Dugan said. "My arms are like wires; my hands are like alligator clips; when I touch my phone, my computer, my door, my car, I'm authenticated in." The pill, made by a company called Proteus, changes the swallower's whole body into a password. It has already been approved for medical uses and put on trial in Motorola's labs.In the immediate future, Google has set its sights on the 50% profit margins enjoyed by Apple and Samsung on their top-of-the-range products. The iPhone's price tag has not come down since the first version appeared in 2007. "One of the areas that we think is really open for Motorola is building high-quality, low-cost devices," Woodside said. "The price of a feature phone now is about $30 [£20] on a global basis. The price of a smartphone is about $650. That is not going to persist."Motorola's decision to make phones in the US sets it apart from Apple, which has relied heavily on assembly plants run by Foxconn in China, where it was compelled to step in to improve labour conditions after worker suicides.Recruitment will begin in August for Motorola's plant, which employed as many as 6,000 workers under Nokia. Although labour costs are higher in its home market, Motorola could benefit from having a factory on its doorstep."When your manufacturing is thousands of miles away from your engineers and your designers, you lose the ability to innovate, you lose the ability to make fast changes to how you're manufacturing things," Woodside said. "There's a ton of technology that's coming in around 3D printing and much smaller-run manufacturing that we think we can take advantage of right here."Around 70% of the assembly of the parts in a typical Motorola phone will take place in Texas, and the company will source components including toughened "gorilla glass" from 12 US states. Most of its components, however, will still come from abroad, including processors from Taiwan and screens from South Korea.Woodside kept the Moto X phone he said he was carrying in his pocket hidden, but said the device would be able to perform tricks such as launching the camera app if it was removed from a pocket and held up to take a photograph.Low-power gyroscopes, which sense the angle at which a phone is being held, and accelerometers, which measure its movement, will help the phone guess what its user wants to do next."It's more contextually aware," Woodside said. "Imagine when you're in the car. The device will know whether it's on or off, it's travelling at 60 miles an hour, it's going to act differently, so you can interact with it safely."Love bytesWe wake up next to them in the morning and they keep us company throughout the day. Now a study has found the average British adult spends more time gazing at their smartphones than into their partner's eyes.While smartphone owners typically have 97 minutes a day with their loved one, they devote a full two hours to their phones, according to research by O2 and Samsung.By far the most popular activity during the 119 minutes a day given over to the small screen is web browsing, which accounts for 24 minutes. We spend 16 minutes checking social networks, a quarter of an hour playing music, and the next most popular activities are playing games and making calls, followed by text messaging and emails.Smartphones are also muscling out everyday objects. More than half of the 2,000 surveyed for the annual Mobile Life study say their phone has now replaced their alarm clock. Some 50% say it has replaced their watch, and 46% say they no longer use a separate camera.• This article was amended on 31 May 2013 to relocate an incorrectly placed subheading and correct a typographical error.
For anyone who gets the munchies at the office, it sounds like a fantasy: print your own cake. But a husband and wife architectural design team in Los Angeles is close to making it reality, by producing custom 3D-printed sugar for "mega cool cakes".Kyle and Liz von Hasseln have adapted the technology to design, digitally model and print original sugar sculptures – frosting – for confectionary, turning their company,The Sugar Lab, into a thriving business."It's such an exciting intersection between technology, food, and art. We've been getting excited reactions from all over the world," Liz von Hasseln said on Thursday. "When you see a 3D-printed sugar sculpture that's unlike any food you've seen before, its immediately clear that a whole new set of possibilities has opened up."The couple stumbled into the business as graduate students, when they wished to make a friend a birthday cake but lacked an oven. After a period of trial and error they produced a tiny cupcake topper that spelled their friend's name. Entrepreneurship was born. They launched The Sugar Lab in their studio two years ago and it is now taking off, even winningthe blessing of the geek news site TechCrunch.3D printing transforms sugar into a structural, sculptural element that can interact with food on different terms, said Liz. "It can be used to sweeten or to ornament, but it can also start to define the form of the food instead of the other way around, or even to support it structurally."The Hasselns are currently collaborating with cake artists from a Hollywood bakery on a huge, four-layer cake with a 3D-printed cake stand and sugar columns – and they say the trend is likely to spread."The overlap of technology, food and art is so rich, and the potentials for customization and innovation are limitless," said Liz. "We can definitely visualize a time when there will be a sugar 3D printer in every custom bakery. Brides will choose chocolate or vanilla, buttercream or fondant, and 3D-printed sugar topper shape."Academics at Cornell university, meanwhile, have predicted that 3D printing, cloud computing and digitised personal data will revolutionise cooking – starting, perhaps, witha printer that can make donuts healthy.
Amazon is opening an office for 1,600 staff in central London as the internet retailer seeks to expand its UK business."This new office location will provide the space we require for hundreds of our existing employees as well as many more that we will hire in the future," said Christopher North, managing director of Amazon.co.uk.Several hundred employees are expected to transfer from Amazon's base in Slough to the 12-storey Holborn office by the end of the year.The internet giant has been embroiled in a political storm since it emerged that it paid just £3.2m in corporation tax on UK sales of £4.2bn in 2012.In the Amazon statement the London mayor, Boris Johnson, praised the company's "ambitious expansion plans".  Social media users preferred wisecracks – "not bad for a small biz from Luxembourg", read one comment on Twitter – referring to the subsidiary that UK sales are routed through.Amazon has 6,000 permanent staff in the UK, according to the statement. Last autumn Amazon's director of public policy, Andrew Cecil, told the public accounts committee that the company had "in excess of 15,000 people". A spokesman said Amazon had hired more than 10,000 temporary workers for Christmas.
Analyst-turned-VC Mary Meeker's annual Internet Trends presentation draws plenty of attention in Silicon Valley and beyond.The 2013 editionis no exception, co-authored with Liang Wu, her colleague at Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers.Among the trends highlighted this year:The internet is still growing. Up 8% year-on-year to 2.4bn internet users globally, driven by emerging markets: China, India, Indonesia, Iran and Russia were the top five countries for "internet user net adds" in 2012. Yet Meeker and Wu note that 80% of the top ten global internet properties were "made in USA", even though 81% of their users are outside America.People's digital-media uploads continue to rise sharply. The presentation notes that the amount of "global digital information created and shared" – photos, videos, tweets, documents etc – grew 9x in five years to nearly 2 zettabytes in 2011. That's 2bn gigabytes, if you were wondering. The presentation notes that photos and videos may be "ramping very fast", but it's sound and personal data that are the emerging categories.Mobile, mobile, mobile. The presentation has a slide hailing US smartphone users as "Connected + Excited + Curious / Interested + Productive" while pointing to parts of the world where mobile is already surpassing desktop PCs for internet access: China in particular. And with 1.5bn smartphone users, growth continues to be rapid as people switch from feature phones in their hundreds of millions.People are taking their tablets in droves. Meeker and Wu show Morgan Stanley stats indicating that tablet shipments overtook desktop PCs and notebooks in the final quarter of 2012, less than three years after Apple launched its first iPad.Wearables, Drivables, Flyables, Scannables. Ridicule is nothing to be scared of, according to this year's presentation, which notes the mockery of the Google Glass augmented glasses, while pointedly citing a 1977 quote from Digital Equipment Corporation founder Ken Olson: "There is no reason anyone would want a computer in their home", and a magazine feature from 1999 suggesting that Amazon (and by extension, e-commerce) was a ".Bomb". Connected cars (drivables), mini-drones (flyables) and even QR codes (scannables) are also put forward as key trends.Follow China very closely. Meeker and Wu quote Flurry analytics stats showing it has overtaken the US for active iOS and Android users; cite separate research showing China already leads the US for the percentage of "media consumption time" spent using the internet and mobile; and point out that Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba's gross merchandise volume "surpassed Amazon.com + eBay" in the final quarter of 2012.The full presentation is embedded below, and makes for a rewarding half-hour read.
Streaming radio serviceTuneInhas raised $25m of new funding, as its website and apps passed 1bn listening hours for the first four months of 2013.The service has more than 40m monthly active users listening to the 70k AM/FM, digital and internet radio stations whose streams it makes available. It notched up 227m listening sessions in March alone.TuneIn's latest funding round was led by venture capital firm Institutional Venture Partners, with previous investors Sequoia Capital, Google Ventures and General Catalyst Partners chipping in.The round brings TuneIn's total funding so far to $47m since its first round in 2010, and came as the company appointed a new chief financial officer, former Googler Axel Martinez, to bolster its growth plans."It's been very entertaining to go out to these top-tier investors and talk about what radio's going to look like over the next five or ten years," says chief executive John Donham. "They get just as excited about it as everyone else we talk to."Silicon Valley VCs getting excited about radio? That's quite a thought, given the hype – and a fair amount of justified excitement too – around the emergence of on-demand streaming music services like Spotify and Deezer, and personal radio services like Pandora and iHeartRadio (in the US, at least).These things aren't killing traditional radio? Of course not. Partly because radio is about more than just music: news, sports, comedy and other kinds of programme.But partly also because even for music, there's still something very powerful and appealing about a real person talking to you and playing you music.Donham's pitch for TuneIn, which makes sense, is that the same technological trends that are driving the growth of the likes of Spotify and Pandora are also giving traditional radio a shot in the arm."More and more smartphones are being sold every year, and TuneIn reaches those new customers every day as the number of devices in use goes up," he says. "Mobile and cars are our two fastest growing platforms. We now have 2m monthly active in-vehicle listeners, in the latter case."What will the $25m funding round be spent on? More partnerships with carmakers and connected-device manufacturers, better marketing to help TuneIn's app get discovered, and more tools for radio broadcasters to use."How we can better serve broadcasters is going to be an interesting place to explore in the next few years. What kinds of tools and technologies can help not only reach this audience, but monetise it too," says Donham.TuneIn's advertising model is based around showing display ads within its apps while people listen, then sharing the revenues with broadcasters. Donham suggests that a chunk of the new funding will go towards developing more ad formats, and audio in particular.He adds that radio broadcasters have embraced TuneIn, even the bigger ones who also run their own standalone streaming apps. TuneIn likes to stress its global popularity as the hook here: helping stations in one part of the world reach audiences in other parts.Donham is also a passionate defender of radio as a medium, particularly when he meets suggestions that it's on the way out thanks to new-fangled streaming music services."There's a really big difference between your personal music collection on shuffle, and what radio is. If I hit shuffle, that's not radio, it's 500 CDs on shuffle!" he says."And someone like Pandora or iHeartRadio's streaming music service is no different to your personal music collection on shuffle. You don't get that live connection with another person – the DJ – on the other end of the broadcast. You don't feel connected to the world. Radio makes our lives richer."Yes, Donham is the boss of a company whose business is built on radio, so it would be surprising if he didn't say this kind of thing. But as a heavy user of (and writer about) the new wave of streaming music services, I think there's a lot of truth to what Donham says.Having unlimited access to a catalogue of 20-odd million songs on Spotify is life-enriching in its own way, but it sits alongside my radio listening rather than replacing it. Yet the devices I listen to most radio on have changed: smartphone, laptop and digital TV rather than, well, radios.This is the space that TuneIn is looking to fill, even if here in the UK, the competition provided by the BBC's iPlayer service (74m requests for radio streams in April alone) makes for a tougher local rival than in other parts of the world.One argument that has been made for music is that our need for radio DJs is mostly about their curation role: the idea of someone picking music to play to you (even if the picking is actually being done by a central playlist computer). And that the replacement for this might be, say, Spotify playlists curated by friends, artists or other musical tastemakers.Donham isn't impressed by the argument. "I'm old! If I think back 25 or 30 years, I used to make mixtapes to get girls to date me. Is that the same as radio? It was wonderful music, but it wasn't radio!" he says."The custom mixtape is cool, but it's just another way to organise your music collection. Here in the US, if you get in your car, you have a radio and a CD player. Essentially what that's saying is that these things are complementary. Radio isn't going anywhere."
I am a PhD student about to go and study in a remote area for a year, and wonder what technology to take with me. I want to be able to read documents (PDFs) and books, take notes, and take pictures and video. There is no electricity, but I will be somewhere there is power about once a month, and I could keep a laptop there. It will be hot/dusty/muddy/wet. Also, I don't want to have armfuls of flashy electronic gear among people who don't have any.Solar powered laptop chargers look expensive, so I was thinking of a Paperwhite Kindle, a medium-priced camcorder that also takes stills (under £400), and pile of notebooks and pens. I already have a digital voice recorder. Would you suggest anything different?SarahIn cases like this, the best source of advice is someone who has already been there and done it, or at least spent time in a similar area. I presume you have already asked your tutors, previous students, and any contacts in the remote area for advice.The most difficult question is whether or not standard consumer products will survive the hazardous conditions, if given due care and attention. If not, you will need to think about ruggedized or waterproof devices, or possibly waterproof cases.Not too long ago, those might have been expensive options. Today, however, there is vast range of cheap devices aimed at the sports/adventure market.Oregon Scientificand other companies supply "actioncams" and helmetcams for skiers, rock climbers, off-road bikers, skydivers and people who indulge in similar outdoor sports.GoProhas recently made a splash in this area, though judging by user reviews, its products have not been completely problem free.Olympus also pioneered in this area with its Mju Tough digital cameras, but now many of the big brands offer ruggedized and/or waterproof digital cameras.Sports/action cameras are not the sort of thing that a documentary photographer or film maker would generally choose, but they are reasonably robust and more likely to survive adverse conditions than the usual consumer products. I wouldn't try to use any of them underwater, personally, but rain and the odd bit of mud shouldn't be a problem.Small camcordersMy original thought was theSanyo Xacti VPC-CA9camcorder, which is reasonably priced (about £130 to£150) and advertised as "waterproof up to 1.5 meters (5 feet)". It's a pistol-grip design with 5x optical zooming. It shoots 9MP (megapixel) still images and 720p HD (high definition) video. It stores images on SDHC memory cards (up to 32GB), so you could take several cards.However, Panasonic now looks the best value in this area, with the 14MPPanasonic WA2(£134.89 at Amazon.co.uk) and similar models. This is the same sort of design -- a "vertical camcorder" -- but shoots 1080p Full HD, so you can record 1920 x 1080 pixel movies using H.264/AVCHD.Your budget would allow you to buy something better, such as the 16MPPanasonic HX-WA3EB-H(about £250). It's advertised as being shockproof, waterproof, freezeproof and dustproof, so it should survive conditions in your remote rural area.Although these Panasonic cameras claim 15x or 18x (etc) "intelligent" zooms, they are only 5x optical zooms, so this is what you would get with still photos. It's usually better to stick to optical zooming. If you want to do any digital zooming, it's better to do it at the editing stage when you can use a powerful PC.Panasonic has a wide range ofActive Style Camcordersso you may want to go for a different model, but I think this is the right sort of idea.Tough digital compact camerasIf you want to take a still camera as well, there are plenty of cheap, robust pocket cameras. TheOlympus Tough TG-1looks like a good option at around £250, if shipped from Japan (a relatively risky option). There's a review with a video atTrusted Reviews. However, it has now been replaced by theTG-2at about£300A good alternative is the 16MPPanasonic DMC-FT5(also about £300).Both the Olympus Tough TG-2 and Panasonic DMC-FT5 can shoot high-quality movies as well as stills. If still photography is what you need most, then you could use one of these still cameras and skip the camcorder. However, the vertical camcorders are so small – they fit the palm of your hand – you can easily take both.Smartphones and power suppliesAnother alternative would be to take just a smartphone. All the popular models take reasonable still photos and videos, work as voice recorders, and can be used as e-book readers, at least for short periods. The smartphone is the Swiss army knife of digital devices: it's not as good at any of the tasks as a dedicated product, but it can be acceptably good, and it's always better than nothing.The real problem with smartphones is that most of them don't run for very long, and even fewer now have replaceable batteries. A smartphone that needs recharging twice a day isn't much good if you have to survive a month without access to electricity. If you take this route, you will need an add-on battery pack and probably a solar power charger, such as thePowerTraveller Solar GorillaandPower Gorilla PG002. These fold up to minimise the bulk, and at 700g and 631g respectively, are not too heavy.These have received mixed reviews on Amazon, with one-star reviews from people who didn't find them effective at charging devices. I haven't used either myself, so see if you can find a colleague who has. Ask them aboutwind-up chargersas well.Another alternative would be a camera that takes rechargeable AA batteries instead of a Li-ion battery. There are not too many of these around, but the 16.6MPCanon Powershot SX160 IS(£119.99) takes both stills and good movies. Unfortunately, AA batteries don't last very long in modern cameras, so you will need a decent stock of rechargeables (I'd take eight) and a compact charger that recharges four at a time.Note also that the Powershot SX160 IS is not waterproof or ruggedized, and should be kept sealed in a tough plastic bag when not in use.We never had problems like this with compact cameras shooting 35mm film, and there are plenty of second hand models around. The Minox 35G and ML (my favourite) and Rollei 35 and B35 models are classics.The Amazon Kindle Paperwhite is a great choice as an ebook reader. You will probably need to preload it with books and documents, but it would be interesting to hear just how far Amazon's Whispernet travels.
With$179m of revenues from its two iOS gamesin the first quarter of 2013, Finnish developerSupercellmade more money from mobile thanElectronic Arts with its $109m.It's a sign of the times, with free-to-play (F2P) games like Supercell's Clash of Clans and Hay Day, King's Candy Crush Saga and GungHo Entertainment's Puzzle &amp; Dragons proving hugely lucrative on smartphones and tablets.Now Supercell has a new board member with a better view than most on the changes wrought by F2P on the games industry: Kristian Segerstrale.As co-founder of a UK studio named Macrospace and then VP EMEA studios and publishing at the US publisher that acquired it, Glu Mobile, he was involved in mobile gaming long before the App Store was a twinkle in Apple's eye.When he left Glu to co-found a company called Playfish in 2007, he was one of the prime movers in the emerging social games industry around Facebook. And whenPlayfish was bought by EA in 2009for $300m plus performance bonuses, Segerstrale stuck around and rose to a position as EVP of digital as the publisher ramped up its investment in new platforms and business models.Having left EA in March 2013, Segerstrale has been focusing on Initial Capital, the investor and accelerator for early-stage technology startups set up with his Playfish co-founders, and which led Supercell's seed investment round back in 2010."Because I was at EA, I was not actively involved in Supercell, but having left, it was natural to get more involved," he says."Having built up Macrospace that then became Glu, then the Playfish adventure outside and inside EA, there are so many mistakes that I made along the way, and different learnings that I have to contribute to Supercell, with the growth path that lies ahead of it."Actually, though, Segerstrale stresses that Supercell's team are already doing a grand job of avoiding some of those mistakes, not least in not getting carried away with the company's rapid success: its two games launched in the summer of 2012, but by the end of March 2013 the company was making $2.4m a day from its 8.5m daily active players."They've been incredibly mature and thoughtful about growth. So many companies with this kind of success would take the knee-jerk reaction of opening the floodgates with recruitment, trying to buy everybody and grow as aggressively as possible," says Segerstrale."The Supercell founders haven't let success get in the way of doing the right thing as a company, and realising that at the end of the day, talent is everything for a games company. They're totally committed to celebrating their talent, and enabling teams to express themselves."Gaming's shift from the living roomSupercell's good fortune has been to emerge at a time of great disruption even within the mobile games industry, let alone the wider games market.Segerstrale talks about the shift that's going on for gaming, away from "shared screens in the living room where people have this somewhat solitary experience" to more personal yet also more connected screens of tablets and smartphones."I happen to think that for movies, TV, music and games, in all these areas somebody's going to emerge as the company that really profoundly gets how to craft the best possible entertainment in that setting," he says."For games, that means not sitting in the living room with that complicated controller, but with that personal screen, wanting to be connected with your friends. And it's still early days for the growth of these devices, no matter what tablet or smartphone forecast you look at."Segerstrale sees Supercell as one of a new breed of developers that are attuned to the demands of making games that resonate on these personal, connected devices – demands that he thinks many traditional games firms have yet to fully grasp."Just setting up another studio to make a bunch of new games is not the route to growth. Some of the traditional models, with studios all over the world and a big central green-light process, may be somewhat challenged in this environment," he says.How so? Supercell has already killed twice as many unreleased projects – four – as it has released games, famously toasting each shuttered project with champagne to celebrate what CEO Ilkka Paananen has described as "the learning that comes out of the failure".Segerstrale suggests that the important thing here is the process: new games are tried on Supercell's staff first, then tested in an individual country. If they do well, only then will they be released globally."The games industry has traditionally created a hierarchy on top of games teams to ensure that marketing and the studio are both aligned to create this marketing event when you launch, and that lives on in the muscle memory even of many mobile and social games companies," he says."The genius of Supercell is that they're calling out that the emperor has no clothes. That's not the right way to create games moving forward. You have to get hold of the best talent, then release a game in a test market and let the audience decide. If it works, wonderful. Launch it. If it doesn't work, go back and celebrate the learnings you made, not the failure."F2P and the soul of gamingWe should talk about some of the successes, failures and learnings of free-to-play mobile and tablet gaming, though. These games are certainly dominating the landscape: 16 of the top grossing iPhone apps in the US at the time of writing – that's all apps, not just the Games category – are freemium games.Yet there's a heated debate among developers and gamers alike about the cultural impact of F2P, particularly for some of the games that are most aggressive in their prods and restrictions designed to make players spend money, and for the many developers and publishers who dehumanise their keenest fans (i.e. highest-spending players) as "whales".Segerstrale at least has some historical perspective on F2P from his Playfish days. When I interviewed him back then – at a point where he was still regularly having to explain what social games were as a concept – the pitch was that these games were vessels for social communication. There wasn't anywhere near as much talk about how they'd make money, because…"Because we genuinely didn't know if micro-transactions were going to take off. They'd worked in Korea and China in different ways, but we weren't sure about the West. Hence our philosophy about creating engagement, because we didn't know what the business model was going to be," he says."So we started off focusing entirely on funky, fun new experiences that were possible because you could bring friends into the game. But because you could collect all the data, there was a second wave of 'Hey, there's a lot of analytics in here! Let's unleash the numbers guys to figure out how you optimise everything to death'."Hence what Segerstrale says some people have termed "the San Francisco school of making games", where "you can optimise your way to everything: design doesn't matter, you can test everything and iterate your way to the end". Epitomised by Zynga, but arguably taken to new heights (or depths, depending on your view) in the world of mobile F2P games."What Supercell represents is the next wave beyond that. This is an industry that is about the art first and foremost," say Segerstrale."Sure, they track analytics, but they make decisions based on what feels right from a design perspective. Instead of analysing things to death, they step back and say 'how do we make this a more-fun game?' It's really a marriage of the art and the science, but in this third wave, the science is really serving the art."F2P in 2013 = video games in 1982?This sounds great, but it's certainly not what's happening in every F2P games company. Segerstrale admits there are practices going on that are unsavoury, and which most importantly of all, feel unfair to players. Which may be key to bringing them to an end."If you're looking to create a company that's successful for decades rather than a few years, the most important thing you have is the relationship with your players, with game balancing systems that feel fundamentally fair," he says."The pitfalls of free-to-play are creating systems that don't feel fair to players: not fair in the sense that the people who pay win, or in the sense that people make all this emotional investment in a game, then are forced to rescue their pet by paying money or something. There is no long-term greatness in any of that."He goes on to make the comparison between F2P now and the video games industry in the 1980s, and an infamous wave of "really bad" games around 1982/83 that stung players and had a hugely negative impact on what was still a fledgling industry."The industry nearly imploded, but lo and behold, studios then emerged who were committed to quality, and able to build lasting franchises and companies," says Segerstrale."This is the same kind of thing in fast-forward mode. Clearly there are practices in free-to-play games now that are unsustainable and don't do the industry any favours. But there is a new wave of companies coming who are focused on creating truly amazing entertainment."What, then, does the rise of Supercell and other studios like it mean for the traditional 900lb gorillas of the games industry: the EAs and Activisions, for example, or even the newer gorillas like Zynga?EA's mobile division is now a significant business unit within the company, while Zynga has made no secret of 2013 being a transitional year to a "mobile-first" strategy. Yet Activision's CEO recently told investors that his company is happy to take a less engaged role in mobile."The bigger companies are clearly facing a choice: they either put their best talents against the next-generation consoles and bet on that, or they put their best talent behind what's happening on mobile and tablets. I genuinely don't believe there is an 'and' in that model. You have your best talent, and you put it behind one or the other," says Segerstrale."The companies that don't go ahead and burn the boats on this will have an enormous challenge on keeping up with the pureplays on mobile and tablets. It's all about the talent and the speed of iteration. You're going to have an enormously hard time trying to be both a next-generation console games company, and a great mobile and tablet company."Consoles as Pied PipersSegerstrale makes pains to stress he's not rubbishing the strategy of his former employer EA with these comments - although one wonders what internal battles over talent and speed of iteration he may have fought that informs these opinions.But he maintains that this is why studios like Supercell don't need to ultimately sell out to bigger industry fish: because they can take them on and beat them in the mobile/tablet market.(Of course, the other benefit of shouting loud about beating rather than joining the bigger fish because you understand the new platforms and business models better than they do is that it may drive your valuation up when they do come calling with a chequebook. Segerstrale talked just as engagingly about why Playfish didn't need to be acquired by an EA right up to the point where it was acquired by EA.)That said, he also makes a good point about the scale of the biggest F2P firms in the current mobile market: "These companies have been so phenomenally successful financially, they are really gunning for the long term," he says."If you look at their financial results, some of these companies are becoming too big to acquire! It is harder than ever to make mid-size acquisitions. So some combination of the companies that are successful right now will probably form the core of what shapes the industry over the next five years. Their finances are so strong, they can do whatever they want."It's a challenge for the likes of EA, which Segerstrale concedes has "awesome IP, talent and scale" who are trying to straddle the console and mobile/tablet/social worlds, as well as for other publishers following suit."Any strategy that involves many ands - this and that and that - fundamentally risks execution across the board. My thesis is that these next-generation consoles will turn out to be the Pied Pipers that lead some of the most promising companies today away from long-term success," says Segerstrale."I'm not saying they cannot be successful as platforms, but as a company it is hard to do two different things. The biggest, most interesting thing to observe about the biggest companies right now is to see how bold they will be in terms of focusing their efforts on what they believe will be the future driver of the industry."
A quick burst of nine links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSkype came to Microsoft's Windows Phone OS in beta form in 2012Cisco: Microsoft's deal with Skype Is monopolistic &gt;&gt; CNBCCisco Systems, the world's leading network equipment maker, asked an EU court on Wednesday to annul the approval of Microsoft's purchase of Skype, saying EU regulators were wrong to allow the creation of a monopoly. Cisco's challenge at the Luxembourg-based General Court follows the European Commission's approval of the $8.5 billion deal in 2011. Microsoft was not required to make any concessions for buying the Internet video and voice messaging company, which Cisco argues has given Microsoft/Skype an unfair advantage.First bricks of Great Firewall of Taiwan being laid &gt;&gt; The RegisterThe Republic of China, which claims ownership of Taiwan, has proposed SOPA-like amendments to the country's copyright law - and netizens fear these could be misused in future to cut Taiwan off from the worldwide web. China already operates an infamous internet-censoring firewall on its mainland. The planned changes to the rules by Taiwan's Intellectual Property Office will pave the way for IP and DNS blocking at the ISP level to ban access to foreign websites "specifically designed for copyright infringement activities" or which have "obviously violated copyrights".Samsung readies first R&amp;D center in Finland as it outsells Nokia &gt;&gt; The Next WebSamsung is going all out to best Nokia in its home market of Finland. Fresh from an IDC report claiming that Samsung outsold Nokia in Finland during Q1 2013 -- a notable first -- the Korean phone maker has outed plans to open an R&amp;D base in the country next month.How Pinterest will translate user inspiration into making money &gt;&gt; TechCrunchPinterest CEO Ben Silbermann says that the startup isn't making any money currently. However, he said the company is looking for ways to give marketers tools to help them understand what's happening on the platform -- and maybe, just maybe, make some money from them. Pinterest has a ton of employees -- about 130, Silbermann said -- and the company has a valuation of $2.5 billion... The company is currently working on tools to help brands to understand what users are pinning and why. But as the team thinks about what it's going to work on next, it's thoughtful about how it will manage features that will help it make money, while also balancing the user experience.The curse of the new tech palaces: have Apple, Amazon and Google peaked? &gt;&gt; PC ProWhile much of corporate America is retrenching on the real estate front, the four most influential technology companies in America are each planning headquarters that could win a Pritzker Architecture Prize for hubris. Amazon this week revealed plans for three verdant bubbles in downtown Seattle, joining Apple's circular "spaceship", Facebook's Frank Gehry-designed open-office complex and a new Googleplex on the list of planned trophy offices.Apple to pay $53m to settle lawsuit over iPhone and iPod touch warranties &gt;&gt; PC AdvisorThe proceeds of the cash settlement will be paid to over 153,000 owners of the devices who were denied warranty coverage while Apple's 'liquid damage policy' was still in force, according to a joint filing Tuesday in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. Under the earlier warranty policy, Apple had installed a Liquid Submersion Indicator (LSI), made from a water contact indicator tape manufactured by 3M, on the devices. Color changes in the indicator from white to pink or red could be viewed externally.Nice try Apple, but that alkali strip also picked up humidity, not just handsets that fell down the toilet...Are Microsoft shareholders ready to force change? &gt;&gt; GigaOmRick Sherlund, Nomura Securities' software analyst, clearly thinks something's up with Microsoft. He is a long-time, respected Microsoft watcher -- first at Goldman Sachs and now at Nomura -- so when he puts out a research note saying something's new, even if he's a little coy about what that might be, it's worth noting.Sherlund's note is worth reading: he says Microsoft could ditch search and the Xbox, pay off disgruntled investors and may start to listening to some strengthening voices among its shareholder base, some of which are calling for CEO teve Balmer to step aside.Google overhauls Gmail to tackle email overload &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThe revamped Gmail automatically sorts incoming messages into categories, which appear as three tabs -- primary, social and promotions -- that users can toggle between in their in-box. The primary tab contains the e-mails that the service thinks are most important. Social contains message updates from various social networks, like LinkedIn, Tumblr and Yelp. Promotions contains newsletters, party invites and concert announcements. Users can also select to add additional tabs to help manage electronic bills, banking statements and messages from forum boards.Amazon launches web identity service with Google Facebook support &gt;&gt; TechCrunchAmazon is the latest to make a play for control of consumer identity and login.Amazon Web Services (AWS) has launched a web identity service with support for Google, Facebook and its own AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM).  The service allows developers to grant temporary authorization to people using these three services and simplifies development as all the identity management is done by AWS.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Eileen Stokes and her family live a basic life, one of 16 Irish Traveller families settled on an established halting site at the edge of Knocknaheeny, a run-down northern suburb of Cork.A brazier smolders outside their mobile home. Also within the small, breezeblock-walled yard is the family's much-loved horse, Ginger. Excitable children show off minnows they have caught in a jar and ask for photos to be taken of themselves posing as boxers or on horseback.Eileen's husband pulls out a mobile phone to call his brother to come and talk to the Guardian. It's not an iPhone.The Stokes are the nearest neighbours to Apple's Cork offices, just north of the Blarney Road. Almost two-thirds of the technology group's $34bn (£22.5bn) global profits for 2011 were earned by companies registered next door.The past 10 years have brought "unprecedented success" as the popularity of its products has spread across the world, Apple chief executive Tim Cook recalled in Washington last week.As a result, Apple's Irish companies now sit on reserves of cash and investments worth about $100bn – a corporate kitty that would more than cover Ireland's entire annual government expenditure.Over the same 10 years, Ireland's fortunes have taken a different turn, with the country engulfed in a banking crisis and forced to seek a bailout from the EU and IMF. Between 2006 and 2011, unemployment rates in Cork city and its suburbs doubled to 18%. The area includes nine of the country's unemployment blackspots, the worst of which is Knocknaheeny, where the jobless rate according to the 2011 census was 43%.Cork has nine of Ireland’s joblessness hotspots, as well as Apple's offices. Photograph: Sean Smith for the Guardian"They never done anything for us," says Stokes, her husband adding that many staff at the offices are foreign rather than local workers. Knocknaheeny is an area with a history of many households living below the poverty line. Of those who work, many are low-paid.On its multi-billion Irish company profits, Apple paid an average of less than 1% tax to Dublin, leading US politicians and tax professors to accuse the group – which vies with the oil giant Exxon for the title of the world's largest joint-stock company – of deliberately shuffling around its global profits in order to lower its tax bill.These are earnings, tax experts say, that ordinarily would arise and be taxed, at Apple's Silicon Valley headquarters; and to a lesser degree in markets around the world, including the UK, where many millions have bought its products.Foremost among Apple's accusers are two US senators: a formidable bipartisan duo of Carl Levin, a 78-year-old Democratic senator from Michigan, and John McCain, 76, the 2008 Republican presidential candidate.Leading the Senate subcommittee on investigations, they discovered that international selling rights to Apple products had been transferred out of the US to a small handful of companies in Knocknaheeny."You shifted that golden goose to Ireland," Levin angrily accused Cook at a six-hour hearing last week. "You shifted it to three companies that do not pay taxes in Ireland … These are the crown jewels of Apple Inc … Folks, it's not right."It was an interpretation Cook politely said he did not recognise. "There is no [profit] shifting going on that I see at all," the smiling Apple boss explained, sticking firmly to the company line."Apple has real operations in real places, with Apple employees selling real products to real customers. We pay all the taxes we owe – every single dollar … We don't depend on tax gimmicks."But politicians and tax experts found this hard to believe. "Apple does not use tax gimmicks? I about fell off my chair when I read that," Dick Harvey, a professor in tax law and former adviser to the IRS, told the Senate hearing.Probed specifically on activities in Ireland, Cook claimed: "We have built up a significant skills base there of people who really understand, deeply, the European market, that serve our customers well. They provide a number of functions for that … from tech support, to sales, to reseller support, etc. So we have quite a strong presence there."With the two sides unable to agree, the Guardian went to Cork, seeking to build on evidence given to the Senate and test whether Apple's claim that its Irish subsidiaries can reasonably be said to earn two-thirds of global group profits – or whether, in truth, they are little more than a fig leaf masking industrial-scale tax avoidance.The investigation found:• Apple's Cork site employs large numbers of foreign workers, many employed in call centres dealing with technical-support queries raised in their home countries. Recent Cork job adverts show vacancies for a Spanish payroll analyst, Nordic customer relations adviser, Norwegian Apple specialist, Russian fraud analyst and a German Agreement admin adviser.• Staff at what Cook calls "our campus in Cork" earned less than the average for Apple, though Harvard professor Stephen Shay has calculated that 2011 profit per employee at the Cork site was more than $9m.• Although Steve Jobs made Cork his first European base in 1980, most manufacturing operations left Cork years ago. Printed circuit-board production went to Indonesia in 1998, while iMac assembly transferred to Wales a year later.• Most Apple products destined for all markets outside of the Americas are manufactured by Foxconn in China on orders from Cork. Almost all of them never touch Ireland, being shipped directly to local distributors and retailers in Europe, the Middle East, India, Africa, Asia and Australia.• Apple has been able to draw a secrecy veil over its Irish operations by making extensive use of unlimited companies, which are not required to file company accounts.• Billions of dollars of profit pouring into Apple's Irish coffers each year are managed by Apple's Nevada-based investment subsidiary Braeburn Capital, making it larger than any US hedge fund. Cash reserves are held in banks in New York with not a penny in Ireland.• Main accounting records for at least one of these companies are held in Austin, Texas. Meanwhile, notes of board meetings are taken by Apple's California-based general counsel Gene Levoff and sent to a law firm in Ireland to be typed up as formal minutes.• Auditors to Apple companies are Ernst &amp; Young, the accountancy firm that also audits Google, Facebook and Amazon – each of which have also elected to set up substantial operations in Ireland. E&amp;Y did $6bn of tax advisory work last year.Apple declined to co-operate with the Guardian's investigations and staff leaving work last week were told not to speak to the paper.However, one worker did break ranks, although chose to speak anonymously. "I grew up in Denmark, so I come from a system where you pay 50% tax. So, yeah, I believe you should pay taxes – I would prefer to pay 50% and have a system that works," he said."I don't know how the Irish do it. I don't think it's fair, no. I think they [Apple] pay 2% tax here in Ireland, which is ridiculous – but that's the way the system works."Conor Healy, chief executive of the Cork chamber of commerce, said Ireland's unapologetic drive to recruit multinationals was good for the local economy, insisting the country's low corporation tax rate of 12.5% was just one reason multinationals chose to relocate. "That's something we very much promote. But that, on its own, is not sufficient for large companies like Apple to be successful."Cork is the EMEA [European, Middle East and Africa] headquarters for Apple … It's delivering real services to Apple customers outside of the US and to the Apple corporation globally."And it is employing 4,000 real people, in real jobs here in Cork. That's a very, very different environment to the tax haven as portrayed in some of the commentary from the US."Some 40 multinationals – including Amazon, Google and software security group McAfee – have set up operations in and around Cork, bringing 100,000 jobs to the area, according to Healy. And for every one of these new posts, he claims, three additional, indirect jobs are created.In the last week, Irish ministers have been busy attempting to rebut damaging tax-haven accusations from the Senators. They have denied that Apple received a sweetheart deal from the Irish government, despite sworn testimony from Cook that Ireland, in 1980, was "very much recruiting tech companies … [and] did give us a tax incentive agreement to enter there".Ireland's deputy prime minister, Eamon Gilmore, said: "[These] are not issues that arise from the Irish taxation system. They are issues that arise from the taxation systems in other jurisdictions, and that is an issue that has to be addressed first of all in those jurisdictions."But Sheila Killian, a lecturer in accounting and finance at Limerick University and a former E&amp;Y tax adviser, suggested it might not be so straightforward for Ireland to wash its hands of responsibility for tax controversies such as Apple and Google. Whatever the modest benefits to Knocknaheeny, Cork and Ireland, business-friendly tax policies, she argued, can having a corrosive impact on international efforts to stand firm against aggressive tax avoidance."I think the 12.5% rate in itself, when companies aren't engaged in [tax structuring], is not so problematic … But when profit is shifted into Ireland – and particularly when funds are channelled through Ireland, as appears to be the case for Apple and Google – then you have companies that essentially don't pay much tax anywhere. They're really bleeding tax from other jurisdictions, particularly [poorer nations in] the global south."Less money goes in aid to the south than flies from the south in capital. If you allow your tax system to be used by multinational firms to facilitate that kind of flight, that's very problematic."Next month, David Cameron hosts a G8 summit in Northern Ireland and has promised to put tackling big business tax avoidance at the top of the agenda. In January, the prime minister used a speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos to signal his intent."Some companies navigate their way around legitimate tax systems, and even low tax rates, with an army of clever accountants," he said. "Some forms of avoidance have become so aggressive that I think it is right to say these are ethical issues, and it is time to call for more responsibility," the prime minister said, urging multinationals to "wake up and smell the coffee".Meanwhile, Apple too – like Google earlier this month – has been calling for a reform of the international tax rules. Not everyone shares a view about what reform should look like, but political and public pressure for change, from around the globe, has never been stronger.
Cathy Kearney, an accountant in the Irish city of Cork, appears to live a fairly modest home life. A graduate of the local university, her home for 15 years has been a dairy farm outside Youghal, a seaside town a short drive from the city.The 49-year-old lives with her husband and children in a large, but far from grand, farmhouse. Outside work she is involved in the local church. She is also, at first sight, the brains behind much of Apple's exceptional global success in recent times.Kearney is the Silicon Valley computer giant's top lieutenant in Ireland, and has overseen the explosive success of the company's operations in Cork, responsible for selling iPads, iPhones and MacBooks to scores of markets across Europe, the Middle East and Africa. No less than $22bn of Apple's profits – two-thirds of the total for the group – came from Kearney's Cork companies in 2011 alone. Back in the United States, Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, has described this international success as unprecedented.Two years ago Kearney featured in a list of Ireland's 20 most powerful women produced by the Irish Independent. It declared that Apple's success owed much to her "shrewd direction", though it also noted that she was a very private individual and had refused to provide biographical details or a photograph of herself."We focus on our products rather than individuals as we like to recognise the team effort at Apple," a spokesman said.Kearney did give one interview last month, however – speaking in private to US Senate officials. They have been gathering information about Apple's Irish operations on suspicion that the group is aggressively – though legally – shifting profits from operations around the world, particularly from the US, to Ireland in order to pay less tax.Of particular interest to the investigators was a cluster of companies, registered at Apple's Cork office, to which had been transferred development rights, outside the Americas, to many of the group's products. As one senator put it last week, Apple had "shifted that golden goose to Ireland". Poring over paperwork for these companies, Senate staff saw the familiar names of senior California-based Apple executives, including Cook himself. They also saw Kearney's name – again and again.Probing further, among the companies they alighted on was Apple Operations International, the top Apple holding company in Cork. Kearney is the only AOI director in Ireland. Directors' duties usually include attending board meetings. But the Senate officials discovered she had attended just seven of 33 AOI board meetings over almost seven years – once in person, the other six by telephone. All but one of the meetings were in California, where the other directors were based.Meanwhile, in four years, almost $30bn of profits poured into AOI, though it has no physical presence or employees in Cork or, indeed, anywhere else on the planet. One source on the Senate subcommittee on investigations joked that AOI and others were "iCompanies – i for imaginary, invisible".Back in 1997 Kearney's job title at the Cork office was financial controller, though she may have worked there longer than that. Apple declined requests for an interview with her. Guardian inquiries were redirected from Cork to Apple Europe Limited, a company in Mayfair, London, with about 300 marketing and sales staff. Today, Kearney's formal business title is vice-president of European operations for another Cork company, Apple Distribution International. But it is her directorships of AOI and other Apple subsidiaries that have attracted attention. They help satisfy incorporation requirements under Irish law, and some of them do employ staff in Cork. What surprised investigators most was that at least three of these companies, including AOI, appeared to have no tax residency anywhere in the world.Their boards have been able to tell the Irish tax authorities that Kearney, the sole Irish-resident director, cannot be judged to manage or control these companies, and that important decision-making rests in California.As a result, AOI and others are not deemed tax resident in Ireland.Meanwhile, because these same companies are incorporated at addresses in Ireland, under US law they appeared not to be tax resident in the US either. "Magically," observed Senate committee chair Carl Levin, "it's neither here nor there."The Cork accountant is indeed an important woman, running a Cork office of up to 4,000 staff.But she has also helped saved Apple billions in tax.
Apple's chief executive has defended the company's use of tax loopholes, saying "we don't use tax gimmicks".Speaking about his appearance before US senators last weekto answer questions on Apple's Irish tax arrangements, Tim Cook urged the US government to "gut" its tax code, which he said was held together by "band-aid and paperclips".Apple has more than $100bn (£66bn) in profits stranded abroad because the company is unwilling to pay the 35% corporation tax that the US government would impose were the cash to be brought home.Cook proposed scrapping all the loopholes, or 'corporate tax expenditures', used by multinationals to lower their contributions to the Internal Revenue Service, and suggested the corporate tax rate be reduced to single digits."We came in with a proposal," Cook said of his senate appearance. "We are not in here asking for tax breaks. We think we should do a comprehensive reform. For multinationals the right approach would be simplicity. Just gut the code. It's 7500 pages long, none of us could read it and make sense of it."Interviewed at a conference organised by the All Things Digital technology news site, Cook said Apple's annual tax return was "crazy" because it amounted to a pile of documents two feet high."If you implement what we are suggesting we may wind up paying a little more," he said, "but what we would get for that is we would have unlimited ability to pull our capital back offshore and that would be great for the US."Asked whether the US tax code was convoluted and difficult to understand partly because of lobbying by companies including Apple for exemptions, Cook replied: "No doubt."Two years into his role as successor to Steve Jobs, Cook defended Apple against criticism that the company has not been innovative under his leadership, saying "we have several more game changers in us".He suggested Apple is still planning to develop a TV: "There is a very grand vision of it. I have nothing to announce but it's an area of incredible interest to us."Cook appeared more keen to talk about the wearable technology trend – Google is already marketing its video recording, phone call making glasses, while Apple is reported to be developing a computer that can be worn on the wrist.• This article was amended on 30 May to correct the figure quoted for Apple's profits
What happens when you mix 40 technology entrepreneurs, a charity visionary and a week-long field trip where many of the group will see their donated dollars at work? Hopefully great things.From Old Street to the world: McLoughlin spotted a child in the Ethiopian village of Mekele wearing a 'Silicon Roundabout' t-shirtI'm writing this hours after having flown back from Mekele, a town in the Tigray region of northern Ethiopia. I recently spent a full week with members of the charity: water team and a group of founders from well-known technology startup companies such as Spotify, Pandora, Bebo, WordPress, Mind Candy and Wonga.Whilst still relatively unknown in the UK, charity: water has become the cause du jour for Silicon Valley's digirati. For the uninitiated, charity: water is a US-based non-profit organisation whose goal is to provide clean, safe water to the 800 million people who currently go without. To date they've funded more than 8,000 projects across 20 countries, bringing water to more than 3 million people.  A fine start but as their founder and CEO Scott Harrison will admit, there's a long, long way to go.Harrison, a former New York nightclub promoter, claims "spiritual bankruptcy" (somewhat similar to the feeling one has after a weekend in Las Vegas, I'd imagine) led him to Liberia in 2006 where he volunteered as a photojournalist aboard a hospital ship. Much of the sickness he witnessed was caused by drinking dirty water – sicknesses easily avoided through the provision of simple wells. Upon returning to the US he made good use of his previous life's skills and, with the proceeds from a birthday party fundraiser, sponsored his first water projects.Since then, a huge percentage of all money raised has come from the technology community. Indeed, Harrison credits a generous donation from Bebo's Michael and Xochi Birch with saving the charity during its darkest days. But given there are thousands of worthy organisations, why have the technology set rallied around charity: water?Harrison is a talented story teller who expertly uses graphic design, professional photography and video to drive his message home. In charity: water he has created a compelling, modern and attractive brand that today's design-obsessed technology entrepreneurs identify with. If Apple did charity, etc.Given the technology industry's passion for metrics, Harrison cleverly keeps numbers and transparency at the root of his (beautifully kerned) pitch. Every penny donated is tracked and relayed online to the donor, and charity: water commits that 100% of donations go to the field. Compared with many charities where up to 40% of donations can be lost to administrative and operations overheads, this commitment is rather refreshing. Harrison is keen to point out that investment in clean water has drastic and perhaps unexpected consequences: UN data shows that every $1 invested translates into $12 in economic returns. Leverage FTW, as the startup kids might say.Lastly, until recently, this generation of newly-minted technology entrepreneurs didn't have a banner charity to support, rally around and believe in. Charity: water's blend of design, data, social media savvy, transparency and actually-doing-damn-good-work makes it disarmingly easy to buy into.If it sounds like I'm drinking the Kool Aid then consider this: during the trip I had the chance to visit a village where my company has sponsored a water project. Until recently the women would spend up to six back-breaking hours a day carrying heavy jerrycans of dirty water, with many girls abstaining from school to assist their mothers.  Now they have easy access to clean water to drink and cook with, and have hours of time each day to devote to luxuries like industry and bathing. All the girls in the village attend school every day and now worry most about access to books and other learning materials.The cost of the well that has changed the lives of almost 1,000 people? Just $5,000. Turns out that the Kool Aid both tastes great and needn't cost the earth.Andy McLoughlin is co-founder of Huddle, the enterprise content collaboration platform. Through its charitable foundation, Huddle provides software and volunteered time for hundreds of organisations worldwide.Huddle.com/foundation
Who's that trip-tapping acrossmyGoogle+ profile? A child with the face of one of the Three Billy Goats Gruff. Thankfully this isn't a strange, social-networking nightmare fuelled by one-too-many views ofGoat Luckyon YouTube.It's anew application created by book publisher Penguinand ad agency BBH, running on Google+ and using the latter's Hangout technology to make children and their parents part of the famous fairytale.The app uses their computer's webcam to place them in the story, then overlays masks of the characters on top, with the aim being for kids and parents to act out the story while reading it."The experience of reading with children is so much more than just the text and the pictures on the page. It's the sound effects, the voices and the funny faces pulled when acting out a character that make it magical - and this app does that in a new and exciting way," says Anna Rafferty, managing director of Penguin Digital.The "Storytime Hangout" app is an experiment, for now, but clearly with scope for more stories to be launched under that label in the future, if it proves successful.The app relies on parents – obviously not children – having Google+ accounts. In December 2012,Google said that 500m people had created accounts, although 135m of those were actively using the social network, as opposed to merely having enabled it from other Google services like Gmail and YouTube.Penguin is clearly alive to possible criticism that the new app detracts from traditional parent-child reading."While nothing will ever replace the act of snuggling up with a book and reading a story with a child, we're using technology to give it a twist, enabling it to happen at long-distances, and connecting stories and readers as Penguin has always done," says Rafferty.The Google+ app follows Penguin's experiments with tablet and smartphone storytelling. For example, the publisher worked with UK startup Made In Me onLadybird Classic Me Books, an iOS app where parents and children could re-record the narration with their own voices.There is also a wider trend in children's apps to use devices' cameras for storytelling purposes. Nosy Crow's retellings ofCinderellaandLittle Red Riding Hoodused the camera to show children's faces as reflections in on-screen mirrors and pools respectively, for example.Other recent iOS apps using the camera includeStarring Me – Old MacDonald,Dinosaur – Picture MeandThe Witch With No Name.Microsoft'sKinect Sesame Street TVproject for Xbox 360 broke new ground for augmented storytelling using games consoles, with children able to interact with Sesame Street characters by moving and speaking in their living room.Meanwhile, iPad appKindoma Storytime, which was released in March 2013, blends digital stories with video-chat features, enabling children to read along with parents or grandparents who are in other parts of the country or world.
One of the ways in which you can tell that a fictional character has become iconic is when they mysteriously cease to age. Batman, Superman and James Bond have been in service for more than 40 years now, and aged decrepitude is something they'll never experience.When the actors who play them become long in the tooth, they're simply shuffled out of the way to make room for the next generation of talent. Eventually it becomes the case that while iconic characters may enjoy adventures that span the next 20 years, they will be remain forever young … or at least on hold at the onset of middle age.Sam Fisher, the hard-bitten secret agent of Ubisoft's Splinter Cell series has just joined their ranks. In every entry in this stealth series, the gravel-throated Michael Ironside provided Fisher's voice. This all changed with the announcement of Splinter Cell: Blacklist; Ubisoft announced it wanted a performance that combined both voice-work and full-body motion capture. Since a lot of Fisher's daily routine involves dead-lifting himself up sheer wall faces and swift, brutal hand-to-hand combat, Ubisoft felt that the mantle of Fisher needed to be passed on.Getting into characterSplinter Cell: Blacklist: Sam is now played by Eric JohnsonOn the surface, Eric Johnson doesn't seem like a natural fit for Sam Fisher. The Canadian actor, who has appeared in TV series such as Smallville and Criminal Minds, is a charismatic, jovial bloke with a boomerang-grin smile. To be frank, it's hard to reconcile him with the scowling lifesize cutouts of Fisher that were dotted around Ubsoft Toronto's studio on our visit last month. But the game's director, David Footman, says that the process of casting Johnson was almost dictated by the assets of Sam that the publisher had created over the six or so games in the series."What we found with facial animation is that the closer the geometry is to the model that we have, the better a reflection we get from the facial animation," says Footman. "So when we're not doing pure likeness, we often make modifications to the character – and modifications who we choose to play the character.""If we can find someone who fits more one-on-one it reduces the amount of time we spend on polish later," he says. "When I was sent Eric's picture it was almost a little too good to be true. I looked at it and though 'Wow, that's great geometry.'"It turned out that not only was Johnson a great visual fit for Sam Fisher, but Blacklist wasn't even the first time he'd been involved with the series."I had a friend who had done the cinematics for Splinter Cell: Conviction, so he kind of indoctrinated me into the series," says Johnson. "I did a bunch of temp stuff for him – I roughed stuff in the game for him, playing about nine characters – just so he had some character templates to work from.""I played Conviction, Chaos Theory and Double Agent – a couple of those unsuccessfully," he says. "I figured out during that time exactly how impatient I can be."As something of a fan of the series of games he was about to appear in, Johnson was also very aware of the daunting task ahead of him. Johnson knew he was following a tough act in Michael Ironside, who for many of the Splinter Cell faithful is Sam Fisher – in a similar way as to how David Hayter is Solid Snake in the minds of Metal Gear Solid fans. To hear Johnson tell it, Fisher was a challenge the actor had to come to grips with as early as possible."If I'm doing an impersonation of Michael Ironside it's not servicing the story or the character, but at the same time it's not like I want to give a performance that says 'This is Eric Johnson – and not Michael Ironside!'" says Johnson. "My attitude from the very beginning was how I could service the script and the story as best as I possibly can.""The character of Sam Fisher is a guy with a history, but he's still just a character – like James Bond is James Bond, but it the movie can feel a little different depending on who is playing him," he says. "I knew if I threw myself into Sam as much as possible, that was the best thing I could do in order to pay respects to the fans, the franchise, to Michael Ironside and the game I was starring in."Johnson's Fisher doesn't have the rich baritone of Ironside, but he has Sam's steely authority down cold. What he lacks in lower register, Johnson more than makes up for in delivery; Sam is still wryly sardonic while being lethally pragmatic and he even has time to throw in the odd wry quip about the incompetence of the foes he faces. We're in vintage Splinter Cell territory here as far as the character of Sam is concerned, although if you weren't a fan of Conviction, Blacklist may raise your hackles when it comes to the gameplay.Gameplay: Panther powerSplinter Cell: Blacklist: 'Panther' mode prioritises stealthBlacklist continues the trend started in Conviction of offering stealth only as an option, rather the dominating style of play. Players can still opt to spend ages hidden from view, learning enemy patrol patterns and remaining not so much under the radar than off it completely; it's "Ghost", one of three gameplay styles in Blacklist. The other two pillars are "Assault" and "Panther".The former is exactly what it sounds like and it's basically the Splinter Cell experience as prototyped in Conviction in the Diwanlya, Iraq level. Here, players can treat Blacklist like a particularly twitchy run-and-gun affair, except without the bullet-sponge expectation that comes bolted to most third-person-shooters."Panther" looks set to become the dominant style of play in Blacklist, being as it is, a mixture of 'Ghost' and 'Assault'. The reason for this is because the stealth mechanics of Blacklist have more in common with the style of play promoted in Conviction than in any other Splinter Cell entry.Fisher is ridiculously agile in Blacklist – able to shimmy a ledge the length of a block in seconds – and the level design is less about stealth than it is about using Sam as a spring-loaded deathtrap. Players will easily progress if they mostly avoid confrontation, but if they're faced with one or two opponents they can use Conviction's "Mark &amp; Kill" mechanic to get out of trouble. They can also deploy Fisher's hand-to-hand combat abilities, which is where the new "physicality" of Johnson's performance comes in.On screen, this translates to a Sam Fisher who is able to sneak, duck and conceal himself in shadows. But there's also an emphasis also on his fluidity of movement – snapping in and out of cover and sliding across surfaces – and his ability to dispatch foes, lethally and non-lethally, at close quarters. It's a role that required Johnson to work quite extensively with the game's stunt co-ordinator, Kevin Secours, to both reach a peak in his physical fitness and learn hand-to-hand combat moves."There was a big learning curve," says Footman. "I'm so not tactical, I'm so not co-ordinated – I'm so bloody awful! – so when we started with Kevin the idea was to bring in a combat expert.""But the way [Eric works with Kevin] it changed the way Eric moves, it changed his posture and it changed the way he held weapons and even how his facial expressions operated in action sequences," he says. "There's a huge philosophy of movement that Kevin helped Eric bring the role.""With Kevin your actions pick up a kind of sense of movement," says Johnson, "so by the third or fourth time you're coming in[to a take], you know exactly where you're pointing a weapon and where and how to move."Multiplayer: intuitive actionSplinter Cell: Blacklist: co-op multiplayerThis intuitive movement is evident throughout Splinter Cell: Blacklist, not just in Johnson and actors who he's working with, but also in the game's multiplayer modes. The competitive multiplayer pits agents against mercenaries in matches that play out like violent games of hide-and-seek; agents are required to hack terminals and then stay hidden while the mercs search for them. The former are a lithe and agile as Fisher is in the single-player and they mirror his moves in close-quarters combat.The co-op multiplayer is divided between two characters: Briggs, a CIA black ops soldier and new recruit to Sam's team, Fourth Echelon, and Grimm, the agent fans will remember from earlier entries in the series. Briggs's missions are check-pointed action-orientated affairs into which "Ghost", "Panther" and "Assault" styles of play feel plugged into the action. Grimm's missions are more tightly focused; they're old-school Splinter Cell affairs in which the player is dropped into a map, given a couple of objectives and allowed to go about their business in any way they see fit. The catch here, though, is that there are no checkpoints and being spotted causes an instant fail. It's possible that friends will fall out over Grimm's set of missions.Both online modes complement the game's main campaign, and can be accessed at any time from Blacklist's centralised hub, which appears as the interior of Fourth Echelon's flying HQ. The pitch for the main story involves a group of operatives from rogue states – known collectively as the Engineers – who demand the US withdraw its troops from their countries. Unless this happens, the Engineers are prepared to launch the Blacklist, a series of escalating attacks on American soil. The attacks themselves will be themed around aspects of US foreign policy – such as oil, freedom and consumption. It's high-concept stuff, sure, but in the wake of the Boston bombings, it also plants a foot in reality.'Aggressive' scheduleSplinter Cell: Blacklist: not the gentlest of interviewsJohnson's performance as Fisher rides the line between authentic soldier and blockbuster action hero – and as one can imagine, the work is pretty grueling in its intensity."Some days were super-challenging – just in terms of mentally keeping up with the amount of dialogue you had to learn," he says, "and these days were broken up with days which were physically challenge. There was a nice balance between the two, though.""If you look at the schedule for the work it was really very aggressive," says Footman. "I was an assistant director in the film industry, so scheduling is kind of my thing – but I was scheduling ensemble days, stunt days, dialogue days and we were rumbling through it."We were trying to cram as much in as fast as possible – not just because time is money, but also we needed to create the content for the game so it could be tested out and then polished."With the schedule as tight as it was, Johnson says he began to occupy the same headspace as the grizzled veteran he was playing."I have to say, walking downtown late at night, I almost reflexively adopt my 'Sam Fisher pose'. I'm like, 'Yeah, I'm tough!'" Johnson says. "I mean, it's totally false, and I'm not going to throw down with anyone, but there's a level of confidence that's spilled over from Sam into me! And that's a pretty awesome feeling."Previewed on a PC
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Sony execs respond to #PS4NoDRM online campaign | Eurogamer.netPicking up on rumours that Sony was considering using 'always online' DRM for PlayStation 4 a group of gamers have formed a pressure group to convince the manufacturer it's a really bad idea:NeoGAF users began circulating the #PS4NoDRM and #PS4USEDGAMES hashtags on Twitter yesterday and targeted messages at high profile Sony employees."This is why I love PlayStation fans - the passion bucket overflows," Sony's head of hardware marketing John Koller wrote in response to the campaign.There's no word yet on whether Sony will abandon the plans – if it had them in the first place. Would be a wonderful PR coup now though...Microsoft Vows To Support Indie Developers on Xbox One | Kotaku...and on the subject of wonderful PR, Microsoft wants everyone to know that it is not neglecting indies – just because it might not allow them to self-publish on Xbox One:"We're going to have an independent creator program," Don Mattrick, Microsoft's head of interactive entertainment (read: he's in charge of the Xbox), told me last week. "We're going to sponsor it. We're going to give people tools. We're going to give more information."Expect more details at E3.Microsoft talks Xbox One naming, privacy and more (Q&amp;A) | CNET NewsMicrosoft's Jeff Henshaw talks about how they came up with that Xbox One monicker:So to us, One is really the embodiment that this becomes one device that addresses all the entertainment that you want to enjoy on your TV, and brings it to you in a way that's so simple, that it can be the only input you have connected through your television. It is truly the one place to go for all this. So One ends up being a deeply meaningful thing to us here. It's almost a bar that we are striving to achieve, and I think we nailed it really well with the Xbox One.I wonder if they saw XBone and Crossbone coming?Godus Players Can 'Overthrow' Their Virtual God Bryan | Wired.comTurns out that Bryan Henderson, the Curiosity-winning god of Godus, can be usurped from his heavenly rule:Earlier this week, the 18-year-old incoming university freshman from Scotland became the lucky winner of game designer Peter Molyneux's Curiosity cube contest. Henderson's reward: He'll be a god ruling over all other players of the upcoming "god simulation" game called Godus.But Molyneux says there's a catch. "His reign will last a certain period of time … and then he can be overthrown," he told Wired via phone.Nothing is ever what it seems in Molyneuxland...The Evil Within: Shinji Mikami's bloody return | VG247As the first project to come from Shinji Mikami's Tango Gameworks, a lot is expected of The Evil Within. The creative director and grandfather of the Resident Evil series is hoping to provide a respite from adrenaline-fuelled action-horror titles by providing a tense, slow-burning survival horror experience.Okay, you can stop there, we're in.Susan O'Connor, game writer | Interview | The Gameological SocietyAn interesting interview with a game writer who's worked on everything from Bioshock to Tomb Raider:Jesse Schell gave this incredible talk at Game Developers Conference, and he talked about games and compared them to movies. He talked about how movies came into their own when they learned how to talk, for the talkies. Games have been talking for a long time, but he argues they're going to come into their own as storytelling when they learn to listen and respond to the player in a really meaningful way.Lots of stuff in here on the process of thinking about and conveying narrative through games, as well as gender representation.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Nine timely links for your delectation, as picked by the Technology teamHow crackers ransack passwords like 'qeadzcwrsfxv1331' &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThe most commonly used passwords for internet accounts, displayed as a word cloud. Photograph: disclosure@dazzlepod.comFascinating insight into pasword hacking:The problem with password strength meters found on many websites is they use the total number of combinations required in a brute-force crack to gauge a password's strength. What the meters fail to account for is that the patterns people employ to make their passwords memorable frequently lead to passcodes that are highly susceptible to much more efficient types of attacks.Ads on Facebook dropped after appearing next to offensive posts &gt;&gt; FT.comAlgorithm fail.Major advertisers including Nissan and Nationwide have suspended Facebook marketing campaigns after their ads appeared alongside offensive posts, highlighting the risks of a new form of "targeted" advertising. The cancellations follow complaints on Twitter and from women's rights organisations over the publication of misogynistic content, including images of abused women, on the social networking site.Medium's plan to serve the next generation of bloggers &gt;&gt; MashableEvan Williams and Medium, the anti-Tumblr. The New Blogging just got wordier.If the first generation of self-publishing platforms best served serious writers, the second generation of self-publishing platforms -- think Twitter, Tumblr and Instagram -- have favored those whose messages come in the form of 140-character statements, images and GIFs. Enter Medium, a simple self-publishing platform launched last October to serve the next generation of bloggers who write. In the words of founder Evan Williams, who also co-founded Blogger and Twitter, "Medium is a beautiful space for reading and writing -- and little else. The words are central. They can be accompanied by images to help illustrate your point. But there are no gratuitous sidebars, plug-ins, or widgets. There is nothing to set up or customize."If you're disappointed with big data, you're not paying attention &gt;&gt; GigaOmBrilliant piece on the nuances of correlation, causation and insight in data analysis.There has been a backlash lately against big data. From O'Reilly Media to the New Yorker, from Nassim Taleb to Kate Crawford, everyone is treating big data like a piñata. Gartner has dropped it into the "trough of disillusionment." I call B.S. on all of it. It might be provocative to call into question one of the hottest tech movements in generations, but it's not really fair. That's because how companies and people benefit from big data, data science or whatever else they choose to call the movement toward a data-centric world is directly related to what they expect going in.New Intel CEO Brian Krzanich makes mobile acquisition &gt;&gt; AllThingsDTwelve days in the job and he's already making his mark; this satellite navigation chip firm will fill out its mobile offering.Intel confirmed today that it had bought the satellite navigation chip business unit of ST-Ericsson, a joint venture operated by STMicroelectronics, the European chip maker, and Ericsson, the Swedish telecommunications equipment company. The money-losing joint venture is being wound down by its parents. Terms aren't being disclosed, but ST-Ericsson said the sale of the business unit, which supplies chips for GPS navigation systems and wireless phones, will reduce its annual cash needs by about $90 million. It's pretty clear why STMicro and Ericsson are shutting the JV down: It reported an operating loss of $158 million on sales of $256 million in the first quarter of 2013. STMicro said last month that it expected to spend as much as $450 million on the company during the transition and wind-down.China blamed after ASIO blueprints stolen in major cyber attack on Canberra HQ - ABC News (Australian Broadcasting Corporation)And again, this time targeting Australia's security services:Classified blueprints of the new ASIO headquarters in Canberra have been stolen in a cyber hit believed to have been mounted by hackers in China. The ABC's Four Corners program has discovered the plans were taken in an operation targeting a contractor involved with building the site. The stolen blueprints included the building's security and communications systems, its floor plan, and its server locations. Experts say the theft exposes the spy agency to being spied upon and may be a reason why construction costs have blown out enormously.US weapons system designs compromised by Chinese cyberspies &gt;&gt; The Washington PostThis is part of a widening Chinese campaign of espionage:Designs for many of the nation's most sensitive advanced weapons systems have been compromised by Chinese hackers, according to a report prepared for the Pentagon and to officials from government and the defense industry. Among more than two dozen major weapons systems whose designs were breached were programs critical to U.S. missile defenses and combat aircraft and ships, according to a previously undisclosed section of a confidential report prepared for Pentagon leaders by the Defense Science Board.LulzSec hacker Jeremy Hammond pleads guilty to role in Stratfor leak &gt;&gt; The VergeLatest LulzSec hacker prosecution pushes on:Jeremy Hammond, the LulzSec hacker and activist accused of breaking into security company Stratfor's servers and distributing internal files to WikiLeaks, has pleaded guilty to one violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. According to Hammond's defense site, Hammond agreed to a plea bargain that carries a maximum of ten years behind bars, though he has not yet been sentenced. He has already spent over a year in jail while awaiting trial, and supporters are pushing for him to be released with time served; before the bargain, he faced a maximum of 30 years.60+ investors launch angel network and incubator for Bitcoin startups &gt;&gt; TechCrunchIt might feel like Second Life all over again, but there's real money behind Bitcoin startups now. Well, Bitcoin money.In the last two months, we've seen the Winklevosses admit they have a crush on Bitcoin, Liberty City Ventures launch its own "Digital Currency Fund," San Mateo-based accelerator Boost.vc dedicate half of its next batch to Bitcoin startups, while Chris Dixon has said publicly that he's in and Fred Wilson finally made his first investment in a Bitcoin company. Today, we can check another growth milestone off the list. Entrepreneurs eyeing the Bitcoin market will be pleased to learn that BitAngels is launching (what it believes to be) the first multi-city angel network and incubator created to invest exclusively in cryptocurrency startups. Fittingly, in the spirit of Bitcoin, it's a distributed network of angels and entrepreneurs and one that was hacked together in a few days after the Bitcoin 2013 Conference.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Facebook has bowed to an outcry over content promoting violence against women after advertisers pulled ads in protest.The company said on Tuesday it would update its policies on hate speech, increase accountability of content creators and train staff to be more responsive to complaints, marking a victory for women's rights activists. "We need to do better – and we will," it saidin a statement.The climbdown followed a week-long campaign by Women, Action and the Media, the Everyday Sexism Project and the activist Soraya Chemaly to remove supposedly humorous content endorsing rape and domestic violence.Examples included a photograph of the singer Rihanna's bloodied and beaten face, captioned with "Chris Brown's Greatest Hits", a reference to the assault by her ex-boyfriend.A photograph of a woman in a pool of blood had the caption "I like her for her brains".Another photograph, of a man holding a rag over a woman's mouth, was captioned "Does this smell like chloroform to you?".More than 100 advocacy groups joined the protest and demanded Facebook recognise such content as hate speech and train moderators to remove it.Facebook, which is based in Menlo Park, California, initially rebuffed the complaints, citing freedom of speech. A spokesmantold Huffington Post UK: "As you may expect in any diverse community of more than a billion people, we occasionally see people post distasteful or disturbing content, or make crude attempts at humour. While it may be vulgar and offensive, distasteful content on its own does not violate our policies."The campaign gathered momentum, however, when tens of thousands of tweets and emails using the hashtag #Fbrape were sent to the social network's advertisers.At least 15 pulled their ads,Women, Action and the Media said, including Nissan UK, Nationwide UK, J Street and WestHost.Facebook bowed to the pressure in a lengthy statement which stressed its effort to balance free speech with a policy of banning hate speech."We prohibit content deemed to be directly harmful, but allow content that is offensive or controversial. We define harmful content as anything organising real world violence, theft, or property destruction, or that directly inflicts emotional distress on a specific private individual (eg bullying)."It said it had miscalculated the balance. "In recent days, it has become clear that our systems to identify and remove hate speech have failed to work as effectively as we would like, particularly around issues of gender-based hate. In some cases, content is not being removed as quickly as we want. In other cases, content that should be removed has not been or has been evaluated using outdated criteria. We have been working over the past several months to improve our systems to respond to reports of violations, but the guidelines used by these systems have failed to capture all the content that violates our standards."Facebook promised to review and update guidelines, improve moderators' training, establish more formal lines of communication with advocacy groups and increase accountability of the creators of content which is cruel or insensitive but does not qualify as hate speech. One recent innovation that obliges such creators to supply their authentic identity has already created a "better environment" and will continue to be developed, it said.Jaclyn Friedman, executive director of Women, Action and the Media, praised Facebook's response and called the company admirable. "We hope that this effort stands as a testament to the power of collaborative action."
Individuals claiming to be part of international hacktivist group Anonymous have published phone numbers and addresses for supporters of the  English Defence League (EDL) as part of what they said was the first phase of a campaign to destroy the far-right street protest movement.An audio statement posted on YouTube on Tuesdayin the name of Anonymous UK accused the EDL of using the killing of Drummer Lee Rigby to spread a campaign of hate and bigotry and said that it would begin a "systematic and comprehensive decimation [sic]" of the group.A list of what were said to be mobile phone numbers for senior named EDL figures were published online on Tuesday evening along with addresses of what were said to be donors to the far-right group.Twitter accounts also re-published leaked details of hundreds of names and addresses linked to the EDL which were circulated on the web in 2010 after hackers broke in to one of the organisation's websites, prompting it to warn members of the potential for reprisals.More than 1,000 members of the EDLheld a rally near Downing Street on Sunday, where its leaders blamed Islam for the killing of Rigby, and the group has promised to step up its activities over the coming weeks.Tuesday's statement, which was addressed to the EDL in the name of Anonymous UK, said: "We have been patiently observing your organisation as you have [indoctrinated] our young with your criminal mindset."Your constant belligerence, like a pack of raving ignoramuses, furthers only bigotry and segregation. You have angered us considerably and summoned our wrath irrevocably."It added: "Last week, an innocent drummer, Lee Rigby, lost his life at the hands of two vile and demented human beings in the most horrific and heinous manner ever witnessed on the streets of Britain."This villainous public display has thrown the United Kingdom into mourning; every community and every congregation extending their deepest condolences."You, however, have used this as another excuse to further spread your campaign of hate, bigotry, and misinformation. Under the guise of national pride you have instigated crimes against the innocent and incited the subjugation of Muslims."We will not allow your injustices, your lies, and your stupidity, to further radicalise our youth into fearing and despising their fellow man. We will begin the systematic and comprehensive decimation [sic] of your cult. You will fall, we can say this with complete confidence. We are everywhere, you cannot hide, you cannot win."
Barack Obama will confront Chinese president Xi Jinping next week over a spate of cyber-attacks on the US, including the latest allegation that Chinese hackers gained access to more than two dozen of America's most advanced weapons systems.The alleged cyber-attacks are the most serious of a series of issues creating friction between the US and China ahead of next week's summit in California. Military analysts described the scale of the alleged attacks as breathtaking.The Chinese government denies any involvement in the attacks.But a classified report by the Defence Science Board, a group of civilian and government specialists who advise the Pentagon on military developments, says advanced weapons systems compromised by hackers include missiles, fighter jets, helicopters and naval ships. A leaked copy waspublished by the Washington Poston Tuesday.Access to the designs would allow China to catch up on years of military development and save it billions of dollars. It would also make it easier for China to develop weapons to counter US systems.The Defence Science Board report comes amid a spate of accusations worldwide claiming Beijing is engaged in a sustained campaign of hacking defence and business secrets. In a separate row, Chinese hackers are alleged to have stolen theblueprints for Australia's new spy headquarters.Asked on Tuesday about the alleged hacking of secret military projects, White House spokesman Jay Carney said cyber security would be discussed by the two leaders when they meet at the US-China summit on June 7 and 8.He declined to comment directly on the Defence Science Board report but said cyber issues were a key concern for the US.The summit, at a private estate in southern California, is the first between the two since Xi was promoted to president and since Obama's re-election and comes at a time of friction between the two countries.The White House national security adviser Tom Donilon, who is in Beijing for discussions with Chinese officials about the summit, has warned that cyber-attacks could jeopardise relations between the two countries.Dean Cheng, a China specialist at the conservative Heritage Foundation in Washington, said the summit "offers an opportunity to make clear to Beijing the serious consequences of its cyber activities. The question is whether the Obama administration will seize it."A broad warning about cyber-security contained in the Defence Science Report was published in January but the details about military programmes alleged to have been hacked remained classified.Projects named in the report include: the advanced Patriot missile system, the PAC-3;the F/A-18 fighter jet; the Littoral Combat Ship intended for use close to shore, and anti-ballistic missile system, the Terminal High Altitude Area Defence. The Patriot missile system offers the main defence against missile attacks on Europe, Israel, the Persian Gulf and US allies in Asia. The report does not blame the Chinese government, only Chinese hackers.In a CBS interview, Winslow Wheeler, who monitors defence spending at the Project on Government Oversight, a Washington think-tank, described the projects as the US military's "family jewels".Cyber security will also be discussed at a meeting in Singapore this weekend of defence ministers and officials, including US defence secretary Chuck Hagel.
Google is planning to develop high-speed wireless networks in sub-Saharan Africa with the help of high-altitude balloons that can transmit signals across hundreds of square kilometres.The web search company is already running high-speed fibre networks in Utah, Missouri and Texas. Now it wants to connect 1 billion more people to the internet in emerging markets such as Africa and south-east Asia, and is ready to team up with telecoms firms and equipment providers to build networks that will improve speeds in cities and bring the internet to rural areas.Google is considering a mix of technologies, including broadcasting signals from masts, satellites and even remote-controlled balloons known as blimps, according to aWall Street Journalreport."There's not going to be one technology that will be the silver bullet," a source told the Journal. A Google spokesman declined to comment.With smartphone penetration already higher than 50% in many western markets, mobile manufacturers are racing to connect customers in emerging markets. Google is highly focused on these new markets, and is developing low-cost Nexus smartphones and tablets.Google has set up a trial wireless broadband network in Cape Town using three masts at Stellenbosch University's campus to transmit to 10 local schools. Thetrial, which began in March, uses unlicensed "white space" radio waves – unused channels in the broadcast TV spectrum.The company has also worked with the University of California to send phones running Android software into near-spaceusing high-altitude balloons, which can travel to over 100,000 feet from the earth. The balloons were equipped with still and video cameras and the images were retrieved when the balloons eventually popped and fell back to Earth.• The photo caption was amended on 29 May
Triple A game development never really stops. Studios crunch for months to make release deadlines, then a few weeks later, everyone is back in the office brainstormingthe next instalment. The industry is ruthless and relentless. At Infinity Ward, creator and current custodian of the world's biggest franchise, it's no different. This is a multimillion-selling property, and there are 100 people in the developer's new office in Encino, California, who have to ensure the record-breaking sales continue. They do that by not stopping."Modern Warfare 3 was done and we sat down a little exhausted and we said 'what do we do next?'"Zach Volker is the lead animator on Ghosts and a regular spokesperson for Infinity Ward. He has been working on the series since CoD2, and was in on the first meetings about the new title, which abandons the characters and narrative of Modern Warfare in favour of an apocalyptic new story. America is on the brink of ruin after a mysterious 'mass event' caused by an unknown enemy. Now a rag-tag bunch of Spec Ops soldiers has to fight back.It's a familiar set-up, of course, but when the fortunes of a multinational corporation are resting on your creative decisions, even a slight detour is a big deal. "Activision gave us the freedom to go in any direction we wanted, and we knew we'd be turning our back on a lot of built-in support if we jumped on MW4," says Volker. "But a lot of the team felt like we'd been with these characters and events for a long time and we really wanted to move on and explore some new stories and characters. That was the driving force behind Ghosts."Even after the release of a trailer and the lengthy advert shown during ITV's Champions League final coverage, questions surround the new game. Most of the excitement so far has revolved around the addition of a dog to your AI squad; he'll operate as a true companion, sniffing out explosives and catching the scent of enemies on the wind. For some reason this has caught the public imagination more than the sumptuous next-gen visuals with all those subdivision surfaces and high dynamic range lighting effects. But it has been producing these detailed new locations for powerful next-gen consoles that has really pushed the team."The biggest thing is the time and effort needed in the creation of the assets," says Volker. "The fidelity is so high we need to spend significantly more time building and testing environments. The new tech features we have… you always start out very ambitious on a new project but you have to be doubly ambitious when you have new hardware coming up. The problem is, when you're working with new hardware, you don't really know its capabilities, because while you're developing the game, they're developing the console in tandem. You have these pie in the sky ideas of what the console may possibly be capable of – then you have to ask, 'well, are we going to kill ourselves if we shoot that high?' Those are big challenges. The advantages of this generation are huge - the environments can be detailed to such a significant degree, but the time it takes to go in and fill it with props is ridiculous!"So far we've seen verdant forest settings and a spectacularly detailed underwater mission, complete with coral reefs and vast schools of fish, ducking beneath the Spec Ops divers as they stalk an enemy ship. But the sequences we've seen so far, also suggest that the game is following the structural foundations set by predecessors – linear routes through only very slightly explorable environs. Is this the case throughout the game? "It's very level specific," says Volker. "We're not trying to make it an open-world game, and some levelswillbe more scripted and corridor-like. But there are levels that have been purposefully designed to be very open."We've also been told to expect more interactivity in the locations, especially in the multiplayer maps, where participants might find themselves having to set traps and avoid major disaster zones at key periods. Volker has a few more details: "Don't expect to  blow through walls or anything like that - and all the maps will be very different, but you can expect to see earthquakes starting; certain levels will have switches that will change the layout; certain levels may have a satellite that comes crashing down, and the first team to get to it and activate it will get a UAV. It's really a way of making the maps more asymmetrical - just giving players more ways to turn the tide."But for Volker, the key thing about the new game is its narrative. Modern Warfare has always had this grand overarching combat story, but often there have been confusions and ambiguities in the telling, and apart from two or three notable exceptions, the characters fade from memory very quickly. "This is the best story that Infinity Ward has ever put out in a CoD title," claims Volker of Ghosts. "It's more character driven – previous titles have focused more on big events, and you just kind of experience them. What we're trying to do this time is focus more on being a character with other characters, telling the story of howtheyexperience the events. It's still a Call of Duty title so don't expect long cutscenes or anything like that - cinematic sequences are not our style..."I wondered though, if the increased power of the new consoles will bring more to games than just increased graphical fidelity. Are there new gameplay features that are only just becoming available? "Infinity Ward has very rarely felt as though hardware has limited our gameplay innovation," says Volker. "We've very rarely said 'wow this is an amazing idea, if only we had more powerful hardware we could do this.' But what wehavesaid is, 'if I had more power I could make this gameplay scenario more immersive'."That's what this new generation of engine brings us - the improvements in the lighting engine, the improvements in the polygon tech... and we have more primary lights that are shadow-casting. The characters are over double the resolution they used to be – same with the weapons. These things don't give us new gameplay experiences per se, as much as they make the gameplay experiences more believable."That's the interesting thing though. With visual realism come more questions about the depiction of violence. When Price plunges his dagger into the neck of an enemy in Modern Warfare 3, it's a little gory, but the slightly robotic animation and garish exaggerated blood effects keep us at a distance. As developers get to grips with next-gen graphics capabilities, we're nearing the photo-realism, both of violence and of character reactions.I ask Volker if this is a consideration. "Absolutely," he says. "Infinity Ward titles use what we call classy violence. We try to stay away from the over-the-top in your face violence… no one's going to strangle someone and force you to watch it - that's not our style. We wanted to make sure we use the level of fidelity for something that's worth more than shock value. But are we getting closer to overcoming the uncanny valley? Absolutely".Most of the time however, it seems the key problem in Ghosts has been the sheer time needed to populate each location. Just as Hollywood has had to work harder on effects and make-up since the introduction of HD, game developers need to think more about what every element of every locations is saying to the player. "We need to up our game," says Volker. "A scene needs to be more detailed – if you have an office space, having a couple of guys standing around is no longer believable; you need ten people and they need to be typing and their fingers need to be articulating, and they need to have empty coffee cups on their desks because they've been up all night."You can drive yourself crazy pushing this! But it will be interesting to see what's in store as we hurtle toward this inevitable future. It's not something we can stop."• Call of Duty Ghosts is released on PC, PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Xbox 360 and Wii U on 5 November (launch dates of next-gen machines permitting!)
Dutch firmVigouris the latest startup exploring how tablets, smartphones and televisions can work together more effectively, starting with an app, Vigour Video, that runs across them all.The company hasraised €500k of seed funding(around £428k) from Deutsche Telekom's hub:raum incubator and venture capital firm Linden Mobile Ventures, while publishing a video showing off its technology.It certainly has the right buzzwords to perk up investors: "Vigour has created a development platform to build connected applications that run on any device — converging multiple interfaces into one fluid experience through the cloud," explains its websiteVigour has an attention-grabbing web demo called Puck that gets you to visit from multiple devices then sling a virtual puck back and forth. But its real showcase is Vigour Video, which"Vigour Video is a customizable app template for media companies that want to give their viewers the best possible way to enjoy their video content," explains the website."As a user you can use your favorite mobile device to swipe through videos, while additional content is instantly shown on your big screen. Once you find a video you want to watch, you play it on the big screen and use your mobile device as a remote controller or to browse for your next movie."APandoDaily interview with Vigourthrows up Netflix as a "dream customer" for Vigour Video, which is slated as being 3-6 months away from launch.It would hardly be surprising if Vigour sees Netflix and other large technology firms with an interest in streaming video to multiple screens – Apple, Google and Amazon as well as big telco companies – as potential acquirers of its technology, rather than just customers.Vigour is part of an emerging trend for technology that goes beyond the initial, simplistic theories of "second-screen" entertainment, which relied on the first screen being the television, and the second being either a tablet or smartphone.It's more accurate to suggest that for a growing number of people, the first screen is whichever one they're focusing on at a particular moment in time.Google dug into this behaviour with itsThe New Multi-screen World report, published in August 2012. It identified two main ways people use multiple screens: sequential screening, where they move between devices, and simultaneous screening, where they use two at once.Aseparate report from Googleclaimed that multi-screening is particularly popular among what market-research firm Nielsen describes as "Generation C" (the 'C' standing for 'connected'), suggesting that they watch its YouTube service "on all screens, constantly switching between devices"Vigour Video seems to be targeting both behaviours: sequential screening in the way it helps people find video on their mobile device then watch it on their TV, but simultaneous screening in its expectation that they'll be browsing for what to watch next even as that video plays.Vigour is just one of several startups in Europe and the Middle East trying to innovate around multi-screen video in 2013, alongside the likes ofMagine,StevieandZeebox.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 25 May 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Resident Evil: Revelations(16+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (40)Wii U (10)PC (4)32 (3)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (29)Wii (5)VITA (4)353 (1)Metro Last Light(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (36)24 (2)Dead Island: Riptide(18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (32)PC (1)55 (–)Donkey Kong Country Returns(3+)3DS (100)Wii (0)56 (9)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (44)307 (6)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (46)PC (2)128 (11)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (45)PC (5)269 (12)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)910 (13)Lego City Undercover: The Chase Begins(7+)3DS (100)511 (8)Injustice: Gods Among Us(16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (37)Wii U (4)612 (14)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (31)PS3 (17)Wii (16)DS (14)4613 (4)Pokemon Mystery Dungeon: Infinity (3+)3DS (100)214 (–)Fast & Furious: Showdown (12+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (41)Wii U (1)3DS (1)115 (–)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (40)PS3 (37)VITA (18)Wii U (3)2816 (15)God of War: Ascension(18+)PS3 (101)817 (7)The Walking Dead(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (42)PC (2)318 (10)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (34)PC (9)919 (5)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (36)PC (3)Wii U (1)2820 (19)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (38)Xbox 360 (34)PS3 (13)30UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Microsoft answers the question of Xbox One region locks | Digital TrendsAs the details of the Xbox One continue to trickle out following the May 21, 2013 unveiling and the subsequent deluge of facts (some real, some not), we have one more piece of information to confirm about the console: the Xbox One will still feature regional locks."Similar to the movie and music industry, games must meet country-specific regulatory guidelines before they are cleared for sale," A rep from Microsoft confirmed to Digital Trends. "We will continue to work with our partners to follow these guidelines with Xbox One."The Xbox One can talk to you, will feature remote play | PolygonPolygon reckons Microsoft will have two big new XBone things to show off at E3:Among the features not yet shown off for the console is the ability for gamers to have a friend take over gameplay remotely to help them through a difficult spot in a game and Kinect's ability to talk back to gamers.Of course, Sony has made remote play a key feature of the PS4 proposition, so it was always likely we'd see something similar on Xbox. According to Polygon's source, it works in conjunction with Skype, so that while chatting friends can take over each other's games. It's the Siri-like talk function that Polygon's story focuses on though, highlighting this rather startling possibility:In one possible scenario, Kinect used its facial recognition to scan a room full of people and note if there was someone in the room it didn't recognize. It then told the console owner that there is someone in the room it didn't recognize and asked the new person to identify themselves. Once the person said their name, Kinect welcomed them and saved their information to the console.The big interview: Phil Harrison on Xbox One, Kinect, indie games and red rings | Eurogamer.netIf you haven't yet read this key interview from the Xbox One event, have a look at it now. It includes this reassurance from Phil Harrison on the subject of Kinect's spying abilities:"We're a leader in the world of privacy, I think you'll find. We take it very seriously. We aren't using Kinect to snoop on anybody at all. We listen for the word 'Xbox on' and then switch on the machine, but we don't transmit personal data in any way, shape or form that could be personally identifiable to you, unless you explicitly opt into that."Nicholas Lovell's Blog - Xbox One: a flawed plan, well executed | GamasutraAnd here's industry analyst Nicholas Lovell on the XBone proposition:Tactically, Microsoft needs to get an installed base fast. To do that, you need a product that solves a need. The problem the Xbox One solves best is a gaming one: "how can I play great games on my 42" screen?" The other problems it solves ("how do I control my television with my voice?", "how do I stream television content through the same box I play my games on?") are not problems that consumers know they have, so they are unlikely to rush out to spend several hundred dollars to solve them. The Xbox 360 was a games device first and foremost, yet more than half of the time spent on the console is now spent consuming other media. Score one for the Trojan Horse tactic. That's why it seems so odd that Microsoft have abandoned the tactic so well in the last generation."Stay away from DRM" – campaign targets Sony | VG247Fearing Sony might implement similar policies concerning used games sales and DRM to those Microsoft is rumored to be using for the Xbox One, fans have kicked off a Twitter campaign to reach out to key PlayStation employees, urging them to steer clear of such policies for the PlayStation 4.The campaign which took off via a forum post over at NeoGaf has been started to ensure Sony gets to know gamers' opinions regarding restrictive DRM and used game policies and how they don't want such restrictions to be placed upon them when it comes to gaming on Sony's next-gen console: the PlayStation 4.The Weblog METEOR's 2013 Famicase Exhibition Dreams Up Fictitious 8-Bit Games | IndieGames.comEach year Satoshi Sakagami, owner of theMETEORgame culture shop, invites illustrators and designers to create cover art for fictitious Famicom game titles. This year's entries will be on display in Kichijouji, Tokyo until the end of the month and online atfamicase.com. In addition, Adrien Dufond'sFamicase Chronicleshowcases all cartridges in the series since 2005 in an easy to navigate whirlpool shaped visualizer.There are some absolutely beautiful works of virtual nostalgia in here.Kickstart This: TinyKeep | TIGSourceTinyKeep is a roguelike action RPG, currently looking forKickstarter funding. Here's why you should care:To increase the challenge and create a world that feels alive, the game's sole programmer, Phi Dinh, has placed heavy focus on the project's AI system. Dungeon inhabitants and monsters each have needs and desires, and will move about independent of player interaction in an attempt to fulfill those goals – feeding, sleeping, and interacting with each other in interesting ways.A really interesting way to add new dynamics to a familiar genre.DmC Devil May Cry developer reveals free-to-play mobile game Fightback | VideogamerNinja Theory has announced Fightback, an 80s-inspired free-to-play action game heading to iOS and Android this summer.Published by Chillingo, Fightback is said to include a "revolutionary touch-based combat system" and feature a "striking 80s action movie vibe".It'll also be the developer's first mobile title.Interesting side-project from one of my favourite UK developers.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
An internet cafe in Tehran, Iran. The government there is building its own rival, government-controlled version of the web. Photograph: Raheb Homavandi/ReutersA quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIran's approaching vote brings receding web access &gt;&gt; SFGateIran has just opened a 5,000km fiber-optic route through Russia to Germany, the latest part of a strategy to take control of information on the country's communications networks. Communications minister Mohammad Hasan Nami - who was trained in North Korea - said it will improve security, which is likely to mean an internet-within-the-internet, vetting Facebook, Twitter and anything else the regime objects to.Iran is believed by many security experts to be behind computer-virus attacks last year on Saudi Arabian state oil giant Saudi Aramco and Qatari natural gas producer RasGas. Last week, The New York Times reported that Iran is considered a chief suspect in a series of malware breaches into U.S. energy companies, citing American officials and corporate security experts. Iran has repeatedly denied similar claims. But Iran also has been hit by viruses it claims were launched by the U.S. and Israel. A date-siphoning program known as Flame forced Iran's Oil Ministry to completely shut down its computer system last year. Three years ago, Iran's uranium-enrichment labs were penetrated by a virus called Stuxnet, which was tailored to disrupt Iran's nuclear centrifuges.The $1.3bn quest to build a supercomputer replica of a human brain &gt;&gt; WiredEssential reading, if you missed it first time round:Even by the standards of the TED conference, Henry Markram's 2009 TEDGlobal talk was a mind-bender. He took the stage of the Oxford Playhouse, clad in the requisite dress shirt and blue jeans, and announced a plan that--if it panned out--would deliver a fully sentient hologram within a decade. He dedicated himself to wiping out all mental disorders and creating a self-aware artificial intelligence. And the South African-born neuroscientist pronounced that he would accomplish all this through an insanely ambitious attempt to build a complete model of a human brain--from synapses to hemispheres--and simulate it on a supercomputer. Markram was proposing a project that has bedeviled AI researchers for decades, that most had presumed was impossible. He wanted to build a working mind from the ground up.How to hack Twitter's two-factor authentication &gt;&gt; PC MagTwo factor unravelled by the pro's:In a short, droll video about Twitter's two-factor authentication, Alexander congratulates Twitter for joining a "security two-step program" and taking the first step, admitting a problem exists. He then goes on to illustrate just how little the SMS-based two-factor authentication helps. "Your new solution leaves the door wide open," said Alexander, "for the same man-in-the-middle attacks that compromised the reputations of major news sources and celebrities."Privacy challenges of wearable computing &gt;&gt; NYTimesNick Bilton explores the code of social propriety and privacy around wearable tech, from Memoto to Google Glass and the rumoured Apple wearable products:This is not just a Google issue. Other gadgets have plenty of privacy-invading potential. Memoto, a tiny, automatic camera that looks like a pin you can wear on a shirt, can snap two photos a minute and later upload it to an online service. The makers of the device boast that it comes with one year of free storage and call it "a searchable and shareable photographic memory." Apple is also working on wearable computing products, filing numerous patents for a "heads-up display" and camera. The company is also expected to release an iWatch later this year. And several other start-ups in Silicon Valley are building products that are designed to capture photos of people's lives.Noise-canceling tech could lead to ultra-fast internet connections &gt;&gt; VentureBeatThe speed and reliability of internet connections could be improved by the mechanisms of noise-cancelling technology, a report has found:Noise-cancelling headphones use a microphone to pick up any outside noises within range of your ears. It then sends an inverse set of sounds picked up by the background noise to cancel it out. Researchers think they can essentially do the same thing with fibre optic cable Internet, which uses light waves to transmit data. However, this requires a lot of power to make the process fast, and this results in lots of "noise" that would otherwise slow down Internet speeds and reliability.Brussels probes Apple's iPhone tactics &gt;&gt; FT.comBrussels is investigating whether Apple is muscling out rival smartphone makers from the European market with anti-competitive iPhone sales tactics and technical restrictions on the handset, according to documents seen by the Financial Times. The scrutiny adds to the pressure Apple is facing from government regulators, coming in the week that US senators questioned Apple chief executive Tim Cook for the technology company's tax accounting practices.The EC concluded that Apple's market practices could be considered to be unfair after evaluation responses sent to European telecoms groups.Samsung sold 12.5m smartphones in China during Q1 2013 &gt;&gt; The Next WebSamsung takes top spot in Chinese smartphone market for the first time, according to Strategy Analytics:The research firm's latest figures are reported by the Korea Herald (via Sammy Hub) and are particularly impressive given that Samsung sold a total of 30.06 million smartphones last year. That 2012  figure was a record annual sales haul for the firm -- and tripled its sales from 2011 -- but, given its early progress this year, Samsung looks set to smash that record once again in 2013. Strategy Analytics's Q1 2013 data put Huawei behind Samsung in second place on 8.1 million units sold, having overtaken Lenovo -- which has announced its intention to launch devices in the US within one year -- which sold 7.9 million smartphones. Chinese phone makers Coolpad (7 million smartphones sold) and ZTE (6.4 million) rounded out the top five, with Apple coming in sixth with an estimated 6.1 million iPhones sold during the three-month period.Samsung teases 'Premiere 2013' event &gt;&gt; The Next WebNew Galaxy devices to be unveiled on 20 June:Rumors of a smaller Galaxy S4, appropriately named the Galaxy S4 Mini, have been circulating for some time now, although the moniker is so strong - and synonymous with Android - that it's also possible we could see multiple devices being announced simultaneously. The ATIV range, meanwhile, is Samsung's ongoing foray into the Windows Phone mobile operating system. The company is yet to make much of a dent; the ATIV S, released last year, was met with some pretty middling reviews.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday. How was your Bank Holiday?
Eight hand-selected links for you, freshly plucked from the web by our Technology teamThe Xbox One's voice control and remote play &gt;&gt; PolygonThe ultimate cheat - Xbox One will let you hand over to a friend if you're stuck."In one possible scenario, Kinect used its facial recognition to scan a room full of people and note if there was someone in the room it didn't recognize. It then told the console owner that there is someone in the room it didn't recognize and asked the new person to identify themselves. Once the person said their name, Kinect welcomed them and saved their information to the console. Xbox One's ability to speak will allow it to function more like the iPhone's Siri, according to Microsoft officials who presented the feature. The voice may not be available at the console's launch, but if it isn't it will be added in a post launch patch within the first few months. The Xbox One will also feature the ability to Skype a friend to ask them for help on a game and then allow them to take over gameplay. The feature is designed to allow players to help one another get through sections of a game when they're stuck.Lenovo aims at US smartphone market &gt;&gt; WSJChina's second largest smartphone manufacturer after Sansung has eyes on the US market.Lenovo is pushing aggressively into the smartphone market just as the traditional PC industry is struggling with shrinking demand. Consumers are spending more money on mobile devices, and the weak economy is pushing corporate clients to hold off on office PC purchases.iPad video ads booming by 10% a year - will surpass PCs by 2015 &gt;&gt; TechCrunchFurther proof that tablet use is exploding:Videoplaza has looked at the data emerging from Karbon, its sell-side ad management platform, which is used to monetise video across PCs, mobile devices, tablets, game consoles, IPTV and Smart TVs. They've released exclusive information to TechCrunch which shows a big growth in iPad video monetization: with 150 percent growth of iPad traffic in the last six months. The company claims to be able to reach around 10 percent of the Internet's population with its platform every month, hitting more than 300M uniques, delivering ads on over 50 platforms, consisting of over 7,000 devices. It claims to have the largest reach of premium video inventory in EU and Asia outside of Google's DoubleClick for Publishers.Did Apple flash the iWatch in latest ad? &gt;&gt; MashableProbably not. But even not flashing it made for a Mashable post, right?We've heard rumors of the approach of Apple's so-called iWatch, with speculation pegging its release at late 2014. But that's an awfully long time from now. We'll have to an eye on Apple's advertising campaigns until then, closely watching for any subliminal hints embedded within.Twitter's Michael Sippey on the Vine acquisition &gt;&gt; AllThingsDIt's all about mobile, baby.At its heart, Twitter is the simplest of products, but these days, the company's product head Michael Sippey oversees all sorts of things: Search and relevance, discovery, and new forays into short-form video and music. "Product at Twitter means mobile at Twitter," Sippey said. "It's all I think about and it's all the team I work with thinks about. We started seven years ago as a mobile company, the service was initially SMS; we complemented that with a website that has attracted a lot of users; and now the shift has happened, the majority of our usage comes from mobile devices."Yahoo's Hulu bid is $600m-$800m &gt;&gt; AllThingsDHot on the heels of its estimated $1.1bn acquisition of Tumblr, Yahoo is pushing further into the media space with an offer to buy on-demand video service Hulu - and there's more, too. Will there be anything left in Marissa Meyer's piggy bank?According to numerous sources close to the situation, Yahoo has bid from $600 million to $800 million for the premium video site Hulu. The reason for the wide range is due to the fact that the Silicon Valley Internet giant -- similar to most bidders in the new effort to acquire Hulu -- has proposed several different prices based on a variety of circumstances. That includes the length of the licensing rights for content and how much control the programming companies selling Hulu have over their media. At the same time and separately, according to sources inside the company, Yahoo is also contemplating at least two other significant purchases -- in the $150 million to $200 million range -- each for a mobile and a communications company.Liberty Reserve founder arrested, site shuttered &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityThe digital currency Liberty Reserve has been suspended after its founder Arthur Budovsky Belanchuk was arrested at home in Costa Rica. Belanchuk has been under investigation by authorities in the US and in Costa Rica for money laundering, and his arrest follows three days of outage at Liberty Reserve which is a favourite among cybercriminals.Liberty Reserve is a largely unregulated money transfer business that allows customers to open accounts using little more than a valid email address, and this relative anonymity has attracted a huge number of customers from underground economies, particularly cybercrime. The trouble started on Thursday, when libertyreserve.com inexplicably went offline. The outage set off increasingly anxious discussions on several major cybercrime forums online, as many that work and ply their trade in malicious software and banking fraud found themselves unable to access their funds. For example, a bulletproof hosting provider on Darkode.com known as "off-sho.re" (a hacker profiled in this blog last week) said he stood to lose $25,000, and that the Liberty Reserve shutdown "could be the most massive ownage in the history of e-currency."Android is winning. Apple is winning. &gt;&gt; Virtual Pants"Jay":People often forget that Google and Apple are playing the same game with different goals in mind. Apple strives to maximize profitability in hardware sales. Google, on the other hand, is striving for maximum market share, providing the most users for its services. This is a rare, if not unique, war where both Apple and Google can win, and that seems to be very confusing to people.Totally, exactly right. (Though to be precise, Android was a protective measure against Microsoft controlling the mobile market, not Apple.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Eric Schmidt, Google's executive chairman, has continued to defend the company's tax affairs, insisting it would comply with British law if it was changed and claiming to be perplexed by the debate.In a phrase less snappy than the more celebrated "don't be evil", Schmidt said Google had "a fiduciary responsibility to our shareholders" that prevented the internet company from paying more tax abroad. However, he said: "It's not a debate. You pay the taxes."Google has come in for escalating public criticism, including unusually frank words&nbsp;from senior politicians, since the House of Commons public accounts committee took it to task this month over figures that revealed payments of £3.4m in tax on £3.2bn of sales to customers in Britain last year, with sales technically accounted for under the low-tax regime of Ireland.However, Schmidt told BBC Radio 4's Start the Week that if Britain wanted to collect more tax, it should change the law: "What we are doing is legal. I'm rather perplexed by this debate, which has been going in the UK for quite some time because I view taxes as not optional. I view that you should pay the taxes that are legally required."If the British system changes the tax laws then we will comply. If the taxes go up we will pay more, if they go down we will pay less. That is a political decision for the democracy that is the UK."So far, those leading the democracy have yet to bring action to back up their words, but deputy prime minister Nick Clegg said he had raised the issue directly with Schmidt at a Downing Street meeting, after Labour leader Ed Miliband used the platform of Google's "Big Tent" event to express "deep disappointment" with the company. Miliband said: "When Google goes to extraordinary lengths to avoid paying its taxes, I say it's wrong. And it's not just me that says it, it's Google's founding principles, and it's crystal clear from them."However, Schmidt said Google's pledges on social responsibility were not incompatible with a legalistic approach to paying taxes: "I do not agree with this and the reason is that at least under American law we have a fiduciary responsibility to our shareholders to account for things properly, so if we were, for example, to just arbitrarily decide to pay a different tax rate than we were required to, a more favourable one for example to a particular country, how would we account for that?"How would we file the necessary paperwork, what would be the legal consequences in other countries?"Somehow these questions are ignored in the debate. We are very happy with whatever the countries all come to agreement on. We are not particularly upset about it."Schmidt concluded: "Our position is very simple: taxes are not optional, we pay the mandatory amount."
Curiosity is over. The bizarre multiplayer gaming experiment, which required players to tap away at billions of tiles on a vast online cube, finished on Sunday evening, six months after its much-hyped launch. And as promised by veteran game designer Peter Molyneux – the brains behind this Willy Wonka-esque, endeavour – the person who tapped the final tile was sent a video informing them of their 'life-changing' prize. They will become a god in Godus, the next game from Molyneux's company 22Cans, as well as taking a cut of the revenue.For several minutes before the announcement, however, the gaming community was kept in considerable suspense, madly refreshing the Twitter hashtag, #whatsinsidethecube. Staff as 22Cans had to verify that the winner wasn't a bot, and that he or she was prepared to reveal what they had won. It was always an option for the final clicker to keep their prize a secret. However at 5pm, Molyneux tweeted, "He has said he will share!!!!!!!!!" and the victor was revealed as one Bryan Henderson From Edinburgh.In the video sent to Henderson and later shared online, Molyeneux is seen in a cube-like interior, explaining the genesis of the Curiosity project before revealing the prize: "We are making a game named Godus, the whole game is about being a god to your followers, but YOU, the person who reached the centre, will be the god of all people who are playing Godus. You will decide on the rules that the game is played by. And you will share in the success of the product. Every time people spend money on Godus, you will get a small piece of that pie."It is not yet clear how Henderson will take up his role, or what the ramifications will be for the design and development of the title. Godus is a strategy sim in the style of previous Molyneux games Dungeon Keeper, Populous and Black &amp; White, with the player becoming a powerful deity, guiding a population of followers. The title was successfullycrowd-funded on Kickstarterlast year.Reactions on Twitter ranged from grudging satisfaction to wry disappointment; and many claimed to have predicted the outcome. Journalist Matt Lees tweeted, "I actually called it. Winner of Curiosity gets to be the God in Godus. Actually called it, months ago!" Better still, game developer Dan Marshalllinked to one of his own tweets, written on December 14: "Calling it now: middle of #Curiosity cube wins a leading role in #Godus."Some reactions, though, were rather more downbeat. Games critic and academic Ian Bogost simply tweeted, "Turns out the thing inside the cube was Peter Molyneux's ego."
You may have noticed the hullabaloo last week over the news that Yahoo, a weighty internet giant, had paid $1.1bn to acquire Tumblr, a blogging platform allegedly popular with the yoof of today (as Tony Benn used to say). What you may not have noticed is the declaration by Marissa Mayer, Yahoo's reformist CEO, about her latest trophy acquisition."We promise not to screw it up,"she wrote on the company blog. "Tumblr is incredibly special and has a great thing going. We will operate Tumblr independently. David Karp will remain CEO. The product roadmap, their team, their wit and irreverence will all remain the same, as will their mission to empower creators to make their best work and get it in front of the audience they deserve. Yahoo! will help Tumblr get even better, faster."As mergers and acquisitions go, this is surely a first. Usually what we get after the consummation of these dangerous liaisons is corporate guff about "synergy" and "efficiency gains". Yet here we have a CEO declaring that the one thing she will not do is destroy the outfit for which she has just paid a shedload of money. (An outfit, by the way, that hadjust $14m in revenues last year.)It's possible, of course, that Mayer knows what she's doing. A more plausible hypothesis, however, is that she's following an established strategic playbook. Technology companies start out being innovative. But as they grow they become like every other industrial corporation in one important respect: they find it increasingly difficult to innovate. So what they then do is to buy small innovative companies and rebadge their products. This is often how Microsoft (to take just one example) innovated: some of its best-known applications (PowerPoint, Internet Explorer, FrontPage, Hotmail) were created not by Microsoft but by companies the Redmond giant acquired.What may also have been on Mayer's mind is a similar gambit recently executed by Facebook when itpaid a billion dollars for Instagram, an online photo-sharing service that was likewise believed to be popular with yoof. Instagram enables smartphone users to take photographs, degrade them by pushing them through various kinds of filter and then publish the results online. The basic idea is that you can make a humdrum picture of a soup tin masquerade as "art". Andy Warhol used to say that anyone could be famous for 15 minutes; with Instagram, anyone can masquerade as Andy Warhol 15 times a day.Instagram filters represent an interesting contemporary phenomenon – what one might call analogue nostalgia. Digital technology enables anyone to take photographs that are – technically – flawless, in the sense of being sharply focused and properly exposed. Some cameras even have features such as smile detectors so that they won't shoot until they detect at least a rictus grin. They have elaborate systems for controlling or eliminating the "red eye" effect of direct flash photography. And, of course, if you don't get a satisfactory picture first time you can keep going until you get something that looks acceptable on the camera's LCD screen.All of this would have seemed like attaining Nirvana to earlier generations of (analogue) photographers. And yet the popularity of things such as Instagram, Hipstamatic, Pixlr-o-matic andother apps for creatively mangling photographssuggests that the effortless perfection offered by digital technology has come to seem, well,boring. So just as painters abandoned realism once photography arrived, Instagrammers, Hipstamaticians et al now seek ways of creatively degrading their imagery so that it looks different, arty or just plain cool.The same goes for movies. My iPhone shoots excellent HD video, for example. But I also have on itan app called 8mmthat shoots jerky black-and-white videos so bad that even Buster Keaton's cinematographer would have me shot, or at any rate fired. And I have on my desktop computer an expensive piece of editing software that will take any digital image produced by a high-end camera and impose on it the grain pattern and tonal range of any one of dozens of ancient (and often now discontinued) films. So I can take a photograph shot today and make it look like something shot in the 1960s on 400asa Kodak Tri-X film.I once tried to explain the delicious, geeky cleverness of this to a normal, well-balanced person. "Let me get this straight," he said, slowly. "You take this huge, sharp, properly exposed digital image with a wide tonal range and you run a program that turns it into a harsh, contrasty, grainy image that looks as though it's been shot through a garden sieve?" I nodded proudly."You know what," he said, "maybe you should see a psychiatrist."
Every morning and every evening the fleet glides through the city, hundreds of white buses with tinted windows navigating San Francisco's rush hour. From the pavement you can see your reflection in the windows, but you can't see in. The buses have no markings or logos, no advertised destinations or stops.It doesn't matter. Everyone knows what they are. "Transport for a breed apart. For a community that is separate but not equal," said Diamond Dave Whitaker, a self-professed beat poet and rabble-rouser.The buses ferry workers to and from Apple, Facebook, Google and other companies in Silicon Valley, an hour's drive south. They hum with air-conditioning and Wi-Fi. They are for the tech elite, and only the tech elite.This month Whitaker, 75, and a few dozen other activists smashed a model Google bus piñata to pieces. They cheered each blow. The British and US governments may feel the same way, it emerged last week, when politicians in London and Washingtonaccused Google's Eric Schmidtand Apple's Tim Cook of dodging corporate taxes.The internet titans barely flinched. They denied wrongdoingand hit back at what they said were archaic tax codes unfit for the digital era. The defiance startled those unfamiliar with Silicon Valley's power and confidence.It did not come as news to San Francisco. The city knows better than anyone that technology companies like having things their way, whether it be taxes, transport or lifestyle. This dominance, critics say, has produced a cossetted caste which lords it over everyone else, a pattern established during the dotcom explosion a decade ago and now repeated amid a roaring boom."They're really trying to make it a different structure. It's segmentation. You see it everywhere," said Michael Veremans, 27, a co-ordinator with the Occupy-linked group San Francisco Food Not Bombs.Commuters who struggle with the crowded municipal bus service openly envy the spacious tech shuttles filled with their iPad-tapping passengers.TheSan Francisco Chroniclerecently swelled the chorus with anop-ed denouncing the private shuttlesas symbols of alienation and division: "San Franciscans feel resentful about the technology industry's lack of civic and community engagement, and the Google bus is our daily reminder."Techies, in other words, price locals out of the housing market, twist rules and regulations to suit themselves, and spend outrageously.The most vilified are the likes of David Sacks, Yammer's CEO, who held an extravagant "Let them eat cake"-themed 40th birthday party last year. Facebook billionaire Sean Parker is preparing a reported $10mGame of Thrones-themed wedding, replete with fake ruins and waterfalls.Lower down the food chain are employees who take the Wi-Fi-enabled shuttles to campuses with gourmet canteens, ping-pong tables, M&amp;M fountains, barbers and masseurs – self-contained citadels allegedly inured from social realities.Entrepreneurs and software engineers respond to that rap sheet with a mix of indignation, hurt and scorn. "This is a very expensive place tax-wise, but it feels like we're not getting an awful lot back," said Duncan Logan, 42, founder of RocketSpace, which incubates 130 start-up companies in a downtown headquarters. "A dirty city with a crumbling road network and a not great education system."Logan, a Scot who came to tech via agriculture and banking, voiced support for Cook and Schmidt. "I welcome this uproar [over taxes] because it will pressure governments to be more effective in their spending." He said governments should "compete" in offering value for taxes.Logan conceded that you could become blinkered when surrounded by like minds. "When you live in this world you forget how the rest of the world lives." Reality intruded only during visits to Scotland, where some still considered Twitter a newfangled marvel, he said. He sympathised with locals forced out of San Francisco by soaring property prices, but said the fault lay not with freespending techies but building restrictions: "The city has to relax planning controls."A software engineer for a major internet company said the criticism was unfair. "We feel what we're doing helps make the world a better place. Helping people share information is a force of empowerment for individuals."Everybody benefited from the shuttle buses, he said, since it meant fewer cars and less congestion. As for the campus perks, they were no big deal. The massages, haircuts and other services were subsidised, not free, and helped workers reach the "flow state" of optimal concentration. "Software engineering is like building something, like a craft, you become completely absorbed in the task. I really like that."A software designer for another company was less effusive, saying the thrill of working for a charismatic CEO gradually paled with the long hours and extra shifts: "You never know if you'll have the weekend off, so you can't really make plans to hang out with friends." Her campus food and facilities were amazing, she said. "It's not that you want to be in this bubble, it's just you're so focused on work."Mark Zuckerberg's founding of Fwd.us, an advocacy group for immigration reform, has won backing from other Silicon Valley tycoons, prompting suggestions they have matured politically.But Victor Hernandez, 35, a software engineer who worked for more than a decade at one of the big firms, says the geek culture still has blind spots. Young, white males dominate and can make women feel uncomfortable: "It's a very homogenous environment. No one is macho, but they can be sexist."For all their academic and business smarts, engineers and entrepreneurs often failed to connect society's dots, he said. They would grumble about the state of roads and schools but make no link to the low taxes paid by major tech companies. "There's a disconnect."Restraints on conspicuous consumption – once considered gauche and tacky – were loosening, said Hernandez. "You'll see guys still wearing the same clothes of 15 years ago, but now they're driving Porsches."Over time, the engineer found himself yearning for more social interaction. He traded in his iPhone for an old Nokia. "With no internet permanently available, I was forced to engage more with the people around me."Hernandez, who is married to a nurse, then did something even more shocking. He quit and took a two-third salary cut to work as a high school maths teacher. The decision baffled most of his colleagues. Hernandez is now adjusting to a lower standard of living. The Wi-Fi shuttle buses are a receding memory. "I'm happy. I'm doing what I wanted."
