Last Friday I made a very brief visit to the Ifa technology show in Berlin, but it seems the best bit didn't happen until I'd gone - tech firm SanDisk has been forced to removeallits MP3 players from the floor of the show after a licensing dispute.Simon Perry over atDigital Lifestyleshas the scoop:Sisvel, a Turin, Italy-based patent management company filed a complaint with German public prosecutor in Berlin last week over SanDisk not paying Sisvel a license fee for using their 'essential' MP3 patent. Prices for stereo equipment start at 60c US per player, reducing with volume.The German public prosecutor was convinced by the argument and issued an injunction to remove all of the MP3 players from the Sandisk stand. Those visiting the stand will only be able to look at its pictures of the MP3 players.Simon's also postedpictures of the empty stand.Crikey, that's got to be an awkward conversation to have with your boss.
The New York Times has a long piece aboutPandoraand the possible impact of recommendation systems on the music business.The story says: "At pandora.com visitors are invited to enter the name of their favorite artist or song and to get in return a stream of music with similar 'DNA,' in effect a private Internet radio station microtailored to each user's tastes."I just assumed that 'DNA' came from other users' preferences (if you like that, you'll like this) which has been the usual approach sinceMIT's Fireflystarted a decade ago. However, Pandora has musicians such as Seth Ford-Young working on the real content of the music.As he listens, in a room not far from an elevated stage with drums, guitars and amps for employee jam sessions, Mr. Ford-Young fills out a scorecard on which he can rate hundreds of traits in each song on a five-point scale. Bit by bit, Pandora's music analysts have built a massive archive of data, cataloging the minute characteristics of more than 500,000 songs, from alt-country to bossa nova to metal to gospel, for what is known as the Music Genome Project.Comment: Technically,Pandorais US only, but if you haven't tried it, I recommend it highly. You can see the sort of things entered in the database by looking up a track, egPink Floyd's Time.The UK siteLast.fmis a "social recommender" system, and uses "collaborative filtering".
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
"The first thing that came out of our mouths when we heard that Google is working on a system that listens to what's on your TV playing in the background, and then serves you relevant adverts, was 'that's cool, but dangerous'," saysRethink Research Associatesin a comment piece published onThe Register. The story refers tothis articleAs someone pointed out onSlashdot,Ars Technica reported this idea back in June:Developers from Google's research laboratory presenteda paper (PDF)about interactive television applications that leverage ambient audio analysis at the Euro Interactive Television conference last week. The research paper, which describes a system for providing contextually relevant web content for television consumers, received the best paper award. The described system uses a computer microphone to analyze the audio being emitted by a television, and uses that data to determine what show the user is watching. The system can then provide the user with web content that relates to the show.Comment: The next step is presumably touse your webcamto keep a record of which snacks you consume during different TV programmes. It's just another part of accumulating all the world's information in order to best serve all the world's advertising.... (Of course you agreed to this! Didn't you read to the end of the agreement you clicked when you installed Google Toolbar 8 in 2011?)Google's eavesdropping idea doesn't sound too smart coming after the publicity about how it records your every search forever, but was, of course, published before that.
Don't forget, I'm running a Gamesblog Battlefield 2 session tonight from 8pm. Everyone is welcome. You'll need a copy of Battlefield 2 for PC, plus the latest patch (we'll be running basic vanilla maps so no need for add-on packs or anything).Our server is called 'Multiplay.co.uk :: Guardian Gaming' - you'll be able to find it by searching for 'Guardian Gaming' - the password is 'goater'.If you'd like to chat, you'll also need the latest TeamSpeak client software. Our TeamSpeak server address is 85.236.100.27:9347. If the password is active, it'll be 'newport50'. I'll be on there from 7.50pm.Come and have a go - even if youdon'tthink you're hard enough...
Schoolboy Jimmy Hopkins survives on his wits and with his fists. He lives in fear of the tough, relentless bullies who set on him in the gym and chase him round the town wielding baseball bats and dustbin lids. He spends his chemistry lessons learning how to make firecrackers to use as weapons to defend himself. And the teachers are a vindictive, corrupt bunch of creeps who hang about in sex shops and force him to steal girls' underwear from their dorms.Welcome to another ordinary day at Bullworth Academy in New England - the latest boarding school Jimmy has been moved to by his five-times-married mother after being kicked out of all his others. It may sound like just another hard-knock teenage story - except that neither Jimmy nor Bullworth Academy exist as anything other than a collection of ones and zeroes. Jimmy is the central character in a videogame called Bully, due to be released in the US on October 16. In one of the strangest innovations yet in home entertainment, it offers the prospect of teenagers trying to unwind after their day at school by following a virtual character's traumatic progress through academia on their PlayStation 2s.Predictably, not everyone is amused by the game. Anti-bullying campaigners are demanding that it be banned in the UK. Rockstar Vancouver, the developer behind it, has tried to soften the blow, announcing last Friday that it would rename it for the European market as Canis Canem Edit, after the fictional school's motto: dog eat dog. But otherwise, it is unrepentant. On the game's website, the mock prospectus welcomes new pupils with the promise that it will instil a "strong moral fibre". "Boys or girls, we will make men of them," it reads. "The world is an ugly place and we must prepare our youngsters, by any means necessary, by enabling them to rise to the top of the steaming cesspool of human endeavour." It appears particularly proud of its sporting achievements: "Your child will attain an aggressive zeal for crushing opponents without mercy."It is not the first time Rockstar, which was set up by three New York-based Londoners in 1998, has found itself at the centre of a storm. Indeed, it thrives on notoriety and prides itself on its tradition of "tongue-in-cheek storytelling". Its relentlessly violent Grand Theft Auto series (the next instalment is due out late next year on PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360) is one of the biggest-selling franchises ever, with a total of around 35m units sold at &pound;30-&pound;40. Its content and style have caused widespread outrage: driving around a fictional city, the player is able to pick up prostitutes for sex and then murder them. Last year, Rockstar endured the so-called "hot coffee scandal", when a crudely executed sex mini-game was discovered in San Andreas, the most recent version of GTA. Campaigners including Hillary Clinton waded in with objections. San Andreas was recalled, altered and reclassified with a "mature" rating, and Rockstar downgraded its 2005 earnings by $40m.So, it was no great surprise when Rockstar's May 2005 announcement that it was making Bully was met with immediate demands for it to be banned, based on little more evidence than the game's name. These came mainly, and understandably, from anti-bullying organisations alarmed at the scale of the problem. Childline announced this month that there had been a 12% rise in calls about bullying over the last year. It counsels over 3,000 young people a month on the problem, which accounts for 23% of all its calls. Last year, 1.3 million people turned to bullying.co.uk for help. The website received 8,400 emails asking for advice. Labour MP Keith Vaz has joined the calls for Bully to be blocked. He has form as an opponent of Rockstar. One of his Leicester East constituents, Stefan Pakeerah, 14, was murdered in 2004 by a 17-year-old friend who - according to the victim's parents - had become hooked on Rockstar's 18-rated Manhunt, in which players take on the role of a released convict under orders to carry out assassinations. Although the police did not link Manhunt to the killing in their evidence, Vaz has since repeatedly demanded a tightening of regulations on violent games.Hands-on experience of Bully shows it in fact to be one of Rockstar's tamer creations. The game takes place over the course of a school year, during which Jimmy must successfully negotiate a number of missions, which primarily involve standing up to bullies. The school teems with teachers and prefects, who will discipline Jimmy for any transgression of school rules, down to not being in uniform (although Jimmy can attempt to dodge them by hiding). He may try to kiss female pupils, but if they object, they will kick him in the groin. All told, it's more Grange Hill than Grand Theft Auto.Rockstar admits that people will have preconceptions based on the name of the game, but invokes the spirit of Napoleon Dynamite and Just William, arguing that other forms of entertainment take a comedic look at one's schooldays, so why shouldn't videogames? Spokesman Hamish Brown says the game's aim is to "capture the rollercoaster ride of getting through your school years, which is something we can all relate to. Bully takes you back to those times for a tongue-in-cheek slice of nostalgia."Although the days when games were the exclusive province of schoolchildren are long gone - the average age of UK gamers is now around 25, and the average female UK gamer is 30 - there are aspects of Bully that its detractors will sink their teeth into. Jimmy can punch, kick and grapple. But there is no blood in the game. There are no knives and guns, nor can he kill anyone - when he slugs it out with a bully, they can knock each other to the ground, but they will soon get back to their feet. Most controversially, Jimmy can wield a baseball bat or a dustbin lid, but if he does so inside the school or on its grounds, he will attract the attention of prefects and teachers. Baseball bats tend to be in the possession of bullies, anyway, in situations that unfold in the town adjoining the school and which arise in the game's latter stages.Liz Carnell, director of Bullying Online (www.bullying.co.uk), has not seen Bully itself, but has seen enough to want it withdrawn: "In the trailer for the game, there are two incidents of bullying shown - two incidents of assault, actually. One is someone kicking someone on the backside, and the other is a wedgie. In real life, if you kick a bully on the backside or give them a wedgie, you're quite likely to be accused of assaulting them."Carnell wonders why the government-funded Anti-Bullying Alliance hasn't come out against the game. Perhaps because it views it as innocuous? "If they see it as an innocuous thing, I think they're in the wrong business. If you're going to show people wielding baseball bats, that is not desirable. We get quite a lot of complaints about, in particular, knives in schools. Showing any scenario when there are weapons in schools is quite outrageous, in my opinion."She also shares a view common among anti-videogame campaigners: "I think that when you're playing a game, you're very much involved in it - it isn't like just watching a television. We get up to four children contacting us a day who are suicidal, and to reduce their experiences of bullying to the level of a computer game is disgraceful in our view."The question is: will calling for Bully - even under the name of Canis Canem Edit - to be banned simply help turn a game that would have been a minor hit into a chart-topper? If so, Rockstar could not have picked a more brutally effective name for its game.
So how annoying is new Xbox 360 hack 'n slasherNinety-Nine Nightsthen? I'm reviewing it in the paper and have been playing it a lot over the last week but have now essentially given up. Why? Nope, it's not, as you may think if you've played it, the shocking AI that sees your troops lazily prodding at one enemy soldier while you annihilate the other 272. No, it's the unforgiving save structure that sees you having to restart levels when killed. This may have been the norm in the 80s when we had the whole school holiday to persevere withUridiumor whatever, but spending 40 mins to reach the end of a level only to cop it at the final hurdle and be forced to restart simply doesn't cut it in 2006. And it's a shame too, as I rather the liked a lot of the game. Totally simplistic yes, but ploughing through reams of assailants was surprisingly enjoyable. But if games ever want to become a properly mainstream entertainment option then they have to become easier, or certainly a little more forgiving. And it's not just Ninety-Nine Nights - Dead Rising, also on the 360, has a similarly archaic save structure. Maybe it's an age thing - I'm 33 - but surely the ability to "save anywhere" should be the first thing in a game design doc. Now excuse me while I hobble off and playMyst.
For those of us who spend our downtime in virtual worlds, there are a couple of forthcoming documentaries from major media players in search of interviewees. One, for theBBC's Horizonseries, is an hour-long programme, "about the meteoric rise of MMORPGs and other virtual worlds: featuring interviews with game designers, psychologists, economists and of course, gamers".Specifically, they want to speak with virtual world residents if:You're passionate about your Avatar - whether it's just like you, or contrasts dramatically with your life offlineYou make real money through your dealings in a gameYou are worried about addiction - either for yourself, a friend, or a relativeYou are organising a protest or event in a gameYou regularly meet with other gamers in the outside worldAuntie Beeb has been one of the media leaders in supporting virtual worlds, going as far as to buy some digital land in Second Life to use asa venue for gigsand as a backdrop forbroadcastprogramming. If you'd like to contribute to a documentary for the BBC's flagship science series, email them atvirtualworldsATbbc.co.ukThe other production, created by New York'sPure West Docsand pointed out to the gamesblog byNick Yee, is searching for local folks who fit the following criteria:-a couple that met in an MMO and are currently together in RL. - a virtual world refugee: someone who was in an MMO that was shut down who can talk about how they and the community reacted. - someone in a long-standing guild that has branches in different games, or has migrated through several games. - a physically-handicapped person who plays MMOs and finds it to have a positive influence on their life. - someone who feels that the virtual world offers a better life for them (financially or otherwise). - an activist: someone who has organized or led a protest in a virtual world. - someone who lives in the New York City area and has an interesting MMO story or experienceThe producers intend to open up this call to the global player base when they get full funding later this year.At the rate thatmainstream mediais getting into these places, I imagineRichard and Judywill be giving it a go next.
Photo: EngadgetEngadget says: "Holy hot damn, we got us a Mylo up in this piece. Yes, unfortunately it's only a late prototype (we haven't actually heard of anyone getting a final production unit yet) but here she is, Sony's ever-hopeful ace in the hole to get a foothold in the pockets of disenfranchised Sidekick 'tweens everywhere (and maybe even some 770 user throwbacks as well)."Comment: Mylo = My life online.
Luis von Ahn recently gave a Google Talk about his ESP Game, which is a way to get people to label images and thus make them easier to search for. Google is now trying the idea athttp://images.google.com/imagelabeler/Google Blogoscopedfound the Google version, whileDanny Sullivan at Search Engine Watchspotted the connection to Luis von Ahn and posted the video of his Google Talk. It's well worth watching if you have an hour to spare.Comment: The Google game suffers from the pictures being too small and from many of the pics being either unreadable or boring. We're not talking about great examples of photographic art: the Google game often throws up graphics and odd bits of artwork, which may not be the sort of things you'd look for when you use image search.
Would you spy on your spouse? A company is urging consumers to buy 'secret' mobile phone software so they can read their partner's text messages. Yet it denies encouraging infringement of privacy laws.FlexiSpy is billed as the 'world's most powerful spy software for mobile phones', which enables a buyer to 'secretly record every SMS [text] message, view their call history, and more!' Its website even has a 'testimony' from a customer. 'Thanks to FlexiSpy, I finally figured out my wife was cheating on me with my brother,' he claims. 'My life is so much better.'The potential for mobile phone monitoring was highlighted last week by Symantec, the information security company. It warned mobile phones are potentially vulnerable to spyware, software that covertly gathers a user's information without their knowledge. These could enable snoopers to remotely activate a mobile phone's microphone, take pictures with its camera or record conversations without the user's knowledge.Such technology might prove tempting to bosses who want to keep track of their employees or journalists hunting stories about celebrities, though the Data Protection Act states a person must not 'knowingly or recklessly' and without consent obtain or disclose personal data.But Vervata, the company behind FlexiSpy, denied it was doing anything illegal. The software has to be installed manually on the 'spied upon' handset, making it difficult to do without the owner's knowledge.'It's true you could wrap up something like this and transmit it virally, but that's not the business we're in,' admitted Atir Raihan, Vervata's managing director. 'There are other companies doing this, but we're not.'Asked why the company's website promotes spying on a spouse, which could be deemed unlawful, Raihan said: 'It's to make people smile. People have their own reasons for buying all sorts of things - they don't all buy cars to rob banks.'Industry experts warned that the increasing complexity of phones has its downsides. Richard Starnes said: 'As mobile phones progress, they are becoming the de facto computers of 10 years ago. With these capabilities come vulnerabilities: security is inversely proportionate to functionality. It will definitely be an increasing threat in the coming years.'
If you are tempted to try the Brozar browser, read my postBrowzar browser is best avoidedon the Technology blog first.
There was a glowing report onBrowzarinInformation Week, a browser that's supposed to help protect your privacy, plus stories inThe Register,Silicon.com,BBC Newsand other sites that really ought to know better.But Browzar is no panacea, and not worth even the small download.First, Browzar is not a browser, it's just a small (256KB) front end for Microsoft's Internet Explorer 5.5 or later. Second, it doesn't work as claimed: seeComputer Zenand Web3.0log'sNew secure browser Browzar is fake and full of adware..What it does do, however, is take you to its own home page and serve you advertisements for money, via Yahoo's Overture. Great, but you can download lots of spyware toolbars that do the same thing, without the hype.TheBrowzar press releasemakes amusing reading. I particularly like this bit, from the guy who founded Freeserve in the UK:Ajaz Ahmed, founder of Browzar, said: "Browzar will do for surfing and searching the web with privacy what eBay did for auctions and My Space did for social networking. It is the first in a range of products that we'll be rolling out this year.If that doesn't send your bullshitometer off the scale, I've got a bridge you might like to buy.Update: BBC News wrote about Browzar inNet browser promises private surf. It has now followed up the backlash with more quotes from Ajaz Ahmed in'Adware' attack on privacy tool.
For the past week's posts on a single page, clickhere.If you only do one thing, look at9 ways for newspapers to improve their websitesand leave a comment on how you think the design of the Guardian Web site could be improved.Other highlights include:Would you buy a Chumby?Is lonelygirl15 real or a hoax?Churchill was right -- old words are bestXNA Game Studio Express beta available for downloadCell phones won't keep your secrets
Test Drive: UnlimitedXBOX 360, Atari, &pound;40In the global quest to find something new to do in driving games, Burnout's races take place in crowded city streets, TOCA Race Driver grafts on characters and a plot, and Flat Out proffered car crashes in which your driver sails, rag doll-style, through the windscreen. Test Drive: Unlimited crosses driving with Massively-Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Games, putting you on the Hawaiian island of Oahu along with innumerable real live potential competitors. Win races and complete tasks to buy better cars and nicer houses, and bask in the joy of fallible human competition replacing dull computer controlled drones. With a driving model erring on the side of realism and the usual drip-feed of extras, you'll also be able to buy add-on packs of new cars and music online. Horribly addictive, Test Drive: Unlimited still works as an offline game, but not as well.Saints RowXBOX 360, THQ, &pound;40In Saints Row you're a street punk using guns and, occasionally, cunning to establish your reputation as a gangsta. Hijack cars (and listen to various themed in-car radio stations), buy guns, procure prostitutes and commit acts of violence against those who oppose you before going home to your crib. If this all sounds rather familiar, that's because this is less homage than colour photocopy of the Grand Theft Auto series and its joyously open-ended toy box of cartoon criminality, but that doesn't mean it's bad - the city looks rock-solid, aiming your gun is surprisingly steady and other drivers retaliate if they feel as though they've been, ahem, dissed. While lacking the surreal humour and awesome sprawling detail of GTA, Saints Row is still an exceedingly competent and enjoyable pimp-'em-up.Games newsWe have lift-off...Flying remote-controlled aircraft in your living room sounds like a swift way of despoiling everything you own. Thanks to the miracle of technology, the 3.5g Aero Soarer can now comfortably fly around your house without destroying anything. With one control for the throttle and another for the rudder, you get about 40 seconds of flight for a similar recharging time. Absurdly and wonderfully compelling. There's also the PicoZ, a 17cm-long, fully functional helicopter. Take off, fly around, hover, land and in all likelihood scare the bejesus out of your cat - you will also find it exerts an almost hypnotic pull on house guests and children.Aero Soarer, &pound;60 fromwww.aerosoarer.comPicoZ, &pound;30 fromwww.firebox.com
TuesdayEnlist for BattlefieldCause for excitementCitizen Science harnesses gaming powerhousesPhilips brings back tabletop gamingWednesdayLondon Games FestivalFor Sale: Virgin Mary apparition on virtual woodCrysis too big and powerful for next-gen consolesThursdayManifesto shakes up indie game movementWoW interviewWWII shooter writes alternateive historyDS pwns JapanFridayTravel with your PSP
Been meaning to get around to blogging this item all week.... Anyway, when Google offered its Gmail service to businesses (including Gmail extensions such as Google Talk), Intermedia.net -- which also offers hosted email --came up with an amusing reply....
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Trust Digital of McLean, Virginia, bought 10 different phones on eBay this summer to test phone-security tools it sells for businesses," reportsAP. They were able to retrieve all kinds of information, both business and personal. AP says the findings included:One company's plans to win a multimillion-dollar federal transportation contract.E-mails about another firm's $50,000 payment for a software license.Bank accounts and passwords.Details of prescriptions and receipts for one worker's utility payments.Turns out that many phones don't properly delete the contents of Flash memory:Flash memory is inexpensive and durable. But it is slow to erase information in ways that make it impossible to recover. So manufacturers compensate with methods that erase data less completely but don't make a phone seem sluggish.However, it may not be much of a security threat at the moment:Trust Digital found no evidence thieves or corporate spies are routinely buying used phones to mine them for secrets, [CEO Nick] Magliato said. "I don't think the bad guys have figured this out yet."
Apple Expo Paris opens on September 12, and while El Jobso is not due to attend, there's a press conference in San Francisco, California on the same day. UK journalists will be able to watch a live relay.Anyone for a proper iPod video launch with movie downloads from iTMS?According to Business Week, there's a battle brewing between Apple and Wal-Mart:As the largest seller of DVDs, Wal-Mart accounts for roughly 40% of the $17 billion in DVDs that will be sold this year, a financial lifeline to big-spending studios. But now Wal-Mart's video business faces a potential threat by Steve Jobs and Apple Computer, which in mid-September, sources tell BusinessWeek, plans to announce it will start offering movie downloads from its iTunes store.The notion of kids running around with full-length movies on new, wider-screen iPods that Apple is expected to unveil as well is causing grief in Bentonville, according to Hollywood executives. The $312 billion a year retailer, they say, wants concessions that could include lower DVD wholesale prices.Also note that Intel started shipping Merom (64-bit Core 2 Duo) chips this week, andExtremeTech testssay it's substantially faster. It's pretty unlikely that Apple will leave all the Merom chips for Windows notebook PCs. When you're on the Intel treadmill -- which Apple now is -- then you tend to ship new systems when Intel ships new chips.
What the PSP lacks in entertaining software, it increasingly makes up for it in novel and useful applications. Earlier this year, Sony and the Institute for Contemporary Art in Londonannounceda series of 10-minute magazine-style programmes downloadable for the handheld console which tie high culture with a "yoof" technology. A new partnership withLonely Planetcontinues to cater for a young, mobile market, with the launch ofPassport To....At the minute the software only seems destined for a North American audience, with a $49.99 price tag only quoted in US dollars, but in this day of internet commerce surely techno-savvy Brits can also grab a copy of one of six interactive tour guides for major European cities.What an extraordinarily clever idea.I stand corrected. I've just been informed that the softwarewillretail in the UK for £19.99 per city.viaDigital Battle
In case you haven't seenthis... the top ten of the Japanese all-format games chart for August 21-27 consists entirely of DS titles. Even in a difficult period for the videogame industry - with PS2 in its Autumn years, Xbox 360 finding its feet and PS3 and Wii still weeks away - this is a remarkable achievement. Some are already viewing it as a symbolic moment, the point at which Nintendo clawed its way back toward industry dominance.It's far too early for any of that fanboy nonsense - and Sony still has the biggest card of its career yet to play. But for a handheld format to pull off an attention grabbing feat like this - what does it say about the obsession with ever-greater graphical performance? It says, lots of people just aren't bothered. It says game design is back.
I just had a long talk on the phone withTim Weller, the CEO of Incisive Media, which has boughtSearch Engine Watchand the associated conferences (story below) fromJupiter Media. While he didn't use the words in my headline, above, that was pretty much the gist of it. What he did say was: "I am really sorry it's come to this."Weller says he hasn't given up hope of doing some kind of deal that would keepDanny Sullivaninvolved with SEW and the conferences. And if he wanted to do something related, Weller said: "I'd put my money behind him; I'd put my company's money behind him. I'm still trying to find a solution that gives him a long-term incentive."But there is a problem, which is that when Danny sold out to Jupiter in 1997, he chose income over equity. (He got what Weller describes as "an amazing contract".) Maybe Danny would do things differently with hindsight, but it was his choice, and as he says on his blog; "I've done very well financially."Weller says Incisive has already increased payments to reward the team, and Danny will be even better off, but he also has obligations to his shareholders, stakeholders and staff. "We've got a fantastic team," says Weller: "We've got to protect their position."As for surviving without Sullivan, Weller sees the future in international expansion, particularly into places such as China. Apparently, Incisive Media is already running 250 shows in 47 countries. Weller doesn't say it, but if the company has the expertise, I can imagine that being a success even without Danny Sullivan's imprimature. The Web is a lot bigger than San Jose, or California, or even the good old US of A."This industry is global," says Weller, "which is very exciting for the staff. We love the industry, we love the brand, and we love the community. We have a focus, we have a strategy, and we have a fantastic team, and I'd like Danny to be involved, but we will look outside for talent if we have to. ..."So, not a boring or unfeeling bean counter: rather a man who talks with some passion. But a man who also sees himself between a rock and a hard place.
Only nine??? Still,Todd Zeigler writes: "We took a long look at the features U.S. newspapers include on their websitesa few weeks back. In doing the research, we spent more time than is healthy looking at these things. So we figured we'd use this new found expertise for good and offer the newspaper industry some unsolicited advice on how to improve their websites."I have to say I agree with(1) Start Using Tags, but sometimes these things are not as simple as they sound.Zeigler actually provides 10 tips (he forgot: Make your content work on cell phones and PDAs) and, based on comment feedback, has addedanother post taking the number of tips up to 18...Any thoughts ondesignchanges you'd like to the Guardian's site?
It seems someone has been reading Man in the High Castle... Codemasters has announced that it will be publishing Fall of Liberty, an FPS set in an alternate WWII where the Nazis have conquered Europe and are now invading America. Developed by Spark Unlimited, the chaps responsible for Call of Duty: Finest Hour, the game is set for release this autumn on PC and next-gen consoles.Here's some background stuff from the press release:"Fall of Liberty changes reality by twisting one historical fact: In 1931, Winston Churchill was hit by a taxi on 5th Avenue in New York. In reality, he survived the accident but walked with a cane for the rest of his life. But what might have followed if Winston Churchill had been killed in the accident? Without his voice to lead a country to war, the events of WWII change dramatically; the Normandy invasion never happens and the UK and all of Europe come under Nazi rule by 1945.Building on the successful conquest of Europe, Nazi intelligence develops superior weapons and vehicles so that on December 7, 1951 they are able to launch an all out surprise attack on America - beginning with a mass invasion of New York."It's an interesting if shaky premise, and a marvelous example of having your cakeandeating it: everyone knows the WWII genre is over-crowded, but everyone also knows that people love WWII shooters. So hey, how about a WWII FPS set in an alternative history? Both originalandsafely commercial.Well, it's notentirelyoriginal. Freedom Fighters imagines a Russian invasion of America while Battlefield 2 add-on, Armored Fury, features a Chinese attack on, yes, America. Don't be surprised if other studios take up the baton, each championing a new country to take on the mighty US. (Looking forward to Battlefield 2: When Belgians Attack)The artwork sent out with Codemasters' press release, showing the Swastika flying from the White House, is cleverly reminiscent of the 1966 movie It Happened Here about an imagined occupation of England by Nazi forces after a very different WWII. There is something about this whole idea that continues to both chill and fascinate. I wonder why.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Novice game creators can download the tool today fromhttp://msdn.microsoft.com/xnato develop games for Windows XP and Windows Vista, at no charge. The games built on Windows can be migrated to the Xbox 360 console system starting this holiday season as part of the XNA Creators Club subscription for $99/€99 a year, or a four-month trial cost of $49, opening up retail console game development to anyone for the first time," says Microsoft.There's also aFAQwhich points out that you also need Windows XP SP2,Visual C# Express(on which XNA is based) andthe latest DirectX runtime updates.Comment: You can use XNA to write games and non-games programs for Windows XP -- whatever you like. You can't at the momnet write stuff for PocketPCs and Windows Mobile phones, though that may be added later.The FAQ also includes:Q: What does XNA stand for? A: XNA's Not AcronymedUpdate: BBC columnist Bill Thompson istrying it out.
Last week I chatted to Paul Sams, the CEO of World of Warcraft creators Blizzard. The interview is in thepaper today, with Sams revealing how he literally bet the company on World of Warcraft. I also asked him whether WoW was killing the PC games market and if MMO's were inherently addictive. There wasn't space for the full interview in the paper, so I've included it in this blog. If you've ever wanted to know which faction - horde or alliance - the Blizzard staff play as or which of the upcoming MMO's has the biggest chance of competing with WoW then read on...With over 6.5 million paying subscribers, World of Warcaft is the world's most popular online role playing game. Burning Crusade, the first expansion pack for the game, is out later this year. Paul Sams is CEO of Blizzard, the developers of the game, whose previous hits include the multi-million selling Starcraft and Diablo series.Can you explain WoW to someone who hasn't played it?World of Warcraft is a massively multiplayer role playing game (MMORPG), with thousands of people playing at the same time. Essentially you create a character which you can grow by going on adventures and undertaking quests. As you level up you gain access to new skills and strategies as your character evolves.MMORPG's used to be niche products, so why has WoW crossed over on in the way it has?There has always been an interest in MMO's but there has been the perception that these were complex games that required a lot of time and had steep learning curves. This put all but the hardcore players off. Blizzard have always tried to create games that were easy to learn but hard to master and that's where went with WoW. We designed the game to ramp up gently and we consider it a failure if you have to read the manual. So we've appealed to non hardcore gamers who want the depth of play and excitement that games offer but without the barriers to entry normally found.There are other important factors too. For a start you can play pretty much the entire game on your own if you choose to. Most of the other MMORPGs (Everquest etc) require group play and rely on the hassle of scheduling play time together. While you won't see everything in WoW by soloing, you can experience incredible content through the entire game by playing on your own.We also avoided the harder edged graphics of our competitors by giving WoW a cartoon-ish graphical look that makes things accessible to new players.Word of mouth has been spectacular as well. You can't just rely on commercials or advertising or brand - people spread the word and get their friends to play. This game has captured the hearts and minds of a substantial number of females too. Girlfriends and wives are playing with their partners and telling their friends about it. Globally around 10% of WoW players are women whereas historically for this genre it was around 2%.Finally, you don't need a state-of-the-art PC to run the game. We want to be on the bleeding edge of fun rather than technology.There are a relatively high proportion of women playing, why do you think that is?It probably started being influenced by husbands, sons, boyfriends but we found in the office that the wives and girlfriends really gained an affinity with WoW when we asked them to test it. There is a real social aspect to the game and it isn't full of gory violence. Both of these aspects are key to wider appeal. We've found the women are just as competitive as the men.MMO's are designed in such a way to reward progress and keep players interested (and paying). Are you concerned about gamers getting addicted to your game in an unhealthy way?Historically watching TV, reading and listening to music have been core elements of leisure time. In recent years gaming has grown in this area and has become a big entertainment choice for a lot of people. We all allocate a certain amount of our time to entertainment. Am I reading less now? Possibly, but we all have to manage our time and responsibilities. I've played WoW till late and I've read books into the middle of the night too.Isn't it in your and the other MMO developer's interests to keep players hooked?Good games are fun to play, like a good book is fun to read. I'm not sure MMO's are inherently more addictive. It all depends on the individual and how compelled they are to play it. I mean, I read incessantly, but it's all about making balanced entertainment choices.Anecdotal evidence suggests WoW players play little else. Is WoW killing the PC games market?For years we've been reading how the PC games market is dying or is dead, killed by this or that generation of consoles. I'm here to tell you that PC gaming is not dead, hasn't been dead and it is not going to die. And rather than killing the market I think WoW is showing the industry that the PC games market is more viable than ever.What percentage of players actually get through to level 60 (the current end level)?The game is different depending on what race, class or faction you choose. The play styles, the environments, the challenges are all different. I don't see this as being game over when you get to the level cap (60). Certainly a high proportion of players get through to level 60 and probably more than other MMO games. But unlike other games WoW doesn't' end when you get to the level cap. There a re a lot of different play styles and experiences to try. People are playing this game longer because of the variety of styles. Other games restrict your choice but we try not to, people can make the game play experience very much their own. With WoW you can play for 20 minutes and achieve something.WoW's success has led other publishers to look at releasing MMO's. Is this a concern? Any advice?There are very few publishers in this industry who have the money and the stomach to do this. Blizzard has not disclosed the total cost of developing WoW, putting all the servers out, on-going customer service, new content and the rest. But to create WoW the costs were such that the game is in the top 3 of the most expensive games ever made. That means tens of millions of dollars. There would be very few companies willing to dedicate this budget, or the long development time, to one game. As you get nearer to shipping you start to show the game to press and fans. It quickly becomes evident whether your game is worthy or not. Around that time you have to decide whether to commit to millions of dollars worth of hardware, support and long-term bandwidth agreements. This is a daunting moment, and you need to have confidence that your game has enough quality content to get successful enough to cover all of those costs. This is why you have seen a number of MMO's get cancelled. They get really deep into development but get canned at this stage due to lack of buzz or enthusiasm about their game and publishers cut their losses.There are so many MMO's in development because people see how well WoW has done and they get dollar signs in their eyes. But I tell you, it is a gigantic risk. We bet our company making WoW and fortunately it paid off handsomely. But there are only a few companies, maybe Microsoft, Sony, EA, NCSoft, who have the money to do it. But do they have the stomach for it? To build a market as big as WoW you would have to have a well established and talented team and a franchise you can wrap it around that is well known and has global appeal. If you go into it having a no name team and an unknown franchise you are likely to fail. The bar is now so high.We were lucky with our parent company Vivendi. They were very nervous but were willing to bet on Blizzard. I'm not sure how many other developers would be this lucky. I look at Mythic - developers of Warhammer Online - who I think are a stellar developer. They have a track record and a great franchise but they lacked the money. Their recent purchase by EA has given them they money needed but now they have to execute and deliver. I think they have the best chance of success out of our competitors.MMO's have historically been fantasy based. Why is this and can we expect more variety in the future?Fantasy seems logical when it comes to role playing games as escapism is important. We may see more real life settings, like EA tried to do with the Sims, but fantasy offers you the chance to feel like a hero, wear great costumes and traverse fantastic worlds.Isn't Burning Crusade just more of the same?Not at all. Players will be able to grow their characters up to level 70 now. And there are new races, new areas and flying mounts plus a host of other features that will excite Warcraft fans. We are going to continue growing the content when Burning Crusade is released. The plan is to release an expansion pack every year as well as expanding the current content in the game. There won't be any shortage of content. And bear in mind that you don't have to upgrade to carry on enjoying the game and there are no plans to raise subscription costs.How do you solve the current numerical superiority that the Alliance have over the Horde?A lot of people think that we introduced Blood Elves to offer the choice of an "attractive" race for the Horde. But there is a lot of backstory and lore that is the main reason for the new races. But having Blood Elves as a Horde race does have value, particularly in Asia where players tend to play more attractive characters. And there are more Alliance players in Asia so this should help the imbalance there. Also, it's not widely known but all of us at Blizzard play as Horde characters.
My Toshiba Satellite has seen me through five years of uni, but it's now on its last legs. I've only got £500 to spend on a new one. Having had a Tosh I'm a bit wary of other brands. I only use it for basics like word processing, presentations and the internet, so durability is more important than flash specs. Carmen Eynon SotoNotebook PC prices have come down dramatically in the past couple of years, and even high street stores now have machines from around £350. If you want to stick with Toshiba, which is one of the top brands, you can look for special discounts or buy an older design online. For example, Laptopshop.co.uk has Celeron-based Toshiba Satellite Pros at prices from £365 (laptopshop.co.uk/toshiba-laptops-n.htm), and you can even get a Toshiba A120 Intel Core Duo notebook with 15.4in screen and Windows XP Home for £589.I've had three Toshiba Portege notebook PCs and they have all been reliable, so I would not discourage you from sticking with the brand, but Fujitsu Siemens is also worth a look. Whatever you decide, get at least 512MB of memory, and I'd strongly recommend 1GB. While I've never dealt with Laptopshop.co.uk, its web site has an excellent search feature atlaptopshop.co.uk/laptops-n.htm. This lets you set a specification and price range and find out what's available, even if you plan to buy elsewhere.
I used to drag and drop documents from my hard disk to a CD, and Windows also kept the CD "open" to enable further writes. I now have a DVD writer, but I am unable to drag and drop data to a DVD. Emil WijesingheThe drag and drop approach uses special "packet writing" software that is often provided as part of the software bundle that comes with most optical drives. There are several incompatible varieties, the most common being from Adaptec and Nero. If you didn't get packet writing software with your drive, you can search the web for alternatives: trytinyurl.com/k4btb.However, I would recommend against using packet writing software for back-up purposes as it is too unreliable. Optical discs were designed to be written as one continuous spiral, not like a floppy or hard disk, divided into sectors that are randomly accessible. Packet writing also reduces the amount of space available for storing data.
When I insert a disk into the CD drive it no longer brings up an options window. I am running Windows XP Pro. Liz McCaffertyMicrosoft lets you turn off the CD Autoplay window but, bizarrely, there doesn't seem to be a way to turn it on without editing the registry. Downloading and double-clicking this file should do the job:windowsxp.mvps.org/reg/Enable_CD_autorun.regBackchat: James Turner has a much better answer: "Open Windows Explorer, right-click the drive letter (D:\ or whatever), select Properties, then click the AutoPlay tab and configure away!"
Every couple of minutes or so, my PC accesses the hard disk. I do not know where to look to stop it, eg BIOS, XP Home etc. Dr Henry ChandlerThe usual culprits are desktop search utilities, virus checkers, hard drive optimisers and similar tools that perform background tasks when the PC is not being used for something else. Unfortunately, it might also be an advertising program fetching more pop-ups or a Trojan doing something nefarious, so you're wise to watch for this sort of thing.Press Ctrl-Alt-Del to bring up the Windows Task Manager, click on Processes and that will show you what background processes your PC is running -- or, better still, download SysInternals' Process Explorer* fromwww.sysinternals.com/Utilities/ProcessExplorer.html. The culprit may well be the Microsoft Indexing Service, cisvc.exe.If you need to look something up, the Elder Geek website has a guide to the most common services (www.theeldergeek.com/services_guide.htm).* Microsoft likes this, too -- it bought the company.
Some years ago you penned an article on Cleaning Windows. I don't suppose you could do another one for the XP generation please? Andy SweetNowadays I recommend the free Crap Cleaner fromwww.ccleaner.cominstead. Like all these things, it must be used with care, but it's quicker and easier than doing the job manually.
When it was announced last year,Greg Costikan'sManifesto Gamespromised to promote independent games via an independent distribution channel. A welcome breather from the over-hyped marketing-led machine that gamer culture has fallen prey to.Finally, after what seems likeages, Manifesto is up and running! So for people like steve16384 and hanna80, who got into a great debate about the subject ona post last week, the searching just got a lot easier.There are already12 pages of gamesup on the site. If you have a minute or two, head over and support this grassroots movement.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Top of the heapAnalysis of online search habits reveals that the first result - often a Wikipedia page - is by far the most popular. But, asks Charles Arthur, does that mean it's the right answer?Free Our Data: Galileo's secure codes crackedWhy was access to Europe's taxpayer-funded Galileo satellite navigation system denied to researchers, asks Wendy M Grossman?Codebusters: What the research team crackedShould virtual criminals have their real-life collars felt?When is a fraud not a fraud? When it happens virtually, says Bobbie Johnson.Sony flamed for battery bungleAs fingers are pointed over laptop batteries that ignite, why aren't Sony's own computers being affected asks Bobbie Johnson?Navman Mobile Travel Assist S60 EditionNavman's Mobile Travel Assist S60 navigation system for Nokia N series phones is a pretty standard GPS solution, comprising an RS-MMC card that houses the maps and a Bluetooth endowed GPS receiver.JVC Alneo XA-107JVC has been slow in tackling the MP3 player market, but at last has a range of models including this low-end Flash memory-based 1GB player.T-Mobile MDA Vario IILast month several networks launched HSDPA (high speed downlink packet access) cards for laptops, which enable them to access the internet at speeds of up to 1.8Mbps.WoW, the world's biggest game is about to get biggerBlizzard boss Paul Sams talks about World of Warcraft, the planet's most popular online role playing game, and Burning Crusade, its first expansion pack.Escape from real life into ... someone else's real lifeKeith Stuart: Last week I interviewed veteran videogame artist Bill Eaken - well-known for his work on classic LucasArts adventure titles such as Monkey Island and The Dig - about his latest project, The Exchange Student.What is a Chumby and why would I want to hack it?Think of it as a cross between an alarm clock and a Furby: it's the first computer you can both hack and hug.How can you patent a perpetual motion machine?Allegedly, by patenting different parts of it - because patent offices do not accept claims for perpetual motion machines.It just doesn't pay to be a loyal customerVictor Keegan: Time to buy a new mobile phone, always an exciting time for those of us who ought to get out more often.Time for these public sector pilots to earn their livingMichael Cross: After more than a decade of headlines about fiascos, we're supposed to be getting the hang of IT in the public sector. Sometimes I wonder.TechnobileLaura Parker: Text messaging is meant for fun and flirting, not flogging credit cards and root canals.Read this week's letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.NewsbytesZune tune | Hypermice | Mobilising mobi | AOL 9 blasted | Gone SMiShing | BarCamp London | Plug for KossAsk JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.
Technology Guardian:Can you explain WoW to someone who hasn't played it?Paul Sams:World of Warcraft is a massively multiplayer online role playing game (MMORPG), with thousands of people playing at the same time. Essentially, you create a character which you can grow by going on adventures and undertaking quests. You gain access to new skills and strategies as your character evolves.TG:MMORPGs used to be niche products, so why has WoW crossed over on in the way it has?PS:There has always been an interest in MMOs, but there has been the perception that these were complex games that required a lot of time and had steep learning curves. Blizzard has always tried to create games that were easy to learn but hard to master, and that's where we went with WoW. We designed the game to ramp up gently and we consider it a failure if you have to read the manual. We've appealed to non hardcore gamers who want the depth of play and excitement that these games offer but without the barriers to entry normally found.There are other important factors, too. For a start you can play pretty much the entire game on your own if you choose to. Most of the other MMORPGs (Everquest etc) require group play and rely on the hassle of scheduling play time together. We also avoided the harder edged graphics of our competitors by giving WoW a cartoonish graphical look that makes things accessible to new players. Word of mouth has been spectacular as well, especially among female players. Girlfriends and wives are playing with their partners and telling their friends about it. Globally, around 10% of WoW players are women whereas historically for this genre it was around 2%. Finally, you don't need a state-of-the-art PC to run the game.TG:There are a relatively high proportion of women playing, why do you think that is?PS:WoW was probably introduced by husbands, sons, boyfriends but we found in the office that the wives and girlfriends really gained an affinity with WoW when we asked them to test it. There is a real social aspect to the game, and it isn't full of gory violence. Both of these aspects are key to wider appeal.TG:MMOs are designed in such a way to reward progress and keep players interested (and paying). Are you concerned about gamers getting addicted to your game in an unhealthy way?PS:Historically, watching TV, reading and listening to music have been core elements of leisure time. In recent years, gaming has grown in this area and has become a big entertainment choice for a lot of people. We all allocate a certain amount of our time to entertainment. Am I reading less now? Possibly, but we all have to manage our time and responsibilities. I've played WoW till late, and I've read books into the middle of the night, too.TG:Isn't it in your and the other MMO developers' interests to keep players hooked?PS:Good games are fun to play, like a good book is fun to read. I'm not sure MMOs are inherently more addictive. It all depends on the individual and how compelled they are to play it. I mean, I read incessantly, but it's all about making balanced entertainment choices.TG:Anecdotal evidence suggests WoW players play little else. Is WoW killing the PC games market?PS:Big question! For years we've been reading how the PC games market is dying or is dead, killed by this or that generation of consoles. I'm here to tell you that PC gaming is not dead and it is not going to die. And rather than killing the market, I think WoW is showing the industry that the PC games market is more viable than ever.TG:What percentage of players actually get through to level 60 (the current end level)?PS:Certainly a high proportion of players get through to level 60 and probably more than other MMO games. But unlike other games, WoW doesn't end when you get to the level cap. The game is different depending on what race, class or faction you choose. I don't see this as being game over when you get to the level cap. There are a lot of different play styles and experiences to try.Other games restrict your choice, but we try not to. People can make the gameplay experience very much their own. With WoW you can play for 20 minutes and achieve something.TG:WoW's success has led other publishers to look at releasing MMOs. Is this a concern? Any advice?PS:There are very few publishers in this industry who have the money and the stomach to do this. Blizzard has not disclosed the total cost of developing WoW - putting all the servers out, ongoing customer service, new content and the rest. But to create WoW the costs were such that the game is in the top three of the most expensive games ever made. That means tens of millions of dollars.There would be very few companies willing to dedicate this budget, or the long development time, to one game. As you get nearer to shipping, you start to show the game to press and fans. It quickly becomes evident whether your game is worthy or not. Around that time you have to decide whether to commit to millions of dollars worth of hardware, support and long-term bandwidth agreements. This is a daunting moment, and you need to have confidence that your game has enough quality content to get successful enough to cover all of those costs. This is why you have seen a number of MMOs get cancelled. They get really deep into development but get canned at this stage due to lack of buzz or enthusiasm about their game.There are so many MMOs in development because people see how well WoW has done and they get dollar signs in their eyes. But I tell you, it is a gigantic risk. We bet our company making WoW, and fortunately it paid off handsomely. But there are only a few companies - maybe Microsoft, Sony, EA, NCSoft - who have the money to do it. But do they have the stomach for it? To build a market as big as WoW you would have to have a well established and talented team and a franchise you can wrap it around that is well known and has global appeal. The bar is now too high.TG:MMOs have historically been fantasy based. Why is this and can we expect more variety in the future?PS:Fantasy seems logical when it comes to role playing games as escapism is important. We may see more real life settings, like EA tried to do with the Sims, but fantasy offers you the chance to feel like a hero, wear great costumes and traverse fantastic worlds.TG:Isn't Burning Crusade just more of the same?PS:Not at all. Players will now be able to grow their characters up to level 70. And there are new races, new areas and flying mounts plus a host of other features that will excite Warcraft fans. We are going to continue growing the content when Burning Crusade is released. The plan is to release an expansion pack every year as well as expanding the content in the game. But you don't have to upgrade to carry on enjoying the game, and there are no plans to raise subscription costs.
Last week I interviewed veteran videogame artist Bill Eaken - well-known for his work on classic LucasArts adventure titles such as Monkey Island and The Dig - about his latest project, The Exchange Student. It's a bawdy romp following a young Italian loser, Emilio Carboni, as he goes to study in Sweden. What interested me most was Eaken's suspicion that the plot was autobiographical, based around the experiences of project director Dimitris Manos.An autobiographical videogame? That's a weird one. I could only think of one other example: the adventure title Shenmue, which draws details and settings from the boyhood of the game's producer, Yu Suzuki.Are game designers missing a trick here? We live in a culture obsessed with gossip and personal revelation. Best selling magazines are filled with celebrity exposes combined with lurid real-life tales. Many new books are accounts of tragic childhoods, and television is a 24-hour confessional box.But not videogames. Here, the characters are not only fictitious but usually fantastical, given the most perfunctory of backstories before being let loose on alien monsters or Nazi generals. It's interesting that one of the most successful videogame characters of all time, Lara Croft, has the richest biography. And the use of real-life models to represent Lara in photoshoots rendered her character into flesh and blood, an alchemy that prodded us one step further into identification and association.Okay, so young men, the traditional target audience of videogames, are the least likely to be interested in reality entertainment, preferring Star Wars to star expos&eacute;s, Tolkien to Trisha. But this is defeatism of the highest order. If the games industry is to extend its reach, it needs to be able to talk to new audiences. Perhaps videogames based on the fascinating turmoil of other peoples' lives are the answer.Why merely read about Jordan's life as an aspiring model when you could live it? If real-life drama is all about getting as close as possible to the thrill of tragedy without the inconvenience of actually experiencing it - well, interactive real-life drama at our fingertips will get us closer still.At least one game designer seems to have picked up on the potential of this unexplored genre. Peter Molyneux, creator of Populous and Black &amp; White, claims to be working on a videogame that lets you relive your own adolescence. God knows how it'll work, but which one of us hasn't fantasised about taking a different route through our lives? To be presented with the chance to follow those routes? How terrifying. How aberrant. How do I get a copy?&#183;Get all the latest videogames news and gossip straight from our trio of bloggers atblogs.guardian.co.uk/games
Navman's Mobile Travel Assist S60 navigation system for Nokia N series phones is a pretty standard GPS solution, comprising an RS-MMC card that houses the maps and a Bluetooth endowed GPS receiver.Priced at &pound;169, it boasts a unique facility in the inclusion of Navpix, a software tweak that enables users to tag images they take on the phone's camera with GPS data. So a user could snap an image of a favourite bar and when they wanted to return to it just click on the image and get directions. It's a little gimmicky, but it works well.Another neat twist is the integration of web information, which enables users to access online data to find a nearby restaurant and get the latest travel information. It isn't always accurate - one of my "local" restaurants turned out to be nearly 200 miles away - but it is very useful information for travellers. The rest of the system is standard sat nav for mobile fare.
Last month several networks launched HSDPA (high speed downlink packet access) cards for laptops, which enable them to access the internet at speeds of up to 1.8Mbps. Now T-Mobile has delivered the first HSDPA handset in the guise of the MDA Vario II.It is a top-end PDA style smartphone that runs using Windows Mobile 5.0, which means as well as offering the usual apps (Word, Outlook etc) it is compatible with a variety of push email solutions. There's also a 2 megapixel camera, a pull-out qwerty keyboard and a BlackBerry style scroll wheel for quick access to the device's functions. The extra data download speed is certainly noticeable when you grab large files, and images load much faster than they do on standard 3G handsets.When you are out of T-Mobile's HSDPA network - basically, most large UK cities - it reverts to 3G or GPRS. The phone also has integrated Wi-Fi. Overall the MDA Vario II raises the bar for Windows based smartphones. For serious mobile web users it is a must-have.
After more than a decade of headlines about fiascos, we're supposed to be getting the hang of IT in the public sector. Sometimes I wonder. Take, for example, the universally agreed wisdom that the right way to go about an IT programme is first to pilot the new technology and then, when you're ready for implementation, start small and scale up quickly.The phase that bothers me is the pilot. An organisation or a department gets a bit of dosh, typically "soft" money from outside its operating budget, to try out a bright idea. A supplier, keen to get a foothold in the public sector, is persuaded to offer a cost effective deal. Enthusiastic volunteers are found to give the new gizmos a try.What can go wrong? Almost everything. In the public sector, a pilot all too often becomes an end in itself, or worse, a source of reasons for not going ahead. For a start, because it's run on funny money, the pilot almost always lacks the business case that is supposed to be the whole reason for introducing the new technology.Sure, there will be impressive savings, usually calculated by adding up the time saved per computer-aided transaction and reducing staff costs. However, these generally turn out to be "aspirational" savings. They will not be realised until new business changes enabled by the IT are in place across the whole organisation. I have seen some business cases predicated on the technology being adopted by organisations or other groups of users over which the project has no control. And, of course, this is the difficult bit. A technology pilot can be based on euphemisms about "improving effectiveness" and "releasing resources to the front line", but an enterprise-wide implementation has to be paid for, by real cost cutting. Negotiating the job losses that lead to these savings is a task utterly different from that of project-managing a technology pilot.Public sector bosses do not have as cushy a life as some newspapers would have us believe. In the process of these negotiations, all sorts of reasons will emerge about why the staff as a whole cannot, or do not wish to, behave in the same way as the self-selecting elite who took part in the pilot. And by the time the organisation has the budget and the will to begin full-scale implementation, managers will face a new dilemma. The technology "proven" by the pilot is now obsolete: do they take a chance and implement the next generation - or launch another pilot?So, pilots are often a counter-productive indulgence. What's the alternative? Obviously it would be bonkers to advocate every public sector IT project be run as a "big bang". That way lies disaster.However, it is quite another matter to suggest that every project begins not as a pilot but as the first phase of a live implementation. Assuming that the technology itself is commercial, off the shelf, and proven in the private sector, then implementation should be carried out on the same business case and among the same user group as the overall programme. This is perfectly compatible with the philosophy of "start small, think big and scale fast". It does, however, mean that the difficult bits need to be got out of the way before we start playing with our new toys.Are there any precedents? It's asking for trouble to say so, but some of the more successful bits of the NHS National Programme for IT are working on this principle. Also, those public-spirited cyber mischief-makers MySociety famously never bother with pilots. Sites likewww.theyworkforyou.comwent live nationally from the beginning.Of course, putting together a website is a very different challenge from that of renewing a public sector IT system. But who said it was going to be easy?editor@michaelcross.demon.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
JVC has been slow in tackling the MP3 player market, but at last has a range of models including this low-end Flash memory-based 1GB player. On paper the player looks promising, with support for MP3 and WMA (including copyright protected downloaded WMA tracks) as well as direct recording to MP3 via a phono input.Sound quality is, as you'd expect from an audio company, pretty good, with a smooth rounded performance underpinned by some real bass. It is easy to load, too - you just drag and drop the files. Where the XA-107 comes unstuck is that its menu system is a nightmare to use. It is not only very difficult to negotiate, but the interface takes an age to respond to each button press.If you are happy listening to tracks on shuffle the XA-107, priced at &pound;80, is worth considering, but if you are picky about what you listen to then it's best avoided.
New notebookMy Toshiba Satellite has seen me through five years of uni, but it's now on its last legs. I've only got &pound;500 to spend on a new one. Having had a Tosh I'm a bit wary of other brands. I only use it for basics like word processing, presentations and the internet, so durability is more important than flash specs.Carmen Eynon SotoJack Schofield replies:Notebook PC prices have come down dramatically in the past couple of years, and even high street stores now have machines from around &pound;350. If you want to stick with Toshiba, which is one of the top brands, you can look for special discounts or buy an older design online. For example,Laptopshop.co.ukhas Celeron-based Toshiba Satellite Pros at prices from &pound;365 (laptopshop.co.uk/toshiba-laptops-n.htm), and you can even get a Toshiba A120 Intel Core Duo notebook with 15.4in screen and Windows XP Home for &pound;589.I've had three Toshiba Portege notebook PCs and they have all been reliable, so I would not discourage you from sticking with the brand, but Fujitsu Siemens is also worth a look. Whatever you decide, get at least 512MB of memory, and I'd strongly recommend 1GB. While I've never dealt with Laptopshop.co.uk, its web site has an excellent search feature atlaptopshop.co.uk/laptops-n.htm. This lets you set a specification and price range and find out what's available, even if you plan to buy elsewhere.DVD in packetsI used to drag and drop documents from my hard disk to a CD, and Windows also kept the CD "open" to enable further writes. I now have a DVD writer, but I am unable to drag and drop data to a DVD.Emil WijesingheJS:The drag and drop approach uses special "packet writing" software that is often provided as part of the software bundle that comes with most optical drives. There are several incompatible varieties, the most common being from Adaptec and Nero. If you didn't get packet writing software with your drive, you can search the web for alternatives: trytinyurl.com/k4btb.However, I would recommend against using packet writing software for back-up purposes as it is too unreliable. Optical discs were designed to be written as one continuous spiral, not like a floppy or hard disk, divided into sectors that are randomly accessible. Packet writing also reduces the amount of space available for storing data.No optionsWhen I insert a disk into the CD drive it no longer brings up an options window. I am running Windows XP Pro.Liz McCaffertyJS:Microsoft lets you turn off the CD Autoplay window but, bizarrely, there doesn't seem to be a way to turn it on without editing the registry. Downloading and double-clicking this file should do the job:windowsxp.mvps.org/reg/Enable_CD_autorun.regCleaning XPSome years ago you penned an article on Cleaning Windows. I don't suppose you could do another one for the XP generation please?Andy SweetJS:Nowadays I recommend the free Crap Cleaner fromwww.ccleaner.cominstead. Like all these things, it must be used with care, but it's quicker and easier than doing the job manually.Background chatterEvery couple of minutes or so, my PC accesses the hard disk. I do not know where to look to stop it, eg BIOS, XP Home etc.Dr Henry ChandlerJS:The usual culprits are desktop search utilities, virus checkers, hard drive optimisers and similar tools that perform background tasks when the PC is not being used for something else. Unfortunately, it might also be an advertising program fetching more pop-ups or a Trojan doing something nefarious, so you're wise to watch for this sort of thing.Press Ctrl-Alt-Del to bring up the Windows Task Manager, click on Processes and that will show you what background processes your PC is running - or, better still, download SysInternals' Process Explorer fromwww.sysinternals.com/Utilities/ProcessExplorer.html. The culprit may well be the Microsoft Indexing Service, cisvc.exe. If you need to look something up, the Elder Geek website has a guide to the most common services (www.theeldergeek.com/services_guide.htm).Backchat&middot; James Step had a frozen 40GB iPod, and the Apple Store suggested he buy a new disk or a new iPod. Rob Clarke had the same problem and says: "With the iPod plugged into a PC, I was able to re-format the disk with Symantec's Partition Magic and this revived it."&middot; Last week, John Britton asked about making the web easier to read for his 83-year-old mother. Charles Ely, a technology adviser at South Lakes Society for the Blind, sent more excellent suggestions than we have room to print, so I've posted his letter on the Ask Jack blog. In particular, he mentions Guide, an access program from Software Express (www.softwareexpress.co.uk), and iZoom (tinyurl.com/japmv).
It has been the biggest electronics industry recall in history, affecting almost six million laptop owners around the world and two of the biggest names in computing, Apple and Dell. Yet the news last week that Apple is recalling 1.8 million lithium-ion laptop batteries - coming just 10 days after Dell announced a similar recall of 4.1 million batteries placed in machines between April 2004 and July this year - has instead focused attention on Sony, the Japanese company that made all the potentially faulty batteries.This raises two key issues: what went wrong in the manufacture, and why aren't any other computer companies - particularly Sony - launching a similar replacement scheme for their laptop batteries?Both worldwide recalls were instituted by the consumer products complaints commission (CPSC), the guardian of America's shoppers. At the heart of all these incidents were Sony batteries, made at its plant in Fukushima, north of Tokyo.Short circuitInitially, Sony said the problem was limited to Dell machines; at the time of the first recall, a Sony spokeswoman said "this is an issue specifically down to Dell's battery-charging system". But the experience of some Apple owners and the subsequent recall squashed that theory.The cause of the fires has been established. When the batteries were made, the metal case of the cell was crimped closed. In that process, microscopic shards of metal could have been released into the electrolyte of the battery and, in some cases, cause a short circuit - triggering overheating or a fire.Sony sells batteries from its Fukushima plant to electronics manufacturers around the world. Its lithium-ion batteries are everywhere: inside mobile phones, computers, digital cameras and MP3 players. And the sort of laptop batteries in question are found not only in Dell and Apple machines, but also in Sony's own Vaio laptops as well as models by Hewlett-Packard and Lenovo, among others. It is the second-largest maker of lithium-ion laptop batteries after Sanyo.So why haven't other computer firms - including Sony itself - been sucked into recall fever? Different sources give different answers. Sony persists with the argument that machines from Dell (and now Apple) have a charging system that makes any faulty batteries more prone to problems. "Typically, a battery pack will simply power off when a cell short circuit occurs," Sony said in a statement. "However, under certain rare conditions, an internal short circuit may lead to cell overheating and potentially catching fire."The potential for this to occur can be affected by variations in the system configurations found in various notebooks."Despite the blame-spreading language, however, Sony is bearing much of the cost of the problems, expected to reach at least &pound;100m. That will probably wipe out a quarter of its expected annual profits for the financial year.The CPSC, on the other hand, put it down to a few batches of batteries supplied to Dell and Apple, and a spokeswoman said that after a widespread investigation, the watchdog does not expect any further recalls to be made.Some experts say that while it is correct to identify individual faults, the underlying problem is with the technology inside lithium-ion batteries. Ming Chiang, materials science and engineering professor at MIT, maintains that current generation lithium-ion batteries can become unstable if they are overcharged.This is because they use cobalt oxide, which can become dangerous if overheated - as has happened. Manufacturers are working on fresh approaches, replacing the cobalt oxide with more stable materials such as iron phosphate.Sparks flewBut none of those explanations matters much to Jamie Currey, a graphic designer from London who is believed to be one of the only British customers who has actually suffered from the overheating problem. Two months ago, his Apple PowerBook became worryingly hot."It wasn't plugged in to the mains and I was working on it in the lounge, when sparks flew out and smoke filled the room immediately," he told Technology Guardian. "There was a fizzing and popping sound. I backed away, and when it died down I put the computer outside, where several more explosions occurred."Currey, who reported his experience to Apple and the London Fire Brigade, says he has adopted a more prosaic solution, changing the way he uses his computer."I don't use it with the battery in any more, and advise people to, at the very least, close the lid whenever they are not using their machine," he says.&middot; Seewww.dellbatteryprogram.comorsupport.apple.com/batteryprogramto check whether your battery should be replaced.
BlackBerry fingers10 out of 10 to Joe Magee for the graphic with the August 24 Technobile. It went straight to the spot. So far I've found that the blunt end of a Bic does the job.S Westwood,Wellington, ShropshireApple and LeopardCharles Arthur hits the nail on the head when he lists speed as the single must-have feature that should be engineered into Apple's Leopard, Mac OS 10.5 (Fear not, Steve, your secrets aren't worth stealing, August 24). Unfortunately, as he so rightly points out, the marketing cachet of operating systems is not their intrinsic robustness, of which speed is an essential component, but all the froth on top - the fancy features that often conceal the brittleness and inefficiency at the core of the system. It is not something peculiar to Apple. It is an intrinsic part of the technology industry plying an unsuspecting public with features they do not need and will never use.Russell Caplan,LondonGovernment on YouTubeWhat are those government videos doing on YouTube? (Newly asked questions, August 24). A very good question, since the Central Office of Information appears not to have read the YouTube small print before posting. The copyright for the material is retained, but YouTube owns various redistribution rights including a "worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free, sublicenseable and transferable license to use, reproduce, distribute, prepare derivative works of, display, and perform the User Submissions in connection with the YouTube Website and YouTube's (and its successor's) business..."Is that what was intended when the video was posted?Gordon Joly,LondonWhat drive?You recently referred to a thumbdrive (Ask Jack, August 10) - I wish the industry and media would hurry up and decide what they are called. I did a Google with the following scores (in millions); thumb drive (21); pen drive (40); memory stick (76); Flash drive (134). So I guess Flash drive is winning!David Williams,CirencesterMobile phones v iPodsVictor Keagan is way off the mark when he suggests we will soon all be listening to MP3s on our mobiles (Dump your iPod, the mobile's taking over, August 24). The problem is not functionality or storage space but battery life. Who wants to find that they have accidentally run down the batteries on their mobile listening to music? More than that, MP3 players are now turning in to multimedia players. People are starting to want to watch movies and TV on the go. Are we going to fit all that in a phone too? Personally, I am still waiting for the mobile phone that functions well as a mobile phone.Jeff Bloom,LondonData sharingThe government's new Crime and Disorder Reduction Partnerships involve data-sharing on an unprecedented scale (It's not always good to share, August 24) and has a worrying level of inaccuracy built in. I'd be grateful for any mention you can give of an article atwww.nthposition.com/themodernpanopticon.php- frankly, these partnerships scare the hell out of me!Val Stevenson,London&#183;What's more worrying is how we've seen the government conspire against those who have in some way threatened it; the whistleblower who leaked the information which led to the resignation of Beverley Hughes was smeared for his trouble. There's also the spectre of what happened in the run-up to Dr David Kelly taking his own life, Campbell writing in his diary about "fucking Gilligan", the Ministry of Defence's policy of confirming the name of Kelly if it was one that was put to them, etc. Once a government gets further powers, it's hard to grab them back, and they invariably use and abuse them for their own ends.www.septicisle.info
I was lying on a beach in Spain when my Australian dentist woke me up. He had decided that it was a good day to join the technological age, which is why I received the following text message: "Hello, this message is to inform you that it's been six months since your last visit to Dr Reginald's Dental Practice. To arrange a time for your next check-up just call us back on this number during business hours. See you soon!"At first I was stunned. But then it dawned on me: last month I got a similar SMS from the bank, telling me about a new credit card. Two weeks before that it had been one of the magazines I subscribe to with an offer for membership renewal. The week before that it had been the local gym.Any business with my personal details had suddenly decided I was such a good customer that I deserved a personal reminder of their unique services. The problem is, I don't actually remember signing up for any mobile phone updates, be it with the gym, the bank or Dr Reginald. Once every six months is just about all the contact I want with that guy. Was this even legal?Personally, I have no objection to a friendly reminder now and then in the unlikely case that my phone or internet bill doesn't get paid, or even a heads up if the CD I ordered online is ready to be picked up. But if this latest trend of personalised text messages from businesses gets any trendier, I may soon find myself SMS flirting with my banker.Text messages are supposed to be fun, not a business venture. Any personal, intimate system of communication should never be intruded upon by the harsh realities of life. And it's illogical. After leaping to read a text you initially thought was from one of your friends or lover(s), only to be disappointed, you're bound to delete or forget it - thus forever eliminating the information within it. A letter would be so much more practical.Simple, you say: don't give out your mobile number in the first place. Well, that's the trouble. I didn't just walk up to Dr Reginald and say, 'Hey Doc, want my number?' He must have got it from my file, as did the bank, the gym, the magazine, the hairdresser, the video store and my local chicken shop.In my opinion, it should be a matter of choice. If you want annoying text messages every month then just tick here. Great, OK, I've ticked the box, so at least I know what's waiting for me. But it doesn't seem to work like that. Maybe I should just stop writing down my number on applications for things. Or better yet, put down someone else's. I wonder what I did with Dr Reginald's business card...&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Global navigation satellites broadcast streams of messages that identify the satellite and give the time. Your receiver uses signals from four satellites to determine your location by comparing the time it's taken for each signal to travel to you. The satellites broadcast on a shared group of frequencies according to a pre-determined pattern. For a receiver to use the satellite data, it must know the exact sequence of broadcast frequencies. The technique is known as frequency hopping or spread spectrum, and was invented to aid the US in the second world war by the movie star Hedy Lamarr and the composer George Antheil.Frequency hopping uses spectrum more efficiently. Second, it prevents accidentally tuning into mistaken, spoofed or corrupted signals. Third, because the satellites transmit at low power and the signals are faint, it helps receivers distinguish signal from noise.This technique also enabled GPS to implement selective availability for the military by adding pseudo-random noise to the signal to subtly alter the timing within each satellite message. If you knew the numbers specifying the exact amount of noise being added, you could subtract the timing difference on the ground and get ten times the accuracy. By the mid 1990s, peacetime uses for GPS outweighed any military advantage, and selective availability was turned off permanently. What Psiaki cracked are the pseudo-random numbers added to the GIOVE-A signal.The EU-US agreement:tinyurl.com/z9ovp
When is a fraud not a fraud? When it happens virtually. Or that's what players of Eve Online, a hugely popular online game, discovered when one of their world's banks turned out to be a scam.Inside Eve, one player set up what was called the Eve Intergalactic Bank, offering to let players store their virtual cash in the game currency known as the Inter Stellar Kredit, or ISK. The banker, known as Cally, gave others the chance to deposit their money with the bank and earn a few percent interest - a handy option when the ISK was rapidly depreciating.Many took Cally up on the offer and deposited their virtual money with the bank, before discovering that it was all an elaborate ruse. Instead of safeguarding the billions invested, Cally made off with the cash - believed to be in excess of 100bn ISK - and is now thought to be living the Eve high life, while hundreds of disgruntled players shake their virtual fists in fury.The episode has caused controversy inside the game, but outside has highlighted the increasing problem of how virtual societies deal with real-world problems. Cally's excuse - that Eve is "only a game" - implies that breaking unwritten social rules against cheating is nothing more than a malicious prank.Given the popularity of games such as Eve, Warcraft and Everquest, selling virtual currency in the real world has become increasingly profitable. Players will often spend their real money on buying virtual cash to get hold of new items, objects or simply to pump up their character's abilities.GameUSD, a virtual currency trading house, has the game's exchange rate pinned against the US dollar at about 40c per million ISK. That puts Cally's takings in the region of $40,000 (&pound;21,000) - even if, for now at least, the cash can only be spent inside the game.But Eve itself is a profitable venture. The game has been running since 2003, and broke the landmark of 100,000 subscribers earlier this year. Although it might be dwarfed by huge efforts such as World of Warcraft, which can boast millions of players, at $15 (&pound;8) a month per player, the success of Eve creates a substantial turnover for its creators, Icelandic firm CCP games.Given the investment in time and money that players put into online gaming, what rights do they have to their in-game property? That point is being explored daily, and police in various countries have acted in previous cases where accounts have been hacked, or in some cases of in-game blackmail.Some gamers are now wondering whether real-world law enforcement should get involved in cases like Cally's.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
One of the consequences of a national policy that taxpayers should have free access to the data their taxes pay for - as is the case in the US - is that if you tell American researchers something is free or open source, their expectations are raised.So when a team of researchers led by Mark Psiaki, professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at Cornell University, discovered that the signals coming from a European test satellite that they thought to be accessible were instead protected by secret codes, they set about cracking them and succeeded. But their success, which allows them and others to test prototype receivers for Europe's new global satellite navigation system, raises two questions: can the body in charge of it, the Galileo Joint Undertaking, succeed as a public-private partnership? And how open will its service be?Constellation of 30 satellitesGalileo will be like the familiar US-built and operated Global Positioning system, but promises greater accuracy - to within 1m, compared to GPS's 10m.Galileo's constellation of 30 satellites will be launched between 2008 and 2010 at a cost of &euro;2.3bn (&pound;1.5bn). One-third will be paid by public funds, and the rest will come from a consortium of eight companies, including Alcatel and Inmarsat.Galileo's pre-launch phase, including the test satellite, has so far cost &euro;1.3bn, shared equally between the member states of the EU and the European Space Agency. Therefore, to date, the project has been, as a spokesman agrees, "purely financed by European taxpayers". By comparison, GPS costs the US treasury about $400m (&pound;211m) a year, including satellite updates.In return for its investment, the Galileo consortium expects to market applications based on secured commercial services - including global search-and-rescue, and others restricted to organisations of EU member states. Besides that and the open service professor Psiaki is interested in, Galileo will offer three other secured services: global search-and-rescue, safety-of-life (for airplanes), and a public regulated service open only to EU member state emergency and government services. The Galileo Joint Undertaking business plan (atwww.galileoju.com) estimates that the market for satellite navigation applications will grow from &euro;30bn (&pound;20bn) in 2004 to &euro;276bn (&pound;187bn) by 2020.Part of Galileo's goal is to improve global accuracy and availability. To enable that, an EU-US agreement says Galileo will use the same set of radio frequencies as GPS and in return must offer an open service "without direct fees for end use".But having had to crack the test satellite's codes, Psiaki asks whether Galileo intends to charge for the part of the service that's supposed to be open? And if it does, would Europeans and Americans be charged different rates? "I, and a lot of people, want Galileo to succeed," Psiaki says, "but I don't want to be shut out. We're talking about a market that's worth $15bn a year, maybe $200bn by 2020. The Europeans aren't dumb and they want to get a big share of that, and Americans are worried that there may be some effort to corner that market on the part of Europe. Maybe it's an unfounded fear, but people have that concern."Psiaki's story began in January, when Galileo's newly launched test satellite, GIOVE-A, began transmitting coded test signals. Psiaki, who is designing a receiver to study the ionosphere, wanted to use the signals to test his design, and emailed a request for the codes to Martin Unwin at Surrey Satellite Technology Limited, the company that designed and built the GIOVE-A satellite.The response: the codes weren't being distributed yet. "We were frustrated," says Psiaki. "because we thought we were all ready to go with a receiver design and we wanted to present it at a conference in September. Unwin says the satellite began broadcasting to claim its allotted frequencies. But the signals transmitted are representative, not the same, as those which will be used in operation: "a signal task force is working on the final signal definition, I believe" he said. SSTL's blog atengineeringbritain.com/spacenotes, "It is not SSTL's responsibility to release information about Galileo-related services" and that the codes were published and available on the GJU site.Intellectual property rightsBut, says Psiaki, although the document SSTL's blog refers to - known as the Interface Control Document - lists codes of the kind his team cracked, it does not list those being used by the test satellite; and the list was not published until mid-April. In fact, to the best of Psiaki's knowledge, the codes he cracked still haven't been published. More disturbingly, the terms and conditions governing the April document say that Galileo retains intellectual property rights in the codes, that they are free for research but require a licence for use in a commercial receiver."That's not what I thought was meant by open source," he says. "If someone downloads their document and uses their codes from that document, have they essentially implicitly agreed to pay for a licence?" The terms say only that the detailed licensing terms are not available yet, but that they will be provided on a "non-discriminatory basis", and SSTL's blog says: "The programme has already stated on several occasions that the open service will be provided without direct user fees."Galileo's spokesman downplays the significance of Psiaki's code-breaking efforts. "We expected this," he says, "because the codes on the test satellite are easy to crack. In the Galileo system satellites will use different codes and to crack them I would say they will need 100 years."In that case, why not publish them in the first place? The more significant question is the incident's impact on private investors. It is unclear how a commercial service can make money competing with a free service. Galileo's spokesman argues that subscribers will be attracted by the system's guaranteed reliability.Psiaki, however, says: "It always seemed to me a little odd that you could get enough subscribers to a paid service when the free one is pretty good to begin with." He can sympathise if Galileo does want to charge "a nominal fee" for the open service. But one thing he says Galileo can't do is protect the open service with more secure codes, because of that EU-US agreement. In the end, he says, "these simpler codes may be the ones that are the most valuable commercially, because these are likely to be the preferred codes for mass-market receivers".&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:www.freeourdata.org.uk
Allegedly, by patenting different parts of it - because patent offices do not accept claims for perpetual motion machines. Of course, nobody has ever built one, otherwise we'd all be riding around in electric cars powered by infinite supplies of electricity.The UK Patent Office notes that you cannot get a patent on "articles or processes alleged to operate in a manner clearly contrary to well-established physical laws" as they are "regarded as not having industrial application". Any machine that generates more energy than it consumes is either a nuclear reactor or breaches the second law of thermodynamics.But the Irish company Steorn, which has brought attention to itself by claiming to have a magnet-driven machine that will generate more energy than is put into it (and has taken out an expensive advert in The Economist rather than publishing a scientific paper or even building a few prototypes) says it will get around the restriction on patenting its invention by splitting it into components and patenting those. Then, by assembling them, it will have a patented energy generator.The machine, though, isn't a reactor. Quite apart from the question of whether Steorn has invalidated its own attempts to get any sort of patent by showing it off to the Guardian (These men think they're about to change the world, August 25), there is the knotty question of whether it can sneak the pieces past the patent examiners' eyes to be assembled, with patent protection, to produce a machine that squares the circle of producing energy for free while also being under patent.Confusingly, the company's website (http://tinyurl.com/mdt5e) says that the design of the "free energy" generator is "patent pending", but the World International Property Organisation (WIPO) publication WO 2006/035419 indicates that the patent on a "low energy magnetic actuator" has only been applied for, not granted by the US Patent Office - and a search of the USPTO database confirms that.Meanwhile, plenty of scientists appear to be lining up to put Steorn's claims to the test. The company claims that more than 3,000 have already applied to put its "free energy"device through rigorous testing: it has set a closing date of September 8, after which 12 will be invited to test the equipment. "The results will then be published worldwide," Steorn says, at which point either the doubters will be left with a lot of egg on their face, or - on the balance of history, almost certainly - the eager inventors at Steorn will.Still, assuming that the USPTO awards the patent, Steorn will at least be able to tout a low energy magnetic actuator to anyone who wants one. It's not free energy - but if you're trying to patent a perpetual motion machine, you clearly weren't about to give the energy away for free anyway.
Zune tuneThe first product in Microsoft's Zune range of portable players will be based on a Toshiba Gigabeat model and manufactured by Toshiba.HypermiceJust too tired to scroll through those long documents? Logitech has launched the MX Revolution mouse (&pound;80) with a wheel that can spin freely, so you can fly through thousands of lines of Word or Excel in seconds. There's a VX version for notebook users.tinyurl.com/hstbmMobilising mobiTrademark owners can now apply for .mobi domain names (deadline September 22), which are intended for sites suitable for mobiles. dotMobi has put an emulator online so people can see how sites might look.emulator.mtld.mobiAOL 9 blastedStopbadware.org, the Harvard and Oxford University organisation backed by Google, Sun, and Lenovo, has recommended against installing the free AOL 9.0 software because of its deceptive installation practices.tinyurl.com/rkxuuGone SMiShingMcAfee has now used "SMiShing" for the new practice of phishing via SMS text message. Basically, the text sends you to a website where you willingly download a Trojan to take over your PC.BarCamp LondonFor geeks only, Yahoo hosts the BarCamp London unconference on September 2-3. (Geeks know that BAR is the second canonical metasyntactic variable, after FOO: nothing to do with drinking.)http://barcamp.org/BarCampLondonPlug for KossKoss has launched its QZ77 stereo earbuds with "dual noise reduction" - they offer active noise cancellation as well as plugging your ears. Price: &pound;75.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
