From the philanthropic team who brought the Tsunami aid Halo 2 tournamentearlier in the yearcomes another charity event in London for gamers who love to give. TruePlayerz, organised by club night and fashion labelJoystick Junkies, will be hosting a tournament in an East London bar on Sunday 29 May from noon to 2am. There will be loads of prizes throughout the day from big-name sponsors, and the overall winner will get to choose the recognised charity the proceeds from the event go to.As an added incentive, the all-femalePMS clanwill be on hand to take on any comers.It's free to watch but to play it'll cost £3 at the door. More information can be foundhere. Much better than running a smelly marathon.
Her Majesty's government may not control much of the globe these days, but it has a sizeable empire in cyberspace. Ian Watmore, the chief information officer, reckons that about 4,000 web addresses end in .gov.uk. (Watmore should know: his office runs the .gov.uk domain.)Dotgovs are only the most visible home pages of government on the web. Many public bodies run .com sites, either because they wanted to look trendy back in 1999, or because they think .gov.uk might deter teenagers or business users. There are hundreds of hospital and other health sites on the NHS's domain .nhs.uk plus oddities such aswww.parliament.ukwhich wants nothing to do with government. Not to mention thousands of state-funded bodies inhabiting the .ac.uk domain.In the mad tick-box mentality of government targets, this expanse of web estate makes sense. It is visible evidence that the government is on course to meet the five-year-old target to "e-enable" every public service by December 31. Not only does every conceivable public body now have a website but a whole class of sites offers services that didn't exist before the e-government era. Transport Direct, for example, brings central government back into a sector that most assumed had been lost to privatisation.To the world outside government, the proliferation of state-run websites, each with its own team of editors, content managers and hosting arrangements, is a massive sitting target. It is evidence that the state has squandered billions invested in e-government by creating a new layer of public administration and an e-rocracy of thousands of taxpayer-funded jobs.Astonishingly, the Conservative election campaign didn't exploit this example of Labour profligacy. Perhaps the Tories didn't want to look like Luddites.Watmore, who is a sharper political animal than he likes to make out, knows the e-rocracy is a PR liability just waiting for a silly season front page. He is taking action to prevent the proliferation of .gov sites by enforcing rules on eligibility. The growth in site numbers has already levelled off, he says.In the longer term, he is encouraging more agencies to "franchise" their web content on to the central portalwww.direct.gov.ukA new version of the site is due to go live next week - look for more services available with fewer clicks and a better designed front page, though still in the ghastly nationally anonymous orange.It will be a long time, however, before any Whitehall ministry, let alone any local authority, surrenders its entire web presence to the Cabinet Office. Compulsory amalgamation would be one solution. However, there are good arguments that British government is already over centralised. It would be absurd if the web, once hailed as the great liberating technology, reinforced that trend.A better way forward would be for public managers to be given incentives not to create new websites but to rationalise their numbers. Efficiency is supposed to be the name of the game in every other part of public administration. Why should the e-rocracy be any different?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Early next year, leaflets will begin dropping through millions of English letterboxes advising people of an important civil right. This is the option to bar information in personal electronic health records from being shared across the new NHS-wide computer system.The government hopes that only a handful of patients will exercise this right; otherwise &pound;6.2bn invested in new IT will be wasted. This week, it published 12 commitments aimed at reassuring patients and doctors that the new systems will be at least as trustworthy as today's stand-alone computers and racks of paper records.The "care records guarantee" promises that electronic health records will be accurate, that only people who need to will be able to read them, and that anyone breaking the rules will be caught and disciplined. The guarantee also clarifies some of the confusion that has built up around the "opt-out" question. Commitment number six reads: "You can choose not to have information in your electronic care records shared."In another measure designed to maintain confidence in new NHS systems, the government's IT chief revealed this month that the NHS will be allowed to maintain its own separate system of identity numbers if and when the new national identity register arrives. NHS officials also promised to knock on the head a suggestion that data from electronic medical records might be fed into the national census.Whether these measures will be enough to reassure critics remains to be seen. Groups representing doctors and patients say they still have reservations about how the measures in the care records guarantee will work in practice.Opinions about the security of electronic health records are polarised. Supporters say the new joined-up care records service, due to go live next year, will be better than existing practice because computers can control access and record every time a record is opened or changed. Under current practice, patient folders are often left unguarded on trolleys.Opponents say the current system is secure because it is inefficient. The chances are tiny that a corrupt or malicious NHS employee will stumble across a pop star's mammogram. Integrating a nation's records on to one system, however, makes them all potentially accessible by hundreds of thousands of people. Even if a snooper is certain to be caught and convicted, the damage will have been done. There is also the "function creep" argument - that, sooner or later, the sheer wealth of data in joined-up electronic health records could tempt future governments to use it for other purposes.The Office for National Statistics raised such a spectre this month when a consultation document suggested that data from NHS computers might be a "key source" for the next census. Harry Cayton, chair of the NHS board that drew up the care records guarantee, said he would write to the office telling them that this suggestion is out of bounds.Cayton said that while the guarantee would not convince opponents of "government databases of any kind", he hoped that only "a small number" of patients will feel strongly enough to opt out.At first, the offered opt-out will be fairly crude. NHS patients will not be able to withhold their "demographic data" - name, number and administrative details. As at present, these will be available across the NHS's intranet. "If you want to be an NHS patient, you can't opt out of existing," Cayton says. Neither will they be allowed to demand their doctor not keep records at all: information is needed to audit care and in case of malpractice claims.What patients will be allowed is to tell their doctor that they do not want their medical record shared with any organisation apart from the one that created it. Patients taking this step will be warned that this could damage the quality of their care. "In extreme circumstances," the guarantee warns, "we might not be able to offer you the most appropriate treatment."Eventually, the NHS will offer a more selective opt-out. Patients will be able to put pieces of information in a "sealed envelope". This would allow them to conceal episodes such as abortions or psychiatric treatment while making sure their basic medical history was available. However, the NHS has not yet said when the sealed envelope will be available. "Obviously, we have to get the basic service working first before we can start sealing bits off," Lord Warner, the health minister responsible for the IT programme, said this week.Before any part of the system goes live, doctors will have to be persuaded it is ethical for them to use. The British Medical Association, which has led past criticism, is in a conciliatory mood. Dr John Powell, chair of the BMA's health information management committee, commended the guarantee for providing "some clarity" on issues of records-sharing. He said the BMA welcomes patients being given a choice. However, he said discussions would continue about exactly what data would go on to the shared record and on whether patients should be asked to opt in to data sharing rather than opt out of it. That is a road the government does not want to take.Linkswww.connectingforhealth.nhs.uk/crdb/&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
RobotsClinically cleaniRobot has announced the arrival of a sidekick for its popular Roomba robot vacuum cleaner. The Scooba, scheduled for a US launch before Christmas in the US, is a robot that vacuums hard wooden floors, scrubs and automatically dries them. The company claims that unlike a conventional mop and bucket, the Scooba only uses fresh water and cleaning solution from a clean tank, so it never spreads dirty water on to the floor. The new robot uses the same navigation system as its sibling, and can avoid obstacles such as walls and stairs. There are no price details yet.www.irobot.comDigital audio playersColourful soundsFrench manufacturer Archos has unveiled its smallest hard disk-based digital music player to date. The Gmini XS 100, pictured below, due on sale at the end of the month for &pound;139.99, features a three gigabyte hard disk, plays back MP3 and Windows Media Audio (including copy-protected WMA files), and comes in four colours: black, blue, pink and grey. It has dimensions of 9.1 x 4.3 x 1.4 cm, weighs 80 grams and sports a 1.5in blue backlight scale LCD screen for displaying track and menu information. Battery life is rated at about 12 hours and, unlike many of its rivals, the player will work with both Microsoft Windows and Apple computers.www.archos.comHardwareIn tablet formNokia is targeting consumers who have home wireless networks with the launch of a new web surfing device. The 770 Wireless Internet Tablet, which connects to the internet via 802.11b/g networks or through a Bluetooth-enabled mobile phone, offers web browsing, email and streaming facilities. The stylus-controlled 770, pictured below right, has an 800 x 400-pixel widescreen display that is slightly larger than Nokia's PDA-style phones. It is the company's first product to run using a Linux-based operating system, Nokia Internet Tablet 2005 software edition. The company will provide open source developers with the tools to let them collaborate with Nokia on future versions, develop applications and deliver upgrades to its operating system. The first version of the 770, out later this year, will have internet radio facilities, an RSS news reader, image viewer and media players. There's no hard disk storage, and just 64MB of Flash memory, which can be supplemented by RS-MMC cards. A software update planned for early next year will enable the device to make VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) calls and offer instant messaging.www.nokia.co.uk&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.ukStat of the week - Three DegreesMobile operators are focusing on information-heavy 3G services, but research shows consumers want more everyday functions. A study highlighted services that customers wanted: they mainly asked for various ways to use phones for making payments.
Net on boatI want to use my laptop to send and receive email on my boat, which is also my home. I mean when I am moored in a marina, where there is usually no problem getting a mobile signal. I don't talk on the phone because I am deaf. The problem is doing it cheaply: I live on a pension and money is tight.John S NewtonJack Schofield replies:The best solution would be to moor next to a free Wi-Fi wireless access point, but this may not be practicable. In the future, you will probably be able to get wireless access via WiMax, which has a much greater range. In the meantime, you are stuck with mobile phone suppliers, and their very high prices. You may be able to use your mobile phone with the modem built into your notebook, or your mobile may work as a modem: in either case, look on the CD that came with the phone to see if it has modem drivers. It is usually easier to make the PC-to-phone connection via a cable, but if the phone has Bluetooth, you could buy a USB Bluetooth dongle for your PC. Either way, GSM phone connections tend to be slow, expensive and not very reliable as a way of accessing the net.The preferred alternative is to get a GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) data card for your notebook PC, possibly as part of a network contract. Most mobile networks should be able to offer something. O2 has a Data 5 plan for &pound;8 per month, which includes 5MB of data, with data cards costing from &pound;128 plus VAT. Vodafone's Mobile Connect Card GPRS price plans start with Mobile Connect 10 at &pound;15 per month for 10MB of data. You will have to shop around.The cost of the card makes it an expensive proposition, but it's still a lot cheaper than what might otherwise be a more attractive option: a "push" email service such as the BlackBerry.MP3 blogI created a blog using Blogger and would like to turn it into an MP3 blog. How do I get MP3 files on to it?Dennis JohnsonJS:You don't. You have to find somewhere to store your MP3 file then put a link to it on your blog. Unfortunately, storage space and download bandwidth are relatively expensive, and many hosts (who offer servers where you can store your file) will go bananas if you upload copyright material to which you don't have the rights. Unless you want to spend serious money, your best bet is, I think, to trawl the MP3 blogs you like and see where the owners store their files. It is possible to use some free web space, eg Angelfire, but this is antisocial and the files will soon be killed.Fortunately, there are always companies who think they can make a buck by storing files for download. The best ones at the moment are Rapidshare.de and Filecloud (www.filecloud.com), there's also Yousendit.com, which I'd not recommend for this. Such services rarely seem to last long, so it's a good idea to keep several on the go.New sites will probably appear to support MP3 bloggers and podcasters, and an early example is Liberated Syndication (www.libsyn.com). It provides 100MB of space podcasts for $5 per month, with unlimited bandwidth. That's cheap. However, it forbids the use of copyright material, and this looks like being a perpetual problem.Upper Sky+As the Sky+ box is simply a dedicated computer, is it possible to replace the existing 40MB hard drive with a bigger one - say 200MB?Len CookeJS:It is possible, but it is not approved or supported, so it's your problem if it all goes pear-shaped. None the less, lots of people do it, and there is a useful FAQ athttp://forum.digitalspy.co.uk/board/showthread.php?t=156344.Ancient SymphonyI use Windows 98 Second Edition because it is possible to use DOS to run an old spreadsheet/database program called Lotus Symphony, which is the main requirement of a family member. Can I upgrade to a more recent version of Windows?Peter J LaszloJS:Microsoft has upgrade helpers that let you check compatibility (seehttp://www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/pro/upgrading/compat.mspx) but it doesn't seem to include Lotus Symphony. Windows XP includes a DOS emulator in its Accessories folder: it's called Command Prompt. I can't think of any reason why it wouldn't run Symphony: has anybody out there tried it? However, it's probably time to move on. People who stick to old programs that use obsolete data formats will eventually lose access to their programs and their data. You don't have to be at the leading edge of PC progress, but it is dangerous to fall off the trailing edge.Backchat&middot; Last week, Centered's Second Copy was mentioned as being a handy way to make PC back-ups. However, Alan McMahon thinks Novosoft's Handy Back-up program (fromwww.handybackup.com) is better. "It's cheap, been around a while and is reliable. I use it to schedule back-ups from my external USB2 to my home and office PC's, so I always have three distance-separated copies, and a range of date-stamped back-ups on each of the two desktops." I have not tried it, but there's a round-up of these and similar back-up tools athttp://www.xstudio.ca/pcsupport/system/backuptools.html.
The small familiar names of British kitchen, cocktail and medicine cupboards - Veno, Lea and Perrins, Pimm, Jacob, Lyle - enter the pantheon of British history today.The inventors of Veno's cough mixture, Lea &amp; Perrins Worcestershire sauce, Pimm's No 1, Jacob's cream crackers and Lyle's golden syrup appear for the first time in the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography.So do Eugene Rimmel, the pioneering parfumier, and John Gilroy, the unsung creator of several of the most famous and beloved advertising posters, including Guinness For Strength and My Goodness, My Guinness.They are among 140 names being added to the online DNB, which is so much more spacious than the printed volumes that it has almost exhausted the country's high and mighty.It is so hard up for distinguished unpublished names in politics and culture that the new list includes Rotha Lintorn-Orman (1895-1935), who founded the British fascist movement in 1923.The revised list also includes John Lea and William Perrins, who reputedly based their sauce on a Bengali recipe in 1835, thought it revolting and stuck it in a cellar. Re-tasted some months later, it was found to be delicious. Lea, an intrepid taster of his inventions, died in 1874 of dyspepsia.Rimmel, son of a French-born London scent maker, created the first factory-made non-toxic mascara. Previously mascara was made out of soot from oil-burning lamps or powdered charcoal. Later he invented the perfume spray. He advised women not to use paints for the face, arguing that "cold water, fresh air and exercise are the best recipe for health and beauty".John Gilroy, son of a marine artist from Newcastle on Tyne, said of his work: "The man in the street has no time for contemplation. My posters are, therefore, a kind of aesthetic meal-in-a-minute".His first Guinness poster, in 1930, depicted St George and the dragon fighting over a pint of the black stuff. His posters, which have been in circulation ever since, are "an object lesson in the integration of word and image, the first being never a mere caption to the second," according to his DNB entry. "His imaginative interpretations have become icons of British advertising. His tools were humour and hyperbole. His outrageous scenarios, especially the girder-carrier sequence from the early 1930s, in which a Guinness-drinking workman transports metalwork with ease, defy belief - except in the essential brand promise."
It is not often one comes across a gap in the market that has been almost completely unexploited. The prize is access to millions of consumers in the UK. They have plenty of time on their hands, many have money to spare and 82% haven't got access to the internet. Welcome to the digitally disengaged world of the over-65s.As tomorrow is Silver Surfers' day (OK, I didn't know either until a press release came in this week), it is worth speculating whether things are about to improve for the country's least-organised citizens.Silver Surfers' Day (for everyone over 50) is a highly commendable initiative that hasn't even begun to get off the ground. It organises several hundred events around the country but if last year is anything to go by, it won't involve many more than 5,000 of the tens of millions who are over 50. Yet conditions have seldom been more favourable to do something about the digitally disengaged. The price of computers is still falling sharply and BT claims that by July, 99.8% of its exchanges will deliver broadband internet access, the "always on" nature of which makes it easy for older people to use.Services vital to older people - such as health care - will be available online soon, offering big improvements in relationships with GPs and hospitals, with remote care at home a realisable goal. While it is true that there is a huge digital divide between youngsters who are online and older people who are not, the more relevant divide is that between perceptions of how difficult it is to use the web and the reality. The fact is that once you have broadband, it is ridiculously easy to use a search engine - providing endless sources of pleasure and knowledge - to send emails or even to start your own online diary or blog (it takes only a few minutes if a template is used). With a little bit of effort, older people could put their savings into an online account that normally carries a higher rate of interest than an offline one.The real barriers are the formidable but one-off problems of finding an internet service provider and getting the right settings for services such as email accounts.There is no shortage of companies willing to help older people buy custom-built insurance policies, but where are the firms offering senior citizens affordable deals to install broadband complete with the basic settings needed to start surfing at once? Not even Saga, the company that specialises in the needs of over 50s, seems to offer this yet - though there may be something in the pipeline.Older people could enrich their lives enormously with internet access, as anyone knows who has seen the effect on elderly relatives once they have broken through the invisible technophobic barrier.And the more older people who use it, the more the network effects will start to kick in as people share interests and problems. In the long term, the internet could even help to galvanise the potentially awesome political power of the older generation. There has never been a better time for this to occur but it will probably need some enterprising social entrepreneur to trigger change. Meanwhile, Silver Surfers' Day is an annual reminder of a revolution that has not yet happened.&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Crime patternsCould someone show Tony Blair the ChicagoCrime.org site and tell him we want the same thing here? It takes a database of reported crime, sorts it, and sticks virtual pins on Google maps of Chicago. You can browse by type of crime, by street or by police district, and by type of location (eg ATM, hotel, school grounds). If you are going somewhere in Chicago, you can see what types of crime occur there, and when. No doubt this kind of information is available to UK police forces, so why not start feeding it into Google maps where citizens can see it?www.chicagocrime.orgGoogle portalGoogle Labs has finally attempted to deal with the problem created by the company's ever-expanding range of services: it has created an experimental portal page. Sign in and you can pick from a list of things you want on your personalised search page, such as BBC news stories, Gmail, weather (if you have a Zip code) and stock prices. It is still way behind what Yahoo and Microsoft were offering in a previous century, but it is a significant step along a path many have travelled - from a single, specialised service into a generalised portal.www.google.com/igAsk AristotleWith the election over and done with, you may want to find out more about your MP. If you go to Guardian Unlimited's Politics section, you can Ask Aristotle, which says it is "packed with information about MPs, ministers, election candidates and parliamentary activity". It's fun and free.http://politics.guardian.co.uk/aristotle/Fleeing CubaAttempts to escape from Cuba have led to what the University of Miami calls the Cuban Rafter Phenomenon, which is the title of the multimedia exhibition it has launched on the web. The site needs a broadband connection, as it includes streaming videos and MP3s as well as Flash and other content. It covers events from 1959, but particularly the "raft crisis" of 1994, when thousands of "balseros" set out for Florida in small boats. There's also an award-winning documentary about the phenomenon.http://balseros.miami.edu/Past livesThe National Archives in Kew has revealed the name, birthplace and occupation of almost all the residents of England and Wales in 1861. You can now trace the lives of your ancestors through five consecutive censuses to 1901. Famous names in the 1861 census include Queen Victoria (interesting because she is listed as the head of the household), Charles Lutwidge Dodgson (Lewis Carroll), and Thomas Hardy, as well as the various bastards, prostitutes and syphilitic paupers identified by Isaac Norris Hunt, a data collector for Stow-on-the-Wold. The census is hosted by Ancestry.co.uk and access is on a pay-per-view basis: &pound;6.99 provides 20 page view credits to use within seven days.http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/census/Flickr 360I've just been browsing Rev Dan Catt's Yahoo blog, and reading about his family in Stoke-on-Trent. The point is, however, that Catt has combined Yahoo 360 and Flickr, the photo-sharing site now owned by Yahoo. Flickr has always been blog-friendly, but this demo is nicely done. Catt also offers a lunar calendar to download atwww.fluffykittens.comwww.fluffykittens.com/flickr360/Tag soupIf you have visited our redesigned blogs, including Onlineblog, you may have noticed the "folksonomies" feature, which provides a visual indication of what's hot. Now John Herren has produced something similar for Yahoo News, called Yahoo News Tag Soup. It is not quite the same, because our folksonomies are based on people tagging content whereas this "tag cloud" is based on web services that automate most of the process. However, real users won't care.http://yahoo.theherrens.comPenguin RemixedPenguin has released samples of 30 audiobooks and invited DJs and musicians to remix them for a competition. Samples come from Dracula, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory and others. The best entries will be included in a Penguin Digital Audiobook later this year. If you go to the site, you can listen to and vote for tracks others have remixed.www.penguinremixed.co.ukSix of the best - FestivalsHay-on-Wyehttp://www.hay-on-wye.co.ukWomadhttp://womad.org/?festival=readingMusic Festival Calendarwww.myvillage.com/pages/bars&amp;music-music-festivals-calender-2005.htmEdinburghwww.edfilmfest.org.ukGlyndebournewww.glyndebourne.comeFestivalshttp://efestivals.co.uk/festivals/&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Webuser magazineHave you ever Voiped? If not, you probably know someone who has. Voice Over Internet Protocol, for the uninitiated, is a way of making very cheap phone calls using an internet connection instead of a conventional phone line or, indeed, a mobile.What's more, these calls are charged at a flat rate regardless of where you are when you make them. For small businesses which spend thousands of pounds a year on international calls, the savings can be dramatic - particularly if a sizeable chunk of your phone bill is spent on roaming.Anyone who has used a mobile abroad will probably have winced at the resulting bill. Paying over the odds to make a call is bad enough; paying to receive them is even worse - and the situation is further complicated by the sheer number of tariffs that apply to and from different networks in different countries.O2, for example, charges business customers 50p a minute to call home from the EU; once you're in Iceland, however, you pay 81p to call Britain or Morocco but 179p to ring someone in the EU. That's almost &pound;9 for five minutes.The European Regulatory Commission is currently conducting a lengthy investigation into whether the networks' exorbitant charges can be justified. It may succeed in persuading them to shave a few pence off the odd tariff, but roaming charges are doomed - and the networks know it. They are already beginning to work out how to incorporate Voip into the next generation of mobile devices.Long before Voip began to gain popularity, internet-based companies were offering ways to save money on calls made abroad. 0044.co.uk is one. Like Oneroam.co.uk, it sells "starter packs" which contain a pay-as-you-go Sim card valid in another country. Inserting it into a mobile in Portugal, for instance, enables you to save around four-fifths of the cost of roamed calls made via your UK network. The chief disadvantage is that your phone number will change with the Sim. Additionally, any numbers saved on your usual card rather than on your phone won't be stored there. European packs cost around &pound;30, the rest of the world a few pounds more.International calling cards are another option, though punching in long codes every time you want to make a brief call can be irksome. Resellers abound: 1st4phonecards.com is one of the most popular.With a laptop, a broadband connection and Voip, however, you can make much greater savings. Voip operators use a variety of protocols. The best-known of these is Skype (pronounced to rhyme with "hype"). A number of others, including Vonage, Sipcall, JustDialVoip and TelAppliant, use the Sip protocol.Once you've chosen an operator - on which more later - the procedure is pretty simple. You download the Voip software (sometimes called a "softphone") on to your computer. If the person you're talking to has joined the same protocol, calls are free. Ringing a landline, a mobile or someone on a different Voip protocol will cost you money, but much less than using a conventional phone would. Teleconferencing with three to five people on the same call is usually possible, too. You can even have a phone number with the code of a city where you're never been.In theory, it's possible to Voip on a dial-up connection, but few would advise it. Trying to use the service in a hotel room without a fast connection is guaranteed to cause frustration. Voip technology has been around for a while, but only broadband makes it a reliable experience.The online tech community have been quick to test and review the various Voip options. (Bloggers often evangelise about their initial experiments with the service, too, which can be useful for the layperson.) Clarity, reliability and cost are the criteria to look for. Type "voip" into the reviews searchbox at Zdnet.co.uk to get an idea of the competition.Skype tends to come out best, although it does have drawbacks - an uncanny and distracting echo when calling landlines, for example (though this can usually be solved by using headphones). The cost of calling a landline in most of Europe, North America and Australia is 1.7 euro cents per minute. Other parts of the world cost slightly more.If you work with bigger companies which have their own IT departments, you may find them wary of adopting Skype because of worries about the security of their corporate firewall.Pocket PC owners can download a version of Skype that works with their handheld. Reviews of this service have been mixed, and it might be worth waiting for a more advanced version to emerge.Webuser magazine has reviewed four of the biggest UK providers in jargon-free prose. Another good starting point for SMEs is Voip.org.uk, which has a jargon buster and has begun to review Voip software from a small business perspective.&middot; Up to 40 people can now be booked on to an easyJet flight at once via its website - which should put an end to the frustration of reserving seats in batches and watching the ticket price go up each time (or, worse, finding that seats have run out altogether). The site can now calculate the average ticket price and give a total quote for all the passengers travelling in a group. &lt;a href="http://www.easyjet.com"&middot;"&gt;www.easyjet.com&middot; The Economist has added Shanghai to its very good collection of online business travel guides. Hotels, restaurants, a gift-buying guide and advice on how to kill an hour in the city are included. BA's five-times-weekly non-stop service to Shanghai goes head to head with Virgin Atlantic's on June 1. &lt;a href="http://www.economist.com/cities/"&middot;"&gt;www.economist.com/cities/&middot; Air France has introduced a flat fee of &pound;35 for changing non-flexible flight bookings, plus any difference between the price of the new seat and the old. (Currently, easyJet charges &pound;15 per leg for this service, bmi twice that.) &lt;a href="http://www.airfrance.fr"&middot;"&gt;www.airfrance.fr&middot; Scandinavian now offers internet access in all three classes across its long haul fleet. The Connexion by Boeing service costs $29.95 for an entire flight or $9.95 for 30 minutes and can be paid for by credit card. &lt;a href="http://www.flysas.com"&middot;"&gt;www.flysas.com&middot; Five new Ryanair routes to Poland and Slovakia were announced this month. The airline will fly to Gdansk, Bydgoszcz, Szczecin, Rzeszow and Bratislava from this autumn, with bookings opening on June 1. Meanwhile, the low-cost airline Norwegian is increasing the frequency of flights from Stansted to Oslo Gardermoen, Bergen and Trondheim.www.norwegian.noandwww.ryanair.com
Debt is part of the fabric of modern life in the UK, for individuals and businesses alike. But while being in the red has largely negative connotations in the realm of personal finance, debt is a normal - even essential - state of affairs for those involved in enterprise. The key is getting the best terms when you are borrowing.Research from Warwick Business School, published this week, shows credit cards are now the small and medium-sized operation's best friend, 55% of SMEs using credit cards, against 53% using overdrafts and 24% term loans.Lending is also growing. According to the British Bankers' Association, term lending rose by 16.1% in 2004 to stand at &pound;34.9bn, while overdraft lending saw an increase of 9.1% over the twelve months to &pound;9.7bn, although SMEs remain net creditors to banks.BBA chief executive Ian Mullen said changing economic conditions over the past year and some 500,000 new business bank accounts were partly responsible for the rise. He added: "It is likely that small firms have been investing in their businesses, supported by nearly &pound;5bn of additional term lending during 2004 from business banks, while benefiting from overdraft support for their cash flow needs."An overdraft facility is the simplest, most flexible way to borrow money and is a good source of finance to cover unexpected costs. Another benefit is that you pay interest only on the amount you are overdrawn each day. The downside is that the bank can demand repayment at any time and you will have to renegotiate the terms every six to 12 months. You are usually charged an arrangement fee, typically 2% for a &pound;5,000 overdraft.But in recent years, the proportion of borrowing on overdraft by small businesses has declined. Business loans are more popular, with well over three-quarters of term lending having a maturity of more than three years, with interest charged on a variable rate basis. Term lending is more attractive to many businesses than an overdraft as it is a structured form of borrowing with predictable repayment dates.The key advantage is that the money is safe for the period of the loan, so this is a useful way to fund start-up costs, buy equipment and fund expansion. Additionally, loans can be tailored to cash flow requirements - you can opt for a variable interest rate or take payment holidays, for example.The downside is that you will be charged an arrangement fee and you might also have to take out insurance. A typical interest rate for a &pound;10,000 unsecured loan taken over five years would be anything between 6.7% and 9%, but what you are offered will depend to a great extent on your credit rating. Banks assess your credit worthiness using a number of factors - how good your security is, your balance sheet, your banking record, cash flow projections, business plan and so on.In addition to traditional bank loans, businesses can apply for funding through the Small Firms Loan Guarantee Scheme (SFLG), which offers finance to firms with turnover less than &pound;3m a year that have viable business proposals but who have failed to get a conventional loan because of lack of security. Loans are available for periods of between two and 10 years on sums from &pound;5,000 to &pound;100,000.The scheme guarantees 75% of the loan and in return the borrower pays the Department of Trade and Industry a premium of 2% a year on the outstanding amount. The APR is arranged between the borrower and the lender. This type of funding can be a godsend for enterprises that have failed to secure funding, but the premium paid for the guarantee means it is not especially competitive.But, as those survey results show, many businesses are turning from overdrafts and loans to plastic. Research by NatWest bank showed that increased use of credit cards had had a positive impact on cash flow concerns for small businesses. NatWest found that the majority (71%) of businesses that responded saw credit as a necessary tool to enable them to operate successfully. A further 16% went on to say that their business simply couldn't manage without using credit. Most of those questioned used their cards for travel, purchases over the internet and paying suppliers.Nine out of 10 (93%) paid off their balance in full every month and said the advantages of plastic included not having to use cash (74%), making quick purchases (71%), not using personal money for business needs (66%) and freeing up cash flow (34%).NatWest's Patrick New says: "This research shows that financial tools such as business credit cards can really help small businesses with their cash flow problems. Many of those questioned also feel in control of their finances which helps to explode the myth that small businesses can't manage their money effectively."Credit cards offer an easy source of instant cash and the temptation becomes greater with the promise of 0% deals for periods of up to 12 months. But there are caveats. Introductory rates are usually for balance transfers only and once the offer ends, the interest will revert to a less than thrilling rate that could fall anywhere between 12% and 29%, or higher. If you are organised and can pay off your balance in full each month, this type of borrowing is fine - if not, your debt can quickly snowball, particularly if you miss payments.Invoice finance, covered more fully in our cover story, is a further option. In this kind of borrowing, a factor (usually a bank factoring house) will forward you up to 80% of an outstanding invoice, then chase the customer for the payment it owes you. It then forwards the remaining sum owed and deducts a fee of around 2%. This kind of borrowing is similar to using a credit card as it can provide a quick fix of cash and offers flexibility. The cost will depend on how much money you are chasing, but this is a relatively cheap way of borrowing in the short-term.
How much do small businesses subsidise their large customers? Most businesses would deny that they do so at all, of course. But then you ask them just how long their customers take to settle invoices. And then you follow this up with a question about how much they pay in interest on overdrafts caused by late payers. And then the tears start to flow. Welcome to the sometimes painful world of cash flow management.At least they're not suffering alone. Research from GMAC Commercial Finance found this year that small businesses in the UK owed &pound;15.9bn in overdrafts, with 20% of SMEs owing more than &pound;20,000 to the bank. This means paying charges that could otherwise be reinvested into the business.The same company found that small business writes off &pound;6.5bn per year in bad debt, and this figure takes no account of the time spent chasing invoices that will ultimately not be paid. And last month the same company found that small business in the UK spends 11.5bn hours per week chasing invoices. Everybody interviewed said they spent at least three hours per week requesting money from debtors, which is clearly time not being spent on the core business.The reasons for this are many. Among them are the lack of teeth in the legislation that allows a business to charge interest on an overdue payment. This was introduced in 1998, but larger companies still get away with paying on a 90-day cycle when the smaller business would rather they paid up in 30.Ian Humm, managing director of the Glassware Partnership Ltd, confirms that if he and his six-strong company want to continue to supply the major retailers then they dictate the terms. "At the level at which you're dealing (as a small company) with professional senior buyers, the cash flow and discount settlement is taken as a given really. Unless you were very big, I'd suggest a world brand like Nike, you'd never get to speak to the people who control those sort of issues."Humm has opted for invoice factoring. This is a process in which the Glassware Partnership sends the invoices not to the customer but to a factoring organisation (in this case HSBC), which pays most of the amount on presentation and the rest - minus a fee - when the customer has settled the invoice. "We supply the blue chip retailers who work on a 45-60-day payment cycle, whereas our suppliers can go from zero to 30 days so there's a window there in which cash flow can become a problem."He arrived at factoring through his bank manager, having tried it with a smaller company before. "What's really good for us is that it's all PC-based, there's no human interface so we just log on - we'd used a smaller factoring company and it was very convoluted and took a lot of time." As a result of the HSBC arrangement Humm says his company saves about a day a week that would otherwise have been spent chasing payments. "And we would have spent working hours on it, whereas now if we want to look at something we can do it out of hours when we have a bit more time."He believes that the service is paying for itself - to the extent that it is cheaper than hiring someone to control the credit would actually be.Automation plays a part for other small companies as well. Anne-Marie Kesselman is a spokeswoman for BACS, the automated payment system, which is currently pitching hard to the small business market. Smaller operators can get a lot out of BACS because there's no hanging around waiting for cheques to clear while your own payments are bouncing or incurring charges of their own.And, contrary to some people's beliefs, it's not something restricted to larger businesses. "One of our customers, Hatstand Opera, is a very small business and it pays its opera singers directly into their bank accounts using BACS payments. This MD has singers all over the place, and people would lose cheques - now they can keep track."You don't need a complicated banking package, she says. "We have a campaign called Pay Me Direct at the moment with letter templates on our websites, and we also have letter templates for chasing letters, and other tools."Chasing is of course part of the diligent approach that will get results if you're handling your own credit control rather than factoring. David Sullivan, business advisor at Business Link for London (several of whose standard pieces of advice have gone into the "Steps to maintaining a healthy cash flow" box on this page), agrees that the smaller organisation often gets the rough end of the cash flow deal but stresses that there are ways of encouraging the money to come in. "Spreading the risks around helps," he says. "If you're selling to Tesco, try selling to one of the other big supermarkets as well - so many small businesses have all their eggs in the one basket."This is an area in which cash flow can get truly hammered. Humm's Glassware Partnership was a major supplier to Allders, before most of the shops were shut down. He confirms that the factoring arrangement with HSBC meant the bank carried most of the risk and had indemnified itself against suppliers going down, so he was largely untouched - at least in terms of existing debt - by the company's failure.Sullivan points to positive things as well. "One of the easiest ways of getting payments on time is to offer a discount," he says. "Cash flow in itself can be used positively internally - getting someone in with experience to chase those debts can end up paying for itself in reduced borrowing fees, for example." Controlling stock is also useful, he says - the more of your assets that are liquid, the better for you.Another suggestion he makes is to turn your own invoice payment system around so that it is as inflexible as those of the large companies. Make it clear that you pay invoices on one day of the month, so if people invoice the day after they wait 30 days whereas if they invoice on the day they're paid immediately, and you save on admin costs and will almost certainly keep your money in the bank for longer than if you paid on the day they are submitted. As long as you're up front with suppliers, they tend not to mind. "Most suppliers are quite receptive to the arrangement," he says.While looking at these big-picture elements, though, it's important not to lose sight of the small things that can damage a healthy cash balance. Gap Consulting Ltd is a consultancy focused on customer relationship management, and financial director Mark Hatcher confirms it's easy to manage the more visible elements of your money - but points to staff expenses as something that behaves differently."Because of the hassle factor associated with submitting expense claims and because our consultants frequently work offsite, they have a habit of letting their expenses accumulate over long periods, and then when they do submit them, they tend to expect immediate payment," he says. "This is a nightmare for cash planning." The solution applied by Gap was an expense system from Signifo. "This lets our team input their expenses as they incur them, either by going online or by using their corporate credit card. The accounts team are then able to see claims outstanding, even if they haven't yet been sent for approval."There's a lot that can go wrong with cash flow in a company, and too many businesses go under because they're owed money rather than because they haven't earned it. The important thing is to work out what you can do - control cash flow to an extent, factor out some of your late and bad debts - and realise what you couldn't do if you wanted to.Ideally, all small firms would be able to tell large companies to pay up within 30 days - there is legislation in place entitling you to charge interest if they're late, and in theory if enough small businesses insisted they'd have to capitulate. In reality, as Sullivan points out, "They have the whip hand." No small business is going to be naive enough to think it can charge its interest and complain about payments whilst retaining the customer every time.There's probably no way of changing this. However, by spreading risk around and looking at the other options, it should at least be possible to limit exposure to bad debts and bank charges due to late payment and keep your business running.Which, in the case of very small businesses, is often as good as it gets.As is the case concerning many business processes, it's possible to get help from your computer when chasing late payers - although in this instance it can't be stressed enough that your IT system is in no way a substitute for solid business processes and planning.Probably the best thing you can have as a small business or even self-employed person is something that does a lot of the thinking and even acting for you. Fortunately there is probably no accounting system that at least won't give you a glance at who owes you what and for how long they've owed it - even personal finance systems like Quicken have professional versions that will do some invoicing.Watching what happens to those invoices is a different sort of task, however. This is where a system like TAS Books, currently owned by Sage, can be an excellent buy - not only does it write an invoice for you as any competent system ought to, it writes letters with varying degrees of severity when a payment is late. Of course you can amend and edit these at will.The other area, with which TAS, Quickbooks and many other systems will help, is stock control. The less excess stock you have, the more of your money will be available to your business.One other area in which an automated system will help is in forecasting. This has been seen as the province of larger systems in the past, but Sage has recently introduced Sage Instant Forecasting, aimed at customers of the Instant product, which goes to start-ups and very small businesses indeed. It builds presentations but more importantly it identifies cash flow problems before they arise as well as allowing a number of "what if" scenarios so that customers can see just what would happen given a number of late payment scenarios.&middot; Forecast your cash flow - and monitor this as any other part of your business plan; never assume it's coming in when it may not be&middot; Don't take on financial commitments you're not sure you can afford - new staff, for example. Never mistake an issued invoice for cash in the bank&middot; Don't do large amounts of speculative work in the hope that a customer will buy what you've made&middot; Don't over-value stock, work in progress or assets such as machinery - you may one day wish to borrow against this&middot; Always make provision for large expenses you can predict&middot; Always agree details of an order with a customer including payment terms - this could lead to a dispute if you fail to do it. Larger customers will inevitably believe you should adhere to their credit terms rather than compromise - if you want the work you will have to agree&middot; Implement an efficient credit control system. Include credit checking prospective customers as part of your routine&middot; If you need to source finance externally, make sure you select the sort that best suits your needs&middot; If you are going to have a cash flow problem, tell your bank before it becomes a major issue. They will want to help and may have means of getting you through any immediate difficulty&middot; Try not to be to exposed to any single client - a bad payer that accounts for 10% of your income can damage you less than one that accounts for 90%.
When online DVD rental company ScreenSelect launched a couple of years ago the appeal was obvious - no trips to the shop, no late fines if customers kept their DVDs too long. But it soon found customers falling away before registering and DVDs going missing -Guy Clapperton (GC)asked MDWilliam Reeve (WR)what they did about it.GC:Tell me about your company.WR:We launched in 2003 at the same time as a company called Video Island, which was running various DVD rentals from major brands like Tesco and others. We merged with them in September 2004, so the parent company is Video Island and ScreenSelect is our own brand. We also operate some other brands, but the Postcode stuff we've invested in is purely for ScreenSelect.GC:So how many people work for ScreenSelect?WR:Everybody works on the family as a whole, there are 235 in the office team.GC:OK. I can see the appeal of the scheme for the consumer - you pay your monthly fee for as many DVDs as you want and keep returning them at leisure.WR:Yes, the key thing a lot of our customers like is the convenience of having stuff delivered in the post. The envelopes are a lot like postcards so there's no problem, and unlike a rental shop there's no getting there and finding it's out of stock or that you're an hour late so there's a late fee.GC:So you were trading and everything was going well - then you came across a problem. Tell me about that.WR:There were two big things we wanted to do. We'd been growing very strongly and were doing a lot of marketing. All that activity is to drive people to the website, and the only way customers can sign up is on the site itself. As with a lot of e-commerce businesses, our priority is to retain as many people through the process as possible, from maybe reading about us in a magazine and finding our website, through signing up. The signing up process contains three or four steps, from signing up to putting in their address, a delivery address, credit card details and so on. There's a constant challenge to minimise the amount of people who drop out during those processes; our sign-up is simple and does a good job of retaining people. Our thinking was that one of the most laborious elements of sign-up, which is likely to put you off because it's a pain, is typing in your full address. The argument is that by just letting people type in their postcode we'd make it quicker and easier, and in principle that should reduce the amount of people dropping out and save us money.GC:And, of course, every customer to you is a revenue stream rather than a one-off purchase.WR:So that's the first thing. The other objective was that our only delivery method is through the post. There are a couple of areas in which having fully Royal Mail-compatible addresses really helps us; one is that if you sign up and get your address wrong, which does happen, we're still going to start posting you DVDs, which are pretty valuable.GC:Was this a frequent problem?WR:Yes. We send out 45,000 DVDs every day so every day we get several dozen returned to sender and several dozen more are never reaching the customer. When stuff gets lost in the post the Royal Mail will let us apply for compensation, but they'll only pay out when we send it to a Royal Mail-compliant address. So you can't say "well I sent it to this address which doesn't exist" and expect compensation.GC:So having identified the problem how did you research the solution?WR:We'd known about Path Lookup, which is a generic technology - the Royal Mail had mentioned it. However, what happens is that the Royal Mail makes its database available to software resellers making software packages, and when we first looked into this about a year ago the solutions the developers were trying to sell us were offputting. They were expensive, they wanted a 12-month commitment and they often involved us installing extra software on our servers. Also, postcodes change, the Royal Mail issues updates every three months - so the solutions we were offered 12-18 months ago didn't appeal.GC:So what happened?WR:After the merger with Video Island we found out about PostCodeAnywhere. Their solution was much better suited to us. It's run on their own servers and ours just link to them across the internet, we didn't need to install any software at our end.GC:What were the costs?WR:The second thing was that they don't ask for an annual license fee or set-up fees, you just pay for what you do per look-up. That made it very easy to try them out without having to commit to a year, we could test them and get the interface right - that was the hardest thing, getting it to look right.GC:So you're spending one penny per customer, which is peanuts even if someone only stays on for two months.WR:That's right. And the other companies wanted us to commit to several thousands. There is a business case for that and I might well end up spending the same with PostcodeAnywhere, but only when I know they're delivering.GC:When did the system go live?WR:Two days ago, and if there's any improvement in the percentage of people signing up we'll go for it, any deterioration and we won't. If it does hurt the process then we'll use it internally to check addresses as people sign up, so they won't see it unless the address is wrong in which case we'll get in touch.
Microsoft Office, better known through its component applications Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook, is familiar to most Windows users. But it has a rival, OpenOffice, available as a free download.The price might suggest a significant reduction in quality, but that would be misleading. I started using OpenOffice 1.1.0 full-time more than a year ago; rather than eating my archive of Microsoft Office files, it handled them well and worked at least as reliably as paid-for software.It did have rough edges, such as adding odd characters to the start of word-processed files, but this and others have been smoothed away with the latest release, Version 1.1.4 for Windows.Here, we compare this version with Microsoft Office 2003. OpenOffice version 2 can be downloaded as a beta, meaning it is currently suitable only for testing.Cost and registrationOpenOffice is free if downloaded - all 64 megabytes of it. This should take less than 20 minutes on a 512kbps broadband connection but more like three hours on dial-up: alternatively, CD-roms cost around &pound;5. You can install OpenOffice on as many computers as you like, and upgrades will be free.Microsoft Office 2003's Basic edition, including Word, Excel and Outlook, is available only when bought pre-installed with a computer: Dell charges an extra &pound;129.The Standard edition, which is purchased separately and also includes PowerPoint, has a recommended cost of &pound;370, although Amazon charges &pound;316. The listed upgrade price is &pound;220. Students, parents of students and teachers can buy it for &pound;90, but this is meant for educational use only.The Small Business edition, which adds Publisher and Business Contact Manager, is listed as &pound;400 but can be purchased new for &pound;339, for &pound;235 when pre-installed by Dell or for &pound;177 as an upgrade.Both packages are straightforward to install, although Microsoft requires more work: you need to enter an activation code on the packaging, and then register online or through a free telephone number during one of the first 50 times the software is used, or else some features will be disabled. OpenOffice's registration is voluntary.First impressionsBoth suites have a common design, and Microsoft's is smarter, with a pleasing metallic look. More importantly, its default toolbar at the top of the page is thinner, with two lines of menus and options. OpenOffice's has three lines: it shows the location of the current file in the style of a web-browser, and displays more options, with yet more icons taking up space on the screen's left-hand side. The result is that Microsoft Office displays more of the open document (although in both cases you can alter what is in the toolbars). Microsoft does initially undermine its space advantage: when first opened, a fifth of the screen is filled with a help box (although this is easy to close).Some of the extra icons displayed by OpenOffice are rather useful, such as conversion to Adobe's Portable Document File (PDF) format, a facility surprisingly not available at all within Microsoft Office. Microsoft wins points with its help search box in the top-right corner, which accepts real-language questions in the manner of Ask Jeeves.Microsoft Office and OpenOffice are both well-integrated software suites, although this integration is tighter within OpenOffice: all applications are available when it is open, allowing you, for example, to generate any kind of new document from the file menu. With Microsoft, you open applications such as Excel when required.Word-processorBoth Microsoft Word and OpenOffice can check your spelling as you type with red underlining for the mistakes, although it is easier to turn this on and off in OpenOffice, through one of those left-hand side icons.Both applications have autocompletion turned on by default - automatically correcting common mistakes such as "recieve", for example - but Microsoft Word does more. This can sometimes be irritating, rather than helpful: if you start typing "yours", Word suggests "yours truly", despite being set to UK English, instead of "yours sincerely" or "yours faithfully".Word has other facilities, although some seem gimmicky. The research icon on the toolbar offers online access to sources including Microsoft's Encarta encyclopedia, a thesaurus and company profiles: so can a web-browser, but the feature is at least convenient.One definite advantage of Microsoft Word is that it can count the words in a highlighted area, whereas OpenOffice can only count the words in the whole document (using the statistics tab on the properties option on the file menu). You can get round this by copying and pasting a section into a blank document.OpenOffice opens Word's default ".doc" format, but Word will not open the default ".sdw" format for OpenOffice. If files are to be shared, OpenOffice users should choose a neutral format such as Rich Text Format (ending ".rtf") or use ".doc". Both Word and OpenOffice will only open password-protected files in their native format, however, and OpenOffice may display a ".doc" file differently to Word: you are likely to notice this with longer documents, when the number of pages may change. Overall, the similarities outnumber the differences.SpreadsheetWhat is true for word-processing is also true of spreadsheets: the two applications are very similar. Again, OpenOffice can open and save in Excel's ".xls" format, but Excel does not recognise OpenOffice's format.Excel's default cells are smaller, meaning that (along with the smaller control bars) it fits 15 columns and 35 rows on a 1,024 by 768 pixel screen, against 11 columns and 32 rows with OpenOffice. In both, these sizes can be adjusted.Usefully, when the contents of an OpenOffice cell are overlapped by those in an adjacent one, it displays a small red arrow to show something is hidden; Excel just hides it. Excel makes different use of a similar sign: a red corner shows someone has commented on the cell, without altering its contents. The comment appears if you place the cursor over the red corner: a useful feature for collaborative work.Both spreadsheets allow "Autosum" checks on highlighted cells, such as providing a total of their contents. In both, you can highlight non-adjacent cells by mouse-clicking with the control key, but in OpenOffice this only works if you have first highlighted an adjacent cell. You can always highlight a blank adjacent cell, but it is a glitch.Presentations, email and moreOpenOffice's presentation software and PowerPoint start differently: OpenOffice takes users through dialogue boxes of options, whereas PowerPoint opens straight into a templated presentation. However, as with its other elements, OpenOffice has the ability to save its presentations in PowerPoint format, and to run PowerPoint slideshows.OpenOffice does not include an equivalent to Microsoft Outlook, which handles email, contact and diary management. If you don't want to computerise your appointments, or use another device for this, you might prefer to leave your email and contacts online through the likes of Google's Gmail or Yahoo! Mail. Or you can use free packages such as the open source Thunderbird (from Mozilla, which also distributes the Firefox web browser atwww.mozilla.org) and Eudora (which has a full-function free version which displays a small advert, atwww.eudora.com).The Small Business edition of Microsoft Office provides functionality well beyond OpenOffice's, with Publisher, which can design paper documents, web pages and email, and Business Contact Manager, which extends Outlook towards customer relationship management (CRM), tracking interaction with customers and providing easy access to their documents. In both fields, there are widely-used commercial alternatives, but having such functions within Office's familiar surroundings may be convenient.ConclusionFor the beginner, Microsoft Office is more friendly; for the experienced user, it is sometimes too eager to help. OpenOffice still has a few of those rough edges, but also has a handful of advantages, beyond being free.If you use Microsoft Office to the full, particularly the higher end versions, it may be worth its price. But if you use word processing, spreadsheets and the odd presentation in a fairly basic fashion, you could move to OpenOffice and notice few differences - and some of those would be improvements.Moving office suite need not be painful. Microsoft provides free viewer software for Word, Excel and PowerPoint documents, and OpenOffice can open and save in Microsoft formats. This allows you to move back from OpenOffice to Microsoft if you wish.You could test the water by moving one employee (or yourself) to OpenOffice, a few months before you plan to upgrade your computers or Microsoft software, to see if spending money on Microsoft Office is justified.
Rising costs of office space, time lost to stressful commuting, and a slow recognition that workers have lives beyond the office - all are strong arguments for letting staff work from home.For the small business, there are additional benefits too - staff are more productive, and happier, enabling firms to keep their headcounts and their recruitment costs to a minimum. It can also provide competitive advantage, especially when small businesses want to attract new staff but don't have the budget to offer huge salaries.While company managers have known about the benefits for a long time, many have done little about it, sceptical of whether they could trust their employees to work to full capacity without supervision, or concerned about the additional expenses teleworking policies might incur as staff start charging their home phone bills to the business.Yet this is now changing. When communications provider Inter-Tel researched the use of remote working solutions among small and medium sized UK businesses in April this year, it found that 28% more companies claimed to be practising flexible working practices than a year ago.The UK network of Business Links confirms that it too has seen a growing interest in remote working solutions from small businesses seeking its advice, and claims that as many as 60-70% of the businesses that come through its doors now offer some form of remote working support to their workforces.Technology advances, including the widespread availability of broadband, are making the introduction of remote working a no-brainer."If systems are set up properly, staff can have access to all the resources they have in the office wherever they have an internet connection," says Andy Poulton, e-business advisor at Business Link for Berkshire and Wiltshire. "There are some very exciting developments which have enabled this."One is the ubiquity of broadband, which now covers almost all of the country (BT claims that, by July, 99.8% of its exchanges will be broadband enabled, with alternative plans in place for even the most remote exchanges). "This is the enabler," Poulton says.Yet while broadband has come down in price too, those service providers targeting the business market warn against consumer services masquerading as business-friendly broadband."Broadband is available for as little as &pound;15 a month, but many businesses fail to appreciate the hidden costs of such a service," says Neil Stephenson, sales and marketing director at Onyx Internet, an internet service provider based in the north-east of England. "Providers offering broadband for rock-bottom prices are notorious for poor service, with regular outages and heavily congested networks. It is always advisable for businesses to look beyond the price tag and look for a business-only provider that can offer more reliability, with good support." Such services needn't break the bank - quality services can be found for upwards of &pound;30 a month.The benefits of broadband to the occasional home worker are that they can access email in real time, and take full advantage of services such as internet-based backup or even internet-based phone services.Internet-based telecoms, or VoIP (Voice over IP) to give it its technical title, is an interesting tool to any business supporting remote working. Not necessarily because of the promise of free or reduced price phone calls (which experts point out is misleading for the average business), but because of the sophisticated voice services that can be exploited by the remote worker - facilities such as voicemail and call forwarding, which provide a continuity of the company &larr; image for customers and business partners.By law, companies must "consider seriously" requests to work flexibly made by a parent with a child under the age of six, or a disabled child under 18. It was the need to accommodate employees with young children that motivated accountancy firm Wright Vigar to begin promoting teleworking recently. The company, which needed to upgrade its IT infrastructure to provide connectivity with a new, second office, decided to introduce support for remote working at the same time.Marketing director Jack O'Hern explains that the company has a relatively young workforce, many of whom are parents: "One of the triggers was when one of our tax managers returned from maternity leave. She was intending to work part time, but could only manage one day a week in the office due to childcare. By offering her the ability to work from home, we have doubled her capacity - now she works a day a week from home, and a day in the office. This is great for her, and for us as we retain someone highly qualified."For Wright Vigar, which has now equipped all of its fee-earners to be able to work at maximum productivity when away from the offices (whether that's from home, or while on the road), this strategy is not just about saving on commute time or cutting them loose from the office, but enabling them to work more flexible hours that fit around their home life.O'Hern says: "Although most of our work is client-based and must fit around this, we can't see any reason why a parent can't be on hand to deal with something important at home, if they have the ability to complete a project later in the day."Supporting this new way of working came with a price, though. Although the firm was updating its systems anyway, the company spent 10-15% more per user to equip them with a laptop rather than a PC, and about the same to upgrade to a server that would enable remote staff to connect to the company networks and access all their usual resources.Although Wright Vigar hasn't yet quantified the business benefits, it claims that, in addition to being able to retain key staff with young families, it is able to save fee-earners a substantial amount of "dead" time in their working days.That staff can do this without needing a fixed telephone line provides even more efficiency savings. "With Wi-Fi &#91;fast, wireless internet connections&#93; popping up all over the place, even on trains, our fee-earners can be productive as they travel, and between meetings, instead of having to kill time at the shops," he adds.The company will also be able to avoid the expense of having to relocate staff to temporary offices for several weeks when it begins disruptive office renovations soon.Financial recruitment specialist Lynne Hargreaves knows exactly how much her firm has saved by adopting a teleworking strategy, which has involved handing her company's data management over to a remote hosting company, Datanet, so it can be accessible by all the company's consultants over broadband internet connections.It has enabled the company to dispense with its business premises altogether, following the realisation that it just didn't need them any more. "The main motivation behind adopting home working was to increase my own productivity, as a single mum to an 11-year-old," says Hargreaves. "But I soon realised that, as most of our business is done on the phone, email and at off-site meetings, we didn't need our offices at all. We're now saving &pound;16,000 a year on rent, plus the cost of utilities, not to mention what would have been spent on commuting."
&middot; Sixty three per cent of UK workers are claiming they could be doing better in their careers, blaming David Brent-style management for holding them back. The survey, undertaken by training company Skillsoft, suggests that bosses aren't making the most of training opportunities or recognising their employees' potential (although it would be interesting to read a survey of bosses which answered how realistic the aspirations of the dissatisfied 63% actually were). People in public services appear to be receiving better training and development than those in a private business, the survey says.&middot; Broadband telephony company Vonage is setting up shop in the UK to put phones on broadband links rather than standard phone lines for small businesses and domestic numbers alike. The company will sell its adapters through Staples initially, although it plans to go through more outlets as the year progresses. The service costs &pound;18.99 per month for small businesses (the consumer product is cheaper but the business service includes a free fax line) and the big sell is that there's no need to plug the adaptor into your PC, it can be hooked directly into the phone wiring.&middot; Nortel is aiming at the small business market with its new Voice over IP (VoIP, IP being Internet Protocol) product, BCM 50. Aimed specifically at organisations with as few as three employees or branch offices of more substantial concerns, the system offers IP telephony, unified messaging (so your faxes, voicemails and emails all come into the same mailbox), and does so within a secure network based on standard internet technology. It is a single-box system and the company claims using it won't mean having to throw out your old PBX system if you have one.&middot; Vodafone has launched a new mobile phone package aimed at self-employed people who might otherwise end up using a consumer tarrif. Called BusinessTime, it is available immediately and comes with what Vodafone is calling the Own Boss Mobility Toolkit - which translates as a headset and car cradle. The main advantage, however, is that customers in the scheme will now be entitled to the same account management and problem resolution they'd get from a business account, which has priority over a consumer account. Details at &lt;a href="http://www.vodafone.co.uk/business."&middot;"&gt;www.vodafone.co.uk/business.&middot; Also in the mobile arena, Orange believes it has taken the lead in roaming for customers wanting to be able to call internationally, with agreements with 140 networks in 73 countries. In practice the company believes that this means if you're overseas with an Orange account you stand a better chance of being able to text, email and call without noticing that anything has changed on your mobile phone. Orange's overseas services now include one-touch voicemail and caller line identification as if you hadn't left the UK.&middot; Companies without a website may be interested in an offer from 1&amp;1 Internet, which is allowing new customers six months of web hosting and a domain name without charge. Details are atwww.1and1.co.uk, and the scheme is called Test Drive. You get your own domain - that's the yourname.co.uk part of your name - and the website goes on 1&amp;1's servers. The offer is open until 30 June, and the company is offering online help in building a website with Flash animations.&middot; Business intelligence company Datawatch has warned against using IT as a solution to all of your company's ills. Speaking to a financial sector conference in London a month ago, product manager Rob Graham warned against relying on technology to solve a business problem without investigating the underlying causes first. He was addressing an audience of large companies but much of his advice could apply equally to the smaller trader; in essence he was urging people to look towards their business plan and see whether anything needed fixing in there before relying too much on IT.&middot; Also on the subject of planning is a survey from AT&amp;T, which suggests that although everyone is aware that disasters happen, one in three organisations are failing to put any plans in place for when they do. The company conducted the survey in conjunction with the Economist Intelligence Unit. It asked 240 executives about their business continuity planning and found that Americans were more likely than people from anywhere else to have given the issue any thought, but that fewer than half the companies with a plan in place will have tested it with any rigour anyway. This has two potential effects on the smaller business; first, clearly SMEs need to consider disaster planning as carefully as anybody else; second a small business with a large company as a major customer is likely to be quite exposed if that customer falls victim to its own lack of planning.
Lawrence, not his real name, was one of the 22 British users of research chemicals arrested recently. Here he describes what happened to him:I was woken by a very loud knock on my front door just before sunrise. I opened the door to be confronted by eight coppers from the local tactical team, ready with a battering ram.They searched my room ... and found my personal stash of many psychedelic compounds including 2CI, 2CB and 5-meo-DMT, nn-DMT, DPT, 5-meo-DIPT, MDMA &#91;ecstasy&#93;, a large bag of dried mushrooms, close to an ounce of weed, and a small amount of very old GHB powder.They also took my phone, computer and many financial and drug related documents. Then they arrested me on suspicion of importing and possessing class A drugs with intent to supply.I was held in custody for four hours, gave a "no comment" interview on legal advice, and then bailed to appear a few months later.When I went back for a police interview, I explained that I was an intelligent, academic student of mind, consciousness and reality, with no previous criminal record who used these compounds for self-inquiry, self-understanding, self-development and self-expression.I won them over and proved to them that all the substances found were for personal use. They dropped most of the charges, simply leaving eight counts of possession. Last week I went to the magistrates court and walked out with a fine of &#163;75 for each charge, just &#163;600.
Shuttle securityEngineers working on the Space Shuttle will be testing RIM BlackBerry wireless devices connected to business intelligence tools to improve efficiency and safety. Nasa contractors working to prepare the shuttle for flight are monitored using Information Builders' WebFocus to ensure standards are maintained. The BlackBerry smart phones will allow engineers to access worksheets and information during a task or to report when each task is completed. This will enable workers to access information on demand without having to leaving the site. Shuttle flights recommence in July following the Columbia disaster in 2003.http://spaceflight.nasa.gov/shuttle/Smarter CRMSAP is planning to release an upgrade of its customer relationship management (CRM) software towards the end of this year. At its Sapphire user event in Boston, the company announced that future versions will be named after the year of release and not a version number, so mySAP CRM 2005 will replace the current 4.0 release. Apart from offering an improved user interface, the new version will include the business intelligence software, mySAP Analytics, announced last month. Analytic capabilities will be embedded into marketing tasks to help control costs and evaluate effectiveness, the company says. An email response management function will also allow users to manage enquiries and outbound promotions.http://tinyurl.com/8fdvlAuction bargainingThe Welsh Procurement Initiative (WPI) claims to have saved more than &pound;950,000 on the procurement of IT equipment. The group used an online auction to secure favourable terms to meet the Welsh Assembly's target of 3% procurement efficiencies per year. The success is being hailed as proof that public sector organisations can work together to make significant savings. The WPI homed in on the further education sector as an area of high spending on IT equipment.http://tinyurl.com/c7e6hUnderloadedMicrosoft chairman Bill Gates is arguing against leading analysts by claiming there is no information overload. At the company's CEO Summit 2005, he argued that the flow of information is increasing but the translation into useful information often fails. Staff need more access to sales results and corporate budgets to use information successfully. Gates was promoting Microsoft's new search engine as a way to discover information stored in documents and emails. He also said that data is not stored in one place and cannot be viewed in a meaningful way with current software. Microsoft will release a business intelligence package, codenamed Maestro, later this year.http://tinyurl.com/bxa7sMiners' galaGerry Cohen, Information Builders' founder and president, claims the company is riding high on a growing wave of interest in business intelligence (BI) software. At the company's Summit 2005 conference in Las Vegas, Cohen's view was supported by Bob Suh, chief technical strategist at Accenture. In his keynote, he said that RFID (radio frequency identification) and other emerging technologies are causing a data explosion that requires BI tools to mine the data and display it as usable business information. Gartner researchers added that companies have to stop rolling out BI systems on a departmental basis and centralise their projects to gain the best return on investment.www.informationbuilders.comMobiles upThe worldwide total of mobile phone subscribers should reach 2.14bn by the end of the year, according to the latest forecasts from research firm Informa Telecoms &amp; Media. The company says the number of subscribers grew by 354m last year, and it expects similar net growth this year. However, growth is slowing, and Informa is predicting about 3bn subscribers by the end of 2010.http://tinyurl.com/awd4tOldies topsBaby boomers are leading the home office revolution, according to research from Lexmark, the printer manufacturer formerly part of IBM. A survey of 1,000 people with a home office in Britain found that 46% were over 45 - more than any other age group. They also had the highest scores for owning every type of office gadget: 34% own laptops compared to 25% of 25-34 year olds. However, a survey of 100 IT directors by Touchpaper, found that IT glitches are leading many of Britain's 2.2m home workers to suffer increased stress. Almost half the directors said problems arose because workers often let family tamper with their PC, and their irregular hours made them harder to support.Hostage filesA hacker has held an American company's files to ransom, according to security researchers at Websense in San Diego, California. The hacker encrypted a number of files, then emailed the company a ransom note, asking for $200 for the key to decrypt the files. However, the technique is unlikely to become widespread, because it is relatively easy to trace an online payment.
How would you describe yourself?Somebody who likes art and is really bored with how conformist everything is now. We're worse than the "Man in the Grey Flannel Suit" days of the 1950s and heading into even more boring territory. I want to switch things up.You're a DJ, but not the standard DJ?Yeah, my style is about thinking how we live in an era of information that is utterly malleable. All media is re-mixed: we live with variations and versions of everything, from the freeware applications that drive the downloadable "rip, mix, and burn" culture, to DNA experiements such as Dolly the sheep. It is all about remix these days, and my stuff reflects that style.So the film is a multimedia remix?It is a meditation on the fact that how race is portrayed in contemporary culture is conditioned by film. George Lucas's Jar Jar Binks, Halle Barry's character in Monsters Ball, seeing George W Bush try to do a "pimp strut" (that's gangsta!). All of these are echoes of DW Griffiths.Your book Rhythm Science comes with a mix CD. How do the two work together?My book is a blur. I think of it as reading sound and listening to text. Either way, you are at cross-purposes. Should you sit and listen and read, or read and listen, or just do one?Describe your studio.I have got rid of equipment and it has more and more software. If I need something, I rent it. I want my place to be as minimal as possible. My studio is basically a wireless network, where I can shunt files while working on a project. I even keep my network set up so I can work in the park. I hate being in a dark studio when working. I have a Mac Powerbook G4 with 17in screen, a wireless network and a Sony Vaio laptop with lots of memory.Least favourite gadget?The petroleum-based car. I want to see more hybrid and alternative fuel cars. They look cooler than those clunky gas-guzzlers.Are you an iPod fan?iPods are totalitarian. They compress all styles into short play lists, and lock everything into style formats. My style doesn't fit any category, so if you put my music from online on an iPod, it is put in the "no category", but if you buy a CD, it will go into the hip-hop or electronica section.How do you see digital rights management developing?It's going to get weirder. Spyware that analyses your hard drive for legal versus "illegal" content will become the norm. The stakes will get higher. The same with your credit rating and its relationship with your identity, and mobile phones as residences where your data can be accessed. Open source, open ideas, open everything - transparency should be the rule, but that's a dream. It'll probably end up as some crazy Matrix-style scenario.Do you blog?No - I'm usually really busy so I don't hang out online except to deal with the zillions of emails I get.&#183; Visit:www.djspooky.comandwww.rhythmscience.com. Rebirth of a Nation screens on July 22 as part of the BFI's Blackworld season.
There's no need to carry a desktop or notebook PC around when you can have all your data on a pocket-sized device, and the LifeDrive is intended to fit the bill. PalmOne claims it is the world's first "mobile manager". More cynical observers will note that it is basically a PalmOne handheld with a built-in 4GB Hitachi Microdrive. What's new is software that will synchronise the data in My Documents, and its subfolders, on your PC, and this is convenient. Otherwise, the LifeDrive behaves like a USB drive, so you can drag and drop files as usual.Of course, you can use an MP3 player in the same way, but with the LifeDrive, you also get a Palm PDA with an SD card slot, a microphone for voice recording, an MP3-compatible media player, web browser and email client, plus built-in Wi-Fi and Bluetooth.The 320 x 480 pixel colour screen and 416MHz Intel XScale processor also take the LifeDrive well beyond the capabilities of most music players, and make the expected &pound;329 price sound very reasonable.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
"You don't see one for ages and then three turn up at once" is something you are unlikely to hear if you catch a bus in Portsmouth this morning. Since November, a radical public transport overhaul has allowed the city to put an end to that age-old roadside refrain.Portsmouth has had numerous transport problems. The city of 186,000 people is actually on an island, Portsea, and separated from the mainland by a narrow creek. Just three bridges serve a road network further swollen by tens of thousands of passengers heading for the ferry terminals en route to France and the Isle of Wight. "We used to have a rush hour," says John Domblides, the city's chief traffic controller. "We don't any more. We just have seven lanes on and seven lanes off the island. You simply can't get any more traffic into the city during the day."What Portsmouth desperately needed was to get more people out of cars and on to public transport. But the city's congested streets played havoc with bus timetables, and unreliable scheduling deterred people from taking the bus. To encourage more people to ditch their cars, the city invested in a wireless mesh network: a web of wireless antennae, situated at bus stops, which supply the city streets with a huge amount of air-bound internet bandwidth.In practical terms, this means that passengers at any of the city's 37 real-time passenger information bus shelters are told exactly how long they will have to wait. This is not an estimate based on timetables, but accurate up-to-the-minute information beamed directly from the bus. Because bus operators have access to the exact location of their fleet, they can set schedules accordingly.The city's 308 buses have been equipped with their own "ruggedised" PC, running a version of Windows. Each bus is able to monitor its precise position with a GPS (global positioning system) connection and upload information about its accurate arrival time using a mesh mobile radio data modem.The network has cost &pound;4.2m, swallowing about half the council's transport budget for two years - but it is already saving it money. The scheme moves urban traffic control data from fixed-line networks to the mesh network, saving the council more than &pound;70,000 a year in telephony charges.Portsmouth is one of the first places in the world to build an advanced version of what some are calling the "electronic highway". Also known as "transport telematics" or "intelligent transports systems" (Its), it borrows from a metaphor popularised by former US vice president Al Gore. The bus network in Portsmouth is literally an "information superhighway". But instead of the internet being like the road network, Portsmouth's road network is becoming like the internet.Similar real-time passenger information schemes operate in London and Leicester, but the method of delivery is different because Portsmouth has built one of the most advanced wireless mesh networks in civilian use. A mesh network is a decentralised and inexpensive form of radio communication technology, developed by the US military so its special forces can communicate behind enemy lines. Or, as Domblides artfully describes it: "The stuff they strap to their backs when they jump out of aeroplanes." It has recently been commercialised and is now owned by Motorola.Using ex-commando communication technology doesn't make the bus go any quicker, of course, but it does save bus operators money. In return, the operators invest in new fleets in the hope that a more reliable network will increase passenger demand. The first tangible benefit of building an electronic highway, therefore, is an economic one.And it is not just Portsmouth buses that are going online. In-car internet access is rapidly appearing in the rear view mirror. In April, Toyota unveiled G-Book Alpha, a satellite-based car navigation system due to arrive in Japan next year. Not only can you talk on the phone over the network via Bluetooth, and download music, movies and mobile games as you hurtle down the motorway, the system is fitted with automatic crash notification software. In the event of an accident, the G-Book - alarmed by the sudden burst of the air bag - alerts emergency services to the car's precise grid coordinates, which are supplied by a satellite connection. Even if the passengers are unconscious, ambulance crews can be dispatched.There are worries, however, that such systems are vulnerable to attack. General Motors recently announced it would make its OnStar system, a less sophisticated rival to the G-Book, a standard feature on its entire US fleet by 2007. But one website already boasts that the OnStar GPS unit is as easy to hack into "as soldering up a serial cable".Back in Portsmouth, Domblides insists the military encryption running over his wireless mesh network should mean that Portsmouth's bus system is less likely to be hacked into.The network had to be robust for other reasons, too. "We have a naval dockyard here and nobody knows what sort of electromagnetic transmissions and electronic counter measures to protect ships are coming out of there," he says. "We had to have a system robust enough to withstand anything coming out of the dockyard."Even before Portsmouth buses went online, the fusing of information technology and the transport network has been gathering speed. In the past few years, the motorway and major trunk road network in the UK has been laced with fibre optic cable. There is a stretch of the M42, nearing the completion of its first phase, that highway engineers are describing as the "most instrumented section of electronic highway in the world".Before the election, the former transport minister Tony McNulty said such sections of electronic highway promise to "improve safety, reduce congestion and bring environmental, economic and social benefits". Some say it could help the UK meet the targets set by the Kyoto protocol by providing the tools to accurately measure the true cost of a journey, and then charge accordingly. Road tax, for instance, could be charged by the mile rather than as a flat yearly fee.According to Robin Chase, a Loeb fellow at Harvard University and founder of Zipcars, this is no bad thing. "I don't want to sound superlative," she says, "but I think mesh networking is going to transform our lives as much as the internet. I think it's the next revolution. The idea of having ubiquitous information access at almost no cost will completely transform society."Although she recently left the company, Chase made her name designing a new type of car ownership. Zipcar members don't own a car but pool them, booking them by the hour. The company charges an annual fee plus $8.50 (&pound;4.60) an hour, covering petrol, insurance road tax and features such as satellite radio. Zipcars accommodates 25,000 members sharing just 5,000 cars in three US cities. The company can read the milometer and even disable the ignition remotely using the GPRS connection. In effect, Zipcars is a car rental company already plugged in to the electronic highway.Chase says charging people for every kilometre they travel can be used to hold back global warming. "If you look at the gas tax, it's incredibly flat and regressive," she says. "Our cities are so congested because we have the wrong price point. It's too cheap, people consume too much."A fully equipped section of electronic highway, perhaps running a mesh network, promises to allow a remote, accurate assessment of how much each vehicle's journey is really costing. It opens up the possibility of bigger cars being charged more than smaller ones, and perhaps more sophisticated differentials beyond that. Farmers, she says, should be able to take their product to market at a very low cost, while those who "choose to drive thousands of kilometres should have to pay an extremely high price".Last year, the UK government published its white paper on the future of transport policy. It promised "freer flowing local roads delivered through measures such as congestion charging and demand-responsive bus services". To help make it happen, the government launched Transport Direct, which it describes as a "multi-modal travel information service". Already available as a website (www.transportdirect.info), the service will shortly be extended to mobile phones, digital TV and roadside kiosks - such as a Portsmouth bus stop.According to another document published by the Department for Transport, the system already pulls together information from 330,000 bus stops, 2,500 rail stations and 3m "defined nodes on the road network". The foundations for a mesh of electronic highways is already here.Such a network will no doubt upset privacy advocates, because suddenly, without much warning, a set of technologies will be able to monitor a vehicle's speed, road worthiness, the condition of its brakes, the amount of CO2 it emits, and even the status of its insurance policy. It will shatter contemporary notions of traffic controls.Make no mistake, we are accelerating towards a world where the speed camera will become as obsolete as the turnpike gate.&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.
So future phones are going to boast large screens, music and video playing facilities and offer all manner of communications and web surfing applications? Well, if last week's big announcement was anything to go by, that vision may be wide of the mark.Vodafone unveiled the first handsets in a range of phones it is calling Simply. The candy bar-style VS1 and VS2, made by French company Sagem, are aimed at users who just want to make voice calls and send text messages. There is no camera or Bluetooth, but they do have a large, easy-to-use colour screen and feature dedicated buttons for core functions, such as menu, contacts and ringer settings.The handsets are the result of Vodafone's market research, which concluded that more than a third of users feel new technology makes phones more difficult to use.So do most consumers just want the basics on their mobiles?Probably not, but the launch of these phones underlines two key trends in the mobile phone industry. First, networks need to offer a wide variety of handsets targeting different groups. "When it comes down to it, it is about segmenting your customer base to provide them with the phones and services that are relevant to them," says Stuart Jackson, of Vodafone's rival, Orange.Second, networks need to focus not only on delivering exciting new applications, but on making them easier to use. According to Doug Overton, head of communications at WDSGlobal, which provides data support for mobile phone makers and networks, there is still a long way to go."People are clearly finding that mobile phones are not necessarily intuitive things to use," he says. "There is definitely a need to simplify services and devices so that customers can start using their new phone straight out of the box."If networks don't work with manufacturers to simplify handsets, they could face some unlikely opposition from rivals. Tesco Mobile and easyMobile, for example, are developing no-frills services that target consumers who want uncomplicated mobiles and transparent tariffs."We believe the big brands will start bringing these new service offerings to market to offer consumers a cheap, easy-to-use alternative for those who don't want the added functionality and complexity of 3G," says Jawad Shaikh from Capgemini's telco, media and entertainment division.So with the likes of LG, and possibly even Nokia, offering basic services and feature-free handsets, the mobile phone really could be going back to its roots.Linkswww.vodafone.co.uk
It was bombed during the second world war, hosted battles between Ken Livingstone and Margaret Thatcher when it was the headquarters of the Greater London Council, and survived the installation of an art gallery and aquarium. Now London's County Hall is set to add another chapter to its colourful history.A variety of robots - which look as if they would be more at home in a scene from The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and include a 1.7 metre-tall fibreglass humanoid and a teddy bear - will meet and greet visitors to the building this summer.A team of four from the University of Essex is in the last stages of programming three robotic tour guides for the London Aquarium, situated in County Hall's basement. For the first time in the UK, robots will be left to interact with the general public by studying their faces, movements and voices. People will then be able to ask the mechanised helpers questions about exhibits using chest-high touch-sensitive screens and voice-recognition technology.The first robot - called Miranda, and bearing a startling resemblance to The Hitchhiker's Marvin the Paranoid Android - will greet visitors from July. Using a combination of infrared and sonar technology, the made-to-order &pound;10,500 automaton will be able to detect the presence of people venturing into the aquarium's entrance lobby, on the south bank of the Thames.If people show friendly behaviour, Miranda, which is powered by an onboard 800MHz PC, will move towards them on its wheels. It will then engage in simple conversation, before welcoming them and showing them various attractions on its chest-mounted screen. All of this will be delivered in English or French -Arabic, German and Spanish will be programmed into its 250MB memory later in the year.The project is the latest phase in a &pound;150,000 two-year project called RoboCity, a joint initiative between professor of robotics Huosheng Hu and the London Aquarium. The aim is to see whether the one million people that visit the aquarium every year are ready for what Hu calls "a robotic invasion in the 21st century".According to latest annual figures from the Robotics Industries Association, the global robotics industry is worth &pound;550m. Hu says: "Computers were the big thing in the 20th Century, now it's robots. Too often our experience of robots and robotic technology stems from watching the latest science fiction movie rather than from actually interacting with them. This is something the project hopes to address."The robots' cutting-edge exploits are down to the implementation of research undertaken at the University of Essex into neural networks - which allow robots to effectively learn from their mistakes - and open source software, where source code can be modified for a programmer's specific needs. Because they have the potential to detect rudimentary emotions via cameras in their eyes, such as when tourists are bored, it is hoped that by early next year the robots will identify lost, crying children, calm down stressed individuals, or provide entertainment for people waiting in queues."Some people expect the robots to be remote controlled, but they're not. Although that is tempting," says research assistant Paul Cardy, who has worked with Hu on the project.In August, the first machine will be joined by Bobbie Bear - a one metre-tall adaptation of a conventional teddy bear - and the &pound;16,300 Atlas PeopleBot, which was purchased from New Hampshire-based robotics firm ActivMedia last December. While each robot uses different technology to employ similar ends, all are maintenance free. Using a laser-guided navigation system that recognises landmarks, such as the two vertical posts of a doorframe, the Atlas PeopleBot will be able to calculate its coordinates as it moves. Unskilled personnel can oversee its trips to a battery recharging point in the floor.The team behind the robots is understandably nervous about how their metal friends will be received. Cardy says: "There's still a profound difference between the perception of robots in the UK and somewhere like Japan, where inanimate objects are often thought to have souls. Most people here see robots as a novelty."Not everyone is happy with the rise of the robots. Richard Pughe, from Chingford, Essex, who regularly visits the aquarium with his daughter Isabel, says: "I think it's terrible. Why can't people do the same job? It all started with the vending machine. I say bring back the dinner lady."&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
It has been a season of contrasting fortunes for two of English football's biggest clubs. While Chelsea revel in success after winning their first league championship in 50 years, a trophyless Manchester United face rebellion from supporters after a takeover by American tycoon Malcom Glazer.But despite their differences, there is one thing the two clubs agree on - the internet. Both have recently signed deals to offer club-branded internet services to fans, claiming they want to tackle their broadband rivals.The reason for opting into these services is two-fold: to cash in on the increasingly lucrative broadband market, and to provide more ways for fans to connect with their club. "We have millions of fans in the UK," says Mark Hargreaves, the general manager of Manchester United Interactive.The service is being provided by Viatel, in what must mark a watershed for the long-standing network operator four years after it collapsed with debts of nearly $3bn. For &pound;29 a month, fans of both clubs are being promised a 2Mbps uncapped internet connection, club email addresses and free access to online content from club portals. If it is done properly, it could be a compelling deal."There are over 50,000 new broadband subscribers every week," says Lucy Woods, the chief executive of Viatel, and about 45% of consumers consider themselves football fans. "We believe this will be a key driver in the uptake and renewal of broadband services."There's a lot at stake, but Viatel say it is not only big clubs who could benefit: small clubs with closer links to their local fanbase could also. "We have been talking to a range of clubs, including some of the biggest clubs in England and Scotland," says Viatel's Stuart Blythe. "But we are also talking to smaller clubs."That includes giant-killing Motherwell, who last week beat Celtic and handed the Scottish title to Rangers in a thrilling end of season finale.But is this simply big business moving from one area to another? Clubs are always keen to find new revenue sources, and if early adopters find success, this kind of affinity service could be something we see more of. There are other sports that could adopt it - formula one, for example - and internet deals by other big brands such as Tesco.net have already had success.There is another possible reason for moving into broadband that may be about more than just short-term profit: it could provide clubs with a loyalty-based broadcast platform. With fast internet connections - and no upper limit on downloads - clubs could take advantage of being able to play match footage, perhaps live, over the web."Sports clubs have been doing affinity deals since time began," says Chris Tate, the managing director of Chelsea Digital Media. "We're playing in Korea this summer and are showing the matches live to broadband customers. This is really a springboard to see where we can go."Both clubs stress, however, that regular live webcasts are not yet on the horizon.Some fans may feel this is just a way to make yet more money out of them. But clubs say they want these deals to work for everyone. Chelsea are naked in its ambitions for the broadband service. "What's our aim?" wonders Tate. "Simple: we want every Chelsea fan who has broadband to get it through us."&#183; If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games - MMORPGS - used to be seen as a niche gaming home for bearded obsessives. Not any more. Following on from World of Warcraft's massive success - 3 months on and my addiction is still total - comes news thatGuild Warsis number one across the UK, US and most of the European PC charts. Guild Wars is typical fantasy fare, but bucks the MMORPG trend by not charging a monthly fee and by focussing on pvp (player versus player) combat. Combine this with fact that it has cut out some of the grind - where players undertake repetitive tasks to gain levels - and you can see why the game has done so well. However, I'd argue that World of Warcaft, with its stunning virtual world, is still the superior game, and it's clear that WoW's accessibility has demystified the genre allowing competitors like Guild Wars to do well. But does the success of these, and other titles like Everquest 2, mean MMORPG's have finally hit the mainstream? I think it does.
As incredible as it may sound, E3 2005 wasn't completely dominated by big sequels, tie-ins and brand extensions. There were a few new titles lurking about if you knew where to look (i.e. not on the EA stand). I've collected twenty of the most interesting examples – here are the first ten. I couldn't face anything that looked like a cartoon-style third person platform adventure, or an edgy street gang shooter so don't expect anything along those lines.Ten more tomorrow... I promise.Eyedentify – PS3The 30 second trailer shown at E3 didn't reveal too much about this next gen EyeToy title, but it appears to involve two female spies and some intriguing voice communication elements. Perhaps you're the Charlie to their Angels?Gamespotmakes a few more guesses and adds some screens.SpyToy – PS2More of a surveillance toy than a game, SpyToy allows you to set up an EyeToy camera to guard your room. The motion sensitive system records video footage or snapshots of any intruders, and this 'evidence' can be saved to memory card. There's also a selection of spy-themed mini-games. Certainly can't see this one being abused in student houses throughout the world…Games Radarhas some images.Buzz – PS2The latest 'lifestyle' game from Relentless Software, previously responsible for DJ Decks &amp; FX as well as elements of the EyeToy titles. It's a music quiz that users a buzzer-style peripheral rather than joypads and is aimed very much at casual users.Here'san interview with the company's Creative Director (and Guardian E3 diarist!), Dave Amor.Shadow of Colossus – PS2The latest mystical adventure from the makers of Ico was in a slightly more developed form than footage revealed earlier in the year. Magnificent locations, emotive character design and those giant enemy beasts all had fans drooling. Already appears to be in a different class to most adventure titles out there. More info onIGN.Lost in Blue – Nintendo DSAlready being referred to as an unofficial videogame conversion of soppy '80's shipwreck movie Blue Lagoon (i.e. the one with Brooke Shields, indecently young and clothed only in bikinis made out of leaves and moss). Why do we need such a thing? Who cares – it's different and it doesn't involve gangsters. You're stranded on a desert island with a teenage girl and must learn various hunting, cooking and survival skills to progress. Thisscreenshot galleryshould give you an idea of what to expect from Konami's combination of Ico and Metal Gear Solid 3.Black – PS2, XboxIn which Criterion brings the philosophy behind Burnout – accurate physics, breathless action, lots of explosions – to the first-person shooter. Guns replace cars as cool fetish objects, enemy death animations replace crash sequences for jaw-dropping replay fun. There's a vague anti-terrorist plot set in and around Eastern Europe, but really it's all about the adrenaline rush.Here'sa pre-show report and some screens.Gears of War – Xbox 360Visually breathtaking third-person action strategy romp based on a distant planet where human colonists are battling terrifying aliens. Makes quite spectacular use ofUnreal Engine 3and promises an intense shoot 'n' shock experience. IGN have written one of their very detailed 'hands-on' articleshere.Genji: Dawn of the Samurai– PS2This historical sword fighting adventure from Game Republic, the studio set up by ex-Capcom producer, Yoshiki Okamoto, has been seen in various forms since it was announced last year, but the E3 demo seemed to tidy up a few graphical areas. Inspired by the 11th century proto-novel,Tale of Genji, the game boasts a densely detailed environment and a compelling mythological storyline. Theofficial Japanese websitehas screens. And nice music.Okami – PS2The latest release from Capcom's Clover Studio is not only an astonishingly beautiful game – taking its graphical style from Japanese wood block art – but also the originator of a new genre, the 'nature adventure'. You play as Amaterasu, the mythical sun god who has come to Earth as a wolf to destroy monsters and restore colour to the land. There's more infohere, or you can check outClover's own site.Alan Wake - PCRemedy's follow-up to the Max Payne series is a psychological action thriller centered around a horror writer who spirals into madness when his fiancé goes missing. Set in the small town of Pride Falls, Washington, those whosawthe E3 demo are talking 'Max Payne meets Twin Peaks', but there are elements of Silent Hill and Stephen King's Dark Half in there too.
Given half a chance, my 11-year-old would spend hours with his eyes fixed to a screen, hands working frantically at the controller, oblivious to the outside world. Just like a million other kids. And, like a million other parents, I worry about it. So imagine my delight - not to mention scepticism - at finding a book, Everything Bad Is Good for You, which says that my son is actually improving his mind. And the author is no wishful-thinking game-addicted twentysomething, but a respected academic and father of two. When I met him in London, he seemed entirely sane."That fixated look the kids get is a look of focus, not of being a zombie," says Steven Johnson, author and lecturer in interactive telecommunications at New York University. "It's a brain working hard." Today's games are complex, he says, and parents should have a go at them: "You'll find they're both more entertaining and more difficult than you expect."Recent research shows that video games can improve visual intelligence and hand-eye coordination, but Johnson goes further. He thinks they increase IQ. There is an upward trend in American IQ scores - the kind based on abstract graphics and pattern-spotting - and Johnson believes this is due to the nature of modern popular culture, to the brain development gained from interactive media. Not only do most games require you to remember multiple combinations of buttons (and use them fast), but often there are few established rules. Adults are likely to say: "What am I supposed to do?""It's as if each time you start a game of chess, the moves have been scrambled and there are no instructions," says Johnson. "When you make a move, you get feedback and you have to work out the moves and the rules as you play the game."Johnson calls this process "probing". It is followed, he says, by "telescoping" - prioritising multiple objectives into a scheme to get you to the final goal. "These are raw skills that can be applied to other parts of life," he says, "core building blocks of what it means to be smart. People who are successful in life are good at these things."And the games are far from instant gratification, Johnson insists. "There are a lot of chores in games. In fact, in The Sims &#91;where you control the lives of a group of people&#93;, you have to do real chores like clearing the dinner off the table, otherwise flies get at it, the people aren't happy and you do badly at the game."I don't notice my son instantly clearing the dinner from the real table, or "probing" and "telescoping" the actions necessary to be able to play his violin perfectly, but Johnson shrugs and grins: kids will be kids.He is not claiming that games are as challenging as learning a musical instrument; merely that they are more challenging than other forms of popular entertainment. "Kids today are doing more intellectually rigorous things than we were," Johnson says. "If we were sitting round in the 70s reading Middlemarch all day, perhaps that wouldn't be true, but most of us were watching Charlie's Angels."But wouldn't Johnson rather his child read a book than play a video game? No, he insists, games teach you things a book won't. Of course, he adds, you won't get from games what you can get from books: narrative, cogent argument, understanding of the human psyche. "I am a huge fan of books. I write books for a living. Kids should be encouraged to read." And also, he agrees, to play outside, talk to friends and do their homework.Johnson does recognise the perennial problem of peeling kids away from the screen to do these other things: "Games have an amazing power over a mind. Part of that is healthy. It gets kids thinking in a rigorous way. But there is a dark side: suddenly it's five hours later and they've forgotten about real life. Parents have to be strict about that. Tell them, 'I'm not saying your games are worthless, but they can be addictive and you have to be careful.' "Which goes for adults, too. If you intend to follow another of Johnson's suggestions, to join your kids in the game, then beware! My husband did this - and the kids loved it - but he became so involved that he was to be found playing alone long after the boys were in bed.Even if we accept that games are mind-stretching, aren't some of them just too violent? Johnson says content should be age-appropriate. He wouldn't give his four-year-old Grand Theft Auto (a violent game in which you try to build a criminal empire), but he adds, "If you've got a 17-year-old who is watching Martin Scorsese movies, then I wouldn't panic if he's playing this game." Ultimately, the value of games is not in their content, Johnson stresses; that would be like wanting chess to teach morality. "Games are not about what you are doing; they're about the way you have to think to do them."Rather than trying to pull the child off the computer all the time, Johnson suggests, parents should encourage them to play games that are mentally stimulating. He recommends "the god games": Sim City (his favourite, in which you build a city from scratch), The Sims, Age of Empires, Civilisation and Black and White (in which you actually play a god). The Nintendo Zelda games are full of challenging puzzles, and some of the more sophisticated sports simulations, in which you manage teams, "are like a business school education"."The ones I object to are the first-person shooters where all you do is go around firing," he says. "You won't get anything out of that but hand-eye coordination." Johnson would like to see games rated not just for content but also by their cognitive engagement.The bestselling games, Johnson points out, are usually the most complex. Gamers are not would-be zombies after all, but are looking for a challenge. Parents and teachers need to recognise the strengths of popular culture and what it is teaching our children, but also recognise what it does not teach. We need to fill the gaps, he says, particularly in verbal and emotional intelligence and social skills. Although he observes that given the chance, children will play video games in groups, and interact with each other as much as with the game.So what will I do with my 11-year-old? My new plan is to stop running down his game-playing, look a little more closely at the games he is choosing, and stick to my guns when it's time to turn the thing off and do something else.&#183;Everything Bad is Good for You, by Steven Johnson, is published by Allen Lane, price £10
iCon -- Steve Jobs: The Greatest Second Act in the History of Business, by Jeffrey S. Young and William L. Simon, got a lot of publicity because Apple's CEO, widely regarded as a control freak, responded to its impending publication in characteristic fashion: "by removing all copies of other Wiley books from Apple's chain of retail stores".This weekend, Alan Deutschman reviewed iCon in theSan Francisco Chronicle, pointing out that stretches of it were summarised from his own bio, The Second Coming of Steve Jobs."Every author wants his work to influence later tellings, but hey, guys, this is kind of pushing it. I don't know whether I should feel flattered or ask for my fair share of the book's royalties."The iCon review doesn't tell you much about the book, though it does make it sound pretty lame. However, it does point out that Jobs can't exert the same control over books that he exerts over other media because mainstream book publishers don't need his "exclusives," his advertising, or even shelf space in his Apple Stores.
"The Federal Trade Commission, in conjunction with 35 government partners from more than 20 countries, on Tuesday launched Operation Spam Zombies, an international campaign designed to educate Internet service providers about hijacked, or 'zombie,' computers on their networks," reportsInformation Week."The FTC's primary weapon in its war against zombie spam is bulk E-mail. Twenty members of the London Action Plan, an international anti-spam group, and 16 additional government agencies will E-mail several thousand ISPs around the world, asking them to take steps to protect the computers on their networks. These steps include blocking certain outbound server ports used by spammers, applying rate limiting controls on E-mail relays, profiling mail-sending patterns to identify likely zombies, and providing end-user security information and remediation tools."Comment:I guess we should hope that the FCC's bulk e-mails aren't just blocked as spam....
One song hails from an album that took years to craft and perfect, the delays in its conception seriously denting profits for EMI as fans across the world awaited its release. The other was obviously whipped up in a matter of minutes by a dodgy German dance act with an 80s record collection and a sampler.Nevertheless, following the cliche that there is no accounting for taste, the Crazy Frog ringtone appears to be jumping over Coldplay's Speed of Sound towards this week's number one spot.Anyone who has watched a commercial television channel over the last few weeks can hardly have failed to be assaulted by adverts for the hideously annoying Jamster Crazy Frog ringtone.Not content, however, with having the thing on their mobiles, it appears droves of people - a predicted 150,000 this week alone - want Crazy Frog in their CD players too, and the tune is set to become the first mobile ringtone to make it to the top of the charts.Record shops yesterday reported that the single by German band Bass Bumpers, which mixes the ringtone with Axel F, Harold Faltermeyer's theme tune from the film Beverley Hills Cop, is outselling Coldplay by a margin of around four to one.HMV spokesman Gennaro Castaldo said: "Given the amount of exposure and advertising Crazy Frog has had, it shouldn't be that surprising that it's heading for number one. The only real issue is whether the record label can press enough copies to meet demand."Although it would have been nice to get to number one, it is not the end of the world for Coldplay, as most of their sales will come when the album is released on June 6," he added.
Thanks are due to Westminster City Council, who kindly invited one of Online's hacks to a press conference on the London Eye the other day. The event was being held to launch a partnership providing wireless connection throughout the borough - a Westminster equivalent of Islington'stechnology mile.Fantastic stuff... except that security wouldn't let our poor reporter on - because he was carrying a laptop.In the words of the intrepid hack: "What do they expect Guardian journalists to use -Underwood Uprights?"
Bulletin Board Systems, or BBSes, were social applications on early computers that allowed local users to connect via personal computers and digitally "hang" with one another. They were virtually wiped out by the mass-acceptance of the Web and other Internet applications, but one dedicated computer historian is determined to keep this little bit of social software alive. Who knows, if it wasn't for BBSes, there's be no MUDs, no CounterStrike and no Ultima Online. It doesn't bear thinking about.Long before the Internet escaped from the lab, connected the planet and redefined what it meant to use a computer.......there was a brave and pioneering band of computer users who spent their time, money and sanity setting up their home computers and phone lines to welcome anyone who called. By using a modem, anyone else who knew the phone number of these computers could connect to them, leave messages, send and recieve files.... and millions did.They called these places "Bulletin Board Systems", or BBSes. And their collections of messages, rants, thoughts and dreams became the way that an entire generation learned about being online.When the Internet grew in popularity in the early 1990s, the world of the BBS faded, changed, and became a part of the present networked world.. but it wasn't the same.Gohereto order your copy of BBS: The Documentary and pay your respects to connectivity.Viaboing boing
Tuesday's Evening Standardran an article on the Xbox 360 parental controls - an early indication of how tabloid newspapers will cover the next generation consoles. It appears that Microsoft's efforts to keep violence out of the hands of children may be used as a jumping board for wider concerns over increasingly 'realistic' game content. The scan, by the way, comes fromUK:Resistancewho make it very, very clear that theyfoundthe newspaper on a train.
Hydra, the world's most powerful chess computer, announced it had the upper hand soon after the first pawn slid across the board."Your progress is not good," said Akhtar Hashmi, the technician who was relaying my ineffectual moves to Hydra via the keyboard of a laptop computer. "Hydra's progress is excellent."Clearly, blind aggression was not going to have the desired effect. If the game had been evenly matched, the computer would have registered an advantage rating of 0. After four moves it   calculated my advantage as -3 and falling fast. When I lost my queen in an audacious attempt to baffle the machine, it dropped to -10."It is time for you to resign," said Hashmi. "Many players would resign at -7."A few moves later, the advantage was -18 and the game had turned into a rout. "Checkmate will be in five moves," said Hashmi.He was right. Hydra quickly herded my king into a corner and the match was over in 17 moves and 14 dismal minutes. It would have ended sooner, but I had been moving my pieces rather slowly.Hopefully, Michael Adams, the UK's leading chess grandmaster, will exact some revenge when he begins a six-match tournament against Hydra at the Wembley Centre in London on June 21. If he wins, Adams will take home a prize of &#163;80,000. But Hydra, which is housed in a secure, climate-controlled room in Abu Dhabi and plays its matches via a high-speed internet connection, has never lost against a grandmaster.Developed by the Abu Dhabi-based PAL Group, Hydra uses 64 computers that operate as a single machine. It can analyse 200m chess moves in a second and think up to 40 moves ahead. Its technology can also be applied to supercomputer tasks such as DNA and fingerprint matching, code-breaking and space travel calculations.Adams, who became a grandmaster at 17 and has played almost 2,000 games in international tournaments, is understandably cautious about his chances."I know it will be a very tough match, but I will do my best," he said at the announcement of the contest at a London hotel yesterday. "You have to adopt a slightly different strategy against a computer because there is no way you can compete against that massive processing power. I will be using intuition and experience to take the computer into positions it is uncomfortable with."But it takes a lot to make Hydra uncomfortable. The computer can project six moves further ahead than IBM's famous Deep Blue machine, which played a series of matches against the Russian champion Garry Kasparov in 1996 and 1997. The first time they met, Kasparov beat Deep Blue 4-2. A year later it defeated him in a six-game tournament in New York.Hydra's 48-year-old Austrian developer, Chrilly Donninger, describes it as Deep Blue's successor. "The basic design is much cleaner," he said. "Hydra's philosophy is to flutter like a butterfly and sting like a hornet."John Saunders, the editor of British Chess magazine, said Adams stood a good chance of earning some draws against Hydra because he had a "safe, steady" style of play that was well suited to taking on a machine. Kasparov, in contrast, was vulnerable against chess computers because he liked to take chances.But Saunders does not think Adams will win the tournament and believes computers now have the upper hand over human players. If Hydra wins next month it will be the final confirmation of their supremacy."If Michael gets wiped out my feeling is that it really will be the end," said Saunders."A few years ago the players were making sure they didn't win by too much, now they are having to hang in there when they play a machine. The advantage is with the computers."Richard's rout in fullFor connoisseurs, here is the match move by move:White:Richard JinmanBlack:Hydra1. e4 c52. Bc4 Nf63. Qf3 Nc64. Nc3 e65. Nb5 a66. Nc3 Ne57. Qf4 Nxc48. b3 Bd69. bxc4 Bxf410. e5 Bxe511. g4 Nxg412. d3 Bxc3+13. Bd2 Bxa114. Nf3 Qf615. O-O Qxf316. Rxa1 Qxf2+17. Kh1 Qxh2#
"PalmSource Inc, which develops operating system software for handheld computers and phones, on Monday said David Nagel has stepped down as president, chief executive officer and director," reportsReuters."The company gave no reason for Nagel's departure, which was effective on Sunday, and a PalmSource spokeswoman declined any comment."Comment:That's a bit of a shock, as Nagel pretty muchwasPalmSource, at least in public. But it is much the weakest of the major players, and wasn't making much progress.The last time I talked to Nagel was at a Comdex expo when he appeared on a panel presenting PalmSource's strategy alongside representatives from Microsoft and Symbian. They could all have used the same slides, with only the names changed, because there wasn't any real difference in their strategies. It became all too obvious that potential backers could easily exclude PalmSource and then make a binary decision on whether they were for or against Microsoft, leaving Nagel on a hiding to nothing.And things have got worse since then, with Sony dropping out of the global PDA market and PalmOne failing to adopt the latest PalmSource code....
Mobile phone company Orange has taken over from Vodafone as offering the best customer satisfaction to users on monthly contracts while Virgin Mobile has been named as best for pay-as-you-go users for the second year running.The JD Power and Associates 2005 UK mobile phone customer satisfaction survey, published today, shows Orange scored 746 out of a possible 1,000 points among those on monthly contracts - eight points ahead of last year's top firm, Vodafone.Virgin Mobile remains the champion of the pay-as-you-go sector with 753. Vodafone was again second in the pre-pay category after scoring 742.T-Mobile is the only provider to come in below the industry average for both pre-pay and contract - it scored significantly less than its rivals.J D Power said the study showed most consumers are happier with their supplier's service than they were a year ago. In the pre-pay market overall, customer satisfaction increased from 711 in 2004 to 723, while contentment in the contract market rose from 720 to 733. About two-thirds of the 50m mobiles in Britain are on pay-as-you-go plans.With the exception of handsets, satisfaction levels rose in every sector - the survey asked questions about image and special offers, as well as about call coverage and value for money.When asked about the main reason for selecting their network provider, 15% of those interviewed cited the fact that their friends, families or colleagues were on the same network, while a further 8% indicated it was because the network had been recommended.Gunda Lapski, director of   European telecommunications and utilities services at JD Power and Associates, said: "It pays to satisfy your customers, because those most satisfied will give the highest number of recommendations, thereby increasing sales. A good reputation can have a positive impact on the number of customers held by a provider."Overall, Virgin performed the best in terms of customer   recommendations, with nearly 50% of its pre-pay customers stating they would definitely recommend their current network provider, while 45% of Orange contract customers said they would do the same.Handsets remain a fast-moving market, with nearly half of all customers having replaced their handsets in the past 12 months. Half of those asked use a Nokia.The popularity of mobile technology and photo messaging continues to grow, with 35% of mobile owners taking photos and 21% reporting that they send photos from their mobiles. More mobile users are now using the internet to check their mobile phone accounts, said the report.The JD Power and Associates UK Mobile Telephone Customer Satisfaction Study was based on 2,200 telephone interviews conducted between March and April 2005.
Should you ever find yourself driving through the Arctic and a herd of reindeer suddenly scuttle into the middle of the icy road ahead of you, then the new Skoda Octavia 4x4 estate is the sort of car it is very, very good to be behind the wheel of.When I was a teenager, way back in Skoda's bad old ugly-duckling days, a pal's dad owned a bright orange one. If you turned the radio up, the car all but came to a standstill. Nowadays they have brakes - very sharp brakes - and there are four reindeer in the Arctic still alive today thanks to that piece of progress. (Actually, they may be dead by now; reindeer, we later learned, aren't  very bright, having yet to twig that locals often respond to their friendly advances by shooting them, eating them and wearing them.)This sortie into 4x4 territory is Skoda's attempt to cash in on what could be called the Chelsea-tractor backlash, the feeling - shared by an increasingly vocal band - that there are now too many hulking, planet-destroying 4x4s out there being piloted, in the main, by fake-tanned fools whose idea of rough driving conditions is running out of Wet Ones. So, for those who genuinely desire (and possibly even need) the extra security of four-wheel drive to tackle tough terrain but don't want it to cost the earth (in either sense), the Czechs have handily squeezed a 4x4 system into a normal-sized estate. The result is a 4x4 that's a whole lot easier on the wallet, the planet, and hopefully the conscience.Skoda is equally proud of the fact that this has been accomplished without any loss of boot space, which is not always the case in 4x4 versions. With the seats down, the manual says, there's 1,600 litres of room back there, and if anyone can think of a sensible way of testing that figure, do write in.To show its confidence in the robustness of its brainchild, Skoda has decided to launch it in one of  the most extreme places on the planet: inside the Arctic Circle, where it can get to -30C on a good day. There's a book out right now called Shipwrecked, which relates the horrific story of four Russian walrus-hunters who got marooned  in the Arctic Circle in 1743. They had to survive in sub-zero conditions, living off reindeer and repelling  polar bear attacks with homemade spears. For six years. The school run this ain't.The first test involved a spin round a snowtrack dotted with road cones, some of which were soon squashed flat or hanging off bumpers. This offered an early introduction to the wonders of the "magic button", the little switch on the dashboard marked "ESP". This stands for electronic stability programme, which is nothing particularly new, but Skoda seem to have taken this to a whole new level - an Arctic level.Even on these frozen wastes, ESP managed to tweak the brakes and throttle to avoid any skidding whatsoever. Or, to put it simply, it stops the car from behaving as if it's being driven by a hoodie in a carpark after dark. Any hair-raising, back-end-swinging ride is transformed into a safe, sensible, straightforward trip. To put it even more simply, that button is dad. I switched it off while slaloming neatly round the cones and instantly ploughed right into three of them.An off-road forest track was next. (Off road in the middle of the Arctic: the satellite navigation system simply gave up. It was reduced to showing a solitary arrow on a black background: its way of saying, I suppose, that you are in big trouble.) The two-litre engine hurtled the car into and out of ruts and ditches, devoured the bends and pounded down the straights, as two men in a tow truck waited idly for business. It was as if the normally relaxed engine had suddenly woken up. "More," it seemed to scream, "more, more, more."It was quite a performance, and one more chapter in Skoda's own velvet revolution. History records that the first Skoda Octavia, also called the Spartak, left the gates of the factory in Mlada Boleslav in 1959, possibly under its own steam. It has now conquered the Arctic, on- and off-road. And while Skoda may be VW's budget brand, the quality of the interior and the level of equipment (air-conditioned glove compartment, rain-activated wipers) is easily comparable to a Golf. A triumph of engineering over image, it is even beginning to look quite stylish. Well, slightly stylish.The grand finale was to be a mad dash across a frozen lake, but sadly, global warming got there first. What was normally an esplanade of ice several metres thick was now a wafer-thin sheet above freezing water. Who knows, maybe the Octavia had a button you could press to get you across safely without dropping into the lake, back wheels first. Although that would have been one way of testing the capacity of the boot.&#183;Giles Smith returns next week.
Michael Adams takes on chess legend Garry Kasparov at a tournament in 1999. Photograph: Hidajet Delic/APThe world's most powerful chess computer, "Hydra", is set to take on Britain's top grandmaster, Michael Adams, in a six-match standoff next month - with the winner scooping a purse of £80,000.Hydra is a 64-way cluster computer - that's 64 PCs all hooked together - and its makers claim it can compute 200 million moves per second... and that it has never been beaten by a human.Adams, a prodigal chess talent who became a grandmaster at the age of 17, said he wanted to prove "that nothing can match the power of human creativity".I'm sure the chance of 80,000 smackers in his back pocket had little to do with it.
"The FBI is unraveling the latest in computer crime, hackers who are holding data files and documents hostage in exchange for ransom," reports theAssociated Press.The extortion program was detected by security researchers at Websense, after a corporate customer fell victim to a computer infection. It encrypted files that included documents, photographs and spreadsheets. A ransom note left behind included an e-mail address, and the attacker using the address later demanded 200 dollars for the digital keys to unlock the files.Large scale organised blackmail in the form of DDOS have been around for a while, but this is quite unlikely to be the last we hear of such datajacking.
There's a nice story in theFinancial Timestoday showing how technology can help reinvent struggling areas.Harland &amp; Wolff, Belfast's famous shipyard, once the symbol of Northern Ireland's engineering prowess, has been reinvented as the region's science park, which the authorities hope will herald a second industrial golden age. Or, as one local businessman put it, a move "from ships to chips".The inspiration behind the city's Institute for Electronics, Communications and Information Technology, which opens tomorrow, is John McCanny, professor of electrical engineering, fellow of the Royal Society and proven entrepreneur. He co-founded two high-technology companies, one of which invented the video technology behind Steven Spielberg's film Jurassic Park.The Harland &amp; Woolf park is far from being the only example of how technology firms can be brought in to help ease the pain of traditional industrial decline. Though many in run-down industrial areas voice genuine concern about switching from one industry to another, some parts of the country have benefited hugely from high-tech investment, as we wrote inan article last year.Good luck to those at ECIT hoping to regenerate Belfast into a wired city; perhaps it will help counterbalance the loss ofMedia Lab Europe(over the border in Dublin) earlier this year.
All prisoners should have access to the internet for educational, rehabilitation and recreational purposes, researchers said today.But inmates should be monitored to check they do not use the internet to plan and commit crimes or access illegal websites, according to charity the Forum on Prisoner Education.Its study, Internet Inside, said providing prisoners with internet access would enable them to pursue more educational courses and training, including Open University degrees.Giving them email would help with their resettlement and rehabilitation by allowing them to stay in touch with friends, families, tutors, lawyers and other professionals, the study added.The researchers also recommended that inmates in England and Wales wanting internet access sign up to an acceptable use policy, as has been done in Switzerland and Denmark.
Joystiqhas an announcement calling for gamers to sign up to play around in the pre-release version of the forthcoming Massively Multiplayer Online Game (MMOG)Ultimate Baseball Online(UBO), and as a former addict of the Intellivision'sMajor League Baseballgame, I'm sorely tempted. I'm also eager to find out exactly what massively multiplayer online baseball will be like, as my current perceptions of titles in this genre are dominated by the orcs and goblins "fayre" of leadersEverQuestandWorld of Warcraft, and others of their ilk.Sure, MMOGs that don't feature level 62 swords of Tolkien or similar such madness have been successful (Sims Online,City of Heroes,Toontown Online), but the releases of UBO and the forthcoming "massively multiplayer caRPG"Auto Assaultfrom City of Heroes publishers NCSoft suggest that the Western world's idea of the genre is about to be blown open by the non-orc forms that it could take.This could be very exciting indeed.And speaking of non-orc online games,Alicehas alerted me to the beta-release of Disney'sVirtual Magic Kingdom, a free web-based virtual world in a similar ilk to the digital community spaceHabbo Hotel, but with quests to pursue around the theme park. Curioser and curiouser.If Walt's progeny are embracing the genre, who knows what other corporate establishments could look to such an endeavour in order to heighten their brands and give consumers a greater sense of involvement in their fanstasies? MMOGEastenders, anyone?
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday May 28 2005The report below said that the court of first instance had turned down the company's appeal against earlier sanctions imposed on it. While this is so, these fines and other penalties are interim and a full appeal will take place in due course.The European commission stepped closer to imposing $5m (&#163;2.7m) a day fines on Microsoft yesterday when it gave the software group eight days to comply with sanctions imposed last year.Neelie Kroes, competition commissioner, said in Madrid: "The deadline is the end of this month and if it's not met then it's the end of the game. We made a deal that before the end of the month we would reach an agreement. We are waiting for the Microsoft people to do their homework."The two sides have engaged in brinkmanship manoeuvres since Ms Kroes's predecessor, Mario Monti, fined Microsoft a record &euro;497m (&#163;330m) in March 2004 for breaching anti-trust laws. He also demanded that the group offer a version of its Windows operating system without its MediaPlayer audio-visual system and share some of the secret protocols behind Windows with rival makers of servers.A Microsoft appeal against those twin sanctions was turned down by the court of first instance, Europe's second highest court, last December. Since then the two sides have been engaged in endless discussions about how to implement the "remedies". Ms Kroes, a Dutch Liberal, who said she had agreed the end of May deadline in talks last month with Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, said it was "premature" to say fines amounting to 5% of the group's daily turnover would be imposed immediately from June 1.But her officials suggested that a decision to open procedures for fining the company for non-compliance could follow swiftly if there was no breakthrough in the next week. Commission officials have privately accused the group of deliberately stalling during these protracted talks, including on a commitment to nominate a trustee to monitor its compliance.Microsoft, which originally promised to offer a version of Windows without MediaPlayer by February and to reach a licensing deal with rivals on interoperability by March, said it was working hard to reach agreement on full compliance with the decision.The group has failed to satisfy Ms Kroes and her officials that the version of Windows on offer is the best technically available. Disputes continue about the price it wants to charge rival operators for licensing its software protocols, with the commission convinced it wants to price competitors out of the market.
Unsurprisingly, despite being a pretty mediocre game, Star Wars Episode III has just topped the multiformat charts for the third week in a row. Of course, everyone is aware of the marketing power wielded by this bloated movie series, and that so much of the content is there purely to sell merchandise. But I felt this installment was even more explicit than the rest in its employment of videogame staples.Warning: Episode III spoilers aheadGeneral Grievous, for example, is a classic end of level character - ostensibly powerful, but with a key weakness that the player must identify and exploit. In this case, Obi Wan has to lop off each of his four arms to progress to the next level. In the clash between the wookies and the separatist troops, we've got a standard RTS duel between differently skilled factions - one organic, one highly technological.The climactic lightsaber duel is pure beat 'em up, taking place in a limited arena (lumps of metal floating above fatal lava) and more-or-less on a 2D plane. Earlier, we even get a classic Mortal Kombat finishing move when Anakin uses dual sabers in a scissor movement to decapitateCount Dooku. There's also a chase scene (Grievous vs Kenobi) so that a simple racing game can be constructed (indeed, THQ Wireless has created a mobile title based around this sequence), and all the stilted dialogue and character-led plot-twists could easily have come via a standard Japanese RPG.Of course, most modern blockbusters can be segmented into game genres in this way, but George Lucas seems to have turned the process into a particularly shameless artform, often signposting to developers where one game genre ends and another begins. Alternatively, he may be just stealing ideas from videogame design - which would be a fitting way of acknowledging the importance of videogames in maintaining the Star Wars brand, especially in the long gap between the two trilogies. Honestly, without the likes of the Super Star Wars series on SNES, and the X Wing and Tie-Fighter sims on PC, as well as countless other conversions, additions and spin-offs, would the welcome for Phantom Menace have been quite so grand?From action figures to Star Wars Galaxies, interactivity istheForce that pumps blood around the Star Wars body. The generation that got into Star Wars to begin with is the same generation that discovered videogames. And when Atari built its Star Wars arcade machine, here were the two key brands of that generation merging. From that point on, videogames and Star Wars have fed into each other, the former bulking out latter. The Star Wars movies were probably never strong or adult enough in themselves to maintain the mass appeal of the brand as the core audience grew older. But the games have created a universe in which Star Wars can be properly explored by the fans.A while ago I wrote a blog predicting that DVD releases of big brand blockbusters would soon come with interactive scenes so we could do away with the daft pretense that these movies stand as 'art' in their own right, and just get down to the videogame action. Episode III seems to be another large stride in that direction.
Loss-making telecommunications provider Thus yesterday warned that a sustained price war showed no signs of coming to an end. The company refused to set a target date for breaking even.The chief executive, Bill Allen, said: "We expect the aggressive pricing environment to continue throughout the year." Thus competes with Cable &amp; Wireless, Kingston, Energis and others in providing business customers with an alternative to BT.Mr Allen said there were few major contracts coming up for renewal, and most of these involved low-margin services.For the year to March 31 the group reduced its operating loss from &#163;22.5m in the first half to &#163;9.8m in the final six months.Shares in Thus closed down 0.25p at 14.25p.
Asda, Britain's second biggest supermarket, today entered the online entertainment fray by offering CDs, DVDs and games for sale on its website.The supermarket chain, owned by the US retail giant Wal-Mart, said it would offer 120,000 CDs, 20,000 DVDs and 1,700 games. The move puts it in direct competition with the market leader, Amazon, and its supermarket rival Tesco.Chart albums bought online will cost from £8.97, compared with £9.77 instore, and customers will be able to pre-order items ahead of their release.Current DVDs, which until recently cost around £30, now retail at less than £15 online, in specialist stores and in supermarkets such as Tesco, Asda and J Sainsbury.Like Tesco's online service, Asda's new venture is based on Jersey, meaning that items costing less than £18 will not be subject to the 17.5% value added tax levy applying to mainland sales.Supermarkets increasingly are turning to non-food items such as music, drugs, stationery and clothing because they offer higher profit margins than food products. As a result, supermarkets are squeezing high street retailers such as WH Smith and Boots.In its full-year report in April, Tesco said sales of home entertainment products had grown by 20% last year - double the group's already impressive overall growth rate.Internet shopping continues to grow at a dramatically higher rate than high street spending. Figures from the retail experts Verdict suggested UK online sales grew 27% last year to more than £6bn, although this accounts for still only 2.4% of the total retail market.
Channel 4 has to break away from television to become an "entertainment brand" active in everything from mobile phones to computer games, its chairman said.Luke Johnson, chairman since January last year, said  it had been wrong not to expand out of television earlier and now had to move fast to keep up with the competition.The broadcaster will soon launch 4Docs, a documentary channel available on broadband and screening documentaries from around the world, many of which Channel 4 has previously broadcast."It will lose us money but it won't cost a lot," Mr Johnson told a media summit at the University of Oxford's Said business school."We should have done all that before now but we are where we are. We have a digital radio station, Channel 4, 4Docs, E4, and another on Freeview &#91;More4&#93; stating later in the year."We have to build on that and get into live events, mobile phones, computer games perhaps, music and we have to get a move on."He admitted Channel 4's earlier foray into film content, FilmFour, had been a costly "disaster" that had to be scaled back but was now producing results.A new business development director will be announced this week, Mr Johnson said.The chairman also took aim at rival ITV, just days before the company's annual meeting, which is expected to show a decline in advertising revenues this year.Channel 4's competitor is suffering a critical and commercial mauling after viewers deserted its latest reality TV programme, Celebrity Love Island."They are profoundly timid organisation who are playing it safe, which is a very dangerous game in the long run. They are losing audiences hand over fist," Mr Johnson said."If they were innovative and breaking new ground they would be doing better critically and financially. They are going for the tried and tested and obvious and that why viewers have decided they are boring. Playing it safe is mostly a mugs' game."Channel 4 was taking the threat from personal video recorders seriously and had established a research unit to examine how audiences use PVRs, he said.Mr Johnson was cautious about their impact, because the people using PVRs, also known as digital video recorders, were early adopters and it was not yet known how the mass market would use them."The early adopters who have bought them aren't typical TV viewers."Mr Johnson said his aim was to leave the channel in "better shape than he found it". He also promised to "keep giving the BBC a hard time because without Channel 4 they wouldn't be as good as they are".&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Interesting report in theMedia Guardiantoday about Channel Four's plans to become an entertainment brand. So as well as TV and digital radio, C4 are planning to become, "active in everything from mobile phones to computer games". Gulp. No details have emerged yet, but you can imagine the Big Brother-style horrors that they have in mind. Or maybe they are planning a Location Location Location game? Armed only with Kirstie's special wall-knocking powers - Phil is available in co-op - players must explore a free-roaming commuter town, fending off evil gazumpers while matching couples with houses. Hopefully they are planning West Wing the game - now you're talking...
Further toprevious noteson Steven Johnson'sEverything bad is good for you, this Sunday's Observer had an article by the man himself entitledViva virtuality.Aleks is also talking about the article over on ourGamesblog, but it encapsulates what I thought was the best soundbite quote from the book:"The dirty little secret of gaming is how much time you spend not having fun."I'm sure anyone who's spent hours playing any number of frustrating games can agree on that; but it's amazing how many people who don't play games imagine that they're simply mindless pleasure-inducers.
Also in the WSJ today, and also on the subject of Apple, comes an article entitledAdding music players to cellphones won't be iPod killer some think. It's a fairly succinct analysis of why iPod is going to be tough to beat - and fortunately, it's one of the articles they've deigned to give away free, so I can link to it.Handset makers and wireless carriers think they have one big advantage in competing with Apple's hit digital-music player: Cellphones are already in most pockets and purses. Moreover, companies have successfully added functions to cellphones -- witness the camera phone. Could a built-in MP3 player become the next gotta-have-it feature?A host of companies are betting that it will. Motorola, Samsung Electronics, Sony-Ericsson Mobile Communications and Nokia are all chasing the prospect of digital-music riches, with new music-capable cellphones expected later this year.But it's far too early to write Apple's digital-music epitaph: Mr. Jobs still has a number of advantages that may prove more formidable than his challengers imagine.Those reasons? Well, Apple "may have the tech world's best consumer brand", while consumers are notoriously fickle with their mobile phones.Secondly, the jack-of-all-trades approach could be a serious design problem (though that's never really stopped people using camera phones).Then there's the question of how you get songs from your computer to your phone, and whether handset makers can actually make enough cash out of the enterprise.Personally, I think the product tends to aim either too high (very expensive phones for technogeeks who will already have iPod) or too low (no functionality, no memory). Why can't they manage the middle ground?If Apple - and other consumer electronics manufacturers - can produce a tiny, lightweight flash player with significant memory for around £70, then why can't mobile phone manufacturers simply build a similar thing into a handset?And no, I don't meanone of these.
It's been a busy weekend for Apple, it seems.First there was a recall of certainlaptop batteries(check your battery or use system profiler to find yourserial number) and then there was the news that the new version of iTunes would haveincreased support for podcasts.Now, though, it seems something more important might be on the radar - a possible link-up between Apple and chip giant Intel. Here's whatReuterssays:Apple Computer Inc. has been in talks that could lead to a decision soon to use Intel Corp. chips in its Macintosh computer line, the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday.The report, citing two industry executives with knowledge of recent discussions between the companies, said Apple will agree to use Intel chips.Neither company would confirm the report and an Apple spokeswoman told the Journal she would characterize it as "rumor and speculation."The reports are based on some information in the Wall Street Journal, and there are a few options: that this is a straight-forward deal between two tech firms; that this is complete guff; that this is part of a dealmaking strategy with Apple's current partner, IBM.But, as Mac Observer'sBrad Gibsonpoints out:Rumors of Apple using Intel chips in its computers have long been a subject of speculation. Published reports say Apple toyed with the idea of a Intel-based Mac back in 1992, but chose not to release it. In the past four years, Apple has been working on a version of Mac OS X that would work with Intel processors, sources have confirmed.
