I have been told that the abbreviation for broadband connections is megabits per second, not megabytes per second, so that the numbers are eight times as big as they would be. If this is true, why does it not seem to be widely mentioned?Kenneth LethermanCommunications speeds are usually given in bits per second because bits are what the communications company is supplying. This can include start bits, stop bits and other essential overheads. (You wouldn't expect an airline to weigh your luggage without including the weight of the suitcase.) What you do with the bits is a different matter. For example, it's possible to encode a single letter in five bits (Telex), 7 bits (ASCII) or 16 bits (Unicode).Usually, the receiving machine will convert the bitstream into 8-bit bytes. This leads to an apparent loss because bits are counted in decimal (powers of 10) whereas bytes are binary (powers of two). It actually takes1,048,5768,388,608 bits to make one megabyte.An "8 meg" broadband connection is nominally 8 million bits per second, but will be closer to 7Mbps after overheads. Still, this is not far off one megabyte per second. You can download a 100 megabyte file in about 120-140 seconds, ie a little over two minutes.The convention is to denote bits by using a small b (Mb, Gb) and bytes by using a capital (MB, GB), but the Guardian often gets this wrong.
I have a 2 meg Orange ADSL connection, which generally seems to work well, but while download is giving me a consistent 1.8Mbps, upload is only 0.2Mbps.David CasemoreThe A in ADSL stands for asymmetric, and the download speed is usually much faster than the upload speed. Orange's 2Mbps service offers an upload speed of only 256kbps, so your figure is not far out. Upload speeds of 500kbps and 800kbps are now available with faster services, including some from Orange. However, Orange's UK site appears to have no interest in providing this kind of information.
Stella Artois beer retails itself with the slogan "Reassuringly expensive". It's telling you upfront that it costs more, but telling you to enjoy the fact, even though other beers exist. Sonos, which makes multi-room, network-capable music systems, might usefully borrow the same motto. We'll come to why in a moment. But first, let's explain what Sonos's systems do, because it's a lot more complex than beer.Essentially, Sonos hooks into your broadband connection, looks for music on any network-connected storage (including computers you nominate) and then makes those files available via its own wireless network of "ZonePlayers", which are either amplifiers (the ZP100) or have a line-out you can hook up to a hi-fi (the ZP80). Sonos also does speakers. New to the range is the "ZoneBridge", which bridges between your network and the Sonos one. There's also a very nifty controller - with an iPod-esque scroll wheel - which lets you decide what music to play in which of multiple rooms, at what volume, and pick tracks for multiple queues of music for each of those rooms.As if that weren't enough, it will also play internet radio stations and - and! - you can subscribe to Napster's online subscription service for an all-you-can-eat music experience. Just about the only thing it can't do is navigate to any of the BBC's Listen Again pages - which is, it must be said, a real shame.The controller, which is brilliant in many ways - its proximity sensor means it lights up when you come close, and its scrolling is fluid - does have a couple of flaws: there's no parental lock, and it has menu-itis, with far too many choices accessible at any time. The ZonePlayers, too, need a simple Off button (especially via the console): in energy-conscious times, why have them always on?But the real concern is simply the price. Since Sonos launched here in mid-2005, its prices have barely fallen. The controller now is &pound;279, v &pound;299 then; the ZP100 now &pound;349, v &pound;369; the ZP80 is &pound;249 (and wasn't available before). In the US, those cost $399, $499 and $349; at present exchange rates, plus VAT, that's &pound;234, &pound;293 and &pound;205. That's a hefty markup, and as Dave Bancroft pointed out last time I wrote about Sonos (in 2006), for the price of a three-room system you could buy one Apple iBook and four of its Airport Express wireless streamers, plus Rogue Amoeba's AirTunes, and have cash left over.When prices don't fall, it implies either a lack of competition, or a well-established niche. Stella Artois has managed it in beer. While Sonos is brilliant, is it truly worth quite such a premium?Pros:Effortless setup; plays internet radio and Napster subscriptionCons:Pricey; functions can be done by cheaper rival productssonos.com
Wikipedia under fireWhat has Wikipedia done to make Seth Finkelstein huff and puff so blimpishly (Read me first, March 27)? Jimmy Wales broke up with his girlfriend! Jimmy Wales spoke at a conference for money! Jimmy Wales claimed a meal on expenses! Who cares? Like millions of others, I use Wikipedia all the time and contribute when I get a chance. I don't see this as a "quasi-mystical collective endeavour", just a bit of enlightened self-interest. I can't understand why these mild acts of altruism cause pundits like Finkelstein such irritation. He characterises Wikipedia as "a poorly-run bureaucracy with the group dynamics of a cult" whose processes are "gamed" through "romantic relationships". Really? I'm obviously missing out: last week I edited articles on Balham and The Fun Lovin' Criminals and Adenoidectomy - and nothing happened! The Imminent Demise Of Wikipedia is getting tedious.Sam Dutton, LondonA very important piece by the very smart Seth Finkelstein in the Guardian about Wikipedia and Jimmy Wales. Jimbo calls Seth a "troll"; the rest of us think Seth is brilliant. Go figure.calacanis.comLinked here not for Wikipedia-bashing but rather giggle potential when imagining how this might translate to various existing fandom wikis.cryptoxin.livejournal.comHere's my favorite "quote" from Wikipedia: "Jimmy Wales was born to a Parisian whore named 'Babette' during the French Revolution" (this can be still found on Wikipedia - it's part of the archived edits for the "Jimmy Wales" entry). Good reason not to take Wikipedia too seriously.adogsbreakfast.wordpress.comLost on SafariOne of the charges leveled against John Lilly by the Mac fanbois is that he's afraid of losing money to Apple (Why did Apple try to push its browser onto Windows PCs, March 27). The Guardian has it right: turn it back around on Apple and their quest for money.lucky13linux.wordpress.comExploring the standardsIn your article, you say: "Microsoft's next version of its browser will use web standards by default - but questions remain over other key technologies" (Internet Explorer aims to embrace the web again, March 13). Has anyone asked why, if Microsoft now supports web standards, the company hasn't in the past or doesn't now issue patches, in the same way it so regularly does to combat "malicious code which may harm your computer", to bring previous versions of IE up to compliance?Simon Atyeo, LondonThe toll of DellYou wrote: "Dell is already selling 15-inch Vista notebook PCs at similar prices - the Vostro starts at &pound;179 plus delivery and VAT" (Are subnotebooks stepping out of the shadows at last, March 27). Delivery is &pound;60, making a total price of &pound;270.32! You've fallen for a Dell marketing ploy.Kenneth Buckmaster, NewcastleBad old BluetoothHow is Bluetooth an "underrated technology" for sound when it gives a poorer sound quality than a cable and drains more battery power (Technophile, March 27)? I am also struggling to imagine any situation that would require my MP3 player to be in a different room to my speakers.Alastair Wright, LlanrwstNo ideaAm I to take it that the "idea" that "nobody owns ideas" is the only "idea" that listbox has ever had (Letters and blogs, March 27)? Otherwise he might not be so dismissive of the "concept" of intellectual property and its regulation. As for the "idea" that "ideas are not the province of government", what do you think they do all day? And what do you think they use to persuade us to vote for them and not the other guy?Root Cartwright, Radlett
The UK government's embrace of web 2.0 thinking seems set to tighten. In the week Gordon Brown became the first head of a European government to open a Twitter channel, his Cabinet Office minister, Tom Watson, pledged to turn upside down the British public's "recipient relationship" with official information.Watson was introducing a progress report on the Power of Information review, which last June urged the government to make better use of social media and to make its data available for reuse. Theinterim reportcontains 15 sets of promises for making official information more easily available for reuse. However, it's noncommittal on the original review's call for government trading funds to make their core data available for free unless there is good evidence to levy charges.An outdated modelIn his speech, Watson reaffirmed his support for Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign, suggesting that the government trading fund system had outlived its usefulness. That business model predates the era of web-based services mashing up data at low to zero cost, he said: "This new capability has fundamentally changed, for ever, the nature of the markets for information." He referred to a "lively debate" about whether the economy and society would be better served by giving the data away. That debate, of course, has been given renewed vigour by the publication alongside the Budget of the Cambridge economic study into the costs and benefits of making various trading funds' "public task" data free. That suggested the wider economy would see a net gain of &pound;164m from making raw data from the six biggest trading funds - Land Registry, Companies House, Ordnance Survey, the Met Office and the UK Hydrographic Office - available for free reuse.Driving this debate will be one job for the new "power of information taskforce" under Richard Allan, head of European public affairs at Cisco, and known in IT circles for publishing a blog while a Liberal MP. The taskforce, whose members also include National Archives chief Natalie Ceeney, "will help build the arguments", he said.Opening discussionThe interim report claims much progress is already being made. It reveals that the government intends to make more information available in open formats rather than in structured forms, to make searching, commenting and reuse more easy. Official notices in the London Gazette will be available online in an open format next month. However, there are as yet no plans to make Parliamentary bills available in this way.In other areas, the interim report:&middot;Announces plans for experimental partnerships between Whitehall departments and user-generated websites. The idea is to avoid duplicating, or crushing, web communities on subjects such as health and education, but instead letting civil servants engage openly. It warns that partnerships can be "difficult" for both sides.&middot;Commends Ordnance Survey for embracing the challenge by launching the OpenSpace free data service for non-commercial users. It reveals that the service cost &pound;330,000 to set up, but that the impact on revenues of making more data available will be "slight".&middot;Reveals that work is under way on a government "information incubator" to encourage experiments with "mashups" and other innovative uses of government data. Partners in the &pound;300,000 project include Cambridge University, three multinational IT firms and the government web service Transport Direct.&middot;Notes that a web channel to gather and assess requests to re-publish public sector information should be ready in July. The Free Our Data campaign was among the organisations invited to help with the project, following a meeting with Michael Wills, minister of state at the Ministry of Justice.The report also promises more scrutiny for the way trading funds such as the Meteorological Office and Ordnance Survey deal in information. However it repeats the position of the Department for Enterprise, Business and Regulatory Reform that: "Information collected for public purposes will be made available at a price that balances the need for access while ensuring customers pay a fair contribution to the cost of collecting this information in the long term." If Watson's plans for free data go ahead, they are likely to be tested on a small (and cheap) agency.&#183;Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
The senior Google executive poached by EMI's new owners to overhaul its global digital strategy said yesterday that file sharing, for so long deemed the scourge of the music business, was "not necessarily bad".Glen Merrill was Google's chief information officer and one of the architects of the internet firm's successful flotation in 2004. He has been appointed at EMI to a new role overseeing all of the company's digital strategy, innovation, business development, supply chain and global technology activities.Since the rise of Napster, the music industry has blamed file sharing and peer-to-peer networks for the continuing slump in CD sales. With digital sales failing to bridge the gap, it is desperately searching for a new business model.But Merrill told the Guardian that Guy Hands, the Terra Firma chief executive who bought EMI last year, was "open to trying new models"."There is academic research that shows file sharing is a good thing for artists and not necessarily bad," said Merrill. "We should do a bunch of experiments to find out what the business model is."Previously, the music industry has rubbished studies that claim file sharing can have a positive effect on music sales. "I think people will pay," Merrill said. "There is evidence that people we think are not buying music are buying music. They're just not buying it in formats we can measure."He also criticised the approach of the major labels in pursuing individual file sharers through the courts. "It's a poor business model to sue your customers. I don't think that's a sustainable strategy."Hands has promised to overhaul the record label, home to Coldplay and Gorillaz, by slashing 2,000 jobs and the number of acts on its roster, finding new ways of making music pay and restructuring the business. But his high-profile restructure sparked a backlash from current and former artists including Robbie Williams and Radiohead.Merrill plans to experiment with ad-supported music download services, pointing to Google's success with targeted advertising, and subscription models.
Shine for womenYahoo has launched a new site calledShineaimed exclusively at "chief household officers" - or women.Norton for parentsSymantec has opened a"family resource" siteto advise parents on safe internet use for kids.Queen's YouTube channelQueen Rania of Jordan has started her ownYouTube channel"to bring down stereotypes and build bridges between our virtual East-West communities".Blu-ray rewriterLG has launched a portableexternal Blu-ray writerfor people who want to back up around 12,000 MP3 files on a single disc.What's new? NumonyxIntel and STM have createdNumonyx, a new company that combines their Flash memory businesses.EU's PrimeLifeThe EU is funding a three-year research project on privacy in a web 2.0 world:Privacy and Identity Management in Europe for Life.New and inferior?In the US, aclass-action lawsuitaccuses Apple of deceptive marketing by "concealing" the fact that its latest 20-inch iMac monitors are inferior to earlier ones.Malware boomsKaspersky Lab's reporton 2007 says it added almost as many viruses last year as in the previous 15.
House of the Dead is something that Sega recycles for any machine it can, delving back into halcyon days when it was a true innovator in the games world. This one features both the second and third parts of the four-episode zombie-shooter and feels both rushed and predictable. Graphically, it just about makes the grade, especially in Extreme Mode where zombies are thrown at you in larger numbers, albeit with occasional slowdown. However, it's still resolutely on-rails, blighted with as many cliches as thrills and an interface that barely favours the Wii Zapper over the standard Wiimote. For loud, mindless shooting there's plenty of bang for your buck, but for originality and challenge, look elsewhere.
It's now a popular way of trying to load malware onto users' PCs without them going to an evil or compromised website. In fact, they only have to click on a link in a Google search for a popular site, where the exploit has been preloaded. Sites affected include USA Today, Wal-Mart and ZD Net Asia, but it's spreading.An IFrame (which isn't another Apple product - it stands for "inline frame") is just a way of loading one web page inside another, usually from a different server. That can be useful for building online applications. But malware writers can make the included page just one pixel square - meaning you can't even see it's there - and obfuscate the JavaScript that will run automatically from that included page so that it looks something like %6C%20%66%72%61%6D%65%62%6F - leaving no obvious clue that it's malicious.When this idea got going, the IFrame code would be inserted by hacking web servers, or adding it to banner advertisements. Over the past six months, however, there has been a huge growth in the use of "poisoned" search results.Big websites often cache (store) the results of search queries run on their sites - say, the links for a search for "malware IFrame" - and then forward these to search engines such as Google, which can generate search results directly. Malware authors exploit the system by putting in a search query like "malware IFrame" plus all the malicious IFrame's text. If the site doesn't check search terms adequately for obfuscated Javascript, the IFrame data is stored and passed on. When someone then searches for "malware IFrame" and clicks a result, the attack is initiated directly from the search result, because the browser can read the obfuscated Javascript - even if you can't.Malware distributors like this because they don't need to hack the server, and can use popular searches to benefit from the site's SEO (search engine optimisation) practices and get a high ranking at Google. The attack usually includes half a dozen "drive-by" exploits, and also uses "social engineering" to get users to install something else, such as a video codec that is actually a Trojan. Windows users without theIE security update MS04-040(from 2004!) are particularly vulnerable. There seem to be lots of them.How can the attacks be stopped? Sites that cache searches must improve their input checking, and server operators can search for IFrame exploit code. Google is trying to remove malware search results, and automatically detects some exploits and warns that "This site may harm your computer".Windows users should make sure they have installed all security updates, and preferably upgrade to XP SP2 with IE7, or Vista. Running an active anti-malware guard can also help. That should just leave the people dumb enough to think they need to install a new codec to view porn.
The other day I went to a rehearsal of a new production of Hamlet at Shakespeare's Globe. I strolled in and took a seat towards the back which turned out to be slightly obscured by a column. It didn't affect the novelty of the experience, however, as it was all a bit experimental. It was happening in a recreation of the Globe theatre in the virtual world Second Life, where they have ambitious plans to stage the entire cycle of Shakespeare's plays eventually, using state-of-the art techniques to enable the actors to control the gesticulations of their on-screen avatars remotely by moving their arms up and down wherever in the world they happen to be. On this occasion, Marcellus was in England and other actors sprinkled around the globe. The author of what is still the most celebrated virtual world of them all, The Tempest, would doubtless have approved.This is one of a number of virtual Shakespearean initiatives. A joint one between Shakespeare's Globe in London (ie, the real-world reproduction on Bankside), the Museum of London and University College London - which has special skills both in Shakespeare studies and in futuristic virtual worlds using whole rooms, not just screens - envisages some fascinating scenarios (Living in a cave could be the way forward, Guardian, January 3 2008). They include a three-dimensional reproduction of Shakespearean London, in which anyone from tourists to children could move about in faithful simulations of Elizabethan streets on a computer screen. Even more ambitiously, the Museum of London is hoping to have life-size virtual people from Shakespeare's time greeting you as you walk down a simulation of an Elizabethan/Jacobean street. There are even ideas that children could meet an Elizabethan recreation of themselves (smaller, less well fed, with decaying teeth etc) and even shake hands with it.Hopefully, initiatives such as these will help change the results of last week's depressing survey by National Year of Reading which found that, among teenagers, reading Shakespeare was the most loathed thing after homework. This is a great shame since the internet has reinvented Shakespeare for anyone able to click on a search button. There are tens of millions of pages dedicated to the Bard, without including the tens of thousands of photos on Flickr.com inspired by all sorts of things including obscure tastes such as Cone Shakespeare, which invites you to upload photos of roadside traffic cones that bring to mind Shakespearean quotations.There is ageeky pagewhich ports "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day" to the scripting language ActionXcript 2.0 and my own minor contribution,shakespearesmonkey.co.uk. This has been running on a server day and night for around 10 years trying to reproduce two lines of poetry (47 letters) randomly in the manner of the mythical monkeys sitting at a typewriter. About six years ago it got as far as getting 13 letters correct and hasn't made any progress since. It could be a million years before it get 14 letters right at the same moment (though it could, of course, happen today). It doesn't work well on all browsers.For a comprehensive guide to Shakespeare online including blogs (would he have been a blogger today?) go toshakespeare.palomar.eduor viashakespeares-globe.orgor toFolgerin Washington, which claims to have more original documents than anyone else in the world, though it is not always free-to-browse as the wonderful British Library is. If you want to thumb through the first 1603 quarto of Hamlet using the British Library's pioneering page turning technology, go toTreasures in Full. The endlessly fascinating argument about who really wrote Shakespeare rages on in places such asonlineshakespeare.comand now has a cast big enough to be a play on its own.The amazing resources on the web reflect the fact that Shakespeare has probably never been more popular than he is today. Teenagers apart, that is.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Neil Thompson has just one word to describe what it felt like when he first experienced the Xbox 360's so-called red ring of death (RROD): "disappointing".That's an understatement. The trio of flashing red lights that gives the fault its name is an ominous sign telling gamers that their console has suffered a complete breakdown. And it's plagued thousands of Xbox owners since the problems first started making headlines a year ago.All this pain has been particularly acute for Thompson because he's not just any ordinary punter, but a senior director at Microsoft and the man responsible for Xbox in the UK. It's been a difficult time.Seeing redMore than a year after the first widespread reports of hardware failures appeared, it's still not entirely clear what causes the RROD. One apparent whistleblower from inside the Xbox team has blamed the problems on poor design and rushing the console to the market before it was ready.Still, Microsoft has refused to discuss the gory details of what went wrong, and Thompson himself is fuzzy when it comes down to defining the problem. "There is a certain percentage - not a massive percentage - of consoles that were experiencing disk failures or CPU failures, or whatever word we want to use," he explains.That's oddly imprecise phrasing for somebody who runs an enormous corporate sales operation. Can we be more specific? Was it the disk, the CPU, the graphics chip or any of the legion of other reasons that have been cited by experts?"My personal understanding of the precise technology isn't sufficient," he says. "But I do know that we've isolated certain elements that, for certain products that were produced, made them fail."Although Microsoft has refused to discuss exactly how many 360s suffered from hardware issues, it was clearly a significant percentage of machines. In the early days, the company suggested that rates came in at around 5%. However, one recent study found faults with 16.4% of all the Xboxes in a test group, and the problems forced the company to spend $1bn (&pound;500m) on a scheme to repair and replace bricked machines. "The first thing to say is I'm sorry that you've had a bad product experience, and hopefully we're doing what we can to solve that. The bottom line is that you want a product that is reliable.""It's obviously reinforced the fact that quality is paramount. It was something that we understood before, but it's become an intense focus. It's something you can't slip below - you have to maintain a quality bar."A $1bn cockup would be a salutary lesson for any company, but the Xbox's problems haven't stopped there. At the peak of the vital Christmas season, the Live service (used by millions of Xbox owners to play online) ground to a halt. Just when thousands of punters were ready to swarm onto the net, darkness descended.The reason, he says, largely boils down to the fact that Microsoft wasn't ready for the numbers wanting to use the service. That's despite a large proportion of them paying &pound;5 a month for the privilege."Incredible success brings some operational issues that mean we haven't scaled in the way we should have. As we said at the time, we apologise for that. It isn't the way we want to do business.""When you look at the scale of what we're running, I think we are actually quite good at it - we've got millions and millions and millions of people playing online across the world every day. It's not an insubstantial task to keep that going. Now that's not an excuse, that just context ... but we are breaking new ground with this - unfortunately, at Christmas, we failed the test."Two strikes would be plenty for most companies, but if Microsoft executives weren't already reeling, the new year brought another blow. The abrupt collapse of the HD DVD format (which Microsoft officially announced back in 2005) made the Xbox's high definition accessories obsolete and handed victory to Sony almost overnight.What does it feel like to back the wrong horse? Thompson laughs resolutely. "What do you mean?" he jokes. "The horse that we're fundamentally backing is the one that says the future of entertainment content is online digital distribution. I would argue that we backed the right horse."If we're sitting here in 12 or 18 months time, we'll be saying 'why were people even thinking about a disc format when it's really about digital distribution?' Our strategy's been developed for the last six or seven years, and ever since we launched the platform it [online content] has been our big, big, big bet."You'll pay for thisThat might be a relatively accurate description, but it conveniently misses some of the facts. After all, Microsoft clearly chose to avoid Blu-ray since it was supposed to form the heart of Sony's PlayStation 3 allure. It was Bill Gates himself who said that high definition discs had a place, even if they were "the last physical format".Thompson insists on swinging the conversation back to Microsoft's online plans. "I think it's much less significant than the transition from VHS to DVD," he says. "The fact that Sony are desperately trying to deliver an online offering means they probably understand that there's another front they have to develop for."The online efforts of Sony and Nintendo might remain fairly basic, but they are improving all the time. However, the suggestion that Xbox Live could become completely free is met with a shake of the head. "What we offer is the deepest, most involving service of anyone, and I think the fees we charge are appropriate," he says. "Would I want to pay for the service my competitors offer? No, because they're not offering anything near what we do."If Microsoft's foibles are considered no longer troublesome, then the company is equally dismissive of its rivals' successes. Even the continued rise of the casual gaming market - typified by the Wii's suite of family-friendly titles, but also by PlayStation games like Guitar Hero and SingStar - is apparently no cause for concern. (There are, he says, more casual games available on the Xbox than any of its competitors.)The message is coming through loud and clear: all's fine in Xbox town. Having deep pockets, it seems, makes trouble a lot easier to deal with. Not even hardware issues, a horde of disgruntled customers and a crucial defeat to their biggest rival can get Microsoft to break a sweat.But underneath the corporate, maybe there's an easier way to gauge Microsoft's response to all this tumult. Just last month Xbox prices were slashed, with the most common package dropping significantly by &pound;50 to &pound;199. Perhaps actions really do speak louder than words.
I'm buoyant! Jubilant! Triumphant! The Byron Review, the government's independent investigation into the research on internet child safety and the effects of digital entertainment, was released last week and the good news has turned me into a giggling, effusive, giddy girl. I had no idea academic research could have this effect.Written by child psychologist Dr Tanya Byron, who has the appropriate scientific and life qualifications ("mother of two" declares the press releases), Safer Children in a Digital World is a comprehensive 266-page report reviewing the literature and presenting reasonable (if not self-evident) recommendations.Remarkable in particular because this is the first time all of the scant academic evidence in this area has been collected into one place. Dr Byron presents a potent and timely overview of the most uncomfortable hypotheses that have dominated knee-jerk headlines over the past decade. And - shock, horror - not all of it is negative. If anything, it highlights a generational gap that harks back to the heady early days of rock'n'roll.Of course, the report's balanced content hasn't stopped some headline writers from sensationalising the outcomes, nor has it diverted the flow of complaints from some stalwart gamers who insist on reminding everyone that games "haven't turned me into a serial killer". Ah well, there's no convincing some people - most of whom have forgotten what it was like to a) be young, b) rebel and c) gleefully engage in entertainment that's left the previous generation shocked and awed by their own ignorance.Oh, please do allow me to gloat. It's so rare that people in this industry get the opportunity to say "I told you so". Games folk are more often too busy putting out fires than enjoying the freedom to produce documents like the Byron Review, although we do try.Let me bask for a moment in what the review means. First, it means that we now have a document which sets the benchmark for reasonable discussion in this area. Second, it means that we have a clear picture of the gaps in knowledge, and therefore, an invested government should be interested in funding research within the disciplines that are best positioned to find out more. Third, it means that industry bodies like TIGA and ELSPA have been lobbying government in the right direction for over 10 years. Fourth, it means we have recommendations from an author who understands the potential of future technologies, and how the issues will continue to adapt as online safety issues converge with game innovations."Government in sensible videogames report shocker" - who would have guessed it. Pardon me while I have a little involuntary shudder of joy.
Popup bills rise againBy accepting the terms of a website, I have unwittingly agreed to their contract of business. Is there any way out of this? The firm is Platte International Ltd, and their trap is getfilmsnow.com. Or should I just pay the &pound;30 and walk away?Name withheldJS:I've looked at the site. It tells you what the deal is up front, and you can cancel during the trial period. You are not billed until day four of your monthly subscription, which seems fair - always assuming cancellation works properly and the site's invasive software is removed. The terms and conditions are explicit, and they are spelled outhere, so it's up to the buyer to beware.Some readers may already know that Platte Media has taken over our old "friends" at MBS (What MBS did after popups for porn: films ... with popup bills, March 27). MBS took a very unpleasant approach to making sure it got paid, by repeatedly putting intrusive popups on the user's screen. This approach has been reviewed by the Office of Fair Trading, which has not done anything to stop it (OFT accepts undertakings from Micro Bill Systems Ltd).This reader responded: "I have paid Platte their &pound;30 and they have removed their software, but I have to say that I found reading their terms so disquieting and downright sinister that I will not be able to relax for months."There is anMBS Victims Forum, but the best approach is not to become a victim. Remember, clicking a download button can be hazardous to your wealth.Bits and bytesI have been told that the abbreviation for broadband connections is megabits per second, not megabytes per second, so that the numbers are eight times as big as they would be. If this is true, why does it not seem to be widely mentioned?Kenneth LethermanJS:Communications speeds are usually given in bits per second because bits are what the communications company is supplying. This can include start bits, stop bits and other essential overheads. (You wouldn't expect an airline to weigh your luggage without including the weight of the suitcase.) What you do with the bits is a different matter. For example, it's possible to encode a single letter in five bits (Telex), 7 bits (ASCII) or 16 bits (Unicode). Usually, the receiving machine will convert the bitstream into 8-bit bytes. This leads to an apparent loss because bits are counted in decimal (powers of 10) whereas bytes are binary (powers of two).It actually takes 1,048,576 bits to make one megabyte. An "8 meg" broadband connection is nominally 8 million bits per second, but will be closer to 7Mbps after overheads. Still, this is not far off one megabyte per second. You can download a 100 megabyte file in about 120-140 seconds, ie a little over two minutes. The convention is to denote bits by using a small b (Mb, Gb) and bytes by using a capital (MB, GB), but the Guardian often gets this wrong.Slow uploadsI have a 2 meg Orange ADSL connection, which generally seems to work well, but while download is giving me a consistent 1.8Mbps, upload is only 0.2Mbps.David CasemoreJS:The A in ADSL stands for asymmetric, and the download speed is usually much faster than the upload speed. Orange's 2Mbps service offers an upload speed of only 256kbps, so your figure is not far out. Upload speeds of 500kbps and 800kbps are now available with faster services, including some from Orange. However, Orange's UK site appears to have no interest in providing this kind of information.BackchatMr Smith complained about the Abbey site not liking his Safari browser on Mac OS X. Eric Crouch says: "My experience is that it works perfectly well with the browser and the message can be safely ignored."  Mark Bhardway complained about Abbey not improving its online security since he started using the service five years ago. He says: "Other bank sites I've used have more sophisticated methods - random authentication questions etc - [that are] far more resistant to keyloggers."&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk.
Call it a Clay Shirky moment. He, you'll recall, is the author of Here Comes Everybody, the book about how we can come together from the disorganised chaos of the net to produce effective groups to get things done. One example is the revolt over the proposals by Phorm, the would-be targeted advertising company, to get BT, Virgin Media and Talk Talk to turn their customers over to them. The questions, and the information, kept coming. Talk Talk announced that use would be opt-in, not opt-out. There is more to come; but that hasn't stoppedPhormfrom hiring not one, not two, but three organisations to do its PR.Yet when one of the people at the three ISPs asked me what I thought Phorm should do to fight all the negative PR out there, the answer seemed simple enough: make all the plans available online so everyone can pick over them. (A version of the presentation to BT is already atThe Register.) If there's no invasion of privacy, it'll be clear enough.Next up is Apple. Yes, the company that likes to say ... nothing, though as we've already seen, that actually has the effect of making people more interested (Why Apple's secretive approach is so effective, February 21). But sometimes, saying nothing isn't enough. Take the case of the cracking MacBooks, a cosmetic problem that has affected an indeterminate number of Apple's low-end laptops. Occasionally the casing - usually, though not always, on the lower right-hand side - develops a crack in which small strips at the edge separate or even break off. Often this happens after the 12-month warranty has expired.An obvious question: what's under the lower right-hand side? After all, that might hold some part of the explanation, mightn't it? I sent Apple's PR a set of questions - was the cracking a known problem? And what's down there?Apple's response? "If a customer experiences an issue with their MacBook they should contact AppleCare." (This applies apparently whether or not you've paid for the aftercare service.) But it doesn't explain what might be the cause of the problem. I asked again for clarification; there was no reply by press time.But never fear: on the net, someone has the information you want. Search for "MacBook disassembly" and you alight onifixit.com's guide to taking to pieces pretty much anything Apple-y. Choose how to (say) repair the right-hand speaker, and it shows you how to remove the top of the system. And there it is: underneath the front right-hand side of the keyboard is the hard drive. We might guess that the hard drive, since it spins a lot, warms up the plastic at the front of the casing and, through thermal cycling (warming up when the drive is spinning, cooling down when it sleeps, warming up when it spins again) starts to show cracks. See, that wasn't so hard, was it?What these two examples show so starkly, though, is how difficult it is to run formal organisations nowadays. The internet has democratised criticism - particularly the informed variety. You may not know what the structures under Apple's MacBook or Phorm's server-sniffing are, but we can find people who take structures apart, others who know about plastics deformation, others who know about IP networks.As Shirky pointed out, ground-up organisation is easy now; it's only finding the levers to pull that's tricky. It's relatively easy with businesses, though, because annoying (would be) customers is not a good way to stay in profit.In Phorm's case, it might even make it hard to stay in business. It's a high price for not being open - but that's the price the internet exacts nowadays.
Stylophones? Boring. Moogs, you say? Old news. The future of music lies not in these archaic playthings, but in the Beamz Music Performance System, an instrument so futuristic that it makes the Theremin look like a prehistoric twig.Revealed this week to a flurry of excitement from gadget-geek communities, the harp-like device not only looks like a huge W-shaped alien (one that you can plug into your PC or Mac), but it also plays pre-recorded samples and loops when you run your hands through its laser beams.Amazing! "Musical instruments haven't been this space age since Rolf Harris locked himself in his shed and invented the stylophone!" frothedElectricPig.tv. However,coolest-Gadgets.comwas more measured. "This laser harp is not your traditional musical instrument," it monotoned, before adjusting its spectacles and smoothing down its slacks.Odd electronic instruments like the Laser Harp have a rich history, and they are also back in fashion. Blame Alison Goldfrapp, who gave new life to the instrument first made by Leon Theremin in 1919, by making the metal antennae squeal with the motions of her crotch. Then shout at Jonny Greenwood for his love of the spooky ondes Martenot, a French instrument made of a keyboard and sliding control. Invented in 1928 and used by Greenwood on Radiohead's last four albums, it has also been fiddled with whooshily by Jarvis Cocker and Gorillaz.Robert Moog's crazy synthesisers have been brought back to the mainstream by Muse, and even the stylophone itself got a revival last October. Toy companies Re:creation and Dubreq relaunched it with an MP3 input for the Christmas market. I blame that spooky-sound-loving Dr Who demographic, the weird musical treasure trove that is eBay, and bands such as Hot Chip who love all things retrofuturistic. Because for them, heaven isn't full of angels plucking golden strings. They're all dancing in the laser lights, aren't they?
The second Condemned is as polished as the first was ropey, and is definitely one of those games that is better than you would imagine. It's a dark, horror-influenced action-adventure effort, starring possibly the unhealthiest-looking game character ever in Ethan Thomas, ex-cop turned alcoholic, who actually shakes (making shooting tricky) unless you feed him a belt of booze. Despite the state he is in, he is drafted back into a CSI-style outfit: the gameplay includes analysis of evidence (more fun than it sounds) and a modicum of puzzle-solving. But its bedrock is an excellent brawling system, with which you control each fist individually and must chain attacks to cause more damage and trigger special moves. Although a single-path game (except for some decent online modes), Condemned 2 is fun to play throughout, and its relentlessly dark, often hallucinatory visual style will strike a particular chord with horror movie aficionados.
This is a colourful and easy to play tennis game starring a variety of classic Sega characters. Older players will get a nostalgic kick from serving and volleying with the likes of Alex Kidd and Sonic the Hedgehog, while younger players will appreciate the simple pick up and play action. Much like Virtua Tennis, on which the game is based, the action mixes traditional tennis - albeit on some untraditional courts - with numerous mini games. The latter are varied and can involve anything from collecting rings to returning balls to giant robots. Control issues can mar some of these, but generally they break up the standard matches and tournaments. Longevity is an issue, although fans will want to play on and gain access to all the courts and characters. But clearly multiplayer is the longer term attraction. Xbox 360 owners get to play online while the Wii is stuck at home. And the Wii version is lacking - the controls don't have the sharpness of the tennis on Wii Sports.
What's the connection between detecting enemy missiles and treating breast cancer? For electrical engineer Dr Alan Fenn at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Lincoln Laboratory near Boston, the answer is microwaves.Using carefully-focused microwaves, researchers are developing a breast cancer treatment to increase chemotherapy's effectiveness.Lincoln Laboratory applies science and technology to national security. This includes work on adaptive microwave phased array radars, a means of focusing microwave energy in one direction while minimising it in another. The radars can track multiple targets without being susceptible to enemy jamming.In 1990, Fenn was asked if there were any non-military uses for the microwave phased array radar technology. Reading biomedical journals, he found that some researchers used microwaves to heat and kill cancer cells. But they had a problem. How do you avoid burning the skin and surrounding healthy tissues? "I decided to investigate the use of adaptive phased array radar techniques to focus microwave energy on a tumour while nullifying the microwave energy on the skin," says Fenn.Researchers already knew that a rise in tumour temperature increased the effectiveness of chemotherapy. A series of laboratorystudies using Fenn's microwave expertisefollowed, with the first treatment of a breast cancer patient in 1999.To deliver the microwaves in exactly the right place, surgeons use ultrasound to help guide a thin microwave probe into the breast tumour. Next, the electrical phasing of the microwave energy from two opposing external applicators is adjusted to focus the energy. The "focused microwave adaptive phased array thermotherapy" system successfully avoids heating healthy tissue."The focused microwave power level is about 50W to 100W for a duration of about 20 to 30 minutes, with breast tumour temperature in the range of about 43C to 45C," says Fenn.A fourth clinical trial - recently reported in the journal Cancer Therapy - showed that large tumours given focused microwave heat treatment and chemotherapy shrunk nearly 50% more than tumours treated with chemotherapy alone. This means surgeons can perform breast-conserving lumpectomies rather than mastectomies.Dr William Dooley, director of surgical oncology at the University of Oklahoma, was the principal investigator. "I am very pleased that the research that I was doing on adaptive phased array radar for missile defence has been used in clinical trials for breast cancer patients," says Fenn. The next trial involves several hundred patients, helping microwaves become another cancer-fighting tool.
"Daniel_K, the Creative Labs fan who fixed the company's broken Vista sound card drivers only to bethreatened by the corporate brass, just e-mailedhis side of the story" to Wired blogs.This has been rumbling for a a few days, and fixing bugs isn't really the problem. Daniel_K claims that: "Creative purposedly modified the Audigy drivers to disable some features when Vista is detected and also purposedly introduced some bugs to prevent some XP utilities from running."The response to that was:Creative: Fixing Our Crippled Sound Card Drivers Is "Stealing our Goods", says Wired."By enabling our technology and IP to run on sound cards for which it was not originally offered or intended, you are in effect, stealing our goods," writes [Creative Labs' Phil] O'Shaughnessy at Creative's forums. "If we choose to develop and provide host-based processing features with certain sound cards and not others, that is a business decision that only we have the right to make."This is known as"functional pricing"and it isn't exactly rare. On he other hand, it isn't exactly popular. People like it more when selling prices approach the cost of production, which is what generally happens over the long term, when you have open competition.Anyway, Daniel_K concludes:I've been told they will allow me to continue with my mods, except the "forbidden" ones. I'm also allowed to receive donations. Download of my modshttp://hosted.filefront.com/braziliantech/But if you ever suspected that buggy or non-existent Vista drivers were a deliberate sales ploy, well, you might just be right.....
Dr Tanya Byron has been much in the news (and much inThe Guardian, includingour latest netcast) following her report on video gaming... or, more accurately, Safer Children in a Digital World. GamesIndustry.biz has now published a two part interview with Dr Byron (oneandtwo).The second part includes her take onPEGI, the Pan-European Game Information age rating system launched in 2003.In a separate interview with Patrice Chazerand, GamesIndustry.biz providesthe PEGI View.The basic problem is that we have two rating systems -- a British one, from the BBFC, and the pan-European PEGI -- and the games industry generally prefers the latter. It seems that, where they overlap, Byron has resolved the problem by putting one on the front of the box and one on the back.Chazerand isn't all that pleased but concedes: "If the experts say that a five year-old PEGI had any chance to match the recognition of the decades-old BBFC symbols...well, you just have to admit that you've lost the argument on the consumer-facing element."So that was certainly a little painful, but at the same time fair. It's the scientific approach.He also notes that: "The UK public probably couldn't care less about the competition of two game ratings agencies -- they care about getting the right information."True. But how many parents pay close attention to age ratings is another matter. I suspect some parents will see them as being more like "difficulty ratings" on toys, rather than being about the suitability of the content, as with movies. But I'm sure there are plenty of games rated 3+ that are too hard for me to play....
Users of social networking websites such as Facebook and MySpace could be faced with a swathe of safety information, privacy alerts and warnings about their behaviour under Home Office guidelines drawn up to promote best practice in the online industry.The detailed guidance, due to be published tomorrow by the Home Office taskforce on child protection on the internet, will also oblige social networking sites to publish prominent links to established advice services such as anti-bullying campaigns, and have a straightforward "report abuse" process.And in extreme cases, the phone number of the local emergency services, according to a draft of the government document seen by MediaGuardian.co.uk.The Home Office report will propose that when registering for social networking sites users would need to verify their real age.They will also be warned about the implications of "unacceptable behaviour" and reminded that they can be identified through their online activity by capturing the computer internet address of each visitor.Under the Home Office proposals, a user's profile would have to show a small logo to identify whether it is publicly searchable or not, give warnings on the dangers of giving personal information that might identify their home address, and offer privacy settings that would apply to all the communication tools included on the site, such as instant messaging or video chat.All social networking sites would have to increase protection for under-18s, ensuring that their profiles are not publicly searchable, restricting access to adult content and "using algorithms" to identify children who give a false, older age, under what would be a voluntary, self-regulated code of practice.Some of these features have already been implemented by the major social networking sites, which have come under increasing pressure from authorities, parenting groups and advertisers to strengthen safety and privacy for their users.Bebo, the most popular social networking site for school children, already sets profiles to private by default, and Facebook allows users to choose whether their profile can be indexed by search engines such as Google.Other recommendations state that sites should include clear instructions on how to cancel their account and inform users how their personal data will be used - both points on which Facebook has been criticised by its users.Bebo's chief safety officer, Rachel O'Connell, Facebook's chief safety officer, Chris Kelly, and Google's European policy manager, Patricia Moll, all contributed to the guidelines; alongside campaign groups, academics and government representatives.O'Connell yesterday denied that social networking sites were playing lip service to concerns over safety with new privacy measures, saying there had been a sea change in industry thinking:"It's not just about safety features - it's about educating engineers when we deploy a technical solution. For the commercial team, advertisers are very sensitive to these issues so there is a commercial imperative - that is the reality from the industry perspective," she said.The Home Office guidance highlights potential risks and offers safety advice to parents, children and carers, dovetailing with the results of last week's Byron review into children's online safety.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
If you read my column last week --Are subnotebooks stepping out of the shadows at last?-- then you already know about Intel's hopes for new chips "which will be sold under the Centrino Atom brand name". Following announcements at an Intel developer forum in China, you can now read basically the same story in the New York Times (Intel Makes a Push Into Pocket-Size Internet Devices), Forbes (Intel Goes Atomic) and other papers. (Not clairvoyance: the Atom name and strategy was announced earlier last month. And as Ibloggedat the time, Intel showed the Silverthorne chip early February, and was blogging about Silverthorne and MIDs lastSeptember.)OK, platforms aren't secret, but products can be. What's new now are lots of subnotebooks. The New York Times says: "Introducing products at the Intel event in Shanghai will be Asus, BenQ, Clarion, Fujitsu, Gigabyte, Lenovo, LG-E, NEC, Panasonic, Samsung, Sharp, Toshiba, WiBrain and Usi." All of those should give Engadget and Gizmodo plenty of material to work on.In passing, I notice I used MIDs for "mobile internet devices" in the February post aboutSilverthorne, and the acronym seems to be taking off. I'm pretty sure I got that from David Potter, the founder of Psion, about a decade ago, when I interviewed him for Management Today. I didn't think it would ever become popular, because lots of people already called things like that PDAs. Is Intel's usage going to change your mind?
Asrevealed on PocketGamerlast week,Gluhas secured the rights to distribute the mobile version of Virtua Fighter in the Europe, and is launching in June. Gamer guess it's probably a westernised version of the conversionannounced earlier this yearfor JapaneseFOMAhandsets.I know a little bit more about the project - the game is essentially a conversion of the Saturn release of Virtua Fighter , itself a scaled down translation of the coin-op. Glu is promising to include almost every move from the game, although certain keys will combine common sequences of moves - for example, button 3 on the keypad, might be punch, kick.No word yet on characters. It looks like they won'tallmake it over to mobile but Glu is currently negotiating with Sega on that.On the subject of Sega, you might have seen Glu's extremely good mobile version of Sonic 1 last year; well, Sonic The Hedgehog 2 is on the way, once again, split into two separate releases. I've played the first iteration, which features ten stages (two zones each from Emerald Hill, Chemical Plant, Aquatic Ruin, Casino Night and Hill Top), and also includes the 'spin dash' move from the original Sonic 2 release, allowing Sonic to turbo-charge from a standing position. (Predictably, there's no two-player versus mode, though.)It's a faithful rendition once again - fast, fluid and great fun. I haven't seen some of these levels for decade and they've lost none of their urgent appeal. Makes me feel sad for the mess that's been made of Sonic titles recently, and hopeful for whatSonic Unleashedmight become...Update:There's a demo of Sonic 2here!
In 2003, the EU ruled that within three years solder (you know, the stuff used to make solid metal-to-metal contacts on circuit boards or to join pipes) should be lead-free. For the previous 50-odd years it had been a mix of lead and tin - the eutectic (lowest-melting) version being 37% lead.No lead, no environmental risk (though it's argued there wasn't a risk anyway: that lead didn't leach from circuit boards into, say, groundwater from landfill.)But: tin, left to its own devices, grows "whiskers" a few microns (thousandths of a millimetre) thick, which just grow and grow. And can cause short circuits.Now, inWithin a whisker of disaster, we look more closely at what sorts of problems this can cause - and whether it might affect a machine near you. In fact, the one right under your hands. How new is it? (The whiskers in the picture above took three years; the whiskers there are about 5 microns.)From the article:On April 17 2005, the Millstone nuclear generating plant in Connecticut shut down when a circuit board monitoring a steam pressure line short-circuited. In 2006, a huge batch of Swatch watches, made by the eponymous Swiss company, were recalled at an estimated cost of $1bn (500m). In both cases, "tin whiskers" - microscopic growths of the metal from soldering points on a circuit board - were blamed for causing the problems.And:"I still use lead-tin solder - it works better," says John Ketterson, a solid state physicist at Northwestern University in Illinois. He notes the tradeoffs of "cost, materials, strength of the solder and all that" during this mandated changeover, and that manufacturers "have to get an experience base" with new processes.However.. The question is, are the products we are using now being affected by tin whiskers? When your computer stops working, could that be the cause? Certainly, some in the computer industry know about it: representatives from Sun Microsystems and IBM were among those presenting at atin whisker workshop in 2006; asecond is due later this month.Using a matt finish, removing contaminants from the solder and surfaces, and reducing mechanical stress on the components being soldered all mitigate the growth of whiskers. But Bob Willis, an opponent of the EU directive and technical director for the SMART (Surface Mount and Related Technology) Group in the UK, says that so far there is "no definite solution to the problem".More than 80% of all electronic components are made in Asia but specifications are imposed by the brand-name company. I rang eight manufacturers to enquire about encounters with whiskers and related problems. Only one tech support person - and no spokesperson - knew anything about it. Yet Google"tin whiskers"and you get 40,000 hits.Apple was the only manufacturer to respond, stating that the company "has been using lead-free solders since 2004 without issue". Perhaps manufacturers haven't developed an "experience base", or perhaps it isn't registering as a problem. Many customers will probably chalk failed devices off to their own isolated tough luck, when the cause might really have been microscopic whiskers inside their machines.Worried yet? Other resources include theNasa Goddard Tin Whisker homepage. Freaky. But real.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Okay, it's alittleawkward, but I enjoyed this little piece of self-effacing humour from Nokia exec Scott Foe, who's overseeing the development of Project White Rock, one of the apparent jewels in theN-Gageplatform line-up. He quite happily mocks the original N-Gage handheld and its taco-like appearance.Itipped the gameas one of my twenty titles to look out for in 2008, yet details are scarce. We know that retro computer music duo,8-Bit Weapon, isproviding the soundtrack. Also, I was sent an email by Nokia, telling me to visit a website namedFortheloveofgaming.com- it's an extremely tough retro gaming quiz, which slowly reveals a game character. Have a go and let me know what you score.So is Project White Rock some kind of N-Gage take on Wii's Virtual Console? This doesn't tally with previous reports that it's a cross-platform MMO for both N-Gage and PC users. I've been invited to a private viewing of the game on May 1, but sadly it's in San Francisco and I don't think Nokia's invitation extended to a return airfare. Nokia? Did it?And come to think of it, what the hell has happened to N-Gage? After abandoning the pre-Xmas launch, things have gone terribly quiet. There arerumoursthe company is about to officially launch it this week. We'll see.
Stop - it's podtime!Aleks Krotoski, Charles Arthur, Bobbie Johnson and Jemima Kiss wade through the fallout of the Byron Review into child safety online, ponder the ideas of a firm that promises to make sure there's enough bandwidth for all our ISPs and the curious social networking site for people who like to go out, instead of sitting in front of their computers. What, you're still here?Listen onlineSubscribe via iTunesDownload the MP3And check out ourFacebook grouphere.Feedback is, as always, very welcome.
It was hard to know who was more excited at a recent press event forWarhammer Online- the snap happy German journalists when they spotted the life-sized Dark Elf model or EA Mythic's senior producer Jeff Hickman. The latter was certainly more animated, giving an in-depth presentation of the upcoming massively multiplayer RPG. Clearly attempting to differentiate the game from the market leading World of Warcraft, Hickman stressed features like Realm vs Realm combat, city sieges and the Tome of Knowledge. The latter is clever mix of Xbox Live-style achievements and stat gathering, with players gaining "achievements" for killing 1000 boars, climbing an obscure mountain or perhaps just casting a certain spell 100 times. Tome quests are included too but perhaps more useful is the way the Tome compiles your story through the game. All your quests, items and combat stats are logged, along with all the background story and bestiary a fan could want. It really is very smart. But let's face it, big battles are what Warhammer is about and in theory at least it doesn't disappoint.Players can choose from one of six races - Dwarves, High Elves and Humans versus Orcs, Goblins and Chaos - before heading into the field and clouting their rival faction with big swords/spells/pets. Realm versus Realm (RvR) is Warhammer's selling point, with teams of players fighting massive battles to influence a moving front line. Even solo players can help, with all individual quests helping the total. Public Quests - where players automatically join a large group quest when entering an area - are a neat addition too. But ransacking your rival faction's city - think battering ram and looting and pillaging - and burning it to the ground is the ultimate aim. Once destroyed an occupation takes place over the next 24 hours or so which will restrict the services and quests that players of the defeated faction can use in the city. Plus it will have destroyed potentially weeks of work in building up the city in the first place. Ouch.But while this sounds great in theory we didn't actually get to play any of it. Instead of city sackings and widescreen battles we got a small bout in an enclosed Battleground similar to the likes of Warsong Gulch in WoW. It all looked pretty, with some nice spell effects, but it didn't feel hugely different to WoW. And even taking into account unfamiliarity - we were each given high level character to play with - the combat felt a bit clunky and imprecise. You can imagine this will be one of the main areas tightened up before launch.The single player demo was polished, smooth and again very much like WoW. The same sort of "kill 6 imp" type quests were are all present and correct, although my character shrugging their shoulders and refusing my "/dance" command was a nice, and slightly worrying, touch. We played in the High Elf starting area which was hugely reminiscent of the Blood Elf areas in WoW. All very frustrating then - I wanted a city siege rather than bloody capture the flag - although everything did feel nicely polished already, which bodes well for the Autumn release. Of course the chances are that the next WoW expansion will be launching around then too. And even for a brand as big as Warhammer it seems foolhardy to go up against the WoW juggernaught, especially with the audience crossover between the two. But maybe the promise of huge battles and city sieges will be enough to tempt WoW players away? Or will Warhammer Online be forGames Workshopfans only? It could go either way at the moment.
It will be major egg-on-face time if Microsoft turns out to be wrong. Nevertheless, the company believes that its Office Open XML-based file formats will be accepted as an ISO standard, in spite of an intense IBM-led campaign against it.Microsoft says:While the final vote has not yet been announced formally, publicly available information appears to indicate the proposed Open XML standard received extremely broad support. According to documents available on the Internet, 86 percent of all voting national body members support ISO/IEC standardization, well above the 75 percent requirement for formal acceptance under ISO and IEC rules.OOXML has already been approved as an open standard by ECMA, like EcmaScript. When it passes, it will also become one of ISO's standard document formats, which include PDF, ODF and HTML.OOXML is being used or implemented at some level by more than a hundred suppliers including Microsoft (Office 2007, 2003, XP, 2000), Apple (Apple iWork Pages 08, iPhone) Novell (OpenOffice Novell Edition), Gnome's Gnumeric, Neo-Office 2.1, and Dataviz (Documents to Go - Palm OS). Corel has also announced OOXML support for WordPerfect 2007, and ThinkFree Write, Zoho Writer and Adobe Buzzword are expected to offer compatibility. The Open XML site has alist, though there are also someGermanones, for example.Although IBM has been campaigning against OOXML, it has apparently been busy implementing support in DB2, WebSphere Portal, and Lotus Quickr V8.0, for example. Still, situation normal for IBM, which shipped Windows on its PCs while promoting OS/2, and now supports open source while keeping its own high-priced software closed and proprietary.....Update: The ISO now has an official announcement,ISO/IEC DIS 29500 receives necessary votes for approval as an International Standard, which includes some background on the operation of the fast-track process.ECMA, which proposed the standard to the ISO, also has anofficial announcement, with quotes from the British Library and the US Library of Congress, who were part of the EMCA standardisation of OOXML.
Apple's latest iMac desktop monitor boasts the broadest rainbow palette in the computer world with a capacity to display "millions of colours", according to its marketing material. Or does it?A Texas resident has sued Apple for deceptive advertising on the grounds that a 20in version of the iMac can display only 262,144 true colours.Any further hues, claims plaintiff Chandra Sanders, are produced through a technological trick of showing several similar shades at high speed. "Apple is duping its customers into thinking they're buying 'new and improved' when in fact they're getting stuck with 'new and inferior'," said Brian Kabateck of Kabateck Brown Kellner, a Los Angeles law firm seeking class-action status for the suit.The updated version of Apple's popular desktop computer was launched by the company's founder, Steve Jobs, at a ceremony in August. Among the key selling points was a glossy display providing crisper images that Apple said was ideal for watching movies or editing photos.A 24in version of the iMac, priced at &pound;1,149, fulfils Apple's promise by displaying 16.7m different colours, according to the lawsuit, filed in San Jose, California.But a 20in version costing &pound;799 has a 98% narrower range, causing "crippling" problems for people editing pictures or movie clips because simulated "trick" colours do not appear smooth, the complaint alleges.Kabateck said: "Beneath Apple's good-guy image is a corporation that takes advantage of its customers. Our goal is to help those customers who were deceived and make sure Apple tells the truth."The lawsuit is the latest in a series of legal strikes against the Silicon Valley technology company, which is still fighting action over alleged boardroom abuse of executive share options.A software firm called Mirror Worlds sued Apple last month claiming that the firm's iTunes store and iPod players infringed its patents for stacking files.Krausner Technology, a New York company, filed a suit in March against Apple and AT&amp;T claiming that the iPhone uses its technology for displaying information about voicemail messages on the handset's screen.
YouTube, the video-sharing website owned by Google, yesterday came under attack from MPs after admitting that an error in its review procedure meant it had failed to remove footage apparently showing a gang rape.Pressed by the culture, media and sport select committee to explain how it dealt with offensive and illegal material posted to the website, Google's vice-president and general counsel, Kent Walker, said human error had been to blame for footage of an apparent gang rape being viewed more than 600 times before it was removed."Our reviewers review a lot of material and in some cases simply just make a mistake," he said. "The initial flag was reviewed and the individual reviewer had reviewed a huge number of materials and did not take it down promptly."MPs said it was "incredible" and "absurd" that such a mistake had been made and they claimed it showed that Google's policy of only reviewing harmful videos once they had been flagged up by users was inadequate."People will find this deeply objectionable," said Plaid Cymru MP Adam Price. "It surely shows your system is completely inadequate."But Walker argued it was impractical to pre-vet every video posted to YouTube, with 10 hours-worth of video being uploaded every minute. Instead, it sought to take down harmful content through a combination of swift action to review and remove cases flagged up by users and new screening technology.But John Whittingdale, the Tory MP who chairs the select committee, which is conducting an inquiry into harmful content on the internet and in video games, said: "Your corporate slogan should not only be 'do no evil', but take an active role in preventing others from doing evil."Procedures had now been tightened, said Walker."The mistake that was made had to do with the way the individual reviewer coded the video. We've made that much harder, so there's a double trigger and it needs to be reviewed twice."
An enjoyable little April 1 mash-up from Ubisoft and Konami...
Welcome to Tech Weekly, the technology podcast that channels your inner geek and holds your hand while you surf the web waves of ones and zeroes.JoiningAleks Krotoskithis week isBobbie Johnson,Charles ArthurandJemima Kiss.We start this week's programme with an interview withDr Tanya Byron, whose report Safer Children in a Digital World laid out the underclothing of computer games and social networking sites for closer inspection by the UK government. We also spoke to Jeff Ferry from Infinera, whose technology offers ISPs the ability to open up new bandwidth at the touch of a button - which is handy as bandwidth-hungry applications like the iPlayer take off and as YouTube use increases.We've also got news headlines on mobile calls on airplanes, Wikipedia, Apple's Safari and Phorm, as well as an Elevator Pitch fromdontstayin.comand more from you onthe blogs. Tell us what you think attech@guardian.co.ukPost a message on the blog about this week's programme...Join our Facebook group
The Register hasa veritable scoop: 121 Media - the company that metamorphosed into Phorm - and BT tried out their data-sniffing systems on 18,000 customers between October 23 and November 3 2006.The Register explains:Documents seen by The Register show that the companies used the secret profiles to target advertising at broadband customers when they visited certain popular websites.Phorm had purchased commercial space on these websites, although their URLs are not included in the documents. The groups targeted included people interested in finance (for an Egg credit card campaign), weight loss (a Weight Watchers campaign), and jobs (a Monster.com campaign).BT has confirmed the dates and the numbers in a statement:BT can confirm that a small scale technical test of a prototype advertising platform took place for two weeks during September - October 2006. The purpose of the test was to evaluate the functional and technical performance of the platform. It is important for BT to ensure that before any new technologies are deployed, they are robust and fit for purpose. No personally identifiable information was processed, stored or disclosed during this test.We have asked whether the 18,000 were at a single exchange, or location (say, London or Bristol) or geographically disparate; we're awaiting a response.The important question, which The Register raises, is: was this lawful? Under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA) 2000, it is an offence to intercept internet traffic without a warrant or consent. Was there a warrant or consent here? Clearly not. The question then becomes whether this was "interception" in the legal definition. BT did not answer The Register on this point; we have re-asked.BT meanwhile still intends to move ahead with trials of the Phorm system later this month. "Not today though," said the spokesman. "And not tomorrow either."One final detail, for which we're also grateful to El Reg: at the time of this trial, Stratis Scleparis was chief technology officer at BT Retail, which provides its broadband service. Since January 2007, he's beengroup CTO at.. Phorm. How interesting..
Immediately after its publication last Thursday, the games industry seemed to whole-heartedly support the findings of the Byron Review. But very quickly the cracks began to show in relation to one specific element: game certification. ELSPAquestionedthe BBFC's ability to meet the increased workload of assessing all games rated at 12 or over; TIGA asked whether the games industry would be expected to fit the bill for educating parents about future changes.Now, Gamesblog has spoken to Keith Ramsdale VP and General Manager of Electronic Arts UK who reiteratescomments he madebefore the review was unveiled, that the Europe-wide ratings system, PEGI, should be thesingleclassification system.Here's our interview with the EA exec...What's your overall reaction to the report? Do you think it's a far assessment of what needs to be done to protect children?We welcome Dr Byron's Review - it should help start discussions with Government that will determine the measures and safeguards that will be in the best interest of UK consumers. We worked with Dr Byron during her review process and I appreciate her open approach to this.Our main disagreement with the findings is with the age rating system suggested for games. As an Industry we have been unanimously clear that there should be a single system and that system should be PEGI. PEGI is an efficient system to help people make appropriate content choices for players of all ages. A Nielsen study showed PEGI has 94% awareness with the UK game-playing public and it follows a tougher regime than the BBFC. In 2007 PEGI gave 47 titles an 18 rating but BBFC downgraded 21 of those to 15 or less. We believe that UK consumers will be far better served with this system and this route would offer the most practical, efficient and compliant system.You mentioned that the Nielsen study suggests a strong understanding of the PEGI system among consumers, but the Byron Review has spoken to parents whodon'tseem aware of how it works...There is further education to be done, to really ensure parents understand that the ratings refer to content, not skill level. The current system is a dual system hence why we are certain a single PEGI system will only make things clearer.There have been suggestions that the report concentrates heavily on videogame classification due to an underlying realisation that the internet cannot be so easily 'policed'. Do you feel that, in some ways, the videogame industry is bearing the brunt of parental and governmental concerns about technology, simply because it's an 'easier target'?Parents, industry and government all have a role to play in ensuring that only age-appropriate content makes it to intended audiences. We've long maintained that it is extremely important to safeguard children from any content that's unsuitable for them.What will be the ramifications for development if the UK adopts its own ratings system, beyond the Europe-wide PEGI initiative?Compliance with a single-nation system for the UK will definitely bring added complexity for developers, publishers and crucially retailers, all of whom operate in a multi-national marketplace. Publishers and developers will still have to operate under PEGI for the rest of Europe so there's added complexity. Furthermore, one European system brings advantage in terms of investment in education programs for parents and retailers. So, the advantages of an existing pan-Europe single rating system are pretty clear - but we do need to invest in pan-Europe education which the Industry is committed to doing.Do you feel it's in any way appropriate for games to share the same classification system as movies? And what do you think about the increased workload the extension of classification will have on the BBFC?The BBFC has real expertise in the classifying linear entertainment like film, but there's no evidence to suggest a smooth transfer of BBFC historic practices to an increasingly complex interactive and online world. PEGI is a unique rating system which was developed specifically for interactive entertainment and led by people who really understand its evolution and its consumers.In addition, PEGI is scaleable and future proof and with the support of the European Commission it already launched PEGI Online in recognition of the growing trends toward online interactive entertainment.Going forward, will EA and other publishers be involved in the process of coming up with a new way of classifying games?Yes. EA believes PEGI is the most suitable system for rating video games. EA and the wider Industry have and will engage with the appropriate Government departments to ensure the right decisions are made in the best interest of the British public.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
As Sir Richard Branson writes on theOfficial Google blog: "Virgle's goal is simple: the establishment of a permanent human settlement on Mars. Larry Page, Sergey Brin and I feel strongly that contemporary technology is sufficiently advanced to make such an effort both successful and economical, and that it's high time that humanity moved beyond Earth and began our great, long journey to explore the stars and establish our first lasting foothold on another world."Anything really good out there today?As usual, the most complete list is probablyhere.For newspaper readers, the Daily Telegraph has a shortroundup.
I get the sense I'm really out of date with this one, but having just stumbled upon it, it feels right to bring it to the gamesblog.Some enterprising soul is using the Wiimote to make music. But not in any old way. Nope,Tom Tlalim, an Israeli-born composer who now lives in the Netherlands, wears a suit of the Wii controllers to 'WiiJ" while he moves.PopScihas more information:His full-body, eight-piece "suit" of Wiimotes interfaces fully with custom software to turn his entire body into an electronic instrument that responds to his every motion. In his suit, Tlalim doesn't play songs. He dances them.An update, anda closer look, is here.What are your favourite Wii-manipulations?
A New Zealand teenager accused of leading an international ring of computer hackers which skimmed millions of dollars from bank accounts was today convicted of illegal computer hacking.Owen Thor Walker, 18, pleaded guilty yesterday to six charges related to using computers for illegal purposes. Police allege that he led a group of hackers who took control of 1.3m computers around the world without their owners' knowledge.Hackers routinely send out viruses, worms and malicious Trojan horse programs which allow them to take control of a victim's machine. Linked through the internet to form a "bot-net" network, the infiltrated computers are used to access personal bank accounts, steal credit card details or bombard users with spam.Police alleged that Walker wrote software that evaded normal computer anti-spyware systems, and then sold his skills to criminals around the world.He was remanded on bail until May 28 for pre-sentence and reparation reports. Although several of the charges he was convicted of carry maximum terms of five years' imprisonment, Judge Arthur Tompkins said he was not considering prison.Walker was arrested last December as part of Operation Bot Roast II, a worldwide crackdown led by the FBI. Eight others had previously been charged or convicted or had pleaded guilty.The 18-year old, who was underage when the offences were committed, cooperated with police in the North Island city of Hamilton, revealing details of the crime.Criminals also use bot-nets to send out billions of spam emails or swamp their victim with unwanted internet traffic. Shielding their identities behind infected machines, hackers often try to blackmail large web businesses, banks and other groups reliant on internet connections, by threatening to overwhelm them with millions of simultaneous attacks.
Photo source: ifixit.comOver the weekend wenotedthat there's been what you could call anissuewith cracks occurring on the casing of Apple's low-end MacBook laptops - frequently on the right-hand-side of the lower side.We asked Apple about this, puttingfourfive [thanks, EMComments] questions:what structure is below the lower right-hand side of the MacBook casing (hard drive, power converter, etc)?is Apple aware of MacBook case cracking as a product issue?is Apple taking any action in its manufacturing to reduce the incidence of this cracking?does Apple have any idea why this cracking might occur?is there any manufacturing process reason why this cracking might occur (eg finish line of a mould, etc)?Apple's response? "If a customer experiences an issue with their MacBook they should contact AppleCare."I'm not sure though whether AppleCare (which I usually think of as a paid-for extended warranty) applies if you haven't purchased it. (The AppleCare, that is.) What if your machine is out of the 12-month warranty? I've asked Apple, which hasn't replied. So far.Meanwhile it seemed obvious to look for some disassembly pics of a MacBook. And what do you know, ifixit has some. For example, choose to fix the right speaker on a MacBook and it will show you how to take the keyboard off the machine.Andthere you findwhat lies on the bottom side of the right hand of the machine: its hard drive. You know, that thing that turns around and around and has to dissipate some heat - perhaps a bit more than the other space under that front area, which seems to be taken up by the battery. (Judge for yourself.)So, a hypothesis: the hard drive warms the casing, and warms the strip at that point, which undergoes thermal cycling, eventually making it crack. This doesn't explain all the cracks that have been seen, but it's a start. Now, can Apple finish it?Update:Apple has replied on the AppleCare question: "The customer can contact AppleCare regardless who will evaluate their case on an individual basis."So we've answered (1) above here, and that might be the answer to (2). Three more to go!
This is obvious but slightly amusing.
Hollywood producer Peter Safran has inked a deal with Microsoft to provide original shows for distribution over Xbox Live.Accordingto the New York Times:In an interview at his office in Los Angeles last week, Mr. Safran said his first round of programs would all be scripted, as opposed to reality shows, and would probably run under 10 minutes. He said he planned initially to focus on genres, like comedy and horror, that appeal to the Xbox 360 audience, which is heavily concentrated from the ages of 14 to 34, and tends to be more male than female. The first shows are expected to be available to viewers by the fall.Uncharitably, the NYT piece mentions previous not-always-successful attempts by Microsoft to introduce original programming content - including MSN Originals (now morphed intoMSN Video) and the quickly cancelled online soap opera, 475 Madison Avenue, from back in '96. Safran, however, feels Xbox is a different proposition to standard web broadcasting, thanks to its walled garden structure and 'tight demographic base'. The first programmes will be available in the US this autumn.So what do you think would go down well on Live? Apparently, Safran's company represents, among others, the makers of Monster's Ball and Epic Movie. I fear we can expect something more akin to the latter than the former.
The news that Call of Duty 4 is the mostpopular multiplayer gameon Xbox Live - and most likely PS3 too - is no surprise. Pretty much everyone on my 360 friends list plays it regularly. Personally I prefer Rainbow 6's more tactical co-op approach - Terrorist Hunt is fantastic fun - but there's little doubt that COD4 deserves its success. The game mixes visceral and hugely enjoyable combat with the addictive persistent character stuff - the more you play the better gear you get. Halo 3 may have all the UGC tricks - upload videos etc - but Call of Duty 4 plays the better game.The first new multiplayer maps are set for release in early April and a play last week suggested that fans won't be disappointed. Newcomers may be though. Infinity Ward, the developers of the game, have argued that COD4 is a lot of players, "first time playing a multiplayer game on console or PC". But more casual - or older - gamers are unlikely to persevere past the initial experience of being killed quickly and often. MaybeBattlefield Heroes, EA's web based and free play shooter may tap into a more casual audience? But for now at least Call of Duty 4 is the one to beat. Anyone here playing it?
The other week I was doing a run-down of the social networking services out there for another project, and managed to convince a friend to send me an invitation toWhirled, the mini-game, kids'-oriented new virtual space from Puzzle Pirates creators Three Rings. And what a hoot is is. At the time, it seemed empty, with a small population of invitees, but there was still plenty to explore, from the 3D spaces (Whirleds) to the vast library of mini-games.Now, everyone can go intoWhirled. They've opened up their free beta service, to see how many new user-generated minigames and Whirled people can create before the service launches for real.Come on inand ping me - I'm GeorgeBailey (exploring beyond Bedford Falls 'cause he couldn't), and maybe I can kick your butt atDictionary Attacksometime.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
In the land ofHello Kittyand pink notebook PCs, Microsoft has produceda pink special offerfor Vista Home Premium: it's bundled with a year of OneCare and a tips and tricks book.Even more interesting is the price. I can't read Japanese, but if it really is 2500 Yen, that's only about $25, or 12.50. The UK recommended price for Home Premium is 219.99, which is, frankly, silly.If only Microsoft UK would stack up a few shelves with copies of Vista Ultimate at 25 each then it would probably sell a few. Even at 29.99, it would be half the RRP of a boxed copy of Xandros Desktop OS Professional (Linux).Thanks toLong Zhengfor the link.
It's a pretty safe bet that if you were asked to name the leading chip manufacturer, you'd guess right: it's Intel. If you were asked for the top three in this $274 billion market, you'd probably get the other two wrong. They are Samsung Electronics and Toshiba. Hard luck if you said Texas Instruments: this once mighty chip giant is now in fourth place with sales worth $11.8bn, according to Gartner's latest list of The Top 10 Worldwide Semiconductor Vendors by Revenue Estimates.Intel is top by a wide margin, with sales increasing by 10.7% to $33.8bn. Toshiba ($11.8bn) has just jumped into third place with 20.8% growth. It benefited from increased sales of the Sony PlayStation 3.AMD is now in ninth place, according to Gartner. AMD's sales slumped by 20.9% to $5.9bn. giving it a market share of 2.1%.Four of the top 10 saw revenues decline. Gartner says: "In terms of absolute revenue shifts, the largest drop was in dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) which saw a decline of $2.4bn in revenue caused by sharp price declines as a result of oversupply."But like PCs and software, it's a diverse market. "Others" (outside the top 10) shift $147bn worth of chips, for a 53.8% market share.
OK, what's the capital of Comoros, and how many coup attempts has it suffered since gaining independence in 1975? What's the life expectancy in Burkina Faso, and how many kilometres of roads does it have, both paved and unpaved? What's the highest point in Hungary, and when does the country next hold elections? If you want facts like these, theCIA World Factbookhas an almost inexhaustible supply.Although I've picked some random trivia, the World Factbook is a mine of useful information. If you're visiting a country, it's handy to have a potted history and basic information about the government, the infrastructure and the standard of living. It also covers things such as ethnicity, religions, local diseases and illicit drugs.If you're doing business with a country, then it's useful to know about things like its GDP and sources of income, currency, inflation, family incomes and unemployment rates. As this is a CIA production, there are also entries for the military and "manpower fit for military service". Bear this in mind if you are planning an invasion.The Factbook was created as a centralised source of information to avoid duplication of effort by different US government agencies. The first unclassified version was produced in 1971, and it appeared on the net in 1997, celebrating the CIA's 50th anniversary. The US government provides it copyright-free, too, so you can use the data; just don't use the CIA's official seal.Water resources and people traffickingAlthough the overall look is the same, the Factbook's content can change quite a lot. The number of countries has expanded, for example, following the break-ups of the former Soviet Union and the former Yugoslavia. The Factbook has also expanded its coverage. Newer categories of interest, sadly, include renewable water resources, major infectious diseases and people trafficking.On recognising and spelling countries, the Factbook follows the US diplomatic line, and the recommendations of the United States Board on Geographic Names. It therefore has an entry for Burma, instead of Myanmar. It doesn't have one for Palestine, but it does have separate entries for the West Bank and Gaza Strip: "the areas that could potentially form a future Palestinian state."It doesn't have entries for Guadeloupe or Martinique because these are considered part of France. It does have entries for Akrotiri and Dhekelia, which are parts of Cyprus under British sovereignty  military bases, in fact. There's also an entry for the Spratly Islands, whose ownership remains to be resolved. As the Factbook says: "About 45 islands are occupied by relatively small numbers of military forces from China, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam."One of the Factbook's more endearing traits is its use of US features for comparison purposes. Bulgaria, for example, is "slightly larger than Tennessee", while Tokelau is "about 17 times the size of The Mall in Washington, DC." Now, of course, you can refer to Tennessee as being slightly smaller than Bulgaria. The CIA provides the intelligence, but how you use it is up to you.
We don't have room inprintfor all your letters and blog pingbacks, but we do here. This week people considered free data, broadband and lasers...IN SIGHT OF FREE DATA?Am I stating the obvious or have I not being paying attention? Surely the issue to which the government should be paying attention is VAT receipts. Paper items such as: newspapers, books, maps and charts do not attract VAT but their electronic equivalent do. Those of us who use electronic mapping are hit with a triple whammy - buying the original paper map/chart (which all good navigators have to do), buying the electronic version, and paying VAT on the latter. The VAT receipts on the resale in electronic form of government data would surely recover the licence fee income lost by the trading funds such as OS and UKHO. Indeed increased use of such data free from the restrictions the licence imposes would probably increase government revenue in addition to the overall benefit to the economy described.(In sight of victory, March 20). Nick Thomas, Hadleigh&gt;&gt; Free OS maps ahead?simon-willis.blogspot.comGOODBYE, ARTHURThe recent death and tributes/obituaries re, Arthur C. Clarke reminded me of how much he influenced my childhood interest in space and all its aspects and of how, in 1954, I was given his "The Young Traveller in Space" as a Christmas present. Over last few years or so, as technology and world-wide TV viewing can be in every home, I tried to interest several people in the pages form that book - herewith - of his predictions of satellite broadcasting. But to no avail; all seems so obvious and mundane to those who have know no other. But for the 1945 generation - what amazing era of "imagined things come to reality" we have we lived through! Stuart Booth, Blandford ForumBROADBAND: THE LIMITSIn the two responses to questions about broadband speeds in today's IT supplement there was no mention of contention ratio. I live quite near an exchange and can get download speeds of 8Mb/s from BT, however at busy times this drops to less than 2Mb/s. My assumption is that there is insufficient capacity at the exchange to meet the demand from a number of users simultaneously. Derek Waters, ChelmsfordHee! Hee! I actually do have unlimited broadband with AOL... I have been on the Silver package (2Mbps actual speed 60kb/s) for about three years now, in a time when it actually was unlimited with AOL and have not changed my contract or upgraded to 8Mbps, or what ever bum's rush they try to throw at me. For the past week now I have been enjoying speeds from 160kb to 190kb/s then all of a sudden today it has gone back down to 50kb-60kb strange huh considering this is the speed I have been getting for the past two or three years. So I can have 2Mbps but they just don't want me to the thief's... David Reece, RockferryFOSTERING CREATIVITY&gt;&gt; Keegan argues that broadband and increased math and engineering emphasis in schools may well do the trick, but this is misguided. The fastest road to a more vibrant creative class is to foster laws that protect people's native creativity. What sort of laws? Look at Silicon Valley. Silicon Valley penalizes conservatism and rewards risk-taking. It does this through an investment class that makes capital plentiful and laws that reject anti-compete agreements. These would be good starts for the UK.cnet.comLASER REFLECTIONYou could not see any need for a laser keyboard, any way in which it would be better than a mechanical version. I suggest three situations: Where the data has to be input by operators with dirty hands; warehouses, factories, lorries, building sites e.t.c. In these situations, keeping the conventional keyboard free of gunk might be more expensive. Where the person operating the keyboard has to be scrupulously clean; Hospitals are an obvious example. If the keyboard can be projected onto a sheet of glass which can be kept sterile, infection control would be a lot easier. Where data is normally input using Barcodes, RFID tags e.t.c., but a keyboard is very rarely used. Your article was based on the assumption that a laser keyboard would be aimed at the mainstream office market. It does have some niche market appeal, surely. Could a second projector produce a monochrome screen, making a wire free, wipe clean, PC a possibility? Peter Holland (no post town given)&gt;&gt; Of course, comparing it to a tactile keyboard (in that first sentence) isn't really fair. It would be nice to see a comparison of typing speed and accuracy on Celluon's keyboard compared to a virtual touchscreen keyboard or another mobile input technique like T9 (which are what it's meant to replace).touchusability.comBEYOND MAGNA CARTA&gt;&gt; Granting the idea that "information" is somehow separate from the natural communications of human beings, that it is "owned" by default, that it is the province of abstract persons like "sovereigns" and "corporation" - merely *granting* that idea to be true is how we become slaves. So I'd go way beyond a "Magna Carta" moment. I'd reject the very concept that ideas can be owned or regulated. Even copyright limits its scope to *fixed* expression, not ideas. Ideas are not the province of government. They never have been. Don't even enter into an argument based on that premise.listbox.com/member/archive/247
"50 Cent has more than 1 million friends on MySpace, but if the rapper ever decides to leave the social network, he'll be leaving behind those friends, too. So like a growing number of artists, he's started his own social networking site," according toa Billboard story at Reuters.His site isThisis50.com. The story says:More and more acts, from Kylie Minogue to Ludacris to the Pussycat Dolls, are launching their own social networks, which are becoming a sort of next-generation version of artist Web sites.The social networking component gives fans a reason to hang out on a site and visit more often than they would a standard Web site. And artists can sell advertisements on their sites and offer downloads and merchandise for sale -- options they don't have on MySpace or Facebook. Plus, they own the content and data on how fans use their site, which they don't get on other social networks.But the kicker is in the tail:Even more important: Fans seem to be buying directly from the sites. On Minogue's KylieKonnect, launched in fall 2007 through U.K.-based New Visions Mobile, nearly 25 percent of users have made a ringtone, download or merchandise purchase, company director Julia McNally says.
