A doctor in Granada is advising fellow physicians to be "mindful" of the injuries that can result from using instant messaging services, after she diagnosed a 34-year-old pregnant woman with "WhatsAppitis".The case,described by the doctor in the Lancet, said the patient was suffering sudden pain in both wrists after waking up in the morning. Inés Fernandez-Guerrero, of Granada's General University hospital, wrote that the patient "had no history of trauma and had not engaged in any excessive physical activity in previous days". She ruled out carpal tunnel syndrome and nerve damage.The patient had been working on Christmas Eve. The next day, she responded to the many WhatsApp social messages that had been sent to her. Her phone was in her hands for at least six hours, during which she "made continuous movements with both thumbs to send messages", said the doctor.The diagnosis for the sore wrists was "WhatsAppitis," the doctor concluded. The treatment was "complete abstinence from using the phone to send messages," along with anti-inflammatory drugs. The doctor drew a comparison between WhatsAppitis and a repetitive strain injury diagnosed in heavy Nintendo users in the 1990s: Nintendinitis, or Nintendo thumb. Once thought to be limited to children, many adults have since reported injuries associated with video games and new technologies, she said. Pain, swelling and difficulty moving particular joints caused by texting with mobile phones "could well be an emerging disease", she wrote. "Physicians need to be mindful of these new disorders."
You love your local bookshop. When you and some friends met the proprietor before it opened, you were so impressed that you each donated a small amount to help him get going. As a way of saying thank you, he gave you a free book and painted your names on the wall. Word spread, and soon people were travelling long distances to visit. You feel happy and proud. You were there at the beginning, and you have helped to make something that will benefit everybody. Then you hear the news. The nice proprietor has sold it all to Amazon. He's now a billionaire. You still aren't. You feel exactly how the people who gave money to Palmer Luckey on Kickstarter now feel.Luckey is the young Californian inventorof Oculus Rift, a new type of virtual reality goggles. The headsets are not available to consumers yet, but more or less everyone who tries them says the same thing: "Wooah!", or words to that effect. In the summer of 2012, during early development, Luckey appealed for donations on&nbsp;Kickstarter, a crowdfunding website that raises&nbsp;money for new projects that people want to see realised.When the appeal closed, 9,522&nbsp;people had put in a total of $2,437,429 (about £1.5m), almost 10 times the amount that Luckey asked for. According to the size of their contribution, donors received anything from a thank you note to their own prototype. On Tuesday it was announced thatOculus was being sold to Facebook for $2bn. "I'm passionate about bringing games to the next level," Luckey told prospective investors in his originalKickstarter video. It perhaps went without saying that, on the whole, people are also passionate about sipping Krug in a swimming pool full of money."This is about the best possible outcome for the future of virtual reality, not my wallet," Luckeytold his outraged supporters on Reddit, and there are some reasons to believe him. He says, for instance, that the Rift will now be much cheaper and better when it comes out. He promises that "you will not need a Facebook account to use or develop … the Rift", and that Oculus the company won't change."If anything," he says, "our hardware and software will get even more open, and Facebook is onboard with that … The partnership … means a better Oculus Rift with fewer compromises even faster than we anticipated."Others argue that letting Mark Zuckerberg do what he likes with the technology before it even launches would not be a partnership at all. Many express concern about Facebook's record, which they see as intrusive and splattered with advertising. Some come to the conclusion that Luckey, who is still just 21, has been terribly naive. This, however, is very much the mild end of the comments."You selling out to Facebook is a disgrace," says Sergey Chubukovon Kickstarter. "It damages not only your reputation, but the whole of crowdfunding. I cannot put into words how betrayed I feel by this." "Fuck you, Palmer," says deletemeapril162014 on Reddit. "The community brought you here, and your disingenuous posts are fucking insulting." "Fuck everything about this," balathustrius says. And there are hundreds more. Luckey promises good news that will win everybody round within a year. He will&nbsp;still be rich, of course, whether it does or not.
BlackBerry sued one of its executives who is leaving to join Apple, tying him to the company until June, acourt judgment filed in Ontarioshows.Sebastien Marineau-Mes, the senior vice-president for software at the struggling Canadian handset and software company, had been in talks to leave the company since September 2013, and Apple offered him the job of &quot;vice president of Core OS&quot; – believed to be for its iOS mobile software – in December 2013.But having resigned at the end of December, Marineau-Mes has been told that he must stay until June, because a contract he signed in October promoting him to executive vice-president (EVP) of platform development made it obligatory to give six months&apos; notice of his resignation.That contract though was signed while the company was going through turmoil in which an expected buyout bid did not materialise – and the company had a freeze on promotions. Marineau-Mes argued in court that that effectively invalidated the promotion, and that his role as EVP had changed with the arrival of new chief executive John Chen in November 2013.But the court ruled that BlackBerry can hold Marineau-Mes to his contract until 23 June 2014, even though he sought a declaration that the contract is &quot;not valid and enforceable&quot;.Marineau-Mes formerly worked at QNX Software, which BlackBerry bought in autumn 2010, and by last September was running a team of 600 people, with three vice-presidents below him. The promotion to EVP put him in charge of 3,000 people, BlackBerry said.The judgment sheds light on the unrest inside the company, where a number of high-ranking executives have left following the appointment of Chen, who previously turned around the struggling software company Sybase.In his submission, Marineau-Mes says that he has in effect not worked for BlackBerry since the beginning of January, when he was put on &quot;vacation pay&quot;. But internal emails confirmed that he had been promoted, even though the move wasn&apos;t announced because of the promotion freeze then in place. BlackBerry argued that it wanted him to remain &quot;available&quot; - though there was no indication that it would actually call on his services.BlackBerry said in a statement that &quot;It is unfortunate that we had to take this step, but we will do whatever is necessary to ensure that employees honor the agreements they make with us. &quot; Apple did not respond to a request for comment by publication time.•Steve Jobs gave iPhone engineers &apos;two week deadline in 2005&apos;
Steve Jobs gave the original iPhone engineers just two weeks to provide a &quot;software vision&quot; for the company in February 2005, threatening to hand the work over to another group inside Apple, according to a former engineer with the company.Speaking to the Wall Street Journal, Greg Christie - who is still in charge of Apple&apos;s user interface team - said that he was working for former iPhone software chief Scott Forstall, who recruited him to the top-secret team in late 2004 for a project codenamed &quot;purple&quot; which was to become the iPhone.The revelation appears to be part of a publicity push by Apple before a patent trial in California with rival smartphone firm Samsung which begins on Monday. Apple is asserting a number of software-based patents against four smartphones and tablets from the Korean company. Among the patents Apple is asserting is the &quot;slide to unlock&quot; system introduced on the iPhone - which Christie says his &quot;shockingly small&quot; team devised early in 2005. It is also suing Samsung over patents relating to &quot;unified search&quot;, autocompletion of typing and data synchronisation.In 2004, Apple did not have any touchscreen products; it was still selling iPods which used spinning hard drives. The solid-state iPod nano was more than a year away, and Apple did not offer an iPod able to play video. But Christie says Jobs &quot;wanted bigger ideas and bigger concepts&quot;.Can touch thisChristie says that even in 2004 the idea of Apple&apos;s product was clear - to have a touchscreen handset which incorporated music-playing functions. He says that the team &quot;banged their head against the wall&quot; in determining basic behaviour such as the ideal speed for list scrolling and how to get the right feel for the &quot;bounce&quot; when the end of the list was reached. Apple has sued companies including HTC for infringement of the &quot;bounceback&quot; behaviour, which it has patented. He says that besides the &quot;bounceback&quot; and list scrolling system, the team also devised the method by which an address book contact could be used to make a call, and the touch-operated music player system. Samsung is countersuing, saying Apple has infringed two of its patents. None of the patents at issue is classed as &quot;standards-essential&quot;, which the holder would be obliged to license to a willing counterparty.Christie says that the team continued giving fortnightly presentations to Jobs for months as the software progressed, but that design chief Jonathan Ive - who was designing the physical phone, which the team did not see - wasn&apos;t shown the software until Jobs himself was satisfied with it. Apple staff who were working on the iPhone designs at home had to use &quot;secluded&quot; rooms and encrypt their work.A separate account by Fred Vogelstein in the book &quot;Dogfight&quot; has described how the iPhone team worked almost continually on the iPhone software through the second half of 2006, and that even when Steve Jobs showed the device off in January 2007 his presentation had to be carefully planned with a &quot;golden path&quot; of screens and functions in case so that it wouldn&apos;t crash due to the numerous bugs in what was still incomplete software. Even after that demonstration, Christie&apos;s team removed a split-screen view for email showing the sender and the message because Jobs thought it was &quot;foolish&quot; - though the idea was revived for email on the larger-screen iPad.Apple and Samsung now dominate the smartphone market, with Apple having sold an estimated 500m iPhones since its release in June 2007.Clinical trialThe trial will once more pit the two biggest and most profitable smartphone companies against each other. In summer 2012 Apple sued Samsung in California and won damages of $930m for infringement by Samsung of a number of software and &quot;design&quot; patents.The battle between the two companies has been fought through the press as much as in court. Ahead of the 2013 launch of Samsung&apos;s then-new Galaxy S4 flagship phone, Apple marketing chiefPhil Schiller gave an interview to Reutersin which he said that it would ship with Android software that was nearly a year old, and queried Android users&apos; engagement with their phones, saying &quot;it&apos;s not just enough to have products pumped out in large numbers. You have to love and use them.&quot;Samsung separatelyangered the judgein the 2012 trial by issuing a press release on the first day of the trial, after being denied permission to enter evidence which it said &quot;would have established beyond doubt&quot; that Samsung did not copy the iPhone&apos;s design, with links to websites showing the evidence that it said showed Apple was influenced by Sony designs. The judge threatened to sanction Samsung&apos;s lawyers over the release, but took no action after the jurors said they have not read it.Christie joined Apple in 1996 to work on its ill-fated Newton personal digital assistant.Apple is now suing Samsung alleging infringement of its patents by four key products - its Galaxy S3 smartphone, Galaxy Note &quot;phablet&quot; and Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet. Unlike the previous trial, Apple is not asserting any &quot;design&quot; patents relating to the physical appearance of the products; instead it is focusing on the way that the software behaves.•Apple &apos;in talks with Comcast&apos; over special treatment for streaming TV
People convicted of cyber-bullying and text message abuse could face up to two years in prison, under plans backed by the government.The justice secretary, Chris Grayling, has backed an amendment to the criminal justice bill that would target new rules at combating trolls that sexually harass and verbally abuse people on the internet or via mobile phones in England and Wales.The amendment, due to be discussed in parliament on Thursday, was proposed by the Conservative MP for Ealing Central and Acton Angie Bray, after one of her constituents said her 14-year-old daughter had been “verbally raped” by 2,000 obscene texts sent by an older man, who escaped conviction.“Just tabled amendment to criminal justice bill to make life just a bit harder for cyber-bullies and sex pests using texts to harass victims,” saidBray on Twitter.Crown court upgradeThe amendment would allow for greater penalties of up to two years in prison and extend the period of time made available to authorities attempting to build difficult cases against offenders.Offences such as internet trolling fall under the Malicious Communications Act, which can only be tried in a magistrates’ court.Bray’s tabled amendment comes after a string of high-profile abuse cases involving Twitter and text messages. Two abusers of the feminist campaigner Caroline Criado-Perezwere jailed in Januaryfor subjecting her to threats of violence and rape on Twitter after Criado-Perez launched a campaign for more women to be represented on banknotes.The Labour minister for culture, media and sport, Helen Goodman,called for “a clear legal framework”to tackle the problem of cyber-bullying and the suicides of vulnerable young people in January, after the deaths of the teenagers Tallulah Wilson and Hannah Smith.Wilson died in 2012aged 15 when she was hit by a train. An inquest into her death found that she had developed an alternative fantasy life online. In 2013, 14-year-oldHannah Smith was found hangedafter being bullied on the open-discussion site Ask.fm.A committee will discuss thetabled amendment in parliament on Thursday, which will be added to the changes to laws to be voted on this year.• Social networksfaced government pressure for greater actionover sites promoting self-harm and suicide
Facebook&apos;s purchase of virtual reality company Oculus for $2bn in stocks and shares is big news for a third company: Kickstarter, which today celebrates the first billion-dollar exit of a company formed through the crowdfunding platform.Oculusraised $2.4m for its Rift headset in September 2012, exceeding its initial fundraising goal by 10 times. It remains one of the largest ever Kickstarter campaigns.But as news of the acquisition broke Tuesday night, some of the 9,500 people who backed the project for sums of up to $5,000 a piece (the most popular package, containing an early prototype of the Rift, was backed by 5,600 for a more reasonable $300) were rethinking their support.&quot;I backed the Oculus within the first few days of its entrance on Kickstarter,&quot;gamer Rich Wiatrowski told the Guardian. &quot;I thought it was a brilliant idea with what appeared to be capable, passionate individuals behind the creation of the product.&quot;&quot;Although it&apos;s not a complete surprise that someone bought Oculus, I can&apos;t help but be disappointed finding out it was Facebook… It simply isn&apos;t in Facebook&apos;s best interest to throw money at something without some control.&quot;George Buckenham,an indie game developerwho also backed the Rift on Kickstarter, shares Wiatrowski&apos;s concern. &quot;My feelings about the buyout are: irritated… The Face acquisition seems 80% likely to kill their momentum, and even in the 20% chance, it&apos;s probably going to get locked down in annoying ways and stop being cool weird tech you can freely hack on.&quot;For Kickstarter itself, the purchase raises awkward questions. The company has always maintained that it should not be viewed as a storefront for pre-ordering products; instead, a backer should be aware that they are giving money to a struggling artist or designer, and view the reward as a thanks rather than a purchase.&quot;Kickstarter Is Not a Store&quot; is how the New York-based company put it in 2012, shortly after the Oculus Rift campaign closed. Instead, the company explained: &quot;It’s a new way for creators and audiences to work together to make things.&quot;But if Kickstarter isn&apos;t a store, and if backers also aren&apos;t getting equity in the company which uses their money to build a $2bn business, then what are they actually paying for?&quot;Structurally I have an issue with it,&quot; explains Buckenham, &quot;in that the backer takes on a great deal of risk for relatively little upside and that the energy towards exciting things is formalised into a necessarily cash-based relationship in a way that enforces and extends capitalism into places where it previously didn&apos;t have total dominion.&quot;&quot;But I find it hard to take it personally in this case, because I backed it after it was a roaring success and I got my cool bit of electronic junk in about the expected timeframe and in a nifty carry case.&quot;Austin Walker, an academic based at the University of Western Ontario, breaks down the disconnect: &quot;What backers are really upset about, but might not have the words for, is that this makes clear the problem with Kickstarter,&quot;he wrote on Twitter after the news broke, &quot;which is that it&apos;s about consumption, not investment. Consumers aren&apos;t allowed to invest. There&apos;s no place for that. So this is a catalyst for (and reflects) a broader frustration about economic opportunities being blocked off to them.&quot;• Sony&apos;s project Morpheus is adirect competitor to the Oculus Rift VR headset for the PlayStation 4
Instagram now has 200 million monthly active users sharing 60m photos a day, the service has announced, totalling to 20bn photos shared since it launched in 2010.The photo-sharing service has added around 170 million users since itsacquisition by Facebook in April 2012for $1bn, with 50m joining in the last six months.“From documenting apassion for jazztothe protests in Kiev, we’re continually surprised and humbled by the moments you share,” said an Instagram spokesperson in ablog post.Mobile focus for FacebookSince being bought by Facebook, Instagram has added support for Windows Phone, introduced Instagram Direct – a private photo sharing feature – and added the ability to share video clips of up to 15 seconds.Facebook&apos;s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, also announced that the social network had passed the 1 million monthly active mobile user milestone, during a call discussing the company’s purchase of the Oculus Rift virtual reality headset on Tuesday.Facebook had 945 million monthly active users on mobile in the fourth quarter of 2013, which generated 53% of the company’s advertising revenue in the same quarter.Facebook’s recent$19bn acquisition of the WhatsAppmobile messaging service, as well as the introduction ofFacebook Paperand other in-house Facebook mobile appsshows that the social network is focused on mobile, as more and more eyeballs migrate to the portable screen.• The future of Facebook is toreach billions of mobile users
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSmartwatch Chic &gt;&gt; TumblrNow in an arm-wrestling/staring match semifinal with White Men Wearing Google Glass.LAPD: All cars are under investigation &gt;&gt; Al Jazeera AmericaThe Los Angeles Police Department says it cannot release information about its automatic license plate reader program because all cars in the Los Angeles metropolitan area are under investigation.The LAPD made this legal argument in response to a records request from the American Civil Liberties Union and the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which sought to find out what the license plate readers had captured, as well as the department's policies for retaining and sharing the data.Seems reasonab... hang on.Cathy Edwards, cofounder of Chomp, is leaving Apple on 11 April &gt;&gt; TechCrunchA notable personnel departure is coming up in Cupertino: Cathy Edwards, the co-founder and CTO of app search and discovery platform Chomp, is leaving Apple on 11 April, TechCrunch has learned. Apple, if you recall, acquired Chomp in February 2012 for $50m, kickstarting a long-term revamp of how users search for and discover apps in the iOS App Store and elsewhere in the Apple ecosystem.See? Apple can't hold onto the entrepreneurs it acquires - clearly doomed. (Edwards had the  thankless task of being "Director, Evaluation and Quality" for Apple Maps from mid-2012.)Waze cofounder skips Google to try startup world again &gt;&gt; BloombergUri Levine still has the entrepreneurial bug. After selling map-software provider Waze to Google for $1.1bn last June, the 49-year-old Israeli decided not to join the ranks of his famous acquirer.Instead, he turned his attention to his next startup, FeeX, which debuts today. Similar to how Waze tackled one of life's biggest aggravations - getting stuck in traffic - the new company takes on another major irritant: hidden fees on financial services.See? Google hires people who are overflowing with entrepreneurial spirit.Prezi got Pwned &gt;&gt; Engineering at PreziAs you may or may not know, you can download a prezi in a portable format, which means your prezi's XML and all the referenced media objects are zipped together with a player for Windows and OS X. However, not every image/video in an online prezi is neccessarly stored on our infrastructure. When a portable prezi is created, these resources have to be fetched from their original location. We call this and the underlying infrastructure "conversion" and "conversion service" (we pride ourselves on our ability to give things obscure and irrelevant names).You can probably guess what comes next: If it's possible to download anything from the internet, how about "file:///etc/passwd"? Headshot!But the hacker who discovered it disclosed it, and got a bounty.Everyone is getting Turkey's Twitter block wrong &gt;&gt; MediumZeynep Tufekci:During the rally, [Turkey's prime minster] Erdogan also talked about the threat social media, including Facebook and YouTube, poses to family values. He talked about its disruption of privacy, and how these foreign companies do not obey Turkish court orders but obey US and European courts.In other words, Erdogan's strategy is to demonize social media.It is a strategy of placing social media outside the sacred sphere, as a disruption of family, as a threat to unity, as an outside blade tearing at the fabric of society.Excellent contextual piece. Erdogan is not a fool.Stop making users explore your product &gt;&gt; Users KnowLaura Klein:Nobody cares about your product. Fundamentally, what users care about is themselves. They are using your product as a means to an end. We knew this back in 1960 when Theodore Levitt explained that when customers buy quarter inch drills, they really are buying quarter inch holes.Think about the last time you bought a drill. Did you sit down with the drill in order to spend time exploring it? Not unless you're some sort of drill fetishist. What you almost certainly did was try to figure out the fastest way that you could set about completing the project for which you bought the drill.The same is true of whatever product you're building. I know that you care deeply about the user interface of your product and all of the delightful features you have so lovingly handcrafted. Sadly, nobody else does. At least, not in the same way that you do.Often overlooked.We're F****D, it's over: coming back from the brink &gt;&gt; Scott WeissIn 1997, about a year after launch, Hotmail was growing exponentially, adding thousands of new users every day. We were on fire. And then one night, it all seemed to unravel. We had a program called the "janitor" that ran as an overnight batch process and it erased all of the email that users put in the "trash" folder. Except this night, a bug spawned an army of other janitors that cleaned out everyone's inboxes, too. That's right, deep-sixed their email. Here is what went through all our spinning heads: "We're fucked, it's over."It's pronouncedwhiff-eee-o, that horrible, terrifying moment that nearly every entrepreneur goes through when they are certain that their company is dead.Except they're not.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
It&apos;s a tale that&apos;s been told a thousand times throughout the entertainment industry. A talented newcomer builds a passionate community before catching the eye of a big corporation; a buy-out ensues and the original fanbase is alienated. Sometimes it&apos;s a rock band, sometimes a movie director, and sometimes it&apos;s a virtual reality technology firm with an affordable head-mounted display unit and a charming 21-year-old at its head.Yes, reactions toFacebook&apos;s $2bn purchase of Oculus VR, creator of the Oculus Rift headset, have been... varied. On Tuesday night, while business analysts were carefully sifting through Mark Zuckerberg&apos;s announcement, attempting to understand his intentions, hundreds of game developers were registering their concerns on Twitter. This is bad, was a familiar refrain, bad for Oculus, bad for games and bad for virtual reality. Leading the charge wasMarkus Persson, the creator of the hugely successful block-building game, Minecraft. &quot;We were in talks about maybe bringing a version to Oculus,&quot; he wrote . &quot;I just cancelled that deal. Facebook creeps me out.&quot;Go on tothe Reddit postwhere Oculus founder Palmer Luckey gave his side of the story, or visitthe announcement on the Oculus VR home page, and the reactions are very similar. &quot;I have unsubscribed,&quot; wrote one developer. &quot;I will be cancelling my preorder, I will not make games with the Rift, and I am not associating myself with a Facebook affiliated company.&quot; And from another, &quot;I am really upset by this. I had nothing but grief as a developer of Facebook titles, and the direction and actions of the Facebook company are not ones I can support.&quot;Illusion and disillusionThe Guardian sought responses from the development community, and caught some of the same disillusionment. &quot;I never would have backed them if I thought this was even a remote possibility,&quot; said programmer Chip Collier. &quot;I&apos;m literally sad because I feel like a promising future was really just a hopeless dream. VR has just been set back another 20 - 30 years.&quot;The fear, of course, is this: while Oculus VR seemed genuinely interested in developing a VR platform that would be wonderful and open for developers and innovative for end-users, Facebook may well just be looking for a new way to lock communities into its proprietary social network environment, while feeding adverts directly into their brains.Corporate terrorAnd even if this Orwellian nightmare isn&apos;t realised, there&apos;s an aching fear that Facebook involvement won&apos;t speed things up, as Luckey has asserted, but slow everything right down – or make it much more dry and restricted. &quot;I&apos;m irritated,&quot; says George Buckingham, a developer with offbeat studio Die Gute Fabrik. &quot;The FB acquisition of Oculus seems 80% likely to kill their momentum [...] It&apos;s probably going to get locked down in annoying ways and stop being a cool weird tech you can freely hack on. I hope someone else comes and makes basically the same thing. Though I guess that&apos;s Sony, now.&quot;For others, it&apos;s not so much about the minutae of the buy-out, the micro-clauses Facebook may or may not have inserted into the deal, it&apos;s about the fear of big corporations crushing the indie instinct. &quot;I think it makes a lot of sense for Zuck to go after this,&quot; says programmer Mykola Bilokonsky. &quot;But I am as queasy as anyone else at the prospect. I don&apos;t want to live in a future where a handful of giant companies are dividing up every piece of creative enterprise that stands a chance of reaching mass market.&quot;Indie game maker Chris Hecker summed up this meta-narrative on Twitter, thus: &quot;I can&apos;t wait until Google and Facebook go to war, with the autonomous robots on one side and the VR mind-controlled zombies on the other.&quot;The other sideBut the reactions haven&apos;t all been negative. Amid the anti-corporate clamour, there have been optimistic voices. &quot;This is a smart move for Oculus,&quot; says Rami Ismail, co-founder of cult Dutch studio, Vlambeer. &quot;We may all know of them in the tech scene, but outside of our bubble nobody has ever heard of them. If VR is to be established as a market, we need the average consumer to know of it, so having Facebook and Sony in the fray is good news.&quot;Oculus needed a backer that has huge mindshare, a lot of money, a lot of technological credibility and access to great software and hardware facilities. To be honest, I&apos;m not even surprised Oculus was sold, I&apos;m more surprised that Facebook ended up being the highest bidder.&quot;Jeff Murray of PsychicParrot Games, which has worked on several VR projects, is similarly pragmatic. &quot;The way I see it is that Oculus needs a market and if Facebook thinks it can provide that, fair enough,&quot; he says. &quot;Oculus aren&apos;t even beginning to help or create ways for devs to monetise their creations and they seem to be only interested in the tech. The only people making money from Oculus demos are people building installations or training sims and as far as I can tell those are pretty rare too.&quot;For the moment, [Oculus Rift is] a nice toy but without any real market, no-one can really push it forward software-wise. Perhaps Facebook will provide that?&quot;The bigger picturePerhaps the narrative we&apos;re being sold about the purchase is true. Luckey says that Oculus is free to pursue its interests in the virtual reality gaming sector, while Zuckerberg has suggested that he is interested in the further applications of VR technology: &quot;After games, we&apos;re going to make Oculus a platform for many other experiences.&quot;Some developers wonder if Facebook will quietly watch and learn as Oculus builds its tech, before taking the Rift concept in wildly new directions. According to game designer and social games expert, Will Luton, it&apos;s not about owning the current, it&apos;s about preparing for the future: &quot;Facebook is in theinnovator&apos;s dilemmapretty hard and is obviously feeling the pressure on its stocks, so needs fresh growth – it&apos;s at saturation point in terms of users, I should think.&quot;My inkling would be that Oculus is a missing part of some other tech that Facebook has in the works. That could mean an OASIS-like virtual world – what Zuckerberg refers to as, &apos;getting ready for the platforms of tomorrow&apos;.&quot;Robin Arnott, the experimental developer of VR titles Deep Sea and SoundSelf is optimistic about wider applications too. &quot;The fear comes from looking at VR with video-game shaped goggles,&quot; he says. &quot;But if you change your goggles, it&apos;s kind of exciting. Facebook, after all, is not a gaming company, but a communications company. And Oculus is not a gaming company, but a virtual reality company. I think Facebook&apos;s probably looking at the big-picture potential of VR outside of games - as a means of communication and sharing experiences. I can&apos;t imagine what they&apos;ll come up with together, but I have a feeling that it&apos;ll more closely resemble the holodeck than Farmville.&quot;James Crowson has developedThe Wall, a VR experience based around Game of Thrones – but he&apos;s also beginning a Master&apos;s thesis at New York University, looking at using virtual reality for mental health treatment. He reckons, the backing of Facebook could lead to more support for similar therapeutic applications.&quot;[Oculus Rift] has been marketed as a tool for gaming, but there&apos;s clearly far more important uses for it, treatment being one of them,&quot; says Crowson. &quot;I&apos;m sure that it&apos;s going to play an important part in the bridge between technology and health, for example, using exposure therapy to treat people with phobias such as acrophobia. Mark Zuckerburg has already identified uses for the Oculus other than gaming, for education purposes as well as health, so it&apos;s clearly on the radar for them.&quot;The Facebook effectMost developers concede that Facebook has had a large and incredibly pervasive effect on game design and mechanics. Titles like Farmville popularised the use of microtransactions and tight, endless compulsion loops – the controversial tools of the free-to-play era. Facebook set up the environment in which these titles could proliferate and then it changed the rules, tinkering with its privacy settings and unbalancing the eco-system for developers. Might the same happen to virtual reality?Or will Facebook concede control of the gaming infrastructure to Oculus, its eyes on the bigger prize of VR as a communication and education tool? In the VR gaming sector, it is not dealing with companies like Zynga, set up to exploit new networks for vast monetary gain; right now it is dealing with hobbyists and indies, small teams interested in the tech and the artistic possibilities. These are the people voicing their concerns on Twitter – these are the teams that feel betrayed. Facebook needs to tread this PR tightrope carefully. It needs to understand the sector it has just entered.&quot;Reaction from the gaming industry will fall into two major camps,&quot; concludes Piers Harding-Rolls, head of games at IHS Technology. &quot;There will be independent developers that will feel alienated by this move and may shift their priorities to other platforms. Others will see the advantages of having a much bigger entity behind the platform with deeper pockets alongside a massive audience of potential consumers across Facebook.&quot;Judging by Zuckerberg&apos;s comments, Facebook is keen to accelerate the development of Oculus&apos; gaming capability, but I sense this is more about proving the concept and driving early adoption for a much broader set of applications many years down the road.&quot;It&apos;s a high risk and very long term bet, but if VR does amount to something more fundamental than its history suggests, why not be prepared?&quot;• Oculus: Facebook buys virtual reality gaming firm for $2bn•Minecraft for Oculus Rift cancelled in wake of Facebook deal
King, the British games studio behind the blockbuster smartphone game Candy Crush, has set a final price of $22.50 (£13.61) on its shares, which begin trading in New York on Wednesday, valuing the company at just over $7bn.The price is exactly in the middle of the $21 to $24 range suggested by the company earlier this month, reflecting concerns among some investors that its success with Candy Crush may be hard to repeat.Backers hope King will follow the trajectory set by Twitter, which floated at $14bn and is now worth $27bn. Bears say it could suffer the same fate as Zynga, which has seen its shares halve in price as its games struggled to find favour mobile after their initial popularity on Facebook.King is on a sugar rush, taking more than $6m a day in revenues last quarter after its sweetie-themed puzzle game became one the highest grossing iPhone app ever last year.The shares will begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday, under the ticker symbol KING, making instant fortunes for the executives, directors and early investors who are selling shares into the float.The company will create between 100 and 140 millionaires, according to estimates by the research firm Privco, which says around 56% of the shares are owned by institutional investors, 31% by executives and founders, and a final 12% by more junior, non-executive employees. Many have yet to take full ownership of their shares, which will be granted over a period of years, but if King's stock stays at or above the float price, these paper fortunes will eventually be exchanged for real money.However, some analysts have warned that the shares may be overpriced, with King heavily dependent on one hit game. Candy Crush accounted for 78% of its developer's revenues last year, but it has already slipped out of the top 10 in the UK and US download charts."Revenue concentration in one game would still be palatable if in fact the game was growing," Sterne Agee analyst Arvind Bhatia told Bloomberg. "Because it's not, that's a double whammy."Priced at eight and a half times last year's adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of $825m, King is slightly cheaper than more established rivals Activision Blizzard and Electronic Arts, which trade at 10 times EBITDA.King's chief executive, Riccardo Zacconi, whose stake will be worth $700m, is pinning his hopes on new release Farm Heroes, which debuted on Facebook and made the transition to a smartphone app in early January, while an older title, Pet Rescue, is still performing well. These two games, together with Candy Crush, represent 95% of revenues."Candy Crush Saga is a phenomenon, up there with 50 Shades of Grey, Flappy Birds and Gangnam Style," said games industry expert Nicholas Lovell. But he fears the studio will not enjoy such success a second time. "It has also struck oil once. I am nervous valuing it on the basis of striking gold again."King made $1.9bn in revenues in 2013, and Sterne Agee estimates these will rise to $2.62bn in 2014, as more titles make the transition to mobile and Farm Heroes picks up followers. Its daily users have risen from 8m before being released on iPhone and Android to 20m by the end of February.Lovell's conclusion is that King is worth less than $5bn, and fears sceptical traders could force a share price collapse in the coming weeks. He wrote on his Gamesbrief blog: "I expect the buyers to be the ill-informed and the followers, not the price setters. I expect the price to fall over the next four weeks.If it does, it won't fall to my $5bn. The market will get angry and fearful. The price will plummet."
EE’s launching its own brand 4G Android phone, undercutting the current competition with a £99.99 price point.Manufactured by Huawei, the EE Kestrel uses Android software. The phone is £30 cheaper than EE&apos;s most recent budget 4G handset – an important milestone in encouraging consumers to upgrade from 3G handsets.“We’re continually looking for new ways to make a quality 4G experience accessible to all. By introducing the UK’s lowest price 4G smartphone, and great value entry-level plans, even more customers will now have the ability to access the UK’s most advanced 4G network and reap the benefits it offers,” said Pippa Dunn, chief marketing officer for EE.Kestrel combines a budget feature set with relatively solid build quality and Android 4.3 Jelly Bean with the promise of an upgrade to the latest Android 4.4 KitKat at a later date.Along with the new sub-£100 smartphone, EE has also lowered the entry price for its 4G contracts, which now start at £13.99 a month for 24 months with 500 minutes, unlimited texts and 500MB of data – an amount that could be exhausted in minutes on EE’s fast 4G network if a user chose to stream a high-quality movie for instance.EE previously cut the cost of its4G plans in October last yearwith a £19 starting contract as the mobile operator became more aggressive in pricing in the face of new competition from Vodafone and O2 launching their own 4G networks.• EE’s chief says theEU’s focus on mobile roaming charges is outdated
Minecraft creator Markus Persson says he has cancelled a potential deal to bring the hit game to Oculus Rift, afterthe company was bought by Facebook.We were in talks about maybe bringing a version of Minecraft to Oculus. I just cancelled that deal. Facebook creeps me out.&mdash; Markus Persson (@notch)March 25, 2014In ablog post backing up his decision, Persson said that he was keen to work with virtual reality platforms and welcomed competition in that area, but would refuse to work with Facebook, adding:Facebook is not a company of grass-roots tech enthusiasts. Facebook is not a game tech company. Facebook has a history of caring about building user numbers, and nothing but building user numbers. People have made games for Facebook platforms before, and while it worked great for a while, they were stuck in a very unfortunate position when Facebook eventually changed the platform to better fit the social experience they were trying to build.﻿His comments joined a chorus of concern from game creators and players over perceived privacy issues and the proliferation of the coercive social practices that drove the popularity of games like Farmville on Facebook.CEO Palmer Luckeytook to Reddit to explain the deal, and was greeted by a swathe of negative comments questioning the possible impact of Facebook&apos;s closed ecosystem on game developers, the change in audience for the Oculus Rift headset, issues with data collection and advertising, and whether the company will still retain any control over its direction.Announcing the deal, the Oculus team said the two companies were &quot;culturally aligned&quot;, with both seeing virtual reality as the next big step for technology - a sentiment echoed by Luckey on Reddit.That announcement was also greeted with a string of negative comments, whileFacebook&apos;s own announcement has so far seen a more positive reception.Minecraft, which has sold more than 14m copies and is available on PC, Mac, mobile and Xbox Live, already hasan unofficial mod for Oculus Rift players.
Facebook has bought the virtual reality technology firm Oculus VR for $2bn [£1.2bn], it revealed on Tuesday.In a surprise announcement, the social networking company said it had paid $400m in cash and the rest in more than 23m shares, currently worth $1.6bn [£970m], plus an additional $300m pegged to future performance.A detailed company statement said that Facebook recognised how Oculus had built a solid following among game developers, but that virtual reality technology would expand to other industries from communications and entertainment to education and media.&quot;Mobile is the platform of today, and now we&apos;re also getting ready for the platforms of tomorrow,&quot; said Facebook founder and CEO, Mark Zuckerberg. &quot;Oculus has the chance to create the most social platform ever, and change the way we work, play and communicate.&quot;Oculus will remain in its base at Irvine in California while the transaction closes in the second quarter of the year. The company hasjust announced the Dev Kit 2 version of the Rift headset, complete with high definition displays and better head-tracking hardware. The company says it has also eliminated motion blur and judder, which should significantly reduce motion sickness in users – a vital element in ensuring wider consumer use for the device.&quot;We are excited to work with Mark and the Facebook team to deliver the very best virtual reality platform in the world,&quot;said Brendan Iribe, co-founder and CEO of Oculus VR. &quot;We believe virtual reality will be heavily defined by social experiences that connect people in magical, new ways. It is a transformative and disruptive technology, that enables the world to experience the impossible, and it&apos;s only just the beginning.&quot;In a lengthy post on Facebook,Zuckerberg expanded on his visionfor Oculus.&quot;After games, we&apos;re going to make Oculus a platform for many other experiences. Imagine enjoying a court side seat at a game, studying in a classroom of students and teachers all over the world or consulting with a doctor face-to-face — just by putting on goggles in your home,&quot; he said.&quot;Virtual reality was once the dream of science fiction. But the internet was also once a dream, and so were computers and smartphones. The future is coming and we have a chance to build it together. I can&apos;t wait to start working with the whole team at Oculus to bring this future to the world, and to unlock new worlds for all of us.&quot;Formed by 21-year-old college drop-out Palmer Luckey, Oculus VR hit the headlines in 2012 when the company raised over $2m to manufacture its Oculus Rift VR headset on the crowd-funding site Kickstarter.The technology, which features a head-mounted display and motion-tracking sensors, caught the attention of John Carmack, the co-creator of the Doom video game series who evangelised the concept to the rest of the games industry.More than 60,000 developer versions of the headset have been sold and dozens of games already support the technology. The device is not expected to be available to the public until early 2015.The announcement follows arumour posted to Redditlast month. User threewolfmtn claimed: &quot;So no way to confirm this, but my friend works in the same building as Oculus, and he ran into Mark Zuckerberg taking the elevator to Oculus&apos; floor.&quot;•I swapped my world for a virtual one – and I loved what I found•WhatsApp: Facebook acquires messaging service in $19bn deal•Sony’s Oculus Rift VR headset rival expected next week at GDC
It’s official, at least according to the taxman: bitcoin is not a currency. The Internal Revenue Service ruled Tuesday that the controversial cryptocurrency and its rivals will be treated as property, not cash, for tax purposes.The ruling had been expected and marks another step in the wider attempt to make bitcoin mainstream. In its notice, the IRS said bitcoin would be treated much like stock or other intangible property.&quot;The notice provides that virtual currency is treated as property for US federal tax purposes. General tax principles that apply to property transactions apply to transactions using virtual currency,&quot; according to anIRS news release.The ruling means gains in value will be treated as capital gains and as such could be subject to lower tax rates than income. The top long-term capital gains tax rate is 20%, while the top ordinary income tax rate is 39.6%.The clarification does, however, make using bitcoin as a currency more problematic. Anyone involved in transactions involving digital currencies will be subject to the same record-keeping requirements, and taxes, as those making stock transactions and other deals.Under the new rules, paying for a beer in bitcoin would be a taxable event with the buyer having to work out if they had made any capital gain on the asset they had just sold.Bitcoin has been gaining some ground with the US financial establishment. Last year, outgoing Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke told Congress that bitcoin and its ilk “may hold long-term promise, particularly if the innovations promote a faster, more secure and more efficient payment system”.Benjamin Lawsky, superintendent of New York&apos;s department of financial services, said last month that he intends to introduce regulation for bitcoins later this year, making New York the first state to do so.The IRS clarification will further cement the asset’s legitimacy but it comes as bitcoin has faced some of its biggest problems to date.In February, Mt Gox, bitcoin’s largest exchange,collapsedand lost $450m worth of bitcoin. The exchange declared bankruptcy amid a series of cyber-attacks and allegations of incompetence among its management.The currency has also been at the forefront of investigations into online drugs and guns bazaar Silk Road. Last NovemberRoss Ulbricht, a 29-year-old investment adviser and entrepreneur, was arrested by the US authorities and accused of being “Dread Pirate Roberts”, the site&apos;s creator. He denies the charges.
HTC&apos;s chairwoman Cher Wang announced on Tuesday that the HTC One released in 2013 &quot;was HTC&apos;s best-selling phone ever&quot;. The occasion was the release of its successor, the HTC One M8.To some this may seem surprising, given that HTC recorded its first annual net loss in 2013 of US$75m on revenues down 30% to US$6.96bn. The number of smartphones that it shipped fell by 29%, according to the research company IDC, even as the smartphone market grew 39%.Yet Wang&apos;s statement is true, IDC confirms: the HTC One shipped 6.4m units from its launch in April 2013, more than any before it.But Francisco Jeronimo, IDC&apos;s European smartphone analyst, contrasted that with other top-end smartphones, such as Apple&apos;s iPhone 5 - which shipped 62.9m units in 2013 - and iPhone 5S, released in September (39.5m), as well as Samsung&apos;s Galaxy S4, which went on sale in late April 2013 (43.3m).In all, HTC shipped a total of just 22.6m units of all its phones in the whole of 2013, says IDC &quot;The HTC One 2014 has a lot to catch up in 2014,&quot; commented Jeronimo. Overall, the smartphone market in 2013 grew to around a billion units - including a substantial market in China, where HTC has struggled to eke out a mid-market position.HTC monthly revenue, by year, since 2008. Figures are in millions of New Taiwan dollars (1 TWD is about 0.035 USD). Photograph: /GuardianFor HTC, the past two years have been painful. Its revenues have plummeted. It has begun 2014 with monthly revenues that are the smallest since 2007 (Taiwanese stock market-listed companies are obliged to file monthly revenue, though not profit, data).The question now is whether the HTC One M8 can help the company to regain the high ground that it used to share with Apple and Samsung.Ben Wood of the analysts CCS Insightcommented: &quot;the M8 must capitalise on the distinctive design and premium materials used on the device, especially in comparison with those of its rivals. A major goal will be to capture consumers upgrading from Samsung&apos;s Galaxy S III.&quot; Those buyers would have bought their phone in spring 2012 - and will now be coming to the end of two-year contracts.While HTC is pleased to have got agreements from 230 carriers to sell the phone at once, its executives were hugely displeased with the leaks that came ahead of the launch - even though it&apos;s suspected that some of the leaks were the result of sending the phone to carriers and having it available in so many outlets.Speaking before the launch, Peter Frolund, head of HTC&apos;s UK operations, told the Guardian: &quot;We don&apos;t like leaks, we want to entertain and surprise. We appreciate interest, but we want to avoid the leaks, but we&apos;re in an industry where the focus is on devices and the attention is gigantic. We investigate all leaks.&quot;Leaks and broken NDAs [non-disclosure agreements] have concrete financial harm,saidJeff Gordon, HTC&apos;s senior global online communications manager, as the company pursued Roshan Jamkatel, a teenage boy who uploaded a 12-minute video showing off the specifications of the M8 to YouTube at the beginning of March.HTC was also insistent at the launch that the revelations and continued series of leaks from multiple sources were not the same as using the phone. Phil Blair, head of HTC&apos;s European and Middle East operations, told the audience at the launch: &quot;You might say you&apos;ve seen our new superphone, but that&apos;s like saying you&apos;ve seen your favourite band because you&apos;ve seen them in a YouTube clip.&quot;
The stands are empty; the pitch, still sodden and scarred from recent  international rugby  union clashes, is unused.  Twickenham stadium in south London has hosted many major tournament finals – but none like this. Today's matches take place in a darkened hall within the stadium's towering walls, on the battlefields of multimillion-selling first-person shoot-'em-upCall of Duty. Over two days, 26 teams from across Europe are competing for a place in the World Championship, held in LA at the end of the month. All the matches use the same setup: two teams of four  players competing for the most "kills" in one of the game's fast-paced military-themed gunfights. A slouching gaggle of twentysomethings have come to watch these qualifying battles live, though most of them don't arrive until after lunchtime. If glitzy video game tournaments are the future of sport, the future hasn't quite reached south London yet.But the emerging world of professional video game competition – or eSports – is serious business. This year's Call of Duty tournament hasa prize purse of $1mand the winning team takes home $400,000. Elsewhere, last year's prize pot for the fantasy-themed League of Legends championship – arguably the most popular online game in the world today –was $2m, attracting sponsorship from heavyweight brands such as Coca-Cola and American Express.League of Legends fans watch a live game. Photograph: AFP/Getty ImagesLast year's League of Legends  final was hosted in Los Angeles' Galen Center – a location more accustomed to nationally televised basketball matches – watched live by 10,000 fans and  online bymore than 32 million people throughout the day, peaking at eight million simultaneous viewers. In South Korea, the sci-fi strategy gameStarcrafthas been referred to as the country's national sport – the top players are adored by millions of fans, and cable channels cover the game's professional tournaments. Call of Duty's European qualifiers may not have made it to the pitch yet, but they are at least inside the stadium, a symbolic stride towards a certain kind of sporting legitimacy.Call of Duty is a cultural juggernaut, produced in annual iterations that, as publisher Activision is only too eager to proclaim, routinely generate more profits than any other entertainment release in a year. Each Call of Duty  title is a game of two halves: a six-hour cinematic storyline for a single player, and a vast and complicated online competitive sports game. The Call of Duty World Championship is now in its third year, and has grown out of the consumer game, where the best players gain recognition and are picked up by professional eSports teams, some of whom have dedicated scouts who search out the best players online."The time and effort these guys put in for getting to the top are crazy," says Ben Perkins, a competitor from TYT, one of the youngest teams to make it to the European leg of the championship. "They don't miss shots, of course, but it's their knowledge of the maps and communication that gives them a different sort of advantage. For example, they'll see a rival player run into a building and know that, six seconds later, they'll be in a particular spot. They'll then throw a grenade through a tiny hole in the roof to cut the other player off. It's like an entirely different game to what people play at home."Literary profiles of young professional athletes often strain to find evidence of a rounded life, of interests outside of the training regime and the psychological obsession of preparation for the game. They strain because, in the majority of cases, there is no rounded life; the reality of top-level sports is that they demand participants' full and dogged attention, and early and total commitment to one tightly focused area of excellence.  But here in Twickenham, for the  moment at least, there is little evidence of this kind of absolute immersion. On the first night of the tournament, many players stay out drinking until the early hours.Call of Duty: Ghosts.It's not that they are being unprofessional; it's simply that the sport lacks a natural maturity. The prize pots are too few and too weighted toward the winning team for anybody to make a professional living from the game.  "We tell all of the players that we work with that education comes first," says Jim Maguire, 46, manager of TCM,  the team that will go on to win the  European leg of the championship, and are UK favourites for the finals. "I tell them: you've got to have something to fall back on. eSports is great but it's a young person's game. You might get five years out of it. Very few go on past then so they need something to fall back on. You won't be able to retire on Call of Duty winnings."Call of Duty championships … the prizes await.A professional trainer would likely never say such a thing to a top-flight athlete; they would encourage the player to let go of all immediate hopes and ambitions away from the sport. There are already signs however that eSports might one day require the same level of commitment. Taiwan's top League of Legends squad,the  Taipei Assassins, live and train  together in the shadow of the Taipei 101 skyscraper in central Taiwan. They adhere to a strict diet and spend time every day on physical exercises to aid reflexes and general health. But, in terms of Call of Duty at least, the  financial rewards aren't there to  sustain quite the same level of  commitment yet. "Coming second or third in these tournaments doesn't hold any major financial incentive," says Maguire.Part of the issue may be that  Call of Duty is less tailored to spectatorship than other competitive video games. Unlike League of Legends  or Starcraft, Call of Duty is played  from a first person perspective. "This  certainly provides an intimate view on the action," explains Joe Cecot, one of the game's designers. "But it's hard to see exactly what's going on with the broader match." To aid the flow of  information to spectators, and to give the game's professional commentators a tool for monitoring the flow of a game, the developer introduced a spectator mode, which outlines all enemies and friendlies in a match, even if they're obscured by a wall or building. "This allows the audience to anticipate an engagement," says Cecot. "They know something is about to go down, and the commentators can pick up on these moments. It's all about the flow of information."Call Of Duty: Black Ops.As the game's developers, Infinity Ward, wrestle with the task of designing tools to turn a niche spectator sport into something with broader appeal, the game's emergent semi-professional players are also forced to ask deeper questions about what these competitions mean in the fabric of their lives. Mark Bryceland, 19, is one quarter of TCM and the only Scottish player competing in this year's world championship. "I have no idea what my ambition beyond this is," he says. "It's just sort of for fun at the moment. It's a hobby that's moving to the next level; something I can make a little money from. At the core of it I suppose I just want to be known as the best at something."
HTC One M8: a quick lookHTC is hoping that its big bet on premium design for its new HTC One M8 flagship Android smartphone will help it take on rivals Samsung and Apple.One M8 develops the company&apos;s focus on premium metal materials and rigid construction, and is a replacement for the well received GSMA Global Mobile award-winning HTC One from 2013.&quot;It has taken us 13 years to get the point where we can create an all-metal phone. Metal is great for designers but for phone engineers that need to worry about the function of the phone it is a nightmare,&quot; said Graham Wheeler, HTC&apos;s director of product for Europe, Middle East and Africa. &quot;At HTC the designers come first, however, and the engineers have to fit around the designers.&quot;HTC has made the entire body of the new One M8 out of a curved metal case that bends around the edges to the glass front of the screen – a design that has not been possible before because the metal case blocks radio signals used to send and receive data, phone calls and text messages.HTC has focused on design and build for the One M8 with an all-metal body.HTC devised a way of embedding the antennas directly into the metal body using a plastic resin before the curved shell is formed from a solid block.The new Android smartphone is thinner than its predecessor, but has a new, larger 5in full HD screen. HTC has replaced the fixed capacitive buttons at the bottom of the screen for the more familiar Android on-screen back, home and app switcher virtual buttons.The One M8 includes the latest flagship Snapdragon 801 2.3GHz quad-core processor from Qualcomm, like theSony Xperia Z2andSamsung Galaxy S5, and has a microSD card slot for expanding the 16GB of storage space with up to 128GB.Two cameras for the price of oneThe company decided to opt out of the megapixel race for ever higher and higher numbers of pixels forthe original HTC One, instead fitting it with a 4.1 &quot;ultrapixel&quot; camera. The sensor that had physically bigger pixels for capturing more light per pixel, therefore making a brighter and more colour-rich image, especially in low-light conditions.HTC has further developed the Ultrapixel idea by coupling the same 4.1 megapixel camera to two image processing chips for faster and crisper image capture, while adding a secondary camera that captures depth information at the same time as the main camera snaps a photo.The &quot;duo camera&quot; design captures spatial information and allows several post-capture image processing functions. These include the ability to refocus a photo to any point in the image – not limited to certain plains within the image like Samsung&apos;s multi-capture efforts on the Galaxy S5 – much likea Lytro lightfield camera.The Duo Camera allows users to refocus images after capture using the depth sensor information.The One M8 can also isolate objects or people from a background, adjust the angle of the photo after the fact and create 3D-like images. The depth sensor will also automatically moderate the power of the dual-colour LED flash so that images do not appear completely washed out in the foreground.One consequence of having the Duo Camera system is that HTC was forced to remove the optical image stabilisation from the One M8&apos;s camera, as the depth sensor can only work if the main camera is fixed.HTC has added electronic image stabilisation, which imperceptibly captures five images in quick succession after pressing the shutter button and automatically chooses the best one.A 5 megapixel front-facing camera on the M8 with an 80 degree viewing angle &quot;can make anyone look beautiful in seconds&quot; with the use of HTC&apos;s &quot;selfie&quot; mode and the image editing features, according to Wheeler.Gestures and co-processorsThe One M8 has a new co-processor that handles data from a variety of low-power sensors like the ambient light sensor, accelerometer, GPS and touchscreen without waking the main, power-hungry processor.Apple&apos;s iPhone 5s, launched last year, started the trend for motion co-processors followed by Samsung&apos;s Galaxy S5,announced at Mobile World Congressin February.The co-processor allows the M8 to be aware of its surroundings without draining the battery, making a range of &quot;Motion Launch&quot; gestures possible like a double tap on the screen to wake the device. The M8 knows when it is in a pocket or bag and prevents the screen from waking the rest of the phone.Another one of the useful gestures is “sightseeing mode,” where the M8 will launch the camera app if the phone is held horizontally and the volume button is held down, even when the screen is off or locked.Besides gestures, the motion co-processor allows the M8 to function like a pedometer or fitness tracker, with a Fitbit app pre-installed for measuring steps and distance walked.Bigger batteryShort battery life has become one of the key issues plaguing modern, powerful smartphones. HTC has added a larger 2,600 mAh battery to the M8 while making the smartphone up to 40% more power efficient than its predecessor.HTC&apos;s “ultra power saving” mode will also extend battery life by turning off unnecessary power hungry functions like mobile data, providing 36 hours of standby time from just 20% battery.The re-engineered &quot;Boom Sound&quot; front-facing speakers, which bracket the screen for stereo sound, are 25% louder than those on last year&apos;s One and some of the loudest and clearest available on any smartphone.Following Google&apos;s lead, HTC also decided to decouple its apps and software from the Android operating system, allowing them to be updated via Google Play like any other app rather than having to rely on full Android software updates.HTC has given its social media and news aggregation app, BlinkFeed, a visual makeover.As a consequence HTC’s apps, including BlinkFeed, the Zoe camera application and the Sense customisations that HTC makes to the standard Android experience, can be individually updated and improved much faster. They can also be made them available to older HTC devices and other smartphone users.“By decoupling our apps like Zoe from Android and offering them through Google Play we can enable people not using HTC smartphones to download and use our apps,” explained Wheeler. “It also means that major Android updates, something we’re pledging to make available for our flagship smartphones for two years, can be delivered faster.”HTC’s BlinkFeed and Zoe apps are expected to be available for select older HTC handsets as well as Android smartphones from other manufactures through Google Play later on this year.All-out designHTC has bet everything on the design and build of the One M8 to differentiate it again strong competition from Samsung, Sony and Apple, but that design focus has had consequences on additional features.The M8 has no fingerprint sensor, which is likely to become a mainstay for top smartphones in 2014, no heart rate sensor like Samsung&apos;s Galaxy S5 and no wireless charging support.&quot;We couldn&apos;t do certain things, like wireless charging, because it would compromise the design of the M8, something we were not prepared to do,&quot; explained Wheeler.HTC&apos;s hoping the M8 will be enough to stymie falling sales as it struggles to recover from a lossmaking year in 2013, where its Android smartphone business dwindled in the face of aggressive pricing and promotion by Korean rivals Samsung and LG and Japan&apos;s Sony.The company has forecast a loss this quarter on revenues and it said would be smaller than at any time since it switched from manufacturing devices for others to manufacturing smartphones under the HTC brand in 2009.The HTC One M8 will be available from today on contract from EE, Three, Vodafone and O2, as well as from high street stores Phones 4U and Carphone Warehouse for around £550 without a contract.•Hands-on with the new HTC One M8 - in pictures
The One M8 is the latest flagship smartphone from HTC, which builds on the design and construction of the award winning HTC One with an all-metal body that wraps around to the edge of the screen. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe solid metal case is punctured only for the ports and sockets like the micro USB and headphones ports in the bottom of the phone. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianUp top the One M8 has a 5 megapixel camera for selfies next to the top front-facing Boom Sound speaker, which is paired with another speaker at the bottom of the screen for impressive distortion-free sound with reasonable stereo separation. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe One M8’s all-metal body has absolutely no flex or give anywhere on the phone making it feel premium and well built. The curved back fits well in the hand and the rounded corners sit comfortably in the crease of your palm. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe top window of the smartphone packs an IR blaster for controlling TVs and other in-home remote controlled equipment like set top boxes and hi-fis. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianHTC has ditched the fixed capacitive buttons situated underneath the screen from the original One smartphone for the One M8, instead relying on on-screen menu, back and multitasking buttons like most other Android phones. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe HTC One M8's metal body will come in three colours: arctic silver, amber gold and metal grey.Striations have been etched into the One M8's back to highlight its metal body – something that is not possible in the plastic materials Samsung and others use, according to HTC's head of product Graham Wheeler. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe One M8 features slightly modified Android software called HTC Sense 6, which packs a few tweaked things like a removable Google search box and HTC’s own BlinkFeed social media and news aggregation app. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianHTC has tweaked the way apps are listed in the apps screen beyond the home screen, allowing users to create folders of apps and sort them in a variety of ways, unlike standard Android. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianHTC’s multi-tasking interface is also different to standard Android, showing small tappable cards instead of a list of running applications, making it easier to see what is running at a glance without scrolling, limited to nine applications at a time. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe One M8 features HTC’s new Duo Camera, which stacks a depth sensor above the main ultrapixel camera. The depth camera works imperceptibly in the background when capturing photos, adjusting the strength of the flash depending on the distance of your subject, as well as allowing some interesting effects and adjustments to photos after capture. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianHTC has simplified the camera interface for the One M8, providing six easy-to-use modes including a selfie mode and HTC’s Zoe camera, which combines video and still photos into one moving capture. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe One M8’s camera can perform real-time enhancement of faces and skin tone to various degrees called “make-up level”, which enhances portraits. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianOnce a photo has been snapped, the One M8 features a collection of enhancement tools for improving the appearance of your subject. With simple sliders users can adjust the smoothness and shininess of skin, lighting and reduce red eye. But it goes beyond normal photo fixes with users able to increase the brightness and size of the eyes – enlarged here to comic effect – as well as the contour of the face, again here with a much narrowed chin. It is like an easy-to-use Photoshop in your pocket. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe One M8 can refocus pictures after the fact using the depth sensor of the Duo Camera, letting users tap on any spot on the photo to focus to that point with a narrow field of focus to create great-looking pictures. The One M8 can also create a parallax 3D effect, allowing photographers to slightly adjust the angle of the photo after capturing it, for the whole scene or just a selection of the photo. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianHTC has fitted a motion co-processor to the One M8, which similar to Apple’s M8 co-processor in the iPhone 5S, allows the One M8 to continually monitor the phone’s sensors without significantly draining the battery. The M8 can operate as a fitness tracker, monitoring your motions as you go about your day and working as a pedometer with the pre-installed Fitbit app. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianHTC has included a "kid mode," which locks down the smartphone and allows only certain apps and services to be used, as well as providing a simplified one-tap interface for launching child-specific apps and games. One M8 Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianHTC’s new dot matrix-style case shines notifications, the weather and the time through small perforations in the book-style screen cover. The touchscreen is still useable through the case, allowing users to accept and reject calls without opening the case. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe One M8 on the right is bigger and slightly heavier than the original HTC One from last year. It features a larger 5in screen, as well as a bigger battery and louder Boom Sound speakers. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe M8 has a similar curved ergonomic back to the HTC One, fitting well in the palm of the hand. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The GuardianThe HTC One M8 on the left is significantly bigger and heavier than the Google Nexus 5 on the right, despite having the same screen size. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The Guardian
A £1m Boris Johnson-backed startup competition designed to entice promising tech businesses to London was quietly killed off in 2013 and will not run again, the Guardian has learned, while the Digital Shoreditch 2014 festival has been cancelled.The Million Pound Startup competition, supported by the Mayor of London and the Tech City Investment Organisation (TCIO), among many others, was closed last year without any public notice because none of the 1,000 entrants were deemed worthy of the prize.Described as “a new, groundbreaking global competition to bring a high-growth technology company to London”, it offered entrants the chance to win £1m, as long as they moved their HQ to the capital. Winners were also to be offered legal consultation worth £10,000 from Taylor Wessing and £10,000 of consulting services from KPMG.Although a final 20 had been selected from more than 1,000 applications from 72 countries, in late September it became apparent there were no suitable candidates.In October, all the money invested in the project was returned. “The £433,000 capital raised had been held in ESCROW by Seedrs as part of their normal platform and was returned to the 200 or so investors,” said Richard Botley, an account director from Ketchum, the PR agency which had pledged to give the winning company public relations services worth £20,000.“The requirements for the finalists and eventual winner included both ambitions - could you be a £100m company and are you at the right stage for £1m investment? In the end it proved difficult to find companies that had both the right level of ambition and could stand a valuation for £2m-£10m.”Despite some “amazing companies” being uncovered, and even with all the help the winner would have received, no entrants were deemed of good enough quality, a spokesperson from Seedrs said.Steve Price, a volunteer for Digital Shoreditch who helped run the competition, said there were too many early-stage companies who entered. “To get £1m off an investor, you need to be a little bit further down the road.”No further Million Pound Startup competitions are planned for the future. Neither Ketchum nor Price could say why no public release had been made available when it was shut down.The Guardian also understands the Digital Shoreditch 2014 festival is to be cancelled, partly due to a lack of resources. A decision, announced today, will “suspend new activities” related to the event.The festival, designed to showcase the best of Tech City’s startups and create a vibrant networking environment, was set up in 2011, with the following two years seeing growth in numbers, according to Digital Shoreditch. An estimated 15,000 attended last year, according to the not-for-profit.“We have the need for what we create to be as good or better than the last time. And well after three years of Digital Shoreditch, it seems that it’s time for us to focus our attention on to bringing new perspectives into the mix,” a notice on the Digital Shoreditchwebsiteread.“To refresh. To ensure we’re super relevant. We want to create completely new types of events and competitions. And most importantly we want the next Digital Shoreditch Festival, whether it’s in 2015 or 2016 to be even better and bigger than 2013.”Despite the government’s efforts to foster a thriving tech sector in the capital around the Shoreditch area, it continues to face criticism over its work on Tech City.This month, the author Cory Doctorowwrote in The Guardianthat companies in Silicon Roundabout were being forced out of the area because of government-approved construction projects and rising rents.•Why we left Silicon Roundabout, by ThisisMyJam
The promise of bitcoin is a universal currency free from the control of any nation or government. But a new generation of cryptocurrencies are focusing on the opposite goal: building money to solve problems specific to one country.On midnight Monday, Auroracoin, a bitcoin clone which is the fourth most valuable cryptocurrency being traded today, entered the second phase of its life, with a &quot;helicopter drop&quot; of 30 auroracoins to every citizen of Iceland.The currency began life in February, and for the first month, traded like many other bitcoin clones. As you can buy auroracoin with bitcoin, and bitcoin with US dollars, it&apos;s possible to establish an exchange rate: one auroracoin is now worth $11.37, putting the value of the entire currency at $121m.But unlike bitcoin, which is only created by users &quot;mining&quot; for more, auroracoin was brought into life with a significant &quot;pre-mine&quot;: 10m coins were created before the currency went public, and now they will begin distribution throughout Iceland.The rationale behind the currency is to fight Iceland&apos;s capital controls, which ban Icelanders from taking kronas outside the country. The controls were put in place to strengthen the island nation&apos;s economy after the disastrous crash in 2008 which all but destroyed its banking sector.Auroracoinlaunched with a manifesto, detailing its creator&apos;s plans. &quot;The people of Iceland are being sacrificed at the altar of a flawed financial system, controlled by an elite that made astronomical bets supported by the government on behalf of the people and ultimately at the expense of the people,&quot; it says.&quot;The power must be taken away from the politicians and given back to the people. Cryptocurrencies are a very important milestone in this fight for liberty. They bring the hope of a new era of free currencies, immune to the meddling of politicians and their cronies.&quot; The document is signed &quot;Baldur Friggjar Odinsson&quot;; just like with bitcoin, the currency&apos;s creator is pseudonymous.But Baldur may find there is a stumbling block ahead. Iceland&apos;s central bank has not been ignorant to the possibility of cryptocurrencies enabling the evasion of capital controls. BitLegal, a site which monitors the legal status of Bitcoin around the world,says that&quot;domestic entities are not allowed to buy bitcoins from foreign entities, as such transactions are considered a capital movement out of the country.&quot;&quot;Furthermore, the Central Bank considers exports of goods and services in exchange for bitcoin in breach of these capital controls,&quot; it adds. &quot;Icelandic merchants and service providers are thus not able to legally accept bitcoin as payment.&quot;Regardless of legal problems ahead, Auroracoin has started strong. Too strong, maybe: the currency&apos;s site has collapsed under the load of Icelanders trying to claim their 31.8 coins.&quot;I am hopeful that the Scottish people will, over time, understand the vision of this project&quot;Already, other currencies are following in Auroracoin&apos;s footsteps. The Scotcoin project is one such proposal.Set up by Derek Nisbet, an Edinburgh-based venture capitalist, the cryptocurrency is offering 1,000 Scotcoins to every resident adult of Scotland – as well as bigger allocations for businesses, charities and start-ups, to boost the economy.Nisbet&apos;s motivations are necessarily different from Baldur&apos;s, since Scotland doesn&apos;t have capital controls. Instead, he tells the Guardian that the motivation is Scotland&apos;s uncertain future.&quot;There is so much uncertainty with the current financial situation, that introducing a voluntary cryptocurrency, which may in the future act as a medium of exchange for the Scottish people, can only benefit them should there be major disruption.&quot;&quot;I am hopeful that the Scottish people will, over time, understand the vision of this project, the good it can do for the Scottish people, and will therefore choose to participate, to make this successful for all.&quot;Despite appearances, Nisbet says he isn&apos;t a Scottish nationalist. &quot;The motivation for us has nothing to do with the vote later this year, or politics for that matter.&quot;Our motivation is to empower the Scottish people with an alternative digital currency opportunity, which may be used as a medium of exchange, should the need or wish arise.&quot;And just recently a third such coin launched:Gaelcoin is offering 50 free coins to every Irish citizen. The trend shows no sign of stopping yet.•That missing £70m of bitcoin? Found it!
There is great pleasure to be had teasing out the contradictions and contrasts in what we love. The fact that I love The Castle Doctrine, a multiplayer home-invasion game, makes me feel like A Very Bad Man – there are all sorts of ethical questions about exactly what I enjoy in it. So much so that I went off in search of other fans, simply for reassurance, and soon enough I waswatching Welsh Youtuber Aavakextolling the virtues of what he cheerfully describes as “the world’s premiere wife-killing simulator.” This is a joke, of course – but not one the game’s creator, Jason Rohrer, would necessarily approve of.The Castle Doctrine is named after a set of legal principles inspired by the old English saying, “a man’s home is his castle”. These principles basically permit the use of force (up to and including deadly force) in the defence of private property. The game takes this idea to Acme-like extremes, casting you as the dungaree-clad head of a nuclear family and requiring you to build a house to protect your wife, children, and a vault containing all your cash. Protect them from what? From thousands of other players who, when you’re not online, will try to burgle your online fortress.You can play as one of these burglars yourself, if you chose, but what makes The Castle Doctrine a powerful and occasionally upsetting game is that it explores the consequences of home ownership. In a big way. If you die, you’re dead. That&apos;s it. You have to start over. It doesn’t matter how big your house was, or if you were just testing some wiring, or if you didn’t mean to press that key. If a burglar enters your home and kills your wife, she’s dead forever, and the same for your children. If traps are damaged and you can’t afford to repair them, that’s that. Whether taking that step across someone’s threshold, or placing a powered trapdoor, every decision matters.White mischiefThe game has not been uncontroversial in, first of all, making the player assume the role of a white family man – giving the option to play as a black character or a woman would only require a palette-swap or sprite change, after all. Here it feels a little like Rohrer’s past is catching up to him – a previous work, Passage, presented marriage as a sort of parasitic compromise. But this time around the criticism may –may– be misplaced.Firstly, Rohrer’s stated goal is to evoke the fag end of the Reaganite 1980s, a time when his father and many others were investing heavily in expensive home-security systems, and that very concept of the nuclear family was being clenched tight. This avatar, in other words, has a reason to be a white male beyond being the default option.More importantly, many players have come to believe that, because developers can offer players a choice of avatar, that they are therefore obliged to. Though the principle underlying this opinion is good and true, it does conflate avatars with characters – and videogames can feature either. In The Castle Doctrine, despite the abstraction and the lack of narrative progression, this pixel figure is undoubtedly intended as a character, or at the very least a caricature. And it is far from a positive one.Gain and lossThe Castle Doctrine is about hoarding, it is about greed, and it is about what these two things together will do to a mind. The best example of this is a player with the in-game name of Charles Davis Clarke (each time you start a new character, which is frequent, the game randomly assigns you a triple-barreled name – reminiscent of how the media refers to political assassins and serial killers). This character’s house has been present since I started playing the game over a month ago.Once upon a time, this was clearly the greatest house in The Castle Doctrine; every wall was made out of concrete, the most expensive building material, and every inch of floor space was devoted to traps. Once upon a time Charles Davis Clarke was clearly a very rich man indeed.Now the house sits steady at a value of around $700. Almost nothing. When you enter, there are dead dogs all around – some clubbed, some crippled at the bottom of pits. Electricity can only be conducted through wooden walls, one of The Castle Doctrine’s little foibles, and the power supplies throughout the house have been dug out, turning it into a giant concrete maze of burrows and unpowered traps. Charles Davis Clarke’s vault, ever-empty, sits in the middle of a checkerboard of pits, surrounded by the bodies of deceased canines.In its lifetime, 2,992 players have visited this house, and 643 of those died therein. Whatever was in that vault, and there’s no way of knowing now, was worth tens of thousands of dollars’ worth of burgling tools, possibly hundreds of thousands. The fact that the gutted house still stands means that Charles Davis Clarke, after this robbery, didn’t start afresh – he just stopped playing, leaving behind what was once his pride and joy as a monument to greed.Everyone is trappedThe Castle Doctrine gives its players, again and again, miserable endings and blank slates. No fortress lasts forever. No family does, either. The power of this can be remarkable enough to make players simply give up. The mechanical theme is simple: one false step is never retrieved. But this breeds paranoia in the player, a grim knowledge of the extreme lengths others will go to and – most brilliantly – an increasing artfulness. Houses that scare off burglars with obvious traps, though they may stop you being robbed for a time, don’t pay for their own upkeep.The goal becomes to build a digital flytrap, a house that can lure in even the most wary burglar too far before they’ve realised any mistake. It is about assessing what kind of room layout tempts in potential victims, what red flags warn people away, what will lull them toward making that single, fatal error. This is a strange skill to hone on real opponents, albeit in such a heavily abstracted form. It is clearly something that, before his day of reckoning, Charles Davis Clarke had mastered. And what makes it irresistible are the videotapes.The Castle Doctrine lets you watch. After the event, of course, and sometimes the videos are only a few frames of a burglar stepping forwards, then back, then out – but every so often a videotape comes with a telltale &quot;skull&quot; mark and the bounty you received for bagging that burglar.Watching people fall for your traps is sheer schadenfreude and, even more than that, a special reward for the many times before this – and the many times in the future – you will fail to protect your family and your vault. In playing The Castle Doctrine you must accept that eventually it will all go wrong. But watching the videos lets you sit back, and think: &quot;Not today, punk&quot;.Strange behaviourThe opposite is also true. The worst part of The Castle Doctrine, without a doubt, is watching the tape of how you were robbed. The recording will often include images of that particular burglar killing your wife or one of the children. Very few videogames make me squeamish, or angry, but despite the abstract nature of the visuals and the turn-based action, this is one. I posted a few Youtube videos while exploring the game – and an hour or two after posting one, a burglar entered my house with exactly the tools required to kill my wife and no more. Which he did, before stepping back-and-forth across the corpse a few hundred times.That’s strange behaviour, isn’t it? That’s The Castle Doctrine all over. So much of current gaming discourse is centered around – and this is not a criticism – social justice, about improving the way we interact with and treat each other in these uncharted virtual frontiers. This context means that unblinkered examinations of human nature can seem archaic or even deliberately controversial; but there is little enticement toward immorality inherent in The Castle Doctrine’s mechanics. Players behave like this because they enjoy it.That is why, far more so than the brilliantly understated pixel art, The Castle Doctrine is a disturbing game. You could argue that, because your wife will sometimes try to run out of the house with half your cash, that is incentivising players to kill her. Fair enough. But the two children don’t do this – and yet I’ve had burglars who clearly entered the house just to target them. It puts me in mind ofthe Misfits track Last Caress, where the point is not the literal meaning of the words, or the actions suggested, but their capacity to offend the average listener.Early in his career Jason Rohrer crafted the self-image of an &quot;arty&quot; game developer – the kind of guy who spoke about the medium’s potential constantly, concentrating on big ideas like burying a game in the desert, and always trumpeting games-as-art. The medium’s onwards march has made such a stance age fast.It’s fascinating therefore that The Castle Doctrine’s design derives power not from a mechanical gimmick or a meta-narrative, but from the actions of its players. The brutal world thus created has much artifice to it, but no morals beyond what you decide, and great unhappiness for a lot of its inhabitants. If the purpose of art is to hold a mirror to reality, this might be Rohrer’s first major work.•Watch Dogs – freedom and morality in open-world games• Are video games art: the debate that shouldn&apos;t be• Bulletstorm, remorse and the meaning of shooting games
Despite Google only listingnine applications as compatible with Chromecast in the UK, there are well over 100 apps and games available across Android, iOS and Chrome that are compatible withGoogle’s new streaming stick.Most are freely available in from the Google Play store, the Chrome store or Apple’s App Store with some paid-for exceptions. Finding the apps can be difficult, however, limited to a search of “Chromecast” in the various app stores.Here’s a selection of 11 of the best as well as how to more easily find them on Android.BBC iPlayerBBC iPlayer on ChromecastWith the launch of the Chromecast in the UK, the BBC updated its free iPlayer apps for Android and iOS to support broadcasting to the Chromecast. The app allows users to pick what they want to watch from the iPlayer on their smartphone or tablet and stream it to the Chromecast with the portable device acting as a remote.Google PhotowallGoogle's Photowall app for iPhone and iPad streams photos to your Chromecast.Photowall is Google’s brand new free app for taking photos from anAndroid,iPhone, iPadorChrome browser on a computerand firing them on to the biggest screen in the house. It turns a television into an interactive photo collage, allowing anyone connected to the home Wi-Fi network to beam photos into the pool.PlexPlex streams your media onto your Chromecast from a connected computer.If you’re looking to stream video, music or photos locally to your Chromecast from a computer,Plex is the app for you. Costing £3 forAndroidandiOS, the Plex app acts as a remote for streaming from the free Plex Media Server application running on your computer.Plex will stream locally stored media from your computer while automatically pulling related information from the web, like movie and album details, to add a bit of context to what you’re watching on the big-little screen.CastPadThe Chromecast has a lot of potential for being much more than a simple media streamer including turning a TV into a giant drawing pad.CastPad allows users to drawon their smartphone or tablet and have it show up live as they draw. The app is free, but an in-app purchase unlocks more drawing colours and removes ads.Naughts and CrossesNaughts and Crosses on your TV via Chromecast.The Chromecast can also operate as a gaming platform. Thesuper-simple and free TicTacToe app for AndroidoriOSallows two players to battle it out on the TV, tablets and smartphones. Two players connect to the Chromecast from their Android devices and the game proceeds until one player is crowned victorious.Each move is broadcast to all devices, including the TV providing a a simple but effective demonstration of what’s possible with the Chromecast.GamingCastGamingCast puts four retro games on your TV.Going beyond Naughts and Crosses,GamingCast for Androidputs four and counting retro games on a TV for 85p. Snake, multiplayer Pong, Xonix and Tetrominoes are included with the promise of more games to come, each using a smartphone as a wireless controller.AllCastIf you are looking to stream photos or video from your Android device, AllCast does exactly that. It can beam any file your smartphone or tablet can open to the Chromecast, and unlike apps like Plex, does not require a computer to act as a server.The app costs £3 and needs a strong Wi-Fi connection, but a free version allows the user to trial it with a one-minute time limit to make sure it works before taking the plunge.MyCastScreenMyCastScreen provides a rolling info screen on your TV when your Chromecast isn't in use.The Chromecast’s default screen is pretty limited when nothing is being broadcast to the little streaming stick, simply showing a rotating selection of photos and a clock.MyCastScreen lets users semi-replace the default screenwith a live information screen packed with time, date, local weather and traffic as well as rolling news headlines.The 60p app is quite limited at the moment but offers quite a lot of promise for turning the Chromecast into a rolling information screen, while customisation and other widgets are currently in development.Binary ClockBinary Clock puts a block-based clock on your TV.Probably the simplest and geekiest app available for the Chromecast,Binary Clock does what it says on the tinand projects a good-looking block-base clock on to your television. The free app also allows the colour of the clock to be customised.RealPlayer CloudRealPlayer Cloud for Chromecast is an extension of the company&apos;s video streaming and hosting service that plugs directly into the Chromecast. Like Netflix or BBC iPlayer but for a user&apos;s own hosted videos – the &quot;Dropbox for video&quot; – RealPlayer Cloud connects directly the Chromecast to the RealPlayer server so that a device can be still be used as a remote or for other things while watching videos.The service allows videos to be uploaded from a smartphone or computer to RealPlayer Cloud and stream it or cache it on a variety of devices, including the Chromecast.Cast StoreCast Store makes it easier to find Android-based Chromecast apps.Searching the various app stores for “Chromecast” works OK for the most part, but for Android there’s abetter way of finding Chromecast apps called Cast Store– a free app to find more Chromecast apps.It breaks them down by function, apps versus games, allowing browsing by category or via a simple search, and provides click-through links to the Google Play store to pick them up.• Google&apos;s Chromecast is afast and simple to use streaming stick, but is only as good as the apps you can get for it
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team3D phones? Here's the tech that never took off &gt;&gt; CNBCGender-specific phones may also be considered a no-no. The Nokia 7280 phone was a dubbed the "the lipstick phone," and while it was not necessarily geared for women, its name - along with it having no number pad - did not attract customers.Similarly, the Rong Zun 758 Razor Phone, was - as the name suggests - a phone that had a razor at the bottom edge of the device, perfect for a quick shave before an important call.So was it a razor with a phone, or a phone with a razor?BlackBerry tells Judge that Seacrest's Typo copied keyboard &gt;&gt; BloombergOlivier Taillieu, an attorney for Typo, said BlackBerry is trying to monopolize the keyboard market and many keyboards have the design characteristics that the smartphone maker is claiming it owns.BlackBerry hasn't shown that its mobile phone sales are driven by the popularity of its keyboards, he told [Judge William] Orrick."The Q10 by and large was a failure" and "has literally not sold," Taillieu said. BlackBerry "hasn't provided any evidence of nexus between the keyboard and the commercial success of this device," he said.Typo didn't copy the BlackBerry keyboard and is a "grain of sand" compared to BlackBerry's, he said."BlackBerry's problems are not related to Typo," Taillieu said. "We don't believe Typo is the reason for any loss of sales to BlackBerry."The Q10 failed? Harsh. And it would be pretty easy to find BlackBerry users who bought because of the keyboard. Orrick says he will issue a ruling on whether to block Typo sales "promptly".Xiaomi tops the list of most-complained about mobile phone &gt;&gt; WantChinaTimes.comChinese smartphone manufacturer Xiaomi has received the highest number of complaints from consumers in China among any mobile phone brands, with 993 such instances being reported, followed by Apple at 805 and Samsung with 621 complaints, reports the state-run China News Service, citing a report published by a Chinese product control foundation.The foundation stated that it had received 6,497 mobile phone-related complaints in 2013, a 60% growth from the previous year, and which accounted for 12.4% of the total number of complaints received by the industry.The report revealed the top 10 mobile phone brands that received the most number of complaints, which included Xiaomi, Meizu, Huawei, ZTE, HTC, Nokia, Lenovo and Motorola.Hands on: project Tango, Google's 3D-scanning phone for makers &gt;&gt; MAKEOmar Soubra:we are at the very beginning of the next phone and tablet revolution. The integration of sensors in one device, no additional accessory needed, will bring to the market a new area of apps, from gaming to professional applications. The games with augmented reality are already bringing a new dimension to the experience. I believe that shopping experiences will be completely transformed. You could already foresee an IKEA app, where you would "3D" model your existing kitchen with a Tango phone and order a completely new cabinet set online… delivered by an IKEA drone?Clones, clones everywhere – "1024," "2048″ and other copies of popular paid game "Threes" fill the App Stores &gt;&gt; TechCrunchSaarah Perez:This latest clone battle, preparing to best the "Flappy Bird" saga, began with a well-designed, addictive puzzle app called "Threes" from development shop Sirvo (Greg Wohlwend and Asher Vollmer). The game launched in early 2014, and began to gain steam in February. Using Sudoku-like mechanics and Candy Crush-style matching, "Threes" involves matching up multiples of threes for higher scores.However, "Threes" was a paid game at $1.99, which meant there was room for another, perhaps less scrupulous developer, to come in and fill a gap by addressing a free-to-play audience. And so one did. "1024" quickly emerged, effectively ripping off "Threes," even directly referencing the hit game it copied in its App Store description, saying: "No need to pay for ThreesGames. This is a simple and fun gift for you, and it's free."Soon, the battle of the "Threes" clones was on. Next came a game called "2048," which launched online, also a copy of "Threes" and "1024."The more subtle point is: what happens when the "time to clone" falls closer to zero? Who earns, and how?CITE study: Windows 7 still rules at work, but iOS 7 is coming up fast &gt;&gt; CITEworldAccording to the 2014 IDG Enterprise CITE survey published today, Windows 7 is still ubiquitous at work: 51% of respondents said their companies are buying new devices with the nearly five-year-old OS and another 42% support existing devices, for a total of 93%. iOS 7 is supported by 72%, even though it's less than six months old, and the almost thirteen-year-old Windows XP is supported by 66%. Shockingly 10% of technology buyers surveyed in November and December 2013 said their companies were still buying Windows XP on new computers, even though support expires in April 2014."Survey of 1,115 website visitors actively involved in purchasing products for their companies."  Average company size: 15,000 staff. The "do not support" figure for Windows 8 is really surprising.How did you meet your cofounder? &gt;&gt; SecretSimple question. The answers.. well, one of them..Two computer screens aren't better than one &gt;&gt; Sydney Morning Herald (via NYT)Farhad Manjoo:In a switch that amounts to heresy among some techies, I've become a two-screen sceptic. Two months ago, about five years after becoming an ardent proselytiser for the Church of the Second Display, I turned off the extra screen on my desktop computer. At first, the smaller workspace felt punishingly cramped. But after a few days of adjusting to the new set-up, an unusual serenity invaded my normally harried workday. With a single screen that couldn't accommodate too many simultaneous stimuli, a screen just large enough for a single word processor or browser window, I found something increasingly elusive in our multi-screen world: focus.Was my experience with a single screen simply a function of personal preference, or was it a demonstration of the fundamental problem of working on two or more displays?It seems a great mistake to have your email (or YouTube) visible on either screen. That apart, though, two screens still feels like a winner, personally.More departures at Twitter as VP of analytics exits, Android lead leaves for Secret &gt;&gt; Re/codeSara Haider, a mobile engineer and technical lead at Twitter for the past four and a half years, announced on Friday that she plans to leave the microblogging company to join Secret, the buzzy anonymous social startup that launched just two months ago.Haider will assume the role of Android lead for Secret, where she'll be responsible for launching an Android version of the app as soon as possible. (Currently, Secret is only available on iOS devices.) At Twitter, Haider worked to launch the Android version of the company's Vine video app, and for years also worked on the Android app for Twitter proper.Along with Haider, Twitter confirmed to Re/code that Vice President of Analytics and Business Intelligence Cayley Torgeson also plans to leave the company.Cashing out their stock?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
The London-based company behind Candy Crush, the wildly popular smartphone game, will be valued tomorrow at almost $8bn (£5bn) when it makes its debut on the New York Stock Exchange, making it the most highly prized British firm to emerge from the technology boom.A dozen directors at King Digital Entertainment will become vastly wealthy on the back of the flotation – rich even by Silicon Valley standards – including a former director of Derby County FC, chairman Melvyn Morris, who could be worth $875m.The company's Italian-born chief executive, Riccardo Zacconi, 47, stands to make a paper fortune of $745m while Sebastian Knutsson, the Swedish creative mastermind behind the game, is set to make $422m.Candy Crush has captured the fleeting attention spans of mobile phone users around the world and the company claims it is now played one billion times a day. The aim of the game is to reach a target score by making sweets disappear from a colourful grid. Line up three or more and the row explodes, lighting up the screen like a pinball machine. Knutsson, an avid gamer, said that his vivid designs are inspired by the aesthetic of pioneering arcade games such as Pac-Man, Space Invaders and Tetris.The games are downloaded for free but millions of gamers are prepared to spend £1 for "paid boosters" including lollipop hammers, coconut wheels and extra lives. King made nearly $570m after tax last year on revenues of $1.88bn.King's game designers and administrative offices are in London's West End, with reports suggesting it is preparing to expand into Facebook's former building in Covent Garden – although the company is registered in Ireland for tax purposes. It also has a sizeable studio in Sweden, reflecting the strong influence of Scandinavian expertise in its success.The company is expected to be valued at $7.6bn when trading in its shares begins. Investors have shown a renewed appetite over the past year for technology firms, with Twitter enjoying a successful stockmarket flotation last year – it is now worth $30bn – and UK online retailer Pets at Home being valued at £1.2bn when it floated this month.According to one of the company founders, King has worked hard for its success, surviving a number of changes in the fickle tastes of the digital generation."It's not a fairy story," says former director Toby Rowland. "There were some very difficult times. But we had a good corporate culture, there was a stoicism in the tough times that was very useful." Rowland will miss out on the riches, having sold his stake in 2011 for $3m, shares that would be worth an estimated $966m if he had held on until the flotation.King was founded in 2003 after Zacconi, Morris and Rowland – son of Lonrho tycoon Tiny Rowland – met working on a matchmaking site called uDate.Morris, 57, is a self-made millionaire who left school at 16.  The Midlands entrepreneur was working as a management consultant by the age of 20 and founded a dating agency in his home town of Derby in the late 1990s.Always interested in technology, Morris transferred the business online.He persuaded Rowland, somewhat bloodied from the collapse of his first online venture, a health and cosmetics website called Clickmango, to invest and to move to Derby to help run the company. By the time uDate was sold to an American group in 2003 for $150m, it was the world's second largest matchmaking site.After uDate was sold, the trio teamed up with a group of Swedish entrepreneurs to create a gaming website called King.com, which was soon attracting millions of users and was a big hit in France, Italy and Germany.But the arrival of Facebook saw King.com lose 45% of its traffic as audiences deserted portals such as Yahoo! and AOL that had funnelled gamers to its site.Having adapted to the arrival of Facebook with an early version of the Candy Crush format called Bubble Saga, King was primed to make the switch to mobile technology when that format took off in 2011.At $24 a share, investors are buying into the company's reassurance that it has a pipeline of new hits if people get bored of Candy Crush.The company has invented and registered around 180 games, with new releases Pet Rescue and Farm Heroes also making the top 10 smartphone game downloads in recent months.The numbers downloading Candy Crush have inevitably fallen –  it has dropped to number 18 in the Apple iOS games charts  in the US – but it remains the second highest grossing after rival Supercell's Clash of Clans.Zacconi attempts to brush off fears in the company's share prospectus that it is over reliant on its biggest hit: "We believe King has been built for the long haul."It is a point echoed by Rowland. If Candy Crush does fall out of favour, he is adamant that the company can pick itself up. If King had a theme tune, muses Rowland, it would be Gladys Knight's Imagination, with its message to "keep on keeping on".Melvyn MorrisChairman, estimated value of shareholding $875m (£530m)36,467,500 sharesA self-made millionaire, Morris has chaired King since 2003. He left school at 16 and by 20 was earning a living as a management consultant. He worked in the US but returned to Derby, his home town, and started a handful of businesses including a hardwood flooring company, a Spanish property group, and a dating agency. Morris hit upon the idea of transferring his matchmaking skills to internet dating and the venture took off. When uDate was sold in 2002, it was the second-largest dating site in the world. Morris netted £20m and spent part of the money buying a stake in his beloved Derby County football club and part of it establishing King.Riccardo ZacconiChief executive, $745m31,042,045 shares. King's urbane Italian chief executive was born in Rome, where he studied economics, and started his career at Boston Consulting. He was lured into digital business during the dotcom boom, and ran the German unit of a Swedish web portal called Spray, which failed to make it to the stockmarket before the bubble burst. Zacconi moved to the UK in 2001 to look for digital investments, and by 2002 had been persuaded to join one of Europe's first online matchmakers, uDate. Soon after, the company was sold for $150m, and merged with Match.com. With colleagues from Spray, he finally launched King, and persuaded some of uDate's backers, including Melvyn Morris and Toby Rowland, to join the new venture. Spray missed its window to make it rich after delaying its IPO by a month, and had to be sold to Lycos instead. Zacconi's timing looks better with King.Sebastian KnutssonChief creative officer, $422m17,596,075 shares. One of King's founders, Knutsson is the company's creative mastermind. He recently claimed to have designed 10 of King's 15 worst games – the company has made 180 so far – but it was from his Stockholm studio that the mega-hit Candy Crush emerged. A keen gamer himself, his vivid designs are inspired by the multicoloured, flashing, bleeping arcade games of the last century, from Pac-Man to Space Invaders and Tetris. But he also has a business brain, thanks to a BA in cost-analysis and finance from the Stockholm School of Economics, and comes from a family of entrepreneurs – his parents ran a denim brand and retail chain, and his sister has her own clothing company. Knutsson co-founded Spray, the internet portal at which he met Zacconi.Lars MarkgrenSweden general manager, $217m. 9,043,930 shares.Stockholm-based Markgren worked at the European internet portal Spray, along with many of King's founders, before moving into gaming. He manages the pivotal Swedish operations and balances work with a passion for pike fishing.Stephane Kurgan7,450,748 shares. $179mKing's Belgian chief operating officer holds an MBA from France's prestigious Insead, and came to King from data-centre management business Tideway.Patrik Stymne7,040,000 shares. Chief systems architect, $169mStymne is not on the board but he is named as a co-founder. One of the technical brains behind King, he designed the company's IT system, having previously worked alongside co-founder Knutsson at the early internet search engine and portal Lycos, the digital advertising agency Razorfish and Spray, the Swedish-owned portal.Thomas Hartwig6,350,000 shares. Chief technology officer, $152mAnother co-founder, Hartwig is King's technology wizard and the brains behind its data strategy, harvesting information from the 1.4bn game plays a day to hone each product from its testing phase on the King.com website through to its launch as a standalone smartphone app. Hartwig is based in the Stockholm, but he places data scientists in each of the small, typically 10-strong teams developing new King games, collating user experience to decide, for example, how difficult to make each successive level. Like his co-founders, Hartwig cut his teeth at the Swedish internet portal Spray.Gerhard Florin1,125,000 shares. Non-executive director, $27mHaving joined the board during the hard times in 2010, Florin has stuck around long enough to reap the benefits. Now a full-time non-executive director, he spent 14 years in senior roles at Electronic Arts, the world's third-largest gaming company and maker of the Fifa football games and sci-fi shooter Titanfall.Apax Partners144,330,001 shares. Investor, $3.46bnKing was one of the last venture capital investments made by Apax, which now focuses on taking more mature companies private. It is also the British buyout firm's most successful bet to date. Apax, whose holdings include the fashion chain New Look, the Orange mobile network in Switzerland and a trade publishing joint venture with the Guardian's parent company, injected about $36m in 2005, and its 48% stake is now worth almost 100 times that.Index Ventures24,992,502 shares. Investor, $600mIndex is a legend in technology venture capital, having backed Facebook and Skype, as well as British successes such as the clothing retailer Asos, and Moshi Monsters maker Mind Candy. Index invested alongside Apax in 2005, putting in an estimated $7m.Toby RowlandNo shares. Founder, $0Toby Rowland co-founded King with Morris and Zacconi, and was co-chief executive until 2008, but he sold his shares in 2011, just months before the company launched its first hit Facebook game. He is married to the author and Vogue journalist Plum Sykes, and his father was the mining tycoon Tiny Rowland, who once owned the Observer and House of Fraser department stores. He was persuaded by Morris to move to Derby and become marketing director of their previous venture, uDate. He invested and shared in the spoils when the matchmaking site was sold for $150m in 2002, using the proceeds to set up King. Despite backing King for eight years, like the founding Beatles member Pete Best, Rowland left too early to share in its success. His 40m shares were sold back to King for a mere $3m, according to data from PrivCo. Had Rowland stayed in, he would have been King's largest individual shareholder today, with a stake worth up to $966m.
Amazon has struck a deal with the Barclay brothers, owners of the Ritz hotel and Telegraph newspaper titles, to acquire a stake in Yodel, which was recently voted Britain's worst parcel delivery service for the second year running.More than 10% of Amazon's $75bn (£45.5bn) global revenues are thought to be made up of sales to customers in the UK, although the US group controversially books these transactions through its Luxembourg-based office.The decision to strike a deal with Yodel appears to signal that Amazon is prepared to support Sir David and Sir Frederick Barclay's loss-making business in the crowded parcel delivery market.Yodel accounts show Amazon has been given an option to acquire 4.2% of Yodel in a deal which values the business at £207m. The option to acquire the stake for £8.7m remains open until 2022.Amazon and Yodel declined to comment on closer commercial ties between the two firms.Yodel, based in Hatfield, Hertfordshire, was born out of the delivery business of catalogue retailer Littlewoods, which is also part of the Barclay brothers' business empire. Following a series of acquisitions, it now ships more than 135m parcels a year, making it the second largest delivery service after recently-privatised Royal Mail.Yodel has more than 5,000 vans and employed more than 16,000 people delivering 14m parcels during last year's Christmas rush. Its top clients include some of Britain's largest and fastest-expanding online retailers, such Tesco Direct, Boots and Argos. But the business has lost big clients in recent years,including John Lewis, Matalan and Mothercare.Yodel has attracted criticism from some quarters for the quality of its service. Ina poll of 9,000 shoppers by MoneySavingExpert.com in January, 58% of customers who had goods delivered by Yodel rated the experience "bad". Only 22% reported a good experience.Responding, Yodel said it had serious concerns about the validity of the poll, noting it was "open to influence by parties with a vested interest in affecting the outcome". The delivery group's own research, which Yodel said was independent and based on verified feedback, suggested the company was, in fact, ahead of competitors on customer satisfaction.Yodel's worst Christmas, in 2011, saw the business caught out by the leap in seasonal demand. At one stage, it was failing to deliver about 15,000 parcels a day. The episode led to an online petition calling on Amazon to stop using Yodel, which was backed by thousands of disgruntled shoppers.Since then, however, the parcel business has brought in new management under executive chairman Dick Stead, and insists it is has transformed the quality of services it offers.Latest accounts show Yodel Distribution Holdings sales for the year to 30 June 2013 fell 19% to £439m as the business exited a lot of unprofitable business. Pretax losses were almost unchanged at £112m.The company directors said: "The group continues to operate in a rapidly changing marketplace in which the shift in retailing channel to online shopping presents a significant opportunity, but where overcapacity … has created a high degree of competition."One unexplained aspect of the option granted to Amazon over Yodel shares is the implied valuation of £207m. The warrants granting the option were issued just days before a corporate reshuffle saw the Yodel business transferred between Barclay-controlled holding companies at a value of £500m. Asked why Amazon had been granted an option at such a deep discount to Yodel's fair value, a spokesman for the brothers declined to comment.• This article was amended on March 25 - the original headline was "Amazon buys stake in Yodel from Barclay brothers"
A new &quot;smart lightbulb&quot; from LG could open up smartphone usage amongst people with hearing problems.The South Korean company&apos;s Smart Bulb is an LED lightbulb with WiFi and Bluetooth connectivity. Like all LED bulbs, it&apos;s extremely long-lasting, with the company rating them for more than a decade. It also uses very little power: energy savings are around 80% compared to traditional incandescent bulbs.But the &quot;smart&quot; functions are revealed when the bulb hooks up with an Android or iOS device. It can be turned on or off remotely, can vary its brightness according to the beat of some music, or blink when users receive an incoming phone call. That last feature promises to make smartphone usage much easier amongst those who have trouble hearing.&quot;The Smart Bulb is a promising new product - and the fact users can connect the bulb using technology such as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi to their smart phones to alert them to calls, makes it especially beneficial for the one in six of us with some form of hearing loss,&quot; says Kevin Taylor, a product specialist for Action on Hearing Loss (the charity formerly known as the Royal National Institute for the Deaf).&quot;There is currently no other product like this on the market,&quot; Taylor adds, &quot;and if the Smart Bulb’s features can extend to responding to text message, email alerts and perhaps even the doorbell it could prove a revolutionary tool in the daily lives of people who are deaf or hard of hearing.&quot;The Smart Bulb will be released in Korea shortly for 35,000 won (£19) each.It won&apos;t be the first product which inadvertently revolutionises life for people with hearing loss. When Apple shipped the first iPhones with FaceTime, the firm&apos;s video calling feature, it saw a sharp uptake in use amongst deaf customers, who used the new function to make calls in sign language.The company seized on the trendwith a commercial that included a deaf couple using FaceTime to talk.•
Consumer groups reacted angrily Monday to news that Apple is reportedly in talks with cable giant Comcast to launch a streaming-television service that would give Apple special treatment and bypass congestion on the web.The discussions,first reported by the Wall Street Journal, are in early stages, and many hurdles remain. If a deal is struck, it would be the second time this year that Comcast has made special arrangements for a tech company after February’s announcement of a special deal with Netflix, the largest video streaming service.According to the Journal, Apple’s intention is to allow users to stream live and on-demand TV programming using Comcast’s own network rather than the public internet.The newspaper reported that Apple has asked for a separate “flow” for its traffic. It has not asked for its service to be prioritized over any other service, a situation that would challenge “net neutrality” – the concept that everyone should have open and equal access on the web. But consumer groups charged that Comcast was using a loophole to circumvent the open access rules.Derek Turner, research director at internet rights lobby group Free Press, said: “This is very concerning. This is what happens when you have one major company that is effectively the owner of the internet and a major player in pay TV. This deal and the one with Netflix suggest that Comcast is going to make its own competition pay the quality of service they want for their services.”“The promise of the internet is competition,” he said. “If you are not already a major player, it’s going to be very hard raising money to compete in the pay TV business. And for the major players, their costs are about to rise and will be passed on to their customers.”Michael Weinberg, vice-president of consumer rights group Public Knowledge, said the deal was clearly in its early stages but it still presented a “huge problem for an open internet.”“The idea that a company that wants to launch a service that competes with Comcast needs Comcast’s approval is worrying,” he said.Apple chief executive Tim Cook has long made clear he has grand ambitions for TV. So far the company’s TV efforts have been disappointing, but earlier this year he told shareholders that Apple TV, its set-top box business, had sales of $1bn in 2013 and was no longer a “hobby”.Streaming services using the public internet can suffer over the &quot;last mile&quot; – the portion of a cable network that connects to customers&apos; homes – when too many people access too much bandwidth at the same time.Comcast was ordered to uphold net neutrality until 2018 after its takeover of NBC Universal. The largest cable provider is also intakeover talks with Time Warner, the second largest cable provider, and consumer groups are already up in arms about the likely impact on competition.The Federal Communications Commissions’ (FCC) conditions have an opt out for “managed” services that could allow Comcast to circumvent the net neutrality issue.The US court of appeals threw out an earlier set of net neutrality regulations the FCC had in place in January, ruling that Comcast. Verizon and others were entitled to make deals with Netflix, Amazon and others to pay for faster services.FCC chairman Tom Wheeler has expressed concern that tiered access to the web could mean entrepreneurs are “unfairly prevented from harnessing the full power of the internet.” The regulator is currently drafting new rules aimed at blocking internet service providers from slowing services for content providers that don&apos;t pay a toll.Turner said the Netflix deal and the emerging terms of any Apple agreement suggested that Comcast had found “very large holes” in the FCC’s net neutrality ruling. He said the FCC should reassess its rules on open internet access in the light of Comcast’s latest moves.“The FCC should be encouraging abundance rather than increased profits through the creation of artificial scarcity, he said.
Mophie&apos;s new Space Pack attempts to add something new to the battery packs the company is famous for, but the praiseworthy concept is rendered nearly useless by restrictions built in to the software of iPhones. It offers not just juice, but storage. Nice idea – but it doesn&apos;t really work.Mophie already offers a panoply of ways to provide extra battery power to your smartphones. Its flagship Juice Packs bulk up the size of an iPhone, Samsung Galaxy or HTC One while providing up to twice the battery life, while the Powerstation range offers a universal charger for those who don&apos;t need a phone-specific case.All of the hardware shares the downside that extra battery packs are bulky and heavy, but if you can put up with that trade-off, it can be a lifesaver.DesignThe Space Pack hardware looks just like Mophie&apos;s standard Juice Pack range. In essence, it&apos;s a (very) chunky case for your iPhone 5 or 5S. As you slide the phone in, a lightning connector plugs into the socket, connecting it to the power and storage, while a micro-USB slot underneath takes over external charging and syncing duties.As a case, it&apos;s good enough, though there&apos;s no doubting which out of Apple and Mophie has the world-class industrial designers. If you&apos;re used to carrying your phone with no case, you&apos;ll soon start pining for the sleek finish of a naked iPhone.A side-on view of the Space Pack Photograph: MophieA wide aperture allows the camera lens and flash to poke through the back, while pass-through buttons handle the volume, mute and power switches. All work well, which is more than can be said for the headphone jack: situated at the bottom of the phone, the case creates a long tunnel between the port and the outside world. That&apos;s fine if your headphones have a thin, straight plug, but if it&apos;s a bit chunkier, or has a right-angle turn, you&apos;ll have to use the (included) ungainly adapter instead.It&apos;s reminiscent of the first generation iPhone, which had a thin headphone port that could only take Apple headphones. That was fixed by the following year&apos;s iPhone 3G, so it&apos;s a shame to see an accessory maker fall into the same trap.Case or no case?Beyond that, whether the design of the Space Pack works for you is ultimately down to personal preference.Having used it for two weeks, I&apos;ve fallen into a pattern: charge the Space Pack overnight with my phone in it, use a different, slender case throughout the day while carrying the Pack in my bag, and then slot the phone in if it starts to run out of power before the end of the day. The problem is that if your phone isn&apos;t running low on power, the Space Pack is just too bulky to comfortably carry in a pocket.That means I ended up carrying two cases around, and using the Space Pack as though it were one of Mophie&apos;s cheaper, more powerful, Powerstation battery packs. Those are simply small power bricks that plug into any USB-powered device to charge them.The back of the Space Pack. Photograph: MophieBut it&apos;s easy to see why others would like it. If the phone is permanently plugged in to the Space Pack, then you never need to worry about battery life; it automatically drip charges it until the pack is empty, and then the phone&apos;s battery will still give you another few hours. For some, that may be worth almost doubling the iPhone&apos;s weight, and spoiling the sleek design.Features: store thisWith 1,700mAh of power, the Space Pack&apos;s battery should double the life of your phone (the 5S has a 1,570mAh battery, the 5C 1,500mAh, the iPhone 5 1,440mAh). But its real selling point isn&apos;t the battery life, though. Which is good, because the Mophie Juice Pack Air has the same battery life for £30 less.Instead, it&apos;s storage space.The pack comes in a 16GB and 32GB flavour (the latter is just £10 more), and lets you store photos, videos, music and other files directly on to the pack itself. For those with an older 8GB iPhone – or simply a massive music collection – that could be a lifesaver.But the problem is that unlike Google with Android, Apple has never been particularly interested in providing developers with the tools to handle external storage. As a result, almost all of the interaction with the storage space has to be done through Mophie&apos;s own Space app.So if you&apos;ve already taken a few photos, you can store them on the Mophie Space by opening up the app, selecting Sync, and moving them on to the Space. You then have to open Apple&apos;s Photos app to delete them from your phone&apos;s storage itself.From the Space app, you can send the photos to a few other apps that support Apple&apos;s &quot;open in…&quot; API, including WhatsApp, Dropbox, Google Drive and Tumblr. But if the app doesn&apos;t support your desired service – and that&apos;s a fair few noteworthy services, including Instagram, Flickr, and Whisper – then you have to move the photoback offthe Space and into your phone&apos;s camera roll before you can interact with it.The top and bottom of the Space Pack, featuring the infamous headphone port. Photograph: /Space PackSome of those steps can be avoided by using the Space app&apos;s own camera function, which automatically saves images on to the pack. But then you lose the Apple camera&apos;s filters and HDR mode, and you still need to export it back onto the phone if you want to use it in most social apps.A similar story applies to music: you can sync songs onto the device as though it were a USB memory stick, and play them in the background. But you have to move over wholesale, because you can&apos;t use the Space app to play songs stored on your phone, and you can&apos;t use your phone&apos;s Music app to play songs stored on the Space Pack.And the Space Pack does nothing to help you if you&apos;re running out of space because you&apos;ve installed too many apps, or one of those apps needs to store its own files (say, a magazine or comic reader). Those have to be on the iPhone&apos;s built-in memory.None of this is Mophie&apos;s fault: these rules are set by Apple, and the accessory maker is coping as best it can in the rigid framework. But regardless of whose fault it is, the outcome is that very few people will find themselves using the storage on a regular basis at all.VerdictThere are conceivable use cases. If you&apos;re someone who takes a lot of photos with your phone, rarely syncs it with a computer, and doesn&apos;t do much with them other than tweet them, email them or send them to Facebook, then the Space Pack might fit in your life, especially if you need extra battery life.But for nearly everyone else, the few times you would use the storage space simply aren&apos;t worth the £30 difference between these Space Pack and the otherwise identical Juice Pack Air. Buy that, or an external battery pack, instead.Pros: Massive battery increase; storage space might come in handy; case protects phone from knocksCons:£30 more for a feature you probably won&apos;t use; doesn&apos;t take many headphones; massive
The Taiwanese handset maker HTC will unveil the new version of its One flagship smartphone on Tuesday 25 March – but on Monday two more key details leaked, including its price and the US distribution of a &quot;gold&quot; model.According to the @evleaks Twitter account, run by the American journalist Evan Blass, the new HTC One – codenamed &quot;M8&quot; - will have a sim-free price of $600 for a 32GB model, the same as the 2013 model. There will also be a version in gold, which in the US will be available only through the Best Buy chain of electronics stores.Other reports have suggested it will cost about £580 sim-free in the UK. That compares with the expected pricing of about £600 for the forthcoming Samsung Galaxy S5 and £549 for the 16GB version of Apple&apos;s iPhone 5S, or £629 for the 32GB version.The pricing calls into question HTC&apos;sproclaimed aim to target the &quot;midrange&quot; of the smartphone business, where handsets sell for less than $400 sim-free. In February it said that it would release phones priced between $150 and $200 globally this year, as it struggles to recover from a lossmaking year in 2013 after its Android smartphone business dwindled in the face of aggressive pricing and promotion by Korean rivals Samsung and LG, and more recently Japan&apos;s Sony. HTC has already forecast that it will make a loss this quarter on revenues that it said would be smaller than at any time since 2009.Analysts have queried how easy it will be to capture &quot;mid-market&quot; customers as the global smartphone business diverges towards high-end expensive phones and cheaper models which are highly popular in emerging economies.The @evleaks account has a solid track record in leaking details about forthcoming handsets, having correctly shown details of Nokia&apos;s &quot;X&quot; handset - codenamed Normandy - in autumn last year, well ahead of its announcement at Mobile World Congress in February.Other details about the new HTC One that have leaked include its use of two cameras on the back, expected to up the resolution to 5 megapixels from 4MP last year. The screen is reported to be 5in,compared with4.7in for the 2013 model. At the start of March one retailer listed details of the 2014 HTC One, suggesting it will have a 2.3GHz processor (compared to 1.7GHz for the 2013 model).HTC is rumoured to be working with Google on a range of tablets, and has suggested that it will launch a wearable device this year.•Apple aims to boost sales of iPhone 5C with cheaper 8GB model
From its inauspicious beginnings in 1987, when the event was held in the eccentric game designer Chris Crawford’s living room (he made everyone sandwiches for lunch) theGame Developers Conferencehas grown to become the essential annual event for the world’s video game-makers.This year, the event&apos;s twenty-odd thousand visitors were given the rare chance to see some of the medium’s great visionaries such as Sega’s Yu Suzuki and Williams’ Eugene Jarvis reflect on past glories, recounting the making of seminal and beloved titles such as Shenmue and Robotron: 2084. Other speakers offered generous insights into the craft of successful contemporary games like Final Fantasy XIV: A Realm Reborn and The Last of Us. Meanwhile, during the experimental game workshop, held on the show’s final day, a clutch of designers revealed startling interactive novelties and inventions that could help shape the future of game design.Away from the post-mortems, rants, seminars (including the distressingly titled talk “Monetising teens in a safe and legal manner”) a vast and bustling tradeshow floor housed the latest tools and prototype hardware including Sony’s Project Morpheus virtual reality headset. Meanwhile, some of the pleasure was in spotting cult stars of the development world sneaking about in cognito. Flappy Bird’s creator, Dong Nguyen, reportedly flew into the city incognito, while Phil Fish, the MIA designer of Fez whose work was featured in the Sundance Award-Winning Indie Game: The Movie documentary took the train to San Francisco.Even without a ticket to the main event, thousands of game-makers, artists, curators and critics descend on San Francisco – for them, there was a slew of parties to attend at night (Minecraft creator Markus Persson held another of his notably exuberant shindigs) and off-shoot conferences to attend during the day, including The Lost Levels, a picnic held in the Yerba Buena Gardens adjacent to GDC’s Moscone Centre at which anyone could hold forth in a Socratic manner on a subject of their choosing to the encircling crowd.GDC is something of a city, and its vast array of concurrent sessions and events ensures that no two attendees&apos; experiences are quite alike. And yet there are themes that naturally emerge from the uneven milieu. Here are four of the most potent.The fight For diversity and inclusivity is intensifying“The organisers of #GDC (inc me) have a strange, hard, important mission: make the show resemble the industry we want, not the one we have.” So tweeted the independent game designer Adam Saltsman on the final day of the conference. It echoes perhaps the grandest and most persistent theme of the show: the need for video games and the industry that surrounds them to be inclusive and diverse, both in terms of its makers and its creationsBioWare Montreal’s Manveer Heir, who works as a designer on the Mass Effect series gave a talk titled &quot;Misogyny, Racism and Homophobia: Where Do Video Games Stand&quot; in which he challenged the industry to fight the stereotypes found within games. “They affect the way that people think and treat others in the real world,” he said, “and perpetuate the social injustices that occur in these different groups. I want [our] industry to stop being so scared… Let&apos;s create a game that changes the core experience for the player… Let&apos;s find a way to challenge the majority and the minority perception of how we deal with race, gender, sexual orientation and all other sources of social injustices in our world.&quot;Aya Kyogoku, one of the highest profile women working at Nintendo, challenged attendees to create more inclusive games by fostering diverse teams. Kyogoku, project leader on Animal Crossing: New Leaf said, “In my years at Nintendo, I have come to discover that when there are women in a variety of roles on the project, you get a wider [range] of ideas. So when you are trying to create something that will appeal to many types of people, I have experienced how beneficial it is to have diversity on your team.”Shawn Alexander Allen, a former employee at Rockstar Games, creator of Grand Theft Auto series, turned independent game-maker, artist and writer decried the lack of diversity in the indie game scene, however. “We live in a time when a young black child can envisage becoming the president of the United States or a CEO of a Fortune 500 company, but not a game developer,” he said. “The indie scene has a huge problem with diversity.”Deirdra Kiai, creator of Dominique Pamplemousse, which was nominated in four categories for the prestigious IGF awards held during the week, spoke about how, after years of harbouring a sense of not-belonging. &quot;Things are, in fact, starting to change,&quot; said the developer. &quot;There are so many of you here, right now — artists, critics, academics — who stand for the things I stand for. It’s like I was waiting for you all this time, and now you’ve arrived. Now we’ve arrived.”To crown these sentiments, at the 14th Game Developers Choice Awards, Anita Sarkeesian won the Ambassador award, a prize that honours individuals who help the video games industry &quot;advance to a better place&quot; through advocacy or action. Sarkeesian created theTropes Vs. Womenseries of videos that challenge sexism and misogyny in video games. “My project was born out of a desire to take gaming seriously,&quot; she said. &quot;I believe that games can present women as capable, complex and inspirational.” It is the first time that a woman has won the Ambassador Award, which Sarkeesian received to a standing ovation. But she almost avoided the ceremony; both she and the event’s organisers received threats of violence. As Saltsman put it: the show still resembles the industry we want, perhaps not the one that we have.Virtual reality is set to dominate the technological conversationSony’s decision to announce its virtual reality headset, codenamed Project Morpheus, at GDC was a tactical one. The Oculus Rift, a PC-compatible head mounted display designed by 21-year-old Palmer Luckey has demonstrated the appetite for the re-emergence of consumer-based virtual reality, aided by proof of concept games and videos from an army of enthusiast developers.Sony knows that the technology is only as interesting as its software and that, in this brave new virtual arena, the best ideas are yet to be uncovered – and are as likely to come from a couple of indie developers in a basement than they are from a major developer. The failure of 3D televisions to capture consumers’ imaginations has left a yawning gap for a fresh technological invention and the new crop of virtual reality headsets, even in their pre-retail iterations, appear to offer something genuinely novel, shifting the immersion we feel when playing video games to something closer to &quot;presence&quot; as we inhabit them more fully. GDC 2014 was the moment that virtual reality shifted from a distant pipedream to an urgent technological battleground – even if Sony’s Shuehi Yoshida did thank the Oculus Rift team during the presentation.Microsoft is yet to show its hand, but it’s worth noting that the company currently employs Jaron Lanier, the American inventor who popularised the term &quot;virtual reality&quot; in the 1980s, worked on Nintendo’s PowerGlove and, most recently, who helped design the Kinect cameras for Xbox 360 and Xbox One. Expect the fight to intensify with the arrival of the PR circus that surrounds the E3 expo in Los Angeles in a few months.The slow democratisation of game-making will continueA relatively quiet announcement from GDC but a nevertheless significant one was the news thatGameMaker: Studionow supports PlayStation4, PlayStation Vita and PlayStation 3. The software is perhaps the simplest to use of all video game creation tools for beginners and many of the greatest independent titles of the past few years including Hotline Miami, Spelunky and Ridiculous Fishing were created or prototyped in GameMaker. The software’s expansion to Sony’s consoles makes it easier than ever for bedroom programmers, artists or designers to build a game and release it to a global audience.Accompanying GameMaker’s news was the revelation that Unreal Engine, the high-powered and traditionally expensive game-making software (which in the past cost “millions of dollars” for larger studios) has moved to a subscription model. Unreal Engine 4 is, as of GDC, available for just $19 a month (alongside a royalty agreement that takes five percent of any resulting game’s gross sales).The move to a subscription model has been inspired by the popularity of Unity 3D, another powerful game-making program that has taken a significant slice of Unreal’s market share during the past few years. The competition between these three engines (each of which has its own benefits and target creators) is a further democratisation of the creative tools that are required to build a video game, something that has, to date, always favoured the privileged – both in terms of education and equipment.There is no singular future for gamesThe click-bait headlines that refer to the &quot;death of the blockbuster&quot; video game, the inexorable &quot;rise of the indie&quot; or our &quot;inevitable free-to-play future&quot; are untruths. GDC 2014 demonstrated the rich variety of types of play that sit under the umbrella term &quot;video game&quot;.Video games are technology and art, fiction and sport – often within the same creation. They range from the rifling-through-drawers environmental storytelling of Gone Home to the pure sport of League of Legends (one GDC session revealed that 2013’s League of Legends finals attracted as many viewers as the NHL finals), and the boundaries of what constitutes a game continue to broaden.Naughty Dog’s The Last of Us won Best Game at the Game Developers&apos; Choice awards, a clear demonstration of the enduring power and appeal of the Hollywood-esque blockbuster. Meanwhile,Papers, Please, a rudimentary-looking exploration of life as an immigration inspector at the Grestin Border Checkpoint, in the fictional European country Arstotzka won no fewer than four awards to rapturous applause. Papers, Please was created by one man, Lucas Pope, and is less than 50MB in size, and yet sat alongside the splendour and sheen of Grand Theft Auto V in one award category, making the exhilarating range of contemporary expressions of video game clear.Elsewhere, GDC attendees heard about the design and monetisation strategies of highly successful free-to-play games such as Candy Crush Saga and Clash of Clans, while Vlambeer, a two man indie team from Utrecht, announced that its game Lufrausers, sold for a one-off payment on PC, PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita during GDC turned a profit after just three days.A concluding lesson, then, from GDC 2014: distrust anyone who tries to sell you a single vision of the future of video games; it will be rich and multifaceted, same as it ever was.•Sony unveils Project Morpheus, a virtual reality headset for PlayStation 4• Playstation 4 and Project Morpheus – developers react• How to get into the games industry – an insiders&apos; guide
The camera pans along what appears to be a Parisian street into a vast square thronging with chanting crowds. On a rooftop a mysterious figure watches as the excitement below reaches fever pitch; and then a dramatic shot of the guillotine as the blade drops.Last week, US news site Kotakurevealed that it had been sent screenshotsof the next Assassin&apos;s Creed title – subtitled Unity – by an anonymous source. The site also claimed that publisher Ubisoft was planning to release the new instalment in its best-selling historical adventure series in Autumn, and that it would be for PC, PS4 and Xbox One only.Assassin's Creed: Unity – mystery and intrigue in the shadow of the guillotineIts hand forced, Ubisoft announced on Friday, that Unity is indeed the next Assassin&apos;s Creed title, and that it has been in development for three years. The short trailer not only shows the setting, but almost certainly the new assassin lead character – looking down on the revolutionary chaos.Little else is known about the game right now – apart fromrumours of a four-player co-op mode. It&apos;s likely Ubisoft will be making a big reveal at this year&apos;s E3 video game event in Los Angeles. Interestingly, while the last title in the series, the critically acclaimed Assassin&apos;s Creed IV: Black Flag, was a cross-generational release, it seems this titlewillbe on PC and the &quot;next-gen&quot; machines only. Meanwhile, Kotaku and other sources have hinted that a separate adventure – allegedly codenamed Comet – is being developed for the PS3 and Xbox 360.So, on which side of the French Revolution will our assassin sit? And what legendary figures will form part of the cast? Certainly the period is rife with the sort of intrigue and conspiracy that the Assassin&apos;s Creed development team adores. Theories abound that the conflict was actually ignited by the Bavarian order of the Illuminati and the Masons, rather than simply popular discontent with King Louis XVI (who will surely get at least a cameo in the game).Whatever the case, it&apos;s an intriguing follow-on from Assassin&apos;s Creed III, which took in the American War of Independence from the decade before. And a decade after the French Revolution? We see the emergence of Napoleon Bonaparte whose empire building may well form the basis of Assassin&apos;s Creed: Comet. After all,this happenedright in the middle of the Napoleonic Wars...Next stop, E3.•Assassin&apos;s Creed IV: Black Flag review - plenty of plunder in store
Regulatory roadblocks have delayedMicrosoft&apos;s €5.4bn (£4.6bn) acquisition of Nokia&apos;s handset business, but the software company expects the deal to be concluded in April.In India, Nokia has been tied up in legal cases with the governments of various regions. The southern state of Tamil Nadufiled a €300m claim on Fridayrelating to the company&apos;s manufacturing plant in Chennai, on the basis that it had sold handsets made there inside India, which would make them liable to tax. Exported handsets are not subject to tax. The factory&apos;s ownership is being transferred to Microsoft, triggering the tax claims.Meanwhile in China, the government&apos;s Ministry of Commerce is reported to be pressuring Microsoft and Nokia to lower its patent fees which cover a wide range of handset and mobile functionality. The remaining part of Nokia will retain ownership of its mobile patents, which it is seeking to monetise, while Microsoft has its own array which it has asserted against dozens of Android device-makers around the world.In ablogpost, Microsoft&apos;s legal chief, Brad Smith, said that the company was awaiting &quot;approval confirmation&quot; in remaining markets, after receiving the go-ahead from 15 other regulators. Those include the US and Europe.&quot;This work has been progressing, and we expect to close next month, in April 2014,&quot; Smith said. When the deal was originally announced, the two companies said that they expected it to close in March 2014, and Nokia classed its handset business under &quot;discontinued&quot; in its financial results for the three months to December. The delay almost certainly means that Nokia will have to report some details from the handset business with its financial results in April.The acquisition of the loss-making business, announced in September, positioned Microsoft to challenge Apple and Google, which at the time owned the Motorola handset business. Steve Ballmer, then chief executive, said that it was &quot;a bold step into our future&quot; and &quot;a signature event in our transformation&quot; into a &quot;devices and services&quot; business.Subsequent reports suggest that tensions between Ballmer and Microsoft&apos;s board over the wisdom of the deal – which Ballmer drove through against some resistance from other directors – led to his decision to step down from the post, to be replaced by Satya Nadella in January.
The UK government will unveil its lead cyber emergency response unit on 31 March, after delays had put the digital squadron on hold, the Guardian has learned.The UK Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-UK) will work on developing the UK’s cyber resilience to state-sponsored and criminal attacks on critical systems, including those controlling the national energy supply and within government departments, according to the Cabinet Office.Launch day, considered by the Cabinet Office as “a key milestone in the development of the UK’s cyber security capabilities”, will initiate a “first phase”, as part of an incremental rollout.The CERT was announced in December 2012, when the Cabinet Office promised to deliver what is considered one of the most important parts of its £650m cybersecurity strategy within 12 months.It soon conceded the project would be pushed back to early 2014, with few reasons given, other than the division needed more personnel, better technology and a headquarters. They were duly added, with Chris Gibson, formerly of the Forum of Incident Response and Security Teams (First), made director.Neil Cassidy, former cyberdefence lead at government supplier Qinetiq, was made deputy director of operations. Andrew Whittaker, a former Foreign Office crisis management expert, was given the overall deputy director role.The government has been co-ordinating with law enforcement bodies and the various industry-specific CERTs, including those based out of GCHQ and the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure, over the last year on creating an effective response unit.One of the key participants was the new National Cyber Crime Unit (NCCU), launched in October 2013, as part of the National Crime Agency. Kevin Williams, head of partnership engagement at the NCCU, said there had been “really good engagement” thus far with CERT-UK, which will be based at an as-yet undisclosed London location.Another core partner, the emergency response team responsible for attacks on universities, Janet Computer Security Incident Response Team, said it was already collaborating with CERT-UK.“Janet CSIRT has been working closely behind the scenes with CERT-UK to share and enhance its experience in incident response,” a spokesperson said, in an emailed statement from Jisc, the parent body of the Janet network.“The new CERT-UK team already shares incident data with CSIRT in real time over the Janet network, and both organisations work collaboratively on the latest cyber threats to the education and research sector and the UK as a whole. We expect that CERT-UK will provide a single point of co-ordination through which the existing UK incident response community can pool their efforts to secure UK cyberspace.”Charlie McMurdie, former head of the Metropolitan Police Central e-Crime Unit (PCeU) who was involved in the early stages of CERT-UK’s development, said the unit should act as an overarching unit that will enhance the response to major attacks being monitored by other incident response teams.Previously, CERTs worked in a siloed fashion, with limited collaboration between them, McMurdie said. The new body will aim to fix that weakness.“Those sub-CERTs could be far stronger and far more effective… if you&apos;re picking up something in one sector it just doesn&apos;t make sense that it is dealt with in isolation within that sector when there are opportunities to engage and utilise skill sets and intelligence elsewhere. You can disseminate intelligence to prevent cross-sector impact,” she added.The launch comes at a time of heightened anxieties over attacks on critical infrastructure. Experts last year warned the UK’s energy infrastructure was at risk of being shut down by hackers, while Cabinet Office minister confirmed plans to spend an additional £210m on protecting the nation’s digital assets by 2016.
Ovivo Mobile, a mobile virtual network operator, shut down without warning on Wednesday evening, leaving up to 50,000 customers unable to make phone calls, send texts or use data services.The OvivoTwitterand Facebook pages have been deactivated and contact information removed from the company’s official website. The site now displays only a notice that: “For reasons beyond our control, Ovivo Mobile is closing down on the evening of Wednesday 19 March 2014”, alongside a PAC code request form for customers to transfer their mobile numbers.Founder Dariush Zand, 35, incorporated the company in September 2011. He was previously director of five other companies – two in the mobile phone industry and three consultancies – all of which are now dissolved.According to Companies House records providedvia Duedil, in September 2013 the company had cash of £10,000 and other assets of about £6,000 but liabilities of £511,000 - giving it a negative net worth of £453,000. But that month it raised £414,000 through crowdsourcing website CrowdCube in exchange for 25.48% equity.Ovivo Mobile had an ad-funded business model, offering contracts for mobile phones and tablets for no monthly charge. The scheme relied on users having heavy internet usage, and would display an advert in their mobile browser every 10 minutes.The zero-cost deals included calling, text and data bundles for a £20 upfront fee, £15 of which would be turned into credit balance. Extra credit could be added to allowances by topping up.Ovivo Mobile delivered its 50,000th SIM card in January and was reportedly aiming to raise £3m this year through new users.Speaking to Mobile News earlier this month, Zand stated that “a substantial percentage” of these SIMs were active.He commented: “We are established… Profitability from a company’s perspective means are we achieving our potential, not only are we in the black in terms of our P&amp;L [profit and loss]. And, we are not achieving our potential yet because the potential is so huge.”Users left in the lurch are furious. Mary Horan bought an Ovivo Sim card less than a month ago, cancelling a contract that cost £5.50 a month from another network provider. She said: “I think it is outrageous that I was on the Ovivo website only yesterday and there was no warning of this. Very few people have my landline number, and I feel really frustrated that friends and family will be trying to get in touch with me and wondering why they’re being ignored.”The company used Vodafone’s network via an MVNO aggregator, Cognatel. Speaking to MobileToday in May 2012, Cognatel’s chief executivesaid: “What we do is lower the barriers of entry to those that come into the marketplace. Setting up an MVNO is still a complex operation. We offer a supportive model and we work closely with our partners at every stage of their development… We take away a lot of the pain so that our MVNOs can concentrate on marketing and branding their proposition.”CrowdCube director Luke Lang commented: “We’re extremely disappointed that Ovivo Mobile has had to announce that for reasons beyond their control, it is closing down. When Ovivo raised finance through our site the company was in a good position – with 10,000 customers and an experienced management team. However, the mobile industry is a highly competitive marketplace that is challenging for even established players, particularly during difficult economic times.”Other Ovivo directors include David Jones who is a director of seven other companies, and the retired director of an additional 25 companies since 2000. Martin Smith and James Longley are active as directors of two and twelve companies respectively, with a total of 82 previous companies between them since the 1990s. Anthony Fish, who became a director of Ovivo Mobile in 2013, is active director of 10 other companies and has previously been director of another seven.Ovivo Mobile offers were promoted on HotUKDeals.com, with many taking advantage of the packages.Those who need a mobile connection and shift their number are unlikely to be refunded, Ovivo’sterms and conditionssuggest:“6.3 In the event that We terminate the Service and You have paid for credit remaining on your Account We shall refund the amount to You, provided We have received the SIM Card back. Refunds will be credited to the credit or debit card used when topping-up.” [sic]“6.6 Should You transfer your number away from OVIVO, this constitutes a termination of this Agreement and any outstanding credit on your account, whether paid for or promotional, is forfeit and non-refundable.” [sic]Have you been affected by OVIVO Mobile’s shutdown? Share your experiences in the comments section below.•Getting round the great mobile phone carrier ripoff
A burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy don't designers take Android seriously? &gt;&gt; Cennydd BowlesThe design lead at Twitter asks:I wrotethis tweet… "Android is the dominant platform of the next decade. Why aren't designers paying it more attention?"…and received a ton of responses. I'm not going to embed them or name names – I respect a lot of the people who chipped in, and I'm going to be pretty ruthless in my dismissal of their arguments.The replies fell into two broad categories, of which I'll give both charitable and uncharitable interpretations.Apple iPhone 5c a failure? Baloney!&gt;&gt; Seeking AlphaGiven the data [from Mixpanel and others], I think we can use a figure of 2.5/1/0.5 for sales of 5s/5c/4s. This is a rough figure, but I think it is likely close enough to reality for our purposes here. In percentages that would be 62.5/25/12.5. With this, we can estimate the actual number of units sold for each model, given the known 51m figure.Model / Units Sold (m)5s / 31.95c / 12.84s / 6.4The point here is that the 5c sold somewhere around 13 million units! I am sorry, but I have trouble looking at this as a failure. Let's remember that mighty Samsung only sold 9m of its top of the line Galaxy S4 in the same quarter, and this is the current model, while the 5c is a year old model.Samsung doesn't release any numbers (all its phone unit sales figures are analyst esimates), so this is estimated. The 5C is a repackaged version of the iPhone 5 with more LTE bands.What I learnt from negotiating with Steve Jobs &gt;&gt; Heidi RoizenRoizen was trying to get NeXT-era Jobs to agree a publishing deal on some software:Shortly into my pitch, Steve took the contract from me and scanned down to the key term, the royalty rate. I had pitched 15%, our standard. Steve pointed at it and said,"15%? That is ridiculous. I want 50%."I was stunned. There was no way I could run my business giving him 50% of my product revenues. I started to defend myself, stammering about the economics of my side of the business. He tore up the contract and handed me the pieces. "Come back at 50%, or don't come back," he said.I slogged down to my car feeling like I had just blown the biggest deal of my life.  Lucky for me, someone had followed me out.Dan'l Lewin, one of the NeXT co-founders, had a cubicle within earshot of Steve (actually, at that time, every employee was within earshot of Steve.) Dan'l had been working with me in background over the last few weeks and we'd developed a good relationship. If this deal did not get done, it was going to end up being his job to find someone else, so he really wanted me to get the business. Dan'l put his arm around my shoulder, and said one sentence, which I will never forget."Make it look like fifty percent," he said.The upshot is a brilliant lesson for entrepreneurs and, well, anyone who needs to write a contract with someone who has a big ego.10 years of Mac OS X malware &gt;&gt; We Live SecurityGraham Cluley:Before we begin, let's make one thing really clear.The malware problem on Mac OS X is nothing like as bad as it is on Windows.There are something like 200,000 new Windows malware variants being discovered each day. Malicious code activity in the Mac world is far less frenetic, but the fact is, malware does exist that can infect our iMacs or MacBooks.And if your Apple computer is unlucky enough to fall victim you're not going to feel any better than your PC-owning friends who are struggling to remove a backdoor Trojan or a pernicious browser toolbar from their copy of Windows.He lists 14 main ones. Wonder what a comparable one for Windows over the same period would look like.WPA2 wireless security cracked &gt;&gt; Phys.OrgAchilleas Tsitroulis of Brunel University, UK, Dimitris Lampoudis of the University of Macedonia, Greece and Emmanuel Tsekleves of Lancaster University, UK, have investigated the vulnerabilities in WPA2 and present its weakness. They say that this wireless security system might now be breached with relative ease by a malicious attack on a network. They suggest that it is now a matter of urgency that security experts and programmers work together to remove the vulnerabilities in WPA2 in order to bolster its security or to develop alternative protocols to keep our wireless networks safe from hackers and malware.Oh.Billy Joel and Jimmy Fallon form two-man doo-wop group using iPad app &gt;&gt; YouTubeSimply fantastic fun. Give it four minutes of your day.July 2006: Odeo releases Twttr &gt;&gt; TechCrunchMichael Arrington in July 2006 (four months into Twitter's incarnation as Twttr):There is also a privacy issue with Twttr. Every user has a public page that shows all of their messages. Messages from that person's extended network are also public. I imagine most users are not going to want to have all of their Twttr messages published on a public website.If this was a new startup, a one or two person shop, I'd give it a thumbs up for innovation and good execution on a simple but viral idea.But the fact that this is coming from Odeo makes me wonder – what is this company doing to make their core offering compelling?The comments (look for the ones marked "eight years ago") are gold.About that time Google spied on my Gmail &gt;&gt; UncrunchedMichael Arrington:As the Guardian points out, other email providers also reserve the right to do this [scanning of emails to protect their 'property'] in their terms of service.I have first hand knowledge of this. A few years ago, I'm nearly certain that Google accessed my Gmail account after I broke a major story about Google.A couple of weeks after the story broke my source, a Google employee, approached me at a party in person in a very inebriated state and said that they (I'm being gender neutral here) had been asked by Google if they were the source. The source denied it, but was then shown an email that proved that they were the source.It's a very serious claim; we'll see how this develops.Edit Google documents offline &gt;&gt; Drive HelpOffline editing is only available for Google documents. It's not available yet for Google spreadsheets or presentations.If there's Office for iPad, will its Excel work offline?Why Apple can't match Google's all-seeing new smartwatches &gt;&gt; QuartzChristopher Mims:Apple has so far shown almost no desire to mine this data as Google does. What's more, the ubiquity of Google's services means many people aren't even using Apple's default apps anymore, and are instead going straight to Google's apps and web services—like the (excellent) Gmail app for iOS, which many prefer to accessing Gmail through Apple's native email app.Aside from the fact that many of Apple's services lack a web-based component that makes them accessible on any device, it's not clear Apple even has the expertise to crunch all this data in the way that Google Now does—or to use that data to predict our needs. Apple had a chance to create something like Google Now in 2010 when it acquired the voice-powered personal assistant Siri, which has its origins in research conduted for the US military. One of the intentions of early versions of Siri was "context awareness," precisely the thing at which Google Now excels.Even if Siri were revamped now, however, it's not clear whether Apple knows enough about its users to provide them a Google Now-like experience.ComScore data suggests that actually, most Apple users stick with defaults - that the Gmail app is used by less than 45% of the combined user base of Android + iOS in the US. That aside, it's clear Apple won't have a "Google Now" any time soon, if ever. So where will the "smart" be - if anywhere?BitLegal &gt;&gt; Bitcoin legality around the worldAn interactive map showing Bitcoin's legal (or otherwise) status around the world. Oh, Iceland, howcouldyou?Samsung has over 55% of North American Android web traffic &gt;&gt; Chitika Online Advertising NetworkLooking at the Web traffic from all North American users of both operating systems, iOS users generate 65% of the total, and Android users the remaining 35%. Put another way, 85% more aggregate Web traffic is driven by iOS devices as compared to Android devices in North America. These figures are similar to what we observed in anidentically framed study back in late 2012, with two percentage points in share moving from iOS to Android over that time frame.No other Android manufacturer has more than single-digit share of web browsing there.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday - what can possibly go wrong?
For five minutes, Sam Gardiner panicked. He had been rumbled: he wasn't Dominic Jones. He hadn't spent years as a football scout, going to games most nights, searching for that one-in-a-million prospect, getting home at 3am, as he once claimed in an article he had written. He wasn't now a reporter forGoal, the international football magazine. He didn't look anything like the picture that was his Twitter identity.But then Gardiner calmed down. He did a&nbsp;web search to check his legal position, which indicated that he hadn't committed fraud, because he had invented a new persona, not stolen someone else's. He went back on Twitter and with a few keystrokes created Samuel Rhodes, a freelance journalist for theDaily TelegraphandFinancial Times. He trawled Google images for a byline photograph and on page 11 he found a clean-cut, blond chap with a resemblance to the Australian actorSimon Baker. His Twitter profile was back  up instantly and scarcely any of his 3,000  followers even noticed.Gardiner, of course, is not Dominic Jones or Samuel Rhodes; the reality is both more interesting and more humdrum. Gardiner is a 17-year-old from High Barnet, north London. His dad runs a financial trading company and his mum has a business selling leather coats and sheepskin products. He is currently doing his A-levels atJFS, an academic powerhouse that is Europe's largest Jewish secondary school, and he wants to study politics and economics at university. I meet him at  Nando's in Kingsbury for an early lunch, squeezed in between double maths and politics.In January, the Samuel Rhodes account – at that point with 20,000-plus followers – was deleted by Twitter. He was busted on this occasion by Kate Day, director of digital content at theTelegraph. "I had more followers than her," Gardiner notes, slightly peeved, before conceding: "I don't know, she was probably right." Depending on how you view these things, Gardiner is either a harmless hoaxer with an opportunistic spirit, or he's a reminder of the dangers we all face now that we're  taking more of our news from social media and non-traditional sources.So why did Gardiner do it? "I&nbsp;wanted to prove a point," he says between mouthfuls of peri-peri chicken. "When I&nbsp;was 15, I created a Twitter account that was me – Sam Gardiner, Arsenal fan – but no one was taking me seriously. I had 300 followers. Adults don't want to listen to 15-year-olds and I&nbsp;don't blame them, to be honest. But I was getting really frustrated, because I love football,  I love talking about football and I just wanted to air my opinions to as many people as possible."Behind the mask: Sam Gardiner at home in Hampstead.  Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the ObserverGardiner set himself the goal of engaging 50,000 followers, and whatever you think of the morality of it, the tactics he used were smart. Football fans are obsessed with transfer rumours, and the most respected voices – rightly or wrongly – are journalists, who supporters believe have an inside track on any deals going through. So, first as Dominic Jones, until a real writer forGoalalerted Twitter, and then Samuel Rhodes, Gardiner used their made-up credentials and his knowledge of European football to start spreading gossip."I had formulas for the rumours and they seemed to work," he says. "Chelsea were always looking for the new Didier Drogba; Arsenal were always looking for that marquee signing; United were always looking for the new Paul Scholes; and Liverpool were looking to waste some more money… I knew which players would go to which clubs because I&nbsp;watched so much football. And that's why a lot of my rumours came true." Later he'll boast: "I figured out the trends. I conquered the transfer market."Gardiner's exaggerating a tad there – he was certainly wrong much more than he was right – but he did make one eye-catching prophecy. In November 2012, he claimed on Twitter that he had spoken to a Chelsea representative and the managerRoberto di Matteowould be fired the next day. Unexpectedly, he was. "It was complete luck," Gardiner says, "but that gave me a lot of credibility."These posts might not sound too malicious, but Gardiner became more ambitious. He'd claim he was speaking to a&nbsp;player, ask his Twitter followers for questions and then get back to them with replies. One of his supposed interviewees wasYohan Cabaye, a French international who seemed perennially on the verge of leaving Newcastle United (which he eventually did in January). Gardiner recalls: "I'd be like: 'Cabaye says he loves Newcastle, he loves the club, it suits his style well.' I'd quote him – well, I didn't, I wouldn't quote him,  I'd quote what I thought he'd say."Gardiner notices my eyebrows knitting sceptically. "I felt sorry for Newcastle fans, because they were hoping he'd stay, so I wanted to make them happy."As Samuel Rhodes's following grew, even professional footballers (as well as legitimate sports journalists) started buying into it. The first was Wigan's Scottish internationalJames McArthur, who put him in contact with his then teammateGrant Holt, now on loan at Aston Villa. Gardiner would send them private messages telling them there had been rumours – of a prospective transfer, say, or a bust-up on the training ground – and he was keen to put their side of the story.Boy wonder: ‘It’s hard to feel you are in the presence of an amoral con artist.’ Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the ObserverThe high point for Gardiner was an exchange he had with Holt on Twitter last Christmas  Eve. "My parents weren't interested," he says. "I'd be like: 'Mum, I'm talking to Grant Holt right now; he plays for Wigan.' And she'd be like: 'OK. Get on with your homework.'"No one else involved was especially keen to speak about what Gardiner had done. Wigan Athletic and theTelegraph's Kate Day both declined to comment. Perhaps there's some embarrassment that they were hoodwinked by a schoolboy – for the record, neither of the footballers shared anything too scandalous with Gardiner – but in fact many of us would have been guilty at some point of taking something we'd seen on social media at face value. It has never been easier to create a fake online identity or post inaccurate information and we have probably never been so lax about trusting what we read.If there's a salutary lesson to be taken from the Sam Gardiner episode, it's that it is welcome to be reminded of our vulnerability to deception when the information at stake is merely whetherMohamed Salah, an Egyptian winger, would join Liverpool or Chelsea.Meeting Gardiner, it's hard to feel you are in the presence of an amoral con artist. He keeps reiterating that he just "wanted to prove a point" and show to adults that some kids do know what they are talking about. He's obviously mischievous – "I'm really naughty in lessons," he admits, "I answer back a lot" – but neither his school nor his parents have considered the matter worthy of further censure.In fact, Gardiner is already back on Twitter: he's been taken on byYakatak, a company that develops sports apps, and asked to run their football feed. This time, however, he's planning to stick to facts and opinion, not speculation. "Most of my friends have to get jobs as waiters," says Gardiner, "and I'm getting paid to watch football and talk about it."The new gig, Gardiner hopes, will be a stepping stone to his eventual dream career as a&nbsp;football journalist. Or, even better, he could takeDaniel Finkelstein's job at theTimes, writing about his own twin passions of football and politics. "The world's my oyster," he says, as we walk back towards his school. "I&nbsp;could be an MP…" And it suddenly occurs to me that Gardiner might just have alighted on the perfect profession for his skills.
A means of self-inflicted suffering it may be, but one of such perfection thatDark Souls 2subsumes the player in its glorious pain. In this hacking and slashing affair, gamers take the role of a cursed undead, picking across the sprawling corpse of a once great civilisation, Drangleic. Not that this is explained: narrative is not so much told as implied, hidden within landscape and atmosphere.There's no real quest here, just the goal of exploring, growing stronger and surviving. It is not easy – foes, especially bosses, can be an enormous challenge. Failure means death, death means losing progress and souls, and souls are needed to improve; consequently the game is often nail-bitingly tense. Online features provide occasional respite through jolly co-operation, but this is a game primarily about suffering alone in hope of triumph. Fortunately, when victory comes, the feeling is magnificent. Compelling, deep, and full of surprises,Dark Souls 2is probably the last great game of the previous console generation.
Platform fans have been spoiled in recent months, with a raft of brilliant titles such asRayman Legends,Tearaway,Super Mario 3D WorldandDonkey Kong Country: Tropical Freeze. So the bar was high forYoshi's New Island, sequel to the classic 1995 SNES platformer.Here, players control various Yoshis who travel through 2D worlds, eating enemies and shooting eggs, all while carrying baby Mario. When hit by enemies the nappy-clad Mario will float away, allowing just seconds for players to grab him. It is charming, with beautiful pastel-drawn art, adorable sound effects and gameplay that encourages exploration of each level. It is very much a pastiche of the original, however, offering little new outside of some sloppy level design, pointless tilt-based missions and irritating music. There are moments of Nintendo genius, particularly in worlds further into the game, but, compared with its peers,Yoshi's New Islandis solid but unspectacular.
On 17 January 1961, the outgoing US president, Dwight D Eisenhower,went on TV to deliver his valedictory addressto the American people. Ike had been a relatively uncontroversial president. He had overseen a period of astonishing prosperity and economic growth. He had impeccable military credentials, having been supreme commander of allied forces in the second world war. So nobody could have accused him of being a radical.Nevertheless,in his valedictory addressIke said this. "Until the latest of our world conflicts, the United States had no armaments industry. American makers of ploughshares could, with time and as required, make swords as well. But now we can no longer risk emergency improvisation of national defence; we have been compelled to create a permanent armaments industry of vast proportions. Added to this, three and a half million men and women are directly engaged in the defence establishment. We annually spend on military security more than the net income of all United States corporations."This conjunction of an immense military establishment and a large arms industry is new in the American experience. The total influence – economic, political, even spiritual – is felt in every city, every state house, every office of the federal government. We recognise the imperative need for this development. Yet we must not fail to comprehend its grave implications. ... In the councils of government, we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the military-industrial complex. The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist."Rings some bells, doesn't it? Over the 10 presidencies since Ike's the United States has spent more on its military-industrial complex than all of the other countries in the world combined have spent on defence. But 50 years is a long time in technology, and over that period there has been a steady decline in the importance of dumb "kinetic" weaponry and a rapid increase in "smart" miniaturised weaponry, together with the rise of the internet, cyber-espionage and information warfare.Like any good parasite, the military-industrial complex has evolved to match the changing nature of the organism on which it feeds. It still does the kinetic stuff, of course, but in recent decades it has moved into non-kinetic areas, notably surveillance and cyber "security". Which is how Edward Snowden came to be an employee not of the National Security Agency, but of a long-standing member of the military-industrial complex,Booz Allen Hamilton– a company that has 24,500 employees, a market capitalisation of $2.5bn and annual revenues of $5.8bn.As they burgeoned, the big internet companies looked with disdain on the leviathans of the military-industrial complex. Kinetic warfare seemedso yesterdayto those whose corporate mantras were about "not being evil" and adhering to "the hacker's way". So when Snowden revealed NSA claims that the spooks had untrammelled access to their servers the companies reacted like nuns accused of running a webcam porn site. It wasn't true, they protested, and even it if was they knew nothing about it. Of course they did comply with government requests approved by a secret court, but that was the extent of it. As the months rolled by, however, this reassuring narrative has unravelled. We discovered that the NSA and GCHQ had indeed covertly tappedthe data-traffic that flows between the companies' server farms. But since Google and co were – they claimed – unaware of this, perhaps their protestations of innocence seemed justified. More embarrassingwere the revelationsabout the astonishing lengths to which one company (Microsoft) went to facilitate NSA access to its users' private communications.Last Wednesday, another piece of the jigsaw slotted into place.The NSA's top lawyer stated unequivocallythat the technology firms were fully aware of the agency's widespread collection of data. Rajesh De, the NSA general counsel, said that all communications content and associated metadata harvested by the NSA occurred with the knowledge of the companies – both for the Prism systemandthe covert tapping of communications moving across the internet.In one way, I suppose we shouldn't be surprised. The NSA and the internet companies ultimately share the same business model, namely intensive surveillance. The only difference is that the companies do it with the "consent" of their hapless users. What it means, though, is that we're witnessing the evolution of a military-information complex. And if you expect Obama to express regrets in his valedictory address, dream on.
With its karmic decision-making and the chance to be a superhero or supervillain,Infamousbrought something different to the traditional open-world game experience. WithSecond Sonthe series is reborn for the next generation, though it departs from the formula by abandoning the protagonist of the previous games and expanding on the superpowers available. It is set seven years after the end ofInfamous 2, and the world has changed – superpowered "conduits" are hunted and Seattle is under the thumb of the repressive Department of Unified Protection.As skate-punk graffiti artist Delsin Rowe you initially have smoke powers that can be used for good or ill as you roam the city undertaking missions. Your behaviour impacts upon how the story progresses. Whether you choose to execute or spare enemies, heal pedestrians or end their suffering, or get involved in drug busts, will all have a bearing on whether you're seen as a hero or villain. This in turn affects how the citizens of Seattle will view and treat you, as well as the other characters in the game, opening up some intriguing narrative possibilities.This creates a vibrant, living story with solid replayability as you test how things would turn out if you are just a bit nicer.The developers have made novel use of the PS4 controller's motion abilities and touchpad, and there are some very nice touches with the built-in speaker.Battles are frantic, although perhaps a little samey at times, and pretty tough when you're starting out with only a limited number of abilities, but the destructible landscape is a great leveller. Bringing a hulking metal arch down on top of a gaggle of foes with a carefully placed projectile makes for some jaw-dropping moments and shows the kind of detail that the PS4 is capable of providing.Any feeling of being underpowered doesn't last as all your powers can be increased by absorbing shards – granting new abilities through upgrades. It's a far cry from the original's sole reliance on electricity-based skills; without wanting to spoil anything, there's an array of superpowered flavours as the game progresses.As with all sandbox games, the world is key to the enjoyment of the experience; here Seattle has been reconstructed lovingly. The streets are filled with enemies and pedestrians, and there's a decent variety of side-missions to distract from the main narrative thrust. While the free-running mechanic doesn't feel as intuitive as it could, this remains an exhilarating thrill-ride that showcases the heft of the PS4.
Some people would kill for this job; I don't know  why they gave it to me. I&nbsp;won't be surprised if/when they take it away. I&nbsp;do enjoy driving, but I'm no car nut. At times I struggle to find anything interesting to say, so I&nbsp;write about my girlfriend or our kid and our unremarkable lives instead, then work a bit of the car in. Some of you moan: call this a car review? No, not really; tryWhat Car? magazineif you want a proper one of them. Also, you try writing 500 interesting words about aKia cee'd. Most cars are boring (unless you're into them, in which case you probably are).Not this one, though. For the first time in, well, maybe ever, I've got a new car that is not only interesting and innovative but also likable. There are loads of electric cars now, most of which are much like any other car, only they're powered in a different way. Greener, quieter, you can feel better about yourself, but on the downside they're very expensive and don't go very far. This one has those issues (though there is a version with a small additional petrol engine to extend the range, but it costs more). But in other ways it's brilliant.For one, it's different, not just a&nbsp;car with an electric motor. BMW has rethought the whole thing. Look at it! It's made of carbon fibre, it's light and strong – strong enough to do away with the B pillar between the front and the back. Open the front door, then the back door, which swings the other way, like the previous generation of London taxi, and now it's properly open, welcoming. Step in!Inside, it's light and airy, uncluttered, futuristic. Materials are interesting. I thinkKevin McCloudwould approve. My son (there he is!) certainly does. His window is low enough to see out of. Not that he wants to; there's way more interesting stuff going on inside.To drive, once I've figured out how to, it's a blast. Quick (up there with a hot hatch away from the lights), well-balanced and responsive. Range is between 80 and 120 miles, depending on how you drive it and what setting you have it on: EcoPro+ for more miles but fewer comforts (such as heating); the version with the petrol engine approximately doubles that range.The i3 has loads of clever tricks up its sleeve. It avoids collisions, with cars and pedestrians. It will stay in its lane on the motorway.And the self-parking is the best I've seen.You press a button and it parks – finds the space, turns the wheel, goes backwards and forwards, until it's in. Free of stress, free of sexism.I'm practically redundant (that's fine, I didn't like driving that much). There really is a sense that this car is heading towards the future. And it's good to know the future isn't joyless.BMW i3Price£25,680Top speed93mphAcceleration0-62mph in 7.2 secondsRange80-120 milesEco rating9/10Cool rating9/10
I nearly died once in India after drinking contaminated water. A messy, unpleasant experience I have no intention of ever repeating, especially if all I have to do is invest in a filter or purifier.As I write this I&apos;m sat in a hotel room in Bogatá, Colombia. There are five different brands of bottled water in the room. And one tap. I&apos;m told the water in the tap might be OK to drink. But there&apos;s no need for me to take any chances as it only takes a minute to filter my own.How to get around buying bottled water?Quite simply - carry a refillable bottle instead, and top it up from the tap.Depending where you are of course, that can be a more or less risky proposition, because you can&apos;t always be sure the water is clean enough to drink.If you are uncertain of how clean your water source is, buy a water filter. There are many on the market, including ultraviolet light pen purifiers, pump-action, gravity fed, and squeeze filters. Some are monsters designed for the great outdoors that you wouldn&apos;t or couldn&apos;t reasonably ask anyone to carry one around with them at all times, but that&apos;s not the case with the eminently portable small Sawyer filter.I first heard about Sawyer from a friend who has taken various water filters around the Middle East on his work travels, and who always ends up breaking them from repeated use or finding irritating niggles; the Sawyer filter was the first one he had no complaints at all about.As with any filter, you&apos;ve got to read the instructions before you use it. It&apos;s extremely easy to use - I&apos;d say idiot proof, really - but nonetheless must be used properly if you want it to filter out the bacteria that otherwise will make you sick.Also remember with this particular filter that is it not a purifier. That means it does remove bacteria - E coli, salmonella and those causing cholera and typhoid - but it does not remove viruses, which are physically smaller and can therefore slip through its 0.1 Micron rated filter membrane.To remove viruses with a filter you need something as small as 0.01 Micron, or you end up having to use a UV pen, chemical tablets or boiling to make sure the viruses are gone. That, of course, adds hassle but is worth it if you&apos;re in a place where the water might be contaminated by animals or humans.Filters vs purifiersSawyerdoes make what seems to be a pretty revolutionary filter that takes viruses out too - most filters cannot - which means no need for chemicals, boiling or UV light. It has a 0.02 micron membrane.But, a filter - not purifier - is something I&apos;m more than happy to use for domestic back country travel or suspect tap water. The beauty of the Sawyer Mini is that, while it is suited for the rigours of use by Bushcrafters and survivalists, it is also small, light, portable and easy to use for anyone who needs clean drinking water from mildly questionable water sources. You really can carry this filter around all day in your pocket.The Sawyer Mini Filter sell for between $20-$35 in the US and around £29 in the UK.This filter pays for itself after you&apos;ve filtered 14 litres of clean drinking water you&apos;d normally pay for. And this one just keeps on going; if you used it for your recommended daily intake of three litres of water it will last you 347 years.Most filters don&apos;t have that kind of longevity, and often have expensive ceramic elements that need replacing pretty regularly because they wear out.Fragile ceramic filters need to be carefully taken apart and cleaned by hand. The Sawyer mini comes with a large &quot;cleaning plunger&quot; syringe used to &quot;backflush&quot; the filter, dislodging and flushing any particulates that may clog the filter and shorten its life. It&apos;s a four-minute job, if you&apos;re slow.The kit also comes with a straw attachment for drinking straight through the filter and there&apos;s no need to pump, as you do with some water filters.The only negative is that as with most filters, it will break if water freezes inside it because the frozen water expands and breaks the filter elements. It means keeping the filter in a pocket close to your body if you&apos;re somewhere that cold.50 billion bottles of water every yearThere are many reasons not to buy water in plastic bottles. It&apos;s expesive both financially and ecologically, and extremely wasteful of resources.We consume 50bn bottles of water every year (30bn of those in the US), but it takes roughly three times the volume of water to manufacture one bottle of water than it does to fill it, and there&apos;s a huge amount of oil used in its production and transportation too.Although made with recyclable plastics, plastic bottles don&apos;t biodegrade – they photo-degrade, breaking down into smaller fragments over a very long time that contaminate soil and pollute waterways. Then there&apos;s the impact on the animals that digest those plastics, some of which we then go on to eat.According to the Ocean Conservatory, every square mile of the ocean has over 46,000 pieces of floating plastic in it. Plastic bottles and bags are also the most common form of pollution found on our beaches and in our oceans.Anyway you look at it, bottled water is an expensive way to waste money that I&apos;d certainly rather spend on almost anything else.
Microsoft is not unique in claiming the right to read users&apos; emails – Apple, Yahoo and Google all reserve that right as well, the Guardian has determined.The broad rights email providers claim for themselves has come to light followingMicrosoft&apos;s admission that it read a journalist&apos;s Hotmail accountin an attempt to track down the source of an internal leak. But most webmail services claim the right to read users&apos; email if they believe that such access is necessary to protect their property.Microsoft&apos;sown terms of service allow the company to access content&quot;when Microsoft forms a good faith belief that doing so is necessary [to] protect the… property of Microsoft&quot;. It made use of that right to read the email of an un-named journalist who had allegedly taken possession of the source code to Windows 8 thanks to an internal leak at the firm.Following the revelation that Microsoft could, and did, read users&apos; email,the firm&apos;s deputy general counsel told the Guardian that it would be tightening up its privacy policy. The new rules require an internal and external legal team to review any internal requests for access, and commit the firm to increased transparency over future requests.Yahoo, Google and Apple tooBut other major email providers reserve exactly the same rights.Yahoo requires usersto &quot;acknowledge, consent and agree that Yahoo may access… your account information and Content… in a good faith belief that such access… is reasonably necessary to… protect the rights… of Yahoo.&quot;Google&apos;s terms require the user to &quot;acknowledge and agree that Google may access… your account information and any Content associated with that account… in a good faith belief that such access… is reasonably necessary to… protect against imminent harm to the… property… of Google&quot;. Apple &quot;may, without liability to you, access… your Account information and Content… if we have a good faith belief that such access… is reasonably necessary to… protect the… property… of Apple&quot;.Of the major webmail providers,only Microsoft was prepared to sharethe internal procedures they have in place governing who can access users&apos; email without a court order and what reasons they must give to do so. Yahoo declined to comment. Neither Apple nor Google had responded to requests for comment ahead of publication.&quot;The problem is, this is a technically legal activity that we all agree to when we sign up to certain cloud services – whether knowingly or not,&quot; says Charlie Howe, director, EMEA at Skyhigh Networks, a cloud security software firm, of Microsoft&apos;s snooping.&quot;For instance, I would guess that most people don’t actually read the full Terms and Conditions before using a new application, and they would probably be surprised by what they are actually agreeing to when they click the ‘accept’ button on certain cloud services.&quot;•Microsoft has tightened its privacy policy for emails after admission it read journalist&apos;s messages
Some of Silicon Valley’s biggest names are backing a hitherto low-profile tech startup that aims to recreate the human neocortex as computer code.Vicarious, a four-year-old San Francisco-based startup, claims to be “building software that thinks and learns like a human”. According to theWall Street JournalFacebook&apos;s Mark Zuckerberg and Tesla&apos;s Elon Musk have just invested $40m in the company.They join Peter Thiel, a PayPal billionaire, whose Founders Fund targets cutting edge technology. Ashton Kutcher, actor and tech investor, is also investing, as is Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz.The neocortex is the outer layer of the cerebral hemispheres and in humans is crucial to the use of the senses as well as activities such as language, motor commands and spatial reasoning.According to the company’s website, Vicarious is developing “machine learning software based on the computational principles of the human brain. Our first technology is a visual perception system that interprets the contents of photographs and videos in a manner similar to humans. Powering this technology is a new computational paradigm we call the Recursive Cortical Network.”The company has already managed to createsoftware that will solve Captcha, the online tests used by many websites to supposedly identify humans from computers. Company founder Scott Phoenix told the WSJ that if they are successful, Vicarious will have created &quot;a computer that thinks like a person except it doesn&apos;t need to eat or sleep&quot;.Phoenix said his aim was to create a computer that can understand not just shapes and objects but the textures associated with them. He said he hopes Vicarious’s computers will learn to how to cure diseases and create cheap, renewable energy, as well as performing the jobs that employ most human beings. “We tell investors that right now, human beings are doing a lot of things that computers should be able to do,” he said.The investment comes amid a boom in funding for artificial intelligence ventures, In January IBM announced it was investing more than $1bn to create the Watson Group, a 2,000-employee division dedicated to developing its self-learning super-computer. The money includes $100m to fund startups that find creative uses for Watson.Earlier this week IBM announced a partnership with the New York Genome Center that will attempt to use Watson toidentify the genetic components of brain cancer.
Damon Baker shooting model Sam Rollinson for the 10th edition of Centrefold magazine.  Photograph: Damon Baker/Centrefold MagazineModel Lily McMenamyin the ‘Beyond’ edition of Centrefold. Photograph: Tung Walsh/Centrefold MagazinePhotographs shot using the 41-mega pixel Nokia Lumia 1020 have all been blown up to A3 size for print. Photograph: Damon Baker/Centrefold MagazineModel Eliza Cummings shot by Damon Baker.  Photographer Damon Baker/Centrefold MagazineModel Lily McMenamy appears in a series of images entitled ‘close up’ shot by London-based photographer Tung Walsh. Photograph: Tung Walsh/Centrefold MagazineFrom Centrefold. Photograph: Damon Baker /Centrefold MagazineOne of a series of beach shots by photographer Ulysse Frechelin. Photograph: Ulysse Frechelin/Centrefold MagazineFrom the ‘Rush’ photoshoot. Photograph: Tang Ting/Centrefold MagazineChinese military. Photograph: Tang Ting/Centrefold MagazineModel Zuzanna Bijoch. Photograph: Éric Guillemain/Centrefold Magazine
In development for seven years and likely to be one of the biggest role-playing adventure releases of the year, Elder Scrolls Online takes Bethesda&apos;s hugely successful series into the massively multiplayer gaming space for the first time.Set 1,000 years before Elder Scrolls: Skyrim, the narrative involves three shay alliances battling for the control of the imperial city. Looming in the background, however, is Molag Bal, &quot;Daedric Prince of domination and enslavement&quot; (that&apos;s some job title), who wants to plunge the land of Tamriel into darkness and chaos.Featuring a familiar open-world design, the game is set to incorporate elements of the single-player titles, allowing participants to explore, take on mini-quests, or become tradespeople earning an honest wage as a blacksmith or alchemist as war rages all around. On top of this, however, there are the familiar conventions of the massively multiplayer adventure, with guild quests and raids and PvP areas that house up to 200 players.So what else can we expect? Well, why not ask the creative director, Paul Sage? We have arranged an exclusive video interview and are inviting questions from Elder Scrolls fans. You can either leave them in the comments section below or tweet them to @TESonline with the hashtag, #AskESO. We need all questions to reach us by 12pm on Monday 24 March.We&apos;ll gather them all up, get them to Paul and he&apos;ll make a video of responses, which we&apos;ll show here on 26 March.To give you a few ideas, Bethesda has provided us with an exclusive gallery of concept art taken from the early stages of the game&apos;s development.Now have a think and get your questions to us.
