Apple has a fresh problem with its new Maps app on the iPhone. But this time, rather than complaints that it's incorrect –labelling an Irish farm as an airfield, say – it's being accused of being too accurate. The Taiwanese government has asked it to blur satellite images of a new $1bn early warning radar station near Hsinchu Air base, northern Taiwan.Amid the bad publicity andchief executive's apologythat surrounded the launch of the new maps, which Apple has created itself with the aid of third parties – while ejecting Google's maps from its iPhone and iPad – it might seem surprising that details such as a radar base would have been included.Apple maps satellite image of Hsinchu, Taiwan.It turns out though that the satellite pictures, apparently collected a year ago by a commercial company, were more detailed than the military was comfortable with."Regarding images taken by commercial satellites, legally we can do nothing about it," David Lo, the spokesman for Taiwan's ministry of defence told reporters this week. "But we'll ask Apple to lower the resolution of satellite images of some confidential military establishments the way we've asked Google in the past."Apple satellite picture of Colchester, October 2012Apple could perhaps swap it for the satellite images of Colchester – which on Thursday were still showing the city under cloud, nearly a month after the maps' launch.It is not only Taiwan in which Apple apparently offers more detail than Google. Like the open-source OpenStreetMap product, its coverage of North Korea provides far more detail than Google's, with town names and enough detail on satellite imagery to make out details of fields in the coastal town of Nampo, for example.Apple satellite image of Nampo, North Korea, showing details of fieldsGoogle blurs the details of military bases in a number of countries, as well as a large number of other locations.Wikipedia carries a long list of locations in 23 countries, including the US, Taiwan and North Korea, which have requested the blurring of satellite imagery. It lists eight areas in Taiwan, all of which appear to be military installations.Apple's maps in China are alsoreported to be better than Google'sbecause it uses a local service, AutoNavi Holdings, which is the most widely used mobile mapping service in China according to the Wall Street Journal.But equally, it blocks showing satellite views outside China.The Hsinchu base is reportedly home to a long-range radar system bought from the US defence contractor Raytheon in 2003, which is reported to be still under construction.The Taiwanese newspaper Liberty Times discovered them during tests of the iPhone's new iOS 6 Maps app.Apple had not responded to a request for comment on whether it intends to blur the Taiwanese images when this story was being prepared for publication.
The computer hacker collective Anonymous has distanced itself from WikiLeaks, claiming the whistleblowers' site has become too focused on the personal tribulations of its founder, Julian Assange.Astatementposted on the Anonymous Twitter account,AnonymousIRC, described WikiLeaks as "the one man Julian Assange show" after the website began asking users to pay for access to millions of leaked documents."The idea behind WikiLeaks was to provide the public with information that would otherwise be kept secret by industries and governments. Information we strongly believe the public has a right to know," said the statement on behalf of Anonymous."But this has been pushed more and more into the background, instead we only hear about Julian Assange, like he had dinner last night with Lady Gaga. That's great for him but not much of our interest. We are more interested in transparent governments and bringing out documents and information they want to hide from the public."Anonymous has long been one of WikiLeaks's most loyal and vocal allies. Supporters bearing Anonymous posters regularly turned out at Assange's public announcements, and members of the group have waged an online campaign against critics of the whistleblowers' site.WikiLeaks said it is funded entirely by donations from members of the public. The site angered some users on Thursday after it madea donation page automatically appearbefore it allowed access to leaked documents. Some users are unable to view WikiLeaks material unless they choose to donate money to the site. WikiLeaks said on Twitter that the move was an attempt to counter what it called "high costs in military courts".In the statement, Anonymous told its 285,000 followers that WikiLeaks was an "awesome idea ruined by egos" and claimed the site hadabandoned the ideals of freedom of expression.The group added: "We have been worried about the direction WikiLeaks is going for a while. In the recent month the focus moved away from actual leaks and the fight for freedom of information further and further while it concentrated more and more on Julian Assange. It goes without saying that we oppose any plans of extraditing Julian to the USA. He is a content provider and publisher, not a criminal."The dispute could starve WikiLeaks of potentially newsworthy leaks in the future, as some of the site's recent disclosures – including the cache ofStratfor emails– are alleged to have come from Anonymous.
It's time for our weekly roundup of the best new Android apps for Google-powered smartphones and tablets.There are slightly slim pickings this week, so it's a ten-app roundup. However,  it's been a very big week for new Android games, so stand by for plenty of those in the separate smartphone/tablet games roundup, which will be published later in the day.Here's this week's non-game Android selection:Beat BangComing straight outta Belgium, this app from the Médiatheque is a music discovery app for the last 25 years of electronic music, offering track samples and purchase links, artist biographies, articles and links with a clever bubble-constellation navigation to find your way through it.ZagatGoogle has rebuilt the Zagat restaurant-reviews app "from the ground up" and re-released it as a completely free app for Android, having acquired the company in September 2011. It includes ratings and reviews for more than 30,000 restaurants around the world, including London, with a design optimised for Android tablets. Google+ membership is required, though.Quicken Starter Edition 2013Less a standalone app, this is part of the overall package for personal finance app Quicken 2013, enabling users to check their account balances, transactions and budget from their smartphone or tablet, with updates and alerts built in.NoozyReleased by developer Dogsbark, this aims to be "an ultimate better richer and more interactive media player for Android" that handles songs, videos and podcasts. It will also look very familiar to anyone who's used a Windows Phone, taking its user interface inspiration firmly from Microsoft's Metro UI. Editorial content, recommendations and scrobbling are all included.The GrintNothing to do with a.) Dr. Seuss or b.) Harry Potter actors. Instead, this is a golfing app that helps players keep track of their handicap and statistics. A replacement for paper scorecards? Actually, its developer reckons it complements them: "Write your scores on a PAPER scorecard, take a picture and load details... We believe in pencil and paper scorecards, our app and service allows you to avoid the use of any devices and distractions during your round." The data is uploaded to The Grint's website, where it can be compared with friends.Maluuba InternationalBilling itself as "Your Siri alternative", voice-assistant app Maluuba has been available for a while in some countries: the US, UK, Australia and Ireland. Now it has a separate International version for the rest of the world, working with features including calendar, reminders, weather, search, voice calls, email, Facebook and Twitter. It also has concert, event, restaurant and business listings in some countries, depending on availability.Hulloha Group CallA spin-off from the HulloMail voicemail service, this is an Android app for conference-calling up to 20 people at once, using standard network-rate mobile numbers. That means it should be free for Brits who are within their monthly tariff minutes. Invites to calls are handled by text.Silent CircleNot strictly an Android app; more a suite of software that includes several Android apps: Silent Phone, Silent Text and Silent Mail. The Register has amuch fuller explanationthat's worth reading, but basically it's about creating a secure network for communication, backed by PGP creator Phil Zimmermann.TapestryAnother photo-sharing app? Well, Tapestry is a newly-prominent Android app with a few twists, styling itself as a "synchronized photo show-and-tell app". That means an app for showing photos from your own Android device on those of nearby friends and family. Well, the ones who also have Android smartphones, anyway.The Dead MileFinally this week, an app promoting Canadian zombie movie The Dead Mile, showing how independent producers are using Android to spread buzz about their films. It promises news, tweets and Facebook updates, as well as cast bios and videos.That's our selection, but what new Android apps have you been using this week? Make your recommendations in the comments section.
Ten years ago, Chris Roberts, creator of Wing Commander, Privateer and Freelancer, left the games industry and seemed to take the whole space combat genre with him. While Eve Online has built a cult following, we never again saw narrative interstellar dog-fighting adventures achieve mainstream success. The genre that materialised so thrillingly with Elite and that gave us some of the absolute best Star Wars ties-ins of ALL TIME, seemed to just disappear into a crushing black hole.But now, everything is okay: Roberts has returned. After almost a decade as a film producer, the Manchester-raised developer has announcedStar Citizena vast online multiplayer space game, which he says will combine all his previous classics into one multifaceted universe. Players wlll be able to take part as combat pilots, mercenaries, merchants, bounty hunters and a range of other classes, all with their own missions and side-quests."Basically I've always made games because I'm a gamer," he says. "If there was a game that I wanted to play but that didn't exist, I would make it. Even when I was off making movies I always had the most recent consoles and high-end gaming rigs, playing the latest games. It got to the point two years ago when I felt that the power and fidelity would allow me to do the stuff I wanted to do. I was feeling that, yeah, I want to see this sort of game and no one is doing it."So a year ago, he started prototyping his concept for a multiplayer online space combat title, employing a small development team that includes several ex-staff from his previous studios, Origin and Digital Anvil. Then, very recently, he started teasing his return to games, setting up the Roberts Space Industries website and releasing snippets of the Star Citizen backstory. Now the project is taking shape.Set in the year 2942, the game takes place within Earth's vast cosmic empire, which is now being threatened by an emerging alien civilisation – the Dralthi – on the other side of the galaxy, as well as hordes of barbaric space raiders along its borders. Roberts says the idea is essentially the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, but in the distant future."Citizenship is a big deal in this universe," says Roberts. "Citizenship isn't your birthright. There's a little bit of Starship Troopers in there, but that in itself is modelled on the Roman system. You can win citizenship through military service, or you earn it through civic duties, or by becoming a merchant and buying it. That then opens up a new level of other things you can do in the galaxy."And from here, a range of experiences are on offer. "It's not dissimilar to how Privateer and Freelancer worked," says Roberts. "There will be a combination of more procedurally driven missions, there will be specific story missions that we'll be adding and curating as we go along, then we'll try to build a place where you can hire someone to be your wingman who hire them to take someone out - so players help to make the content too."Within the game, a full single-player campaign named Squadron 42 lurks. This Wing Commander-like option puts the player on the frontline of a battle along the edge of Earth territory, attempting to get into the eponymous unit – essentially, it's the French foreign legion of space. This can be attempted offline, but if you stay connected, friends can join in to be wingmen in key battles. When you complete it, you enter the persistent universe as an elite warrior, like a Navy SEAL: "and then you venture out into a Privateer-style world," says RobertsOpt to be a mercenary or merchant, however and it's fortune and glory that drives you rather than military ambition. The game's immense dynamic economy looks to be a key element for Roberts. He acknowledges the work CCP has done in this area with Eve Online but reckons the Star Citizen implementation is very different."With the economy, I want the players to feel like what they do has an impact on the events that unfold," he explains. "It's about ownership: I want players to feel like they're becoming part of the lore, the history of this galaxy. So a lot of the tools we're building for the online persistent world allow us to micro update the content. A lot of online games use these big monolithic updates once every year or two years, my goal is to have something where we're doing constant updates. One week we may add a star system, another we may had five small missions on the other side of the galaxy. Developers have become a modern day version of a dungeon master, where you're riffing off your players."It's also a bit like TV. When you write a new series you start with your bible then write the first five or six episodes and broadcast it – if people like it, you listen to what they're saying, and some of the story lines will be adjusted depending on what the audience likes or does't like. That's part of the idea: players have to feel that the things they're doing can ripple out across the wider universe. There may be a news event somewhere or a spike in prices somewhere else, or a battle  will result– people will feel like their actions are having an imprint on the world."Right now, Roberts' small, mostly freelance team has come up with an impressive demo, using a heavily modified version of Crytek's Cry Engine 3 tech, but it's little more than a graphics showcase right now. In the short sequence we saw, the player can explore the vast landing bay of a 1km long space carrier, entering a fighter and flying out to get a better look at the huge mother craft (which is constructed, Roberts says, from seven million polygons). Adopting an external camera view, it's also possible to look in your own smaller craft, where your pilot is visible, using the controls and hitting the throttle when you press the corresponding buttons on the controller. Apparently, the game will support both stereoscopic 3D and the Oculus Rift VR headset to add augment the feeling of being in a small bubble in space.The sense of authenticity extends to handling. The craft is a rigid body, propeled through space by thrusters working on the principles of Newtonian physics. If one is damaged by a direct hit, manoeuvrability is affected accordingly. Every moving part on the ship (there are over 60 on a fighter craft alone) has a job, a purpose, whether that's the cables leading to the gatling guns, or the missile systems which show an explosive charge when firing.The game will have a fixed upfront fee for the initial download, but there are no subscription fees. Extra income will come from in-game purchases of ship and weapons upgrades, although all of these can also be bought with an in-game currency earned through completing missions. Roberts is clear that he wants this accumulation process to be an enjoyable part of the experience. "I hate games that use grind, that make it terribly boring to earn in-game money so you want to pay for it," he says. "Maybe it's stupid of me, but I won't do that. You build the game in such a way that, if people don't want to spend ten hours trading they don't need to. But it should be fun to do ten hours of trading - it was fun in Privateer! You should have fun doing everything."He's also keen to make a game in which the little guy stands a chance. Although participants can level up, being 10 ranks above a competitor in a P vs P space fight won't mean instant victory – smaller craft are able to zip around faster than great big space tanks with massive weapons systems; skilled players can compete at every level.The big question many will ask is, well, why didn't Roberts just use the Wing Commander license? It's clear Star Citizen belongs in that universe; the craft and themes all scream that. So why no brand? "EA own it," he shrugs. "I've had discussions with them about doing Wing Commander, but when I build a game I want to do it on my terms - I don't want to be part of the big machine building it."And there will be no console versions – not for a while anyway. The game will be released in 2014 and will probably require today's highest-end machines to run it; that may well test even the next generation machines from Sony and Microsoft. But Roberts is unrepentant. "I'm a PC game creator," he says. "I've been feeling over the last few years that the PC just isn't getting enough love or respect. For me, it was important to come back and push what they can do".And he is doing that by building the universe he has been hinting at since the early nineties, in full, online and with spaceships a kilometre long. Wherever these gigantic craft are going, plenty of us will follow.
Friday! Woohoo – I have Forza Horizon and Xcom to play! How about you?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRaspberry Pi: RS Components struggling to ship orders from June &gt;&gt; IBTimes UKCustomers put their names down on the order lists months ago, and some of them are still waiting for their orders from RS Components. And it seems they may have to wait until November, possibly, for orders placed in July.The supply chain challenge laid out.Indian Railways - Live! &gt;&gt; Google MapsYes: all India's trains in real time depicted on maps. Remember when this was done for London's tube trains?An announcement about Gawker links in /r/politics &gt;&gt; Reddit politicsAs some of you may know, a prominent member of Reddit's community, Violentacrez, deleted his account recently. This was as a result of a 'journalist' seeking out his personal information and threatening to publish it, which would have a significant impact on his life.You can read more about it hereAs moderators, we feel that this type of behavior is completely intolerable. We volunteer our time on Reddit to make it a better place for the users, and should not be harassed and threatened for that. We should all be afraid of the threat of having our personal information investigated and spread around the internet if someone disagrees with you. Reddit prides itself on having a subreddit for everything, and no matter how much anyone may disapprove of what another user subscribes to, that is never a reason to threaten them. As a result, the moderators of /r/politics have chosen to disallow links from the Gawker network until action is taken to correct this serious lack of ethics and integrity.Or "Reddit discovers censorship", as it's being described elsewhere.Trolls filed 40% of patent infringement lawsuits in 2011 &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaAnew studyhelps to fill the gap by providing systematic data on the growth of patent troll litigation. Robin Feldman, a professor at UC Hastings College of Law, teamed up with Lex Machina, a Stanford Law spinoff that collects data on patent litigation, to compile a systematic survey of patent litigation. Their results are striking: the fraction of lawsuits filed by troll-like entities grew from 22 percent in 2007 to 40 percent in 2011.Nokia 'on a roll' with maps after Apple woes &gt;&gt; Sydney Morning HeraldNokia is betting that the critique Apple has received will highlight the advantage it has gained through years of investing in its maps, said Michael Halbherr, head of Nokia's location and commerce unit."What I love and what I think has happened is that the discussion has moved to quality and moved away from 'I have a map app you have a map app,'" Halbherr said over coffee at his division's office in Berlin last week. "People start looking at how precise it is."Given the EUR8bn cost of Navteq (what is now Nokia's location and commerce unit) and that it has kept losing money, you can be sure Nokia is happy now.Google gives Street View a 250K-mile update across 17+ countries, its biggest update ever; Maps API now features time zones &gt;&gt;TechCrunchThe Street View update today, according to Ulf Spitzer, Street View Program Manager, will increase Street View coverage in Macau, Singapore, Sweden, the U.S., Thailand, Taiwan, Italy, Great Britain, Denmark, Norway and Canada. (The image here is of the Taroko Gorge in the Taroko National Park. Something that would not have been included in Google's previous coverage of Taiwan now can be toured as if you are driving through it.)It will also see Google creating "special collections" -- essentially lovely, highly visual features -- in six main countries, South Africa, Japan, Spain, France, Brazil and Mexico, along with smaller collection updates in other countries. Armchair travellers, rejoice!Wonder when Nokia will start looking to get Navteq and its street view systems onto other platforms. Might it be on BB10? (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)No Filter: Inside Hipstamatic's lost year searching for the next killer social app &gt;&gt; Fast CompanyHipstamatic's journey over the past year has been tumultuous, to say the least. As Fast Company has learned from speaking to more than a dozen players involved, Hipstamatic has wrestled with ever-growing social competition, internal tensions, and a lack of product vision--not to mention juggling acquisition interest and worsening term sheets in a post-Facebook IPO world.But what the startup has most struggled with is remaining relevant in an unforgiving app market dominated by one of the hottest spaces in tech: photos.They thought Instagram wasn't interesting because it was built around "social", launched a terrible limited-pictures product, and turned down overtures from Twitter. Apart from that though..Counterfeit power supply units in the UK &gt;&gt; Raspberry PiWe've found that there are three specific, different kinds of fake Apple charger popping up and causing trouble in the UK. We know that Trading Standards are already aware of these fake PSUs; apparently raids on suppliers have been carried out, but there are still plenty of them out there. Here's some video which should help you check that yours is the real thing. If you find that your charger is a fake, take it back to the seller and raise a stink: and most importantly, stop using it immediately. You could damage your Pi or yourself (and anything else you plug into the PSU).(Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.)HTC tablets fade from US market, but firm keeps options open &gt;&gt; FierceWirelessHowever, [HTC global communications manager Jeff Gordon] acknowledged that Apple's iPad continues to dominate the tablet market and he said that HTC would only consider returning to the tablet space if it developed a product that could make inroads against the iPad and other tablets.Gordon said it's unclear what strategy HTC might take in a possible return to tablets. He said the company could try to tackle the lower-end of the market, as Google has attempted with the Wi-Fi-only Nexus 7, or it could build a more powerful device that would cost more."We're very much not set on one strategy over another," he said. HTC's previous tablet entries have spanned the gamut: The company's Jetstream launched at $700 and its W-Fi-only Flyer device sold for $299 through Best Buy.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The huge logistical challenge of delivering millions of new iPhone&nbsp;5s all over the world has led to a spike in the cost of air freight.Transport experts said the launches of Apple products have become such big business for the air cargo industry that delivery firms and airlines have chartered dozens of extra planes, cancelled scheduled routes and ditched staff training during "Operation iPhone Drop".In the latest quarterly health check on the US economy, published on Thursday,the Federal Reserve said: "Air cargo companies saw an increase in cargo volume tied to the launch of various smartphones and computer tablets, which favour shipment by air over other modalities."Martin Dixon of freight research firm Drewry said the delivery of the iPhone had helped the air freight industry bounce back from a collapse in prices – July  were the lowest since July 2009, when most of the developed world was gripped by recession.Dixon said the indicative average cost of air freight from China to the west had risen 7% to $3.56 (£2.20) per kg between August and September, and he expected it to rise even higher this month in the wake of the iPhone&nbsp;5 launch.He said Apple has had a "huge impact" on the air freight industry, which is experiencing a deep contraction as many companies cut spending by transporting more goods by sea."Only a few years ago smartphones weren't around, now they make up a huge part of air freight goods," he said. "Apple is very clever at how it manages its supply chain, and its ability to secure air freight capacity to launch new models is a key part of that strategy."John Manners-Bell, chief executive of research firm Transport Intelligence, said Apple's demand for air cargo capacity was so large that it was "able to skew rates across a large proportion of the global air cargo market".He said it was too early to say how much rates had risen as result of the iPhone&nbsp;5, launched on 21 September, but said prices spiked by 20% when Apple launched the latest iPad version in March.Manners-Bell said Apple was now "by far the biggest air cargo shipper in the world by some margin", and the industry was awash with rumours about measures taken by logistics companies and airlines to meet the US company's demands. "There is talk of airlines pulling scheduled routes to [have more planes free] to serve the Apple account," he said.Kevin Sterling, a freight transport analyst at BB&amp;T Capital Markets, said he had heard that Apple had chartered up to 70 jets in the runup to the launch of the iPhone. He predicted thatthe air freight rate could reach as high as $5 per kg in the days surrounding the launch.US delivery giant FedEx postponed training classes for staff during the first few days of the iPhone launch as it prepared for a "surge event", according to an internal memo leaked to MacRumours.The analysts said none of the big delivery companies would divulge the impact of the iPhone, but Chinese delivery firm THI Group, which provides freight services for a company that assembles the iPhone 5, reported a 50% rise in profits from Hong Kong and China on Thursday.Apple sold 5m iPhone&nbsp;5s in the first three days after the product launched, but a withdrawal of scratched phones before delivery has led to sales forecasts for the iPhone&nbsp;5 in the last three months of this year being cut from 57m units to 49m.
Those whom the gods wish to destroy, they first make smart. "Smart" is an interesting adjective, as evidenced by theOED's extensive entry for it. The interpretation that is now ubiquitous is this: "Capable of independent and seemingly intelligent action." As in "smartphones". And, now, "smart meters" for gas and electricity.Governments across the world have become obsessed with smart meters. Their introduction has been US policy since 2007, for example, when President George W Bush signed the Energy Independence and Security Act – and allocated $4.5bn (£2.8bn) for the development of a "smart" electricity grid. In 2009, the European Union followed suit with a directive mandating smart metering in households by 2022, which, in relation to the scale of what has to be done is, the blink of an eye.On the face of it, smart metering is a good idea, at least for electricity, the demand for whichfluctuates during the day. The surges that accompany half-time in major football matches as the nation stampedes to put its kettle on, for example, are the stuff of legend. But they are also the stuff of nightmares, because if an electricity grid is overwhelmed by demand, theconsequences can be dire,asIndia discovered recently, when more than 700 million people were left without power. Even in normal circumstances, the variation in demand (for households: low at night, high in the early evening; for businesses: high during normal working hours) means that the grid has to be able to deal with peaks and troughs – and always meet the peaks. There are significant gains, both in financial and environmental terms, from finding ways of evening out some of the fluctuation.Which is wheresmart meterscome in. The meters currently in domestic use are dumb devices that can deal with, at most, two options: a simple 24-hour tariff or a dual (day and night) tariff. Smart meters, which are essentially small, networked computers, can provide much finer "granularity" (measuring consumption on an hourly basis, say) and can communicate that information to both the consumer and the supplier. More importantly, the supplier can also communicate directly with the meter.Underpinning the argument for smart meters are a number of assumptions. One is that, if consumers know how much electricity they are using at any given moment, then they will become more careful about how they use it. Another is that smart metering will enable utility companies to vary the cost per unit on an hourly basis. So electricity might cost 2p a unit at 3am but 12p a unit at 6pm, when the nation gets home, starts cooking and switches on the TV. The combination of these two charges should mean that peak demand is reduced, thereby making operation of the grid easier and less wasteful.There's a good case for rethinking the way we supply and charge for electricity, because if we go on as we are – with a dumb grid, dumb meters and accelerating demand – then we'll eventually find ourselves with the problems that the Indians experienced recently. And that doesn't bear thinking about.The problem is that the way the government is approaching the issue doesn't exactly inspire confidence. The lead department,Environment and Climate Change, has prepared a cost-benefit analysis that purports to show that the stupendous cost of installing new, networked kit in every building in the UK will be outweighed by the £7.1bn inbenefitsthat the new system will confer on grateful citizens. As the Duke of Wellington famously said to the man who came up to him saying: "Mr Smith, I believe", if you believe that then you will believe anything.DECC's calculations have recently been subjected to a laceratingcritiqueby Alex Henney and Professor Ross Anderson of the Cambridge Computer Lab. They examined how the department's "successive reworkings involved a reduction in costs, an increase in benefits, and stretch credulity given some of the assumptions. Yet deployment over the next few years will make the truth clear enough".It will. What we have in the making is another multibillion-pound government IT disaster of the kind that Whitehall has made its unique speciality. And that's only the half of it. Because embedded in the technology of smart metering is an even more worrying possibility about which the government (and the electricity utilities) has been strangely taciturn. The utilities love the technology because it will enable them to disconnect consumers remotely who don't pay their bills.But the capacity for remote cutoff in a networked system opens up a huge nationalcybersecurity vulnerability. After all, if E.ON can remotely disconnect every house in East Anglia, so too can a hacker in China. Still, if that happens we'll still be able to read, by candlelight, theOED's top definition of "smart": "an instance of sharp physical pain, esp caused by a blow, sting or wound."
Forza Horizon(Xbox 360) is&nbsp;a free-roaming racing game set across the mountains, forests and dusty plains of Colorado. Events take place at Colorado Horizon,&nbsp;a fictional festival of driving, live music and frat-style hedonism that&nbsp;stretches miles across the state, and the game's primary innovation is&nbsp;granting players the freedom to wander off and cruise its highways and&nbsp;dirt roads at their leisure, with the side-effect that they also have to make their own way from race to race. It's not exactly a freedom that gamers had been clamouring for.Roaming free is, after all, a lot like racing, but stripped of both the jeopardy and the fun. The goal of a roam is still ultimately to get from A&nbsp;to B. It's just that no one else is competing to get there first. Arguably then, having to drive from one race to another isn't a selling point at all. In a first-person shooter, the equivalent would be having to fire blindly into the sky between levels.It's just as well that, after visiting a location once, you can skip the tedium of roaming with the game's fast-travel option, because in practice, at least in the early stages of the story, roaming essentially transforms a sizeable chunk of Colorado into a sprawling three-dimensional menu screen with the occasional threat of oncoming traffic. Which, again, is unlikely to have been on any gamer's wishlist.Freedom to wander makes sense in an RPG or sandbox adventure game, where there are quests, characters and battles to stumble upon that enrich the grand narrative of the hero. But racing games, as a rule, tend to struggle with grand narratives. In large part, probably, because outside of cut-scenes the only characters the player actually sees are cars. And without cheery Pixar faces and Owen Wilson's hypnotically chummy voice, cars are not especially appealing heroes. They have no hopes, no dreams, no motives. You'll never meet a car with an all-conquering thirst for revenge. They are metal, seats and wheels. You can read their life stories off the mileometer.The Forza Horizon team have chosen to dodge the problem of the four-wheeled hero by bringing to life&nbsp;the drivers. So we see in cut-scenes, for example, our avatar – a&nbsp;dull and handsome every-tool I&nbsp;came&nbsp;to refer to as Marlon Blando – signing up for the festival's races and meeting other, even less appealing drivers. There's also what looks suspiciously like a love story, between&nbsp;our hero and race administrator Alice Hart, who, it's heavily implied, will writhe naked with&nbsp;our hero if we can make it all the way through to being crowned champion of the festival. Though the&nbsp;game's 12+ age-rating suggests that the writhing will also be a matter of unsubtle implication. Mercifully.It's unfair to expect the story in a racing game to be anything other than silly though. What matters is how exciting the races are, and the answer, judging from the first few, looks set to be: "Yeah, s'alright, I s'pose." Not because the gameplay isn't good. It is. The physics engine is excellent, the controls a doddle to learn but dastardly to master, the range of races and tracks immense. There's a decent amount of fun to be had taking shortcuts, drifting round corners and generally showing off for the fans. But the stakes just aren't very high, in part, because you're free to restart the race at any time and, in part, because the flimsy story ensures you hardly care if Blando wins or sputters over the finish line eight hours after everybody else has gone home.Insofar as racing ever-faster cars round ever trickier tracks can be called depth, the game looks ocean-deep, with hundreds of customisable licensed vehicles and the promise of many more to download, plus a heap of side events, challenges and online gameplay. The single-player campaign alone looks huge, though it remains to&nbsp;be seen if it consists of anything more than racing, upgrading your cars, and racing again until there's no one left to race.If it can spring a few surprises, both&nbsp;in gameplay terms and especially with its story, Forza Horizon's single-player experience could even turn out to be something quite special.&nbsp;But if its open world remains nothing but the largest, most unwieldy between-level menu screen in the history of gaming, it's going to be a rare and dogged gamer who stays with Blando right through to his inevitable and underwhelming climax. Implied or&nbsp;otherwise.• This article was amended on 12 October 2012 to correct the statement that the game is available on PS3 – it is an Xbox 360 exclusive
Can anything save the PC? The industry is giving it all it's got - ultrabooks, faster chips - but so far, nothing's working. Shipment growth for PCs has cratered, falling by the largest percentage year-on-year for 11 years as consumers, corporations and PC manufacturers hit the "pause" button ahead of the launch of Microsoft's Windows 8 this month, according to new figures.Now analysts say PC vendors face tough challenges persuading consumers in particular to spend on PCs rather than smartphones and tablets as straitened economic times worsen in many regions. "We previously had all-singing, all-dancing PCs for some time - they were the only choice for years," Ranjit Atwal, Gartner's personal computing analyst, told the Guardian. "But now the lack of any type of innovation in the PC space has meant that there's very little reason for somebody to go and buy one. That has put the PC at the back of the queue."The hope for PC vendors now will be that Windows 8 can rescue the industry from a slow decline, by offering newer form factors to tempt people back.BothGartnerandIDC, which released their figures overnight on Wednesday, say worldwide PC sales fell by over 8% - 8.2% and 8.6% respectively - to below 88m. Proportionally, it is the biggest drop since the same period in 2001, when Windows XP was about to be launched; at that time, PC sales fell by 11.6%. No region showed growth, according to Gartner's figures.In percentage terms, the dip was larger even than that seen in the first quarter of 2009 when the world was struggling with the recession caused by the collapse in late 2008 of Lehman Brothers, and PC sales dropped by 6.8% year-on-year.Average worldwide PC shipments, Q1 1999 - Q3 2012. Source: Gartner, IDCChina's Lenovo, whichbought IBM's PC businessat the end of 2004, became the world's largest PC supplier ahead of HP according to Gartner's figures, although IDC showed HP edging ahead by 13.9m to 13.8m shipped. Lenovo showed strong growth, rising by 10% year-on-year - but in effect 18% compared to the rest of the market. HP, Dell and Acer all shrank faster than the rest of the market, according to both research groups, while Asus grew by 11.8% - in effect 20% - to become fifth-largest company.Figures for the US showed that the market there shrank by 13.8%, with four of the top six vendors - HP, Dell, Acer and Toshiba - contracting more quickly. Apple, the third-biggest vendor there, saw sales shrink, though by only 6.1% compared to the larger contraction, and Lenovo, now the fourth-biggest, grew by 6.1% - in effect, a 20% market share growth.PC shipments peaked at just below 96m in the third quarter of 2011, according to the two companies. Since then the figures have drifted down in absolute terms, and shown little or no annual growth.Though it is common for PC sales growth to stall ahead of the launch of a new version of Windows, because consumers and businesses wait to get machines which have the new software already installed, the competition from other computing devices means fresh problems for PC vendors, said Atwal. He said that he had expected there would be a hiatus - "but didn't think it would be this dramatic. Demand generally is weak. But retailers and distributors are generally hoping that Windows 8 will be the solution."At IDC, senior research analyst Jay Chousaid in a statementthat "PCs are going through a severe slump… The industry had already weathered a rough second quarter, and now the third quarter was even worse. A weak global economy as well as questions about PC market saturation and delayed replacement cycles are certainly a factor, but the hard question of what is the 'it' product for PCs remain unanswered. While ultrabook prices have come down a little, there are still some significant challenges that will greet Windows 8 in the coming quarter."For Gartner, Atwal said that ultrabooks - the sleek, light and faster (but so far pricier) laptops introduced by a number of vendors - represented an important trend for the PC industry. "The PC industry needs to raise ASPs [average selling prices]," he said. "Ultrabooks were meant to be the kickoff for vendors to do that - but ultimately the ASPs of ultrabooks are still too high [to attract many buyers]. Even if they do come down, how do vendors convey value in what they're offering? They need to convey the mobility benefits."But he said that there is a core challenge: that the parts of the PC industry are no longer working in synchrony. "Microsoft and Intel are trying to push new products and software through the ecosystem of [PC] vendors and the 'channe' [of wholesalers and retailers] - which fundamentally hasn't changed. Distributors go for high volume, low margin; retailers go for 'low touch'" - the latter meaning that minimal human effort is put into a sale.Atwal now expects that the PC market will show little or no overall growth for the year. Gartner's figure say the US had a dramatic 13.8% fall to 15.3m machines, the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) region dropping by 8.7% to 25.8m, Asia/Pacific by 5.6% to 31.3m, and Latin America down 6.2% to 9.7m. "The Windows 8 transition is happening everywhere," said Atwal. "There's softer demand [due to economic conditions] anyway; the Windows 8 transition is exaggerating the weakness in the PC market." He reckons that transition - with Windows 8 due to be officially launched at the end of October - "accounts for a significant proportion of the [slowdown] in terms of an inventory shift."Gartner's figures include a substantial uprating of PC shipments for the third quarter of 2011, which a year ago it estimated at 91.8m; now it puts the figure at 95.4m, deepening the slowdown for this period.
Every day, I back my MacBook Pro up to an external hard drive. I get back from holiday to a reminder that Time Machine isn't backing up because it can't find the external hard drive. I look across my desk and realise it's missing. The only thing I can think of is that it's fallen off the desk into the bin, and it's possible that my cleaning lady emptied it. What should I do if my backup disk, which contains everything I've ever done on my computer, has been thrown away with the rubbish? Is it a major security risk? Is there anything I can do except pray it's been destroyed in the council crushers?Name withheldIt took me a while to understand this question because, as originally phrased, I imagined the drive had somehow fallen into the Mac OS X Trash folder, rather than a physical waste basket. Also, if that happened to one of my external hard drives (EHDs), I reckon it would be obvious because it would still be attached by both a USB cable and a power cable. However, NW says it was a small, portable USB-powered drive and that the USB cable could have become detached.The first lesson is that every hard drive is a security risk, because if it falls into someone else's hands, they can read the data. For this reason, large companies prefer to use laptops with encrypted hard drives, and in many cases, the backup procedure will offer the option. If you chose (or were able to choose)encrypted backupthen your data is safe. The drive cannot be read without the password.If you don't do this at the time, you can encrypt a drive later. In Mac OS X Finder, right-click the drive and select Encrypt from the drop-down menu.But most people don't encrypt hard drives, including me, and it may slow the system down.If someone does find your drive then they will be able to read the data by connecting it to another Mac. However, they are statistically more likely to plug it into a Windows PC, and Windows cannot read the HFS+ format – also known as Mac OS Extended (Journalled) – used by Time Machine… unless they install something likeMacDriveas well. It's pot luck whether someone would make the effort.Incidentally, some EHD manufacturers still ship drives that are preformatted using Microsoft's FAT32 system, which can be read by all versions of Mac OS X and Windows. Some may use the improved exFAT version, which can be read by Macs running 10.6.5 (Snow Leopard) and PCs running Windows XP SP3, or later.For safety's sake, it would be a good idea to change any passwords and other things that someone might be able to extract from browsers or emails on your hard drive. Indeed, this would be a good thing to do even if you hadn't lost a drive. Most of us have accumulated passwords over five or 10 years, and the older ones may be quite weak by today's standards.The speed of computer processors has increased dramatically over the past five years, and this means it's much easier to crack passwords than it used to be. Also, password cracking programs have become much more sophisticated. They don't just use dictionaries and common passwords (123456, password, welcome, sunshine), they also target common password formations (monkey72, yeknom72 etc) and the use of haxor characters (m0nk3y72, p455w0rd etc), which is known as leet (1337) or leetspeak.Every time a website leaks a few million passwords, the crackers learn more about the way people create passwords. They've been learning a lot recently.The simplest way to make a password harder to crack is to make it longer, as anXKCDcartoon explains. Today's passwords should be at least 10 characters long and preferably include a mixture of characters, not just lower case letters. Having started using 9-character alphanumeric passwords in the mid-90s, I'm thinking of upgrading to 12. This would extend the "brute force" cracking time of a lower case random (non-dictionary) password from a few days to about a century.You should also think about your backup procedures. Time Machine provides a backup on an EHD, but a thief could have stolen both the laptop and the backup, or the house could have been affected by some other disaster (fire, flood, typhoon, whatever). This is why sensible companies always ensure they have an off-site backup.Individuals can tackle this in different ways. For example, before going on holiday, you could have left your backup drive with a relative or trusted neighbour. (This is where encrypted hard drives really score.) An alternative is to back up some or all of your hard drive to an online "cloud" service.Mozywas set up for this purpose, but alternatives includeBackBlaze,CarboniteandCrashPlan.Online storage is always "off site" but it has disadvantages. It can take a very long time to upload your data, and if your computer fails, it's nothing like as handy as having a bootable external drive. However, it can be useful if you don't have terabytes of data.At this point, it might be helpful to understand the difference between backups and archives. A backup is a copy – perhaps a "carbon copy" – of the stuff your computer, including the operating system and software. However, these are replaceable. What you can't replace is your historical data, so this should be archived to a suitable storage medium. People usually use DVD or CD-Rom discs, but a second EHD is an option, and SD cards are becoming increasingly attractive. (See my previous answer,Backing up digital photos.)In other words, a backup is a short-term insurance policy, while an archive is a long-term repository. Your backups will change on an hourly or daily basis, whereas your archives may not change for decades.In many cases, backup needs are quite modest (a few documents created, spreadsheets updated etc) while the archives are huge (multiple gigabytes of music and movie files, photographs, financial records and so on). If you are in this situation, you can use an online site to back up the stuff you're actually using while keeping archive copies of the old stuff on DVDs.Amazon has recently launchedGlacierto provide cheap online archiving, but that's still only one copy. AsSchofield's Second Law of Computingasserts, data doesn't really exist unless you have two copies of it. Preferably more.
This week videogames reminded me of the virtue of patience. Every second triple-A title contains enough high-octane shenanigans to shatter the thin film of glass on my TV set, prompting me to duck lest a kitchen sink hit me in the face.Games with guns hardly give you a chance to pause for a breath these days, so it's been refreshing this week to see two genuinely entertaining titles that prize a little cognitive thought on my part before I pull the trigger. The first is Arkane's Steampunk yarn, Dishonored –already reviewed hereby Simon Parkin. The second is XCOM: Enemy Unknown.XCOM, in case you're hearing about it for the first time, is the latest entry in a series of point and click, turn-based strategy games, the first of which was 1994's UFO: Enemy Unknown. The plot is pretty straight-forward: aliens are invading planet earth and the player, as the commander of an international defence initiative called XCOM, is charged with repelling the off-world cads. The way they go about this is by managing XCOM's finances and resources, and deploying soldiers to take down the alien threat wherever it appears on planet earth.When the latter occurs, players take control of a team of troops pitted against a selection of alien enemies. Battles take place from an inclined, top-down perspective that the player can swivel to show cover points and raised platforms from different perspectives. Most of the map is shrouded in a fog when the player's forces enter it, but as they progress through the mission, more and more is revealed to them – including the aliens lurking in the distance. The game tosses in the odd animation of aliens shrieking or a marine dashing through the map to ratchet up the tension.The ground missions in XCOM are tense, drawn-out affairs where stoic patience and nerves of steel are required. The temptation to send a team of grunts storming into a UFO crash site or alien base is something players will need to rein in; if you do this, your soldiers will die – simple as that. The best way of navigating the battles is to shore up your team's flanks and try to outmanoeuvre and out-position any enemy forces while keeping in cover.When combat happens, it tends to be quick, brutal and bloody. The alien AI does its best to out-flank the player's squad and both sides have weapons that can shoot through or completely blast away cover. When an enemy enters the player's line of sight, the game takes into account their troop's position, the weapon they're using and their overall skill level and then assigns them a hit percentage. This means opening fire on some targets can be risky; do you take the shot where you have a 45% chance of hitting a target? Or do you leg it back into cover? Make the wrong choice and your troop could get turned into paint pretty quickly.The stakes in every mission are raised considerably as the player progresses further into the game. Every soldier who makes it back alive from a mission gains experience points, which the player can use to unlock abilities depending on what class they are – be it the ability to target enemies in their team-mates' lines of sight (sniper) or faster movement between cover (squaddie).As troops level up, they even acquire nicknames, making any death suffered on the battlefield feel more personal. There's even a shot-glass-laden memorial wall in the base barracks, complete with bagpipes on the soundtrack to hammer home the sense of loss.Back at the base, the player's second main concern is managing XCOM's operations and equipment and their decisions have a huge impact on the effectiveness of their troops. As the base's research department conducts autopsies on alien cadavers and examines artefacts, equipment and ship fragments brought back to the base, the engineering department is able to build tougher armour, more lethal weapons and better field equipment and vehicles.Players also have the option of building new sections on to their base such as satellite uplinks, a foundry and more laboratories, which in turn increase XCOM's ability to better patrol the skies above earth, build better weapons and open up more equipment options.At the start of the game, players are assigned a budget from member states of XCOM, and it's up to them to decide how to spend it. They're also tasked with deciding when and where to deploy the XCOM troops, which can have a profound affect on the funds coming in. If they ignore the pleas of certain nations where abductions or terror attacks are taking place, the panic-levels of those countries will rise and they'll eventually pull out of the XCOM project, cutting the all-too-crucial funding. Running XCOM is as much a managerial and political juggling act as it is a tactical affair.Newcomers should take heed; XCOM is merciless. Normal difficulty offers a pretty decent challenge where the player starts off on the back-foot and only gains the upper hand through savvy management and tactical awareness on the battlefield. However, the jump between that experience and Classic or Ironman – where it's possible to see nations pull funding at a furious rate – is marked. I haven't attempted the Impossible difficulty setting yet and I'll admit it's because I'm terrified of the prospect. I'd rather take my chances against human foes in the multiplayer where I'll likely stand more of a fighting chance.The game's presentation rides the line between slightly cartoon-like and darkly sinister. Firaxis seems to have mined the classics of sci-fi cinema and vintage pulp comic books for the look and feel of their game. Some of the bulb-headed aliens look cute to begin with, for example, but this impression fades fast when you've seen them reduce your favourite squaddie to a bloody pile of innards with a single laser blast. The voice acting is superb and the script is peppered with a ton of in-jokes and asides. The game's score deserves a mention too, piping in atmospheric synth-lines as the XCOM troops feel their way through different terrains, and then driving percussion and pomp when battles finally take place.While the game's natural home is on the PC, the console versions are just as enjoyable. Unlike other attempts at strategy games on consoles (Halo Wars, anyone?) the developers have made the interface feel intuitive and easy to get to grips with. There's a slight snapping effect which occurs when players try to direct the path of a troop that can cause minor irritation, but it's by no means a deal-breaker.There's really only one flaw XCOM has, and that's the timing of its release. The game arrives as the industry's heavyweight triple-A titles start jockeying for position in the Christmas retail release window. This is rather a pity, because it would a complete miscarriage of justice if XCOM slipped under the radar. It doesn't have the brand power of games such as Halo 4, Call Of Duty: Black Ops 2 or Assassin's Creed III, but XCOM deserves to sell as many copies as they do. For those players who can exercise a little patience and restraint, it's quite simply one of the best games you'll play all year.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Okay, Thursday, what do you have in store?
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamShareholder Letter &gt;&gt; MicrosoftSteve Ballmer writes to shareholders:Last year in this letter I said that over time, the full value of our software will be seen and felt in how people use devices and services at work and in their personal lives. This is a significant shift, both in what we do and how we see ourselves -- as a devices and services company.The "devices" bit is moving up the agenda.Widening scrutiny of Google's smartphone patents &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comThe [Federal Trade Commission] investigation indicates that it is keeping an eye on the patent buildup by major high-tech companies. "It's part of the larger concern that the amalgamation of these giant patent arsenals harms competition," said William E. Kovacic, the former chairman of the F.T.C. who is now a professor at George Washington University."The worry," said Mr. Kovacic, "is that the new Googles and new Apples will bump into too many patent tollbooths."The F.T.C. is not the only agency that has raised concerns about Google's stewardship of standard-essential patents. The Justice Department, when it approved Google's acquisition of Motorola and the consortium's purchase of Nortel's patents earlier this year, issued a statement praising the "clear commitments" by Apple and Microsoft to license standard patents on fair terms. It also noted their pledge not to try to use such patents to seek court injunctions to stop shipments of rivals' products."Google's commitments," the Justice Department statement said, "were more ambiguous and do not provide the same direct confirmation of its standard-essential patent licensing policies."Android 4.1.2 brings home screen rotation to devices &gt;&gt; GigaomGoogle announced Android 4.1.2 on Tuesday, a software update that adds a key feature to devices running the Jelly Bean software: home screen rotation support. Prior to this update, all Android 4.1 devices use portrait mode for the home screens, even when the smartphone or tablet is in landscape mode, making for a disjointed experience...Once devices receive the update, there won't be a need for third-party screen rotation apps. That's a big plus from an end-user experience. As good as these apps are -- until now, I've used Ultimate Rotation Control on my Nexus 7, which worked great -- someone new to Android wouldn't likely know about them. Instead, they'd be left wondering why the home screen doesn't automatically rotate when switching from portrait to landscape and have a sub-par user experience.FINALLY. Also: does this mean all the people who said that home screen rotation was completely unnecessary were wrong, or is Google wrong for adding it? (Thanks @hotsoup for the link.)Food security in 75% of African countries at high or extreme risk &gt;&gt; Maplecroft global indexStep out of the filter bubble:Africa accounts for 39 of the 59 most at risk countries in Maplecroft's Food Security Risk Index and hosts nine of the eleven countries in the 'extreme risk' category. These include: Somalia and DR Congo (ranked joint 1st in the index), Burundi (4), Chad (5), Ethiopia (6), Eritrea (7), South Sudan (9), Comoros (10) and Sierra Leone (11). The countries of Haiti (3) and Afghanistan (8) complete the category.The Food Security Risk Index has been developed for governments, NGOs and business to use as a barometer to identify those countries which may be susceptible to famine and societal unrest stemming from food shortages and price fluctuations.What women want from smartphone design isn't what lazy marketers think &gt;&gt; Wired UKNikki Barton is vp of user experience design, smart devices, at Nokia:The same IDC study [that looked at what men and women did with smartphones] found women place high importance on ease of use and the weight and size of a phone. Women also prioritise camera resolution and the physical design of the phone, while men give preference to OS and the type of network (3G v 4G). In the app market, both women and men commonly download free apps for games, social networking, music and weather. Men download more paid apps across all categories.I've certainly found in my own experience as a designer that women tend to place less emphasis on having so-many thousand apps or impressive speeds and feeds. Technology matters, but women don't really see their phone as a gadget.Smartphone Mutually Assured Destruction &gt;&gt; Terence EdenEden is a mobile developer:The billion dollar verdict in Samsung &amp; Apple's American courtroom drama exposes the craziness behind our interconnected industry. The main manufacturer of the components in Apple's desirable gadgets is... Samsung! These damages amount to Apple reclaiming a few tenths of a percent from its annual spend with Samsung. Subject to the usual endless appeals and counter suits.These bans, and fines, and negative press don't just hurt the companies involved. Our entire industry looks corrupt, litigious, unoriginal, and highly unstable.Some users find scuffs, nicks on newly-purchased iPhone 5s &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderAn increasing number of iPhone 5 owners are reporting scuffs and other signs of damage to their newly-purchased smartphones right out of the box, with some miffed customers taking to the web in what is being dubbed "scuffgate."A quotefrom the Apple Support forums:i literally was giddy unwrapping my new iphone and i took it out and i haven't even taken off the screen protector yet. within two minutes, i find a small scratch on the black aluminum on the side.(Thanks @beardyweirdy66, @rquick for the links.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The longstanding commercial relationship between BT and Huawei is being investigated by parliament's intelligence and security committee, its chairman Sir Malcolm Rifkind has confirmed to the Guardian.In a move that could cause disruption to major broadband and mobile phone infrastructure projects in the UK should security fears be raised about Huawei's equipment, the committee is "reviewing the whole presence of Huawei in regard to our critical national infrastructure and whether that should give rise for concern".The committee has been taking evidence in private for some months from members of the security services, and is considering whether to make some of its findings and recommendations public. A report will be sent to David Cameron before Christmas."In the background are allegations that Huawei has links to the People's Liberation Army in China, and that any Chinese company is ultimately subject to the Chinese government," said Rifkind.Huawei is a supplier to BT, which gave the Chinese company its first big contract in western Europe in 2005, using its equipment to modernise its copper broadband service. Huawei is now a big supplier to BT's national rollout of fibre-optic broadband, one of the largest infrastructure projects under way in the UK. Its equipment has also been used to build the 4G network being launched at the end of this month by EE, the owner of Orange and T-Mobile, and other clients include TalkTalk, Vodafone and BSkyB."We are looking into the relationship that has developed between Huawei and British Telecom and the implications for the UK," said Rifkind. "We wanted to look at the historical background to that contract, to what extent there were security concerns at the time, whether and to what extend the British government were involved in these decisions, and whether there have been any causes for concern that have arisen since Huawei became involved in our telecoms infrastructure."A spokesman for Huawei said of the intelligence and security committee's inquiry, for which the firm has not so far been asked to give evidence: "We have been operating in the UK since 2001 under UK scrutiny and procedures. We have regular contact with the government and welcome all discussions and questions."Two years ago, the company established a centre in Banbury where its equipment for BT and other companies can be tested and monitored, in co-operation with security services staff. A BT spokesman said: "Huawei is one of our major suppliers. This has in no way affected our ability to ensure the security of our networks."A negative report card from British politicians would be embarrassing for Cameron, who met Huawei's founder Ren in Downing Street only last month. It could also disrupt the roll out of fibre and 4G mobile internet in the UK."If the UK takes the same stance as the US, and I would be surprised if they did, there will be all kinds of consequences," said Bengt Nordström, chief executive of telecoms consultancy Northstream. "It would mean that you need to agree on terms for de-commissioning, find a replacement vendor, tear out the old equipment, install the new. It's a complicated costly exercise that will delay whatever plans they have. There is an impact for the major infrastructure projects in the UK."The Shenzhen-based company has been blacklisted in Australia, where it was barred from supplying the country's new national fibre network, and the US House of Representatives' intelligence select committee this week called for Huawei and its Chinese rival ZTE to be excluded from doing business in the US on the grounds that their equipment could be used by the state or other interests in China for cyber-espionage.The Canadian government is indicating that it too might exclude the company from involvement in government communications projects because of potential security risks. In Brussels, the European trade commissioner, Karel De Gucht, was gathering evidence for an inquiry into both companies on the grounds that state support may allow them to sell equipment at a loss, but that was put on ice after European competitors declined to file formal complaints. A source has told the Guardian this was for fear of reprisals from China.At the centre of the concerns is that Huawei's networks are not secure and could be open to espionage. The US has voiced concerns that China could use equipment made by the company – whose founder, Ren, was once a technician in the People's Liberation Army – to spy on communications and threaten vital systems through computerised links.The chairman of the US House of Representatives' intelligence committee, Mike Rogers, himself a former FBI agent, said: "My argument is that if this helps the Chinese government get out of the business of cyber-espionage, then that is great."Huawei denies all links with spying and cybercrime, and calls the allegations "a monstrous, market-distorting, trade-distorting policy precedent that could be used in other markets against American companies".While its US presence is limited, Huawei has used the UK as a launchpad for rapid expansion in Europe, where its rise has contributed to the fall of a number of western rivals.One of the first casualties was the venerable British firm Marconi, which lost its largest client when BT chose Huawei - and a handful of other suppliers - for its 21st century network copper broadband upgrade. Within a year, the telecoms and defence firm, once a bellwether of the UK economy, had been broken up and sold.A similar fate has befallen American vendors Nortel and Motorola, and a once bustling sector is braced for further retrenchment, with both France's Alcatel-Lucent and Finland's Nokia Siemens Networks having experienced financial turbulence.Unlike the state controlled oil, energy and banking groups that dominate the list of China's largest companies, Huawei is one of a select few, like the internet group Alibaba, to have a brand that is familiar to Western consumers.Stan Abrams, a Beijing-based corporate lawyer, lecturer and commentator, says "reciprocity" has been a feature of Chinese trade policy, and there could be repercussions for Western companies hoping to do business in China after Huawei's public humiliation at the hands of the US legislature.
Facebook has been accused of taking the British taxpayer for a ride after experts suggested the company had depressed sales figures and that the website's average UK employee earned more last year than the whole social media network paid the exchequer.The British arm paid its 90 UK-based staff an average of £275,000 each in 2011 while contributing just £195,890 to the Treasury's coffers, according to the firm's latest accounts filed at Companies House.The website also reported UK revenues of £20.4m, a fraction of the £175m that media analysts estimate the firm made in the UK in 2011.Most of the sales are believed to have been booked in the firm's international headquarters in Dublin, where they will attract lower corporation taxes.Richard Murphy, of Tax Research UK, said: "The UK is being taken for a ride. Facebook is taking standard practice for these IT companies to a new high, or low, depending on how you look at it. The UK is giving the tax break and the Irish get benefit of all the tax on the sales."The chartered accountant added that the arrangement between Facebook UK and its Dublin office suggests that only around 11% of total sales made into the UK are declared in this country – a standard industry mechanism whereby a UK-based company is paid a commission for the sales it generates by a sister company located in a lower tax jurisdiction.Furthermore, Facebook UK's latest figures show that the company charged £15.4m to its 2011 accounts – which can be used to reduce future tax bills – as a cost of awarding its UK staff share options. Murphy said: "That appears to be £15.4m to reward £20.4m in sales. That makes no sense. The options must, of course, be based on the value of sales recorded in Ireland but the UK is bearing the cost of the tax relief on paying these options."When asked if Facebook had chosen to set up its international headquarters in Dublin in order to lower its tax bill, a company spokeswoman responded: "We have our international headquarters in Ireland that employs hundreds and a series of smaller local offices providing support services all over Europe. Dublin was selected as the best location to hire staff with the right skills to run a multilingual hi-tech operation serving the whole of Europe."Media research group Enders estimates that Facebook UK made £175m in revenues in 2011, which it predicts will increase to £236m this year. The company analyses factors such as how many advertisements are being placed on Facebook, the number of users and how long they spend on the site, as well as surveying advertising agencies and large advertisers.Overall, Facebook UK reported a £10.2m loss in the UK last year, although the company appeared to admit that the published numbers showed little resemblance to how the business is trading.In a statement it added: "The information does not necessarily present a full account of overall global financial performance so it would be a mistake to draw any conclusions from these filings."Facebook's UK accounts were audited by accounting firm Ernst &amp; Young, which declined to comment on its work.The news of the tiny UK tax bill comes a week after the group said thatone billion people use the network every month, which equates to one in seven people in the world. To mark the milestone, founder Mark Zuckerbergwrote: "Helping a billion people connect is amazing, humbling and by far the thing I am most proud of in my life".However, the success of the soaring user numbers has not been mirrored by the company's share price, which has halved sincelisting on Wall Street's Nasdaq exchange in May at $38 a share.
The International Telecommunications Union has held a"patent round table"bringing together companies including Apple, Google, Motorola Mobility (MMI), RIM, Microsoft, Ericsson and Nokia to discuss the problems that have arisen as the smartphone wars have seen businesses suing over "standards-essential" patents (SEPs).The meeting, held at the UN agency's instigation, is trying to find ways to let companies which own the key patents benefit from them, while preventing their being used as aggressive weapons in courtroom battles.In astatement, the ITU secretary-general Hamadoun Touré said: "We are seeing an unwelcome trend in today's marketplace to use standards-essential patents to block markets. There needs to be an urgent review of this situation: patents are meant to encourage innovation, not stifle it. Acknowledging patent holders and user requirements, as well as market needs, is a balancing act. This timely multi-stakeholder roundtable will help press for a resolution on some of the critical issues."The meeting comes as Samsung and Google's Motorola Mobility (MMI) subsidiary are under investigation by legislators in the US and Europe over their assertion of SEPs in legal fights with Apple and Microsoft. Samsung has claimed that Apple infringes patents that it owns on the 3G standard in its iPad and iPhone, while Google's Motorola unit has sought injunctions against Microsoft over its use of its-own patents in the H.264 video codec standard — one which, ironically, the ITU helped to organise.The key element of the discussion has been how to determine the "reasonable and non-disciminatory" (RAND) terms on which SEPs are licensed, and how to contain what could be unreasonable demands by one patent owner in a standard which might be made up of hundreds of even thousands of interlocking patents, each required to be used in order for equipment to meet an agreed standard such as the 802.11b Wi-Fi networking method.Thus a smartphone incorporating GSM, GPRS, 3G, 4G-LTE and Wi-Fi standardised communications protocols can embody thousands of patents required to meet the standard. While each patent may not on its own be the only way to implement a process — such ascountdown function during a mobile-originated transfer for a packet radio system, held by MMI — each will have been accepted by a standards committee as required simply to meet the standard.The ITU noted that "key protocols implemented in devices sometimes encompassing hundreds of patents. If just one patent holder decides to demand unreasonable compensation for use of its intellectual property (IP), the cost of the device in which that IP is implemented can skyrocket."Samsung is being investigated by the European Commission's competition group over its assertion of 3G-related patents against Apple in cases where Apple has been suing over its own, non-standards-essential patents. The latter form of patent does not have to be licensed to other companies at any price if the holder chooses not to do so.SEPs, by contrast, are required to be licensed to anyone who wants them, at a standard price.In the US, Judge Richard Posner — who dismissed a court fight between Apple and MMI in which the latter had been asserting SEPs relating to the way mobile phones link up to base stations — argued in his judgement that SEPs have minimal inherent value, and that they should be priced according to those inherent merits."The proper method of computing a FRAND royalty starts with what the cost to the licensee would have been of obtaining, just before the patent invention was declared essential to compliance with the industry standard, a license for the function performed by the patent," Posner wrote, adding that "once a patent because essential to a standard, the patentee's bargaining power surges because a prospective licensee has no alternative to licensing the patent; he is at the patentee's mercy."But the New York Timesreported on Wednesdaythat the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC), which is already considering whether Google's search and search advertising businesses breach antitrust rules, has widened that to investigate MMI's use on SEPs in court cases. Microsoft has claimed that the amount demanded by MMI for use of some patents — as much 2.5% of the retail price of items such as the Xbox 360 — is disproportionate, and does not reflect the value of the patent.
Samsung plans to unveil a smaller "mini" version of its popular Galaxy S3 flagship smartphone with a 4in screen in Europe on Thursday, heightening its competition against Apple's new iPhone 5, released last month.Apple made much in its launch of the iPhone 5 of its longer screen, which measures 4in diagonally, compared to the 3.5in of previous generations.But now Samsung is aiming for the same market by adding a smaller version of the 4.8in Galaxy S3, which was unveiled in late May."There's a lot of demand for a 4in screen device in Europe. Some call it an entry-level device, but we call it 'mini.'," said JK Shin, head of mobile communications, at a press conference in Seoul, Samsung's world headquarters.There had been widespread speculation that Samsung would launch a stripped-down version of the high-end Galaxy S3 to expand its market share in the mid- to low-end smartphone business. It is already the world's largest supplier of smartphones by analyst estimates, although it has not released formally audited figures since the end of 2011.Samsung said on Wednesday the Galaxy S3 Mini would not be an entry-level model. Samsung UK declined to comment ahead of the formal launch.Samsung is beefing up its product line-up with such devices as the latest phone-tablet Galaxy Note 2, as well as ATIV smartphones that run on Microsoft's new Windows Phone 8 system to compete with Nokia's Lumia series.Samsung plans to introduce its first ATIV Windows 8 tablet next month, and ATIV S smartphone in November.• Separately, South Korean news agency Yonhap quoted Shin as saying that Samsung did not plan to use its 4G LTE patents to attack its rivals, suggesting it was not considering expanding its legal battle with Apple to 4G technologies. However at the end of SeptemberSamsung filed a note in a US court indicating it would add the iPhone 5 to a list of alleged patent-infringing products– though those patents may not include 4G.Samsung is under investigation by the European Commission and international bodies over its use of "standards-essential" patents for technologies such as 3G in court cases against Apple: such patents are required to be licensed to all comers who are prepared to pay a universal fee.A Samsung spokesman was not immediately available to confirm Shin's comments.
Earlier in 2012, Rovio Entertainment announced that its Angry Birds games had been downloaded more than 1bn times. But how many people are actively playing them? Executive vice president Andrew Stalbow has provided some new figures."In any given day, we have 20-30m people playing our games connected. And in any given month we have up to 200m people playing our games," Stalbow said during an appearance at the MIPCOM conference in Cannes.As a comparison, social games giant Zynga has 306m monthly active users across all of its games, according to itsmost recent press release.He was speaking days after the announcement of Rovio's partnership with LucasFilm forAngry Birds Star Wars, which is due to launch on 8 November as a mobile game, merchandise range and suite of board games.The deal has been in the making for about a year. "We took a step back as an organisation and thought which brand would we really like Angry Birds to partner with," said Stalbow. "Collectively, we're all massive Star Wars fans at the company."Rovio is also trying to spin off new franchises from Angry Birds, most notably with the recent release ofBad Piggies, its first game focusing purely on the pig characters from the previous games."It's a really nice way to start building a new franchise by extending something out of our core game," said Stalbow, noting that it had taken just three hours after its release for Bad Piggies to top the charts on Apple's App Store."You'll see a lot of focus from us in the next year on expanding the Bad Piggies franchise."Rovio is also preparing to launch a series of 52 Angry Birds animated shorts, with Stalbow showing a preview clip that seemingly showed the series being branded as Angry Birds Toons. The company now has 80 animators working in-house at its Helsinki headquarters.The distribution for the shorts remains unclear. "We're in discussions with various different broadcast partners," said Stalbow, although he also confirmed that Rovio is weighing up alternative distribution models, including YouTube's Original Channels initiative."It's up to us over the next few weeks as we launch our series to figure out the best way to bring the content to market through digital channels," said Stalbow."Right now, we're trying to make some very important decisions and some strategic bets on partners we can really grow with over the next five years."Stalbow hinted that plans for a longform Angry Birds movie have not been shelved, despite a lack of announcements on that score since it was first rumoured a couple of years ago."Hollywood has seen the success that Angry Birds has had, and Hollywood is hot for our brand, and hot for working with us on many different levels," he said. "For us, the shortform series is just the start of our plans in animation."Rovio has regularly been compared – most often by the company's own executives – to early Disney. However, Stalbow says other global brands are providing inspiration as Rovio mulls its future strategy."We're looking at some incredible other brands out there and learning from what they've done. If you look at how Hello Kitty has evolved, or Super Mario... It's about trying to have an impact on pop culture," he said.
Google's handset subsidiary Motorola Mobility (MMI) has abruptly withdrawn all its Android devices from sale in Germany, apparently after failing to overturn patent judgments won by Microsoft and Apple.The move might presage a full-scale retreat from Germany by MMI, which is seeking deep job cuts and whose new chief executive, Google's Dennis Woodside, wants to focus on higher-end sales in fewer countries than at present.MMI's German website on Wednesday morning showedonly one phone that is available for sale - the Motorola Gleam, which runs a proprietary operating system, and two as-yet unreleased Android phones, the Razr i and Razr HD, which would-be customers can register to buy later.The page for "tablets"shows no products.The withdrawal is not thought to include retailers, though if MMI has ceased to offer wholesale distribution then sales could dry up rapidly.A Munich court ruled in September that MMI must recall every Android smartphone and tablet from sale in Germany after Apple won a decision relating to a patent it owns. Areamobile, a German telecoms news site, has reported that an MMI spokesperson said the software for its devices was being "reworked" but offered no timetable for when they might go back on sale.In astatement to AllThingsD, an MMI spokesperson said: "As we have previously stated Motorola Mobility is focusing on fewer mobile devices. As a result we have phased out some of our lower tier devices in Europe/Germany."However the Gleam is not a high-end device, and the two new Razr modelsMicrosoft has also won three against MMI products in Germany. The two companies are locked in battles in courts in the US and Germany, in which MMI is asserting its ownership of a number of patents used in the H.264 video playback standard. Microsoft is thought to be seeking payment from MMI for alleged infringement by Android of a number of its patents - a tactic which it has used to successfully extract per-device payments from a number of other Android handset vendors, including Samsung and HTC.The move follows another surprise decision in the ongoing patent battles by MMI a week ago, when it withdraw a claim against Apple with the US's International Trade Commission (ITC), where it was in an ongoing tit-for-tat battle with the iPhone maker over patents relating to the iPhone and iPad.Neither Google nor MMI has given any explanation for either move. MMI's UK office did not respond to requests for comment from the Guardian.However an MMI spokesperson told the German site Areamobile that the operating system of older Razr phones and Xoom tablets were being "reworked at the moment" and would soon be available again there.Another MMI spokespersontold CNET: "as we have previously stated, Motorola Mobility is focusing on fewer mobile devices. As a result we have phased out some of our lower tier devices in Europe/Germany."Google has indicated that it paid $12.5bn for MMI in part to acquire its portfolio of 17,000 existing and 7,500 pending patents in the wireless and mobile fields, to fend off lawsuits against Android device makers from Apple and Microsoft.But now, says Florian Müller, a patents blogger, "the company that Google bought for $12.5bn to protect Android from patent threats cannot even protect itself." Müller, who receives payments from companies including Microsoft and Oracle - which lost a high-profile patents case with Google earlier this year - said that the withdrawal suggests that MMI has been hit by repeated injunctions brought by Microsoft. He commented: "It appears that Google as a whole is struggling to keep up with the fast-growing number of Android-related patent infringements identified by courts in the US, Europe and Asia."Apple and Microsoft have had significant successes in the courts in asserting patents against Android handset companies, including MMI, Samsung, and HTC.If MMI has withdrawn from Germany, it could cut it off from an important European market  where Android phones have proven highly popular.But Woodside has also indicated that he aims to focus the company on making fewer, higher-end handsets and concentrating MMI's sales in a smaller number of countries. The company is currently undergoing a round of restructuring, havingsaid in August that it would cut 4,000 jobswith up to $275m in severance costs - and thensaid earlier this monththat it will cost $300m, though it expects the job cuts to remain the same. It has suggested that the closures would be in Asia and India.In the note it said it would spend $90m on closures of offices outside the US: "Motorola has continued to refine its planned restructuring actions and now expects to broaden those actions to include additional geographic regions outside of the US," it commented. About $40m of those costs will apply in the third quarter of 2012, which ended in September.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChemical analysis reveals that new phones have fewer toxics &gt;&gt; iFixitHigh technology feels so clean--no coal or steam or mess, just cool aluminum, sleek plastics, and polished glass. But that clean surface hides an interior that is far messier and more toxic. In partnership with HealthyStuff.org, we bring you a chemical analysis of 36 mobile phones, including the iPhone 5.Taiwanese government asks Apple to blur map images of radar facility &gt;&gt; The Next WebAs Apple continues to overhaul and improve the quality of its much-criticised Maps application, the Taiwanese government identified that its new $1.4bn early warning radar station is clearly visible inside the app and asked its maker to obscure it.The jokes write themselves, but - isn't this what Google ran into as well? Although the story says thatGoogle Maps does not show an obscured area similar to Apple.Notes on my work at Twitter &gt;&gt; Jack DorseyThe former Twitter CEO writes, on his Tumblr:We moved all of my reports back under him in January of this year after leadership was firmly in place. This allowed me to focus on refining our brand and logo, to work more with Dick and the leadership team on our direction forward, and ultimately return the majority of my time to Square, where I'm CEO. I'm back to going to Twitter on Tuesday afternoons, something I started before taking the interim operational role.We haven't talked about this publicly because it's not what people using Twitter every day care about.UK has lowest fibre-to-home rate in Europe &gt;&gt; CIOThe UK has the lowest penetration of fibre-to-the-home (FTTH) in Europe, with only 0.05% of households connected, according to new research.The FTTH Council Europe's latest "panorama" report reveals that, despite the fact that the government has announced plans to have the "best superfast broadband network in Europe by 2015", the UK is clearly lagging and has no large-scale FTTH deployment plans.Having previously announced an ambitious FTTH coverage objective in 2011 - 2.5m homes passed by the end of 2012 - the UK incumbent BT has changed its strategy, deciding to focus on upgrading its copper network to offer fibre-to-the-cabinet (FTTC) instead... Europe as a whole is slightly behind the rest of the world in deploying FTTH, with 8.7% of homes expected to be connected by the end of 2016 compared to 10.5% globally.Eight 'music pirates' to face copyright tribunal, one to defend in person &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakNew Zealand rightsholders have come under fire for failing to fully utilize the so-called "three strikes" mechanism after they sent out less than 3,000 notices to alleged pirates in a year. However, it's now been revealed that eight individuals are now just one step away from the most serious punishments available, just six shy of the French total after they sent out a massive 1.1m warnings.Intel's Haswell Architecture analyzed: building a new PC and a new Intel &gt;&gt; AnandtechHaswell is so much more than just another new microprocessor architecture from Intel. For years Intel has enjoyed a wonderful position in the market. With its long term viability threatened, Haswell is the first step of a long term solution to the ARM problem. While Atom was the first "fast-enough" x86 micro-architecture from Intel, Haswell takes a different approach to the problem. Rather than working from the bottom up, Haswell is Intel's attempt to take its best micro-architecture and drive power as low as possible.Allow plenty of time; there's a lot to read. (Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.)In technology wars, using the patent as a sword &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comFor three decades, Mr. Phillips had focused on writing software to allow computers to understand human speech. In 2006, he had co-founded a voice recognition company, and eventually executives at Apple, Google and elsewhere proposed partnerships. Mr. Phillips's technology was even integrated into Siri itself before the digital assistant was absorbed into the iPhone.But in 2008, Mr. Phillips's company, Vlingo, had been contacted by a much larger voice recognition firm called Nuance. "I have patents that can prevent you from practicing in this market," Nuance's chief executive, Paul Ricci, told Mr. Phillips, according to executives involved in that conversation.Mr. Ricci issued an ultimatum: Mr. Phillips could sell his firm to Mr. Ricci or be sued for patent infringements. When Mr. Phillips refused to sell, Mr. Ricci's company filed the first of six lawsuits.Patents have been used as weapons in the technology business for decades; IBM used to be famous for turning up at companies and demanding money for infringements. Now the US's patent laws have made things much, much worse.Did Apple "jumpstart" the USB market? &gt;&gt; Stackexchange SkepticsInteresting background to a topic raised on Tuesday among the comments on Boot Up.On the Effectiveness of Aluminium Foil Helmets: An Empirical Study &gt;&gt; Berkeley UniversityJust bear in mind that They don't want you do read this. But don't let Them know you know. (Thanks @sputnikkers for the link.)Apple iPhone 5 eview and 4G speed test: the best and worst iPhone ever &gt;&gt; Gizmodo AustraliaShould you buy it?In a word? No. Not because it's a rubbish phone or because it deserves to be a doorstop on your back gate or anything awful like that, but because right now, getting an iPhone 5 is just a bad deal.Apple clearly hasn't done the work to make the device perfect before it left Cupertino, and it really shows in the final product. The back case is prone to nicks and blemishes out of the box, Apple Maps is horrendous to even consider living with and the battery is atrocious. It's like all the perfectionists at Apple were locked out of the test lab for a week. Where's the polish we're used to?(Thanks @patrician for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
No wait, I can explain. It's.. i was... I'm in Germany and... Sorry!
Apple's expected "iPad mini" will only come in a Wi-Fi version – but there will also be a revised version of the iPad with 4G connectivity compatible with the UK's Everything Everywhere network, and sporting the new "Lightning" connector, industry sources have told the Guardian.Rumours have been building for months that Apple would move into the lower-priced end of the tablet market by offering a smaller version of its 9.7in iPad, dubbed the "iPad mini" and with a 7.8in screen.That would compete directly with Google's Nexus 7 tablet, made by Taiwan's Asus, and Amazon's Kindle Fire tablets, both of which measure 7in diagonally.Multiple sources contacted by the Guardian have indicated that they think the announcement of the "iPad mini" is imminent, with retail sources saying that they anticipate new products in November.One company, Knomo, which designs cases for Apple products, said on Tuesday that it would have an iPad mini case available within days – even though no invitations have yet been sent out for any launch.Earlier on TuesdaySonny Dickson, an Australian writer,tweeted picturesofwhat he saidwas the "iPad mini", showing a squared-off device about half the size of a standard iPad with a Lightning connector.The new eight-pin connector, introduced with the iPhone 5, is incompatible with the 10-year-old connectors used on millions of iPods, iPhones and iPads, as well as accessories.Industry sources indicated to the Guardian that they do not expect to see 3G-capable versions of the iPad mini. That would allow Apple to produce it comparatively cheaply and to limit the top price of the product, while retaining mobile broadband connectivity for its pricier iPad line.Sources also indicated that they expect Apple to refresh the iPad line by following up the introduction of the iPhone 5, which is 4G-capable in the UK through Everything Everywhere's 1800MHz network – and from next September with Three – with revised versions using the same 1800MHz 4G chip and the new connector.Including the new connector on the iPad, iPhone and "iPad mini", as well as the new iPod Touch which began shipping on Tuesday, would give accessory makers – who represent a multibillion-pound industry worldwide – a kickstart to build Lightning-compatible devices.Some analysts have estimated that Apple could sell as many as 10m iPad minis by the end of 2012 if it is released, as some expect, on 2 November.A key factor will be pricing: Amazon's Kindle Fire and the Nexus 7 are both priced at about $200 in the US, leading analysts to suggest that Apple cannot price the base version of any "iPad mini" above $250 without damaging its chance of selling.Apple has held sway over the tablet market since the first iPad went on sale in April 2010, and still dominates the overall market. But Amazon, Samsung and most recently Google have discovered a "price umbrella" at the 7in form factor which they have begun to exploit.Internal emails revealed at the Samsung-Apple patent trial in August showed that executives there had urged the marketing of a 7in model, but without success.Industry rumours have suggested that Google intends to launch a 3G-capable version of the Nexus 7 tablet – for which no sales figures have yet been released – but so far there is no confirmation of this.
Cisco Systems has curtailed a seven-year sales partnership with ZTE Corp after an internal investigation into allegations that the Chinese telecommunications equipment maker broke US sanctions by selling Cisco networking gear to Iran.The probe followed stories by the Reuters news agency in March and April documenting how Shenzhen-based ZTE had sold computer equipment from Cisco and other US companies, which are banned from exporting to Iran, to TCI, that country's largest telecoms firm.ZTE also agreed last year to ship millions of dollars worth of additional US tech products, including Cisco switches used to route phone and data traffic, to a unit of the government-controlled consortium that controls the Iranian telecoms firm.The stories sparked internal probes by the companies involved, as well as investigations by the US Commerce Department, a congressional committee, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.ZTE's general counsel at its Texas-based subsidiary alleged that the parent company plotted a cover-up, including possibly shredding documents, after the first Reuters story broke. The FBI has an ongoing criminal investigation into the allegations.The move came hours after the US House of Representatives' intelligence committeesaid in a report released on Mondaythat ZTE and fellow Chinese telecoms equipment maker Huawei Technologies should be shut out of the US market because potential Chinese state influence on them poses a security threat. Both companies deny the allegation.David Dai Shu, a ZTE spokesman, said of Cisco's decision to cut ties: "ZTE is highly concerned with the matter and is communicating with Cisco. At the same time, ZTE is actively co-operating with the US government about the probe [into allegations over] Iran. We believe it will be properly addressed."A ZTE spokesperson in the UK confirmed that as of Monday the company can no longer offer Cisco equipment, but said "we are confident we can offer equipment that our customers need".In a recent interview, John Chambers, Cisco's chief executive, declined to discuss the results of the company's investigation into alleged ZTE sales to Iran. But he said Cisco doesn't "tolerate any direct or indirect" sales of its equipment to embargoed countries such as Iran."And when that occurs, we step up and deal with it very firmly. So I think you can assume that you will not see that happen again."The move by Cisco, one of the world's biggest suppliers of networking gear, will widen the divisions between the US and China over the role of Huawei and ZTE following the House intelligence committee report.The report has reseeded suspicions over the role of Chinese companies in the US technology market, and could effectively block any takeover or market growth by them in the US for some time.Cisco and ZTE had partnered for the past seven years in a relationship that was at times rocky, a former Cisco executive indicated to Reuters.ZTE described the initial partnership as an effort to develop business opportunities in China and the Asia Pacific region, excluding Japan.The partnership expanded about five years ago when Cisco began viewing ZTE as a means to combat Huawei, the world's second-largest maker of telecoms equipment by revenue after Sweden's Ericsson. Huawei had been beating Cisco in emerging markets by offering significantly cheaper products.Part of Cisco's strategy, the former Cisco executive said, was "we would license technology to ZTE and they would produce equipment locally, and we could therefore have a range of equipment in the marketplace that would be cost-competitive with Huawei."ZTE was "reasonably successful" in reselling Cisco products inside China, where it was well entrenched in the marketplace, the former executive said. But the plan to develop projects jointly, and offer them in markets such as Africa, floundered.The two companies couldn't get their teams to collaborate and clashed over the US market, the executive said. "ZTE wanted to bring things to market in the US with our help. We really didn't want them to do that.".By 2010, the partnership had basically ended, although ZTE continued as an authorised distributor and reseller of Cisco products, according to a person familiar with the matter.But ZTE has continued to do business in Iran, where American-made technology products have been subject to longstanding US sanctions.A parts list dated July 2011 for an equipment contract between ZTE and Telecommunication Co of Iran (TCI) included several Cisco switches. ZTE later agreed to sell five Cisco switches to a unit of the consortium that controls TCI, according to documents reviewed by Reuters.After the Reuters report in March, ZTE, China's second-largest telecoms equipment maker, said it would "curtail" its business with Iran.Ashley Kyle Yablon, ZTE's Texas-based general counsel, gave the FBI an affidavit in May in which he alleged the company had plotted to cover up the Iran sales. The affidavit became public in July.ZTE recently placed Yablon on administrative leave, according to his attorney, Tom Mills.• The byline on this article was amended on 11 October 2012. The original byline did not reflect that the article was substantially based on a Reuters story. A reference in the byline to agency copy, added by the staff journalist, was removed during the editing process.
HTC, the world's fifth biggest phone maker, has suffered a 79% crash in quarterly profits as the popularity and marketing muscle of Apple and Samsung continue to squeeze out smaller rivals.Third quarter net income plummeted to 4.9bn New Taiwan dollars (£104m) in the three months to the end of September, from NT$20bn in the same period last year, according to unaudited results published on Monday night. Revenues were down 48% to NT$70.2bn, well below analyst expectations of NT$75bn.Only a year ago the Taiwanese company was enjoying a record quarter with revenues of NT$136bn, thanks to bestselling handsets including the HTC Desire and Sensation.HTC will only comment when its audited results are published, but an email sent by the chief executive, Peter Chou, to employees in August urged staff to "kill bureaucracy". He complained: "We have people in meetings and talking all the time but without decision, strategic direction and sense of urgency."Sales of HTC's flagship One series, which debuted in February, are trailing off as Apple and Samsung spend four to six times more on marketing to ensure the iPhone 5 and the Galaxy SIII dominate the market, while strongly subsidising their older models, according to the analyst Pierre Ferragu at the broker Sanford C Bernstein."HTC is entering a vicious circle of market share loss and gross margin erosion that reflects continued loss of traction with consumers," said Ferragu in a note. "We see a market where Apple and Samsung fight hard in terms of commercial and marketing execution to defend their respective positions, with both providing aggressive launch support for their flagship phones and strong distribution support for older models. These distribution dynamics leave almost no room for HTC to remain visible in the market."HTC's share of the global smartphone market by shipments fell to 5.8% in the second quarter from 10.7% a year earlier, according to Bloomberg. The company released its first Windows Phone 8 models in September, its most high-profile pre-Christmas launch, but Microsoft's operating system has yet to establish itself as a serious third player after Google's Android and Apple's iOS.HTC's revenues, profits and handset shipments peaked in the third quarter of 2011 and began falling in the fourth quarter of 2011, when Apple and Samsung increased their efforts to control the US market."Samsung is the reason HTC is struggling," said Francisco Jeronimo at the research firm IDC. "HTC devices are good, the brand is strong and they keep on innovating, but Samsung invests significantly more at the point of sale compared with HTC."HTC has seen falling average selling prices for its phones as it has tried to break into the fast-growing Chinese market. Approximately 30% of shipments go to China but price pressures mean they account for only 20% of revenues.Carolina Milanesi, a smartphones analyst at Gartner, another research company, said HTC needed to concentrate on sales to big "enterprise" businesses where "bring your own device" (BYOD) policies were in place: "It seems to me that on the Android side, they tried to go for the low end to get [market] share, but that did not work much, and now they want to go back to their core. In Android I think they should become an enabler of BYOD – so focus on making Android a better platform to bring into the enterprise." Samsung has tried to do that but so far "not made much inroad", she suggested. "I believe that HTC would have a better chance at that, as this is where they started," Milanesi said. "They knew how to do it." HTC started out as a contract manufacturer making white-label smartphones running Microsoft's Windows Mobile software, and then created its own brand.Milanesi suggested that now its Windows Phone models would not be its salvation: "The Microsoft [Windows Phone] phones are good, but they risk being swallowed in the Microsoft PR machine. HTC needs to push the envelope on innovation. It seems to me that on that side they have not had an industry first for a while. They used to lead with connectivity and integration, but have not done so in a while. They need to be more vocal about their brand, and consistent in their message – so they talk more about the company and the differentiation on their devices, building a story on who they are as a company."
This week Aleks Krotoski meets Alex Balfour, the head of new media for the London 2012 Olympics, who gives his first interview about his role at the Games. He explains how the challenge changed radically from when he was appointed in 2006 and how the 2016 Rio Games will build on the digital and technological legacy of London.Plus, Guardian technology editor Charles Arthur joins in to discuss some of this week's big tech new stories including Google's tangle with EU data regulation and Tim Cook's first birthday as head of Apple.
It's rare that the caption describing someone's job is both banal and overarching – but in the case of the picture of Sir Tim Berners-Lee above, you have to say it's apposite. Yes, he really is the developer of the world wide web. It's his brainchild.Berners-Lee appears in thevideofor the launch ofWeb Platform Docs, which has achieved the unusual step of bringing together Apple, Google and Microsoft – normally fierce rivals – to collaborate on the development of HTML5. Other partners in the scheme include the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), where Berners-Lee works; and Facebook, Nokia, Adobe, HP, Opera Software and the Mozilla Foundation.The purpose of the scheme is set out in its blog (and in the video below):For years, web developers have had to rely on multiple sites to help them learn web programming or design, each with one piece of the puzzle. Great sites appear, covering one or two subjects, but too often fail to keep up with the rapid pace of changes to the web platform. This may have been good enough when the web was just simple HTML, basic CSS, and maybe a little JavaScript, but that was a long time ago. Today's web is more than just documents, it's applications and multimedia, and it's changing at a breakneck pace.So the purpose, it says, is:WebPlatform.org will have accurate, up-to-date, comprehensive references and tutorials for every part of client-side development and design, with quirks and bugs revealed and explained. It will have in-depth indicators of browser support and inter-operability, with links to tests for specific features. It will feature discussions and script libraries for cutting-edge features at various states of implementation or standardisation, with the opportunity to give feedback into the process before the features are locked down. It will have features to let you experiment with and share code snippets, examples and solutions. It will have an API to access the structured information for easy reuse. It will have resources for teachers to help them train their students with critical skills. It will have information you just can't get anywhere else, and it will have it all in one place.And then the note of caution:But it doesn't. Not yet. Right now, it has a wiki, docs.webplatform.org, which anyone with an account can edit, and structured templates for ensuring consistency. It has a massive import of data from Microsoft, Opera, Google, Facebook, Mozilla, Nokia, Adobe, and W3C, still in a rough form, that needs a lot of polishing. It has a chat channel and Q&amp;A forums, and a blog. And all this material will be available free, for anyone to use for any purpose.Google's developer product manager, Alex Komoroske, has apost on the Google Developers blog, aiming to bring in developers there.The real benefit of getting standardisation – or even better understanding of non-standardisation between devices, platforms and browsers – will be that it will be easier to develop for them, and with HTML5, and the new capabilities it offers, becoming an increasingly important part of our interaction with the web, this site may have arrived just in time.Certainly for anyone working principally in HTML5, this is going to be a great resource. Let us know your thoughts.
What if the experience of purchasing electronic media was redesigned around making you feel trusted and sincerely appreciated? What if you knew that the lion's share of the money you spent on electronic media went straight to the creator? What if, in short, you knew your honesty would be rewarded with a fair deal for all parties?Of all the ideas from the heady days of internet futurism, none is as fraught as "price discrimination," the practice of charging different rates to different customers for the same product. Price discrimination is a mainstay of the travel industry, where airlines and hotels try all manner of tricks to try and figure out who's willing to pay more and charge them accordingly.For example, travellers who won't endure an overnight Saturday stay are presumed to be travelling on business, charging the ticket to someone else, and therefore less price-sensitive. So itineraries with Saturday stays are often much cheaper than those without.Region-coding on DVDs is a crack at this: the cost of producing a DVD is very low, so the retail price is pretty much arbitrary. The studios thought they could offer goods at one price in rich countries, and a lower price in poor countries, and use region-codes to prevent the flow of cheap versions from the poor world to the rich world. But DVDs actually cost something to produce on a per-unit basis. What about purely digital goods?On the face of it, digital goods are perfect candidates for price discrimination. The marginal cost of distributing a digital good – an ebook, a game, a video, a song – is virtually nothing. So the art and science of selling digital goods is figuring out the optimal price, informed not by what your upfront costs are, but what you think the market will bear. With digital goods, the object isn't to make the maximum profit per customer, but to make the maximum profit overall.The 1980s and 1990s were full of stories of "perfect markets" where goods could be priced to exactly align with the amount customers are willing to spend. You could sell someone an ebook for a day, then let them upgrade to a weekly licence. You could rent a movie for a low price, rent out the pause button by the second.But with the exception of a few online video-rental services (which offer a time-bound use of a movie) no one seems to want this.People are especially resentful of their neighbours or friends abroad paying radically different prices. And in order to make this kind of limited-use model work, the entertainment industry had to deploy DRM –  software that lurked in the customers' devices, ready to swim to the fore and intone "I can't let you do that, Dave," any time a purchaser wanted to do something outside of the deal they'd been offered.Those deals are viewed as rip-offs, and rightly so. They're a way for big companies to confiscate most of the value that used to come with the price of purchase. A book comes with the right to lend it or give it away, to read it in any chair, under any lightbulb, shelve it on any bookcase, and take it with you to any country.A DRM-crippled ebook comes with arbitrary, ever-shifting limits on lending, reselling and giving away; and is locked to a single platform, effectively giving the store that sold you the book the right to control how you read it.It hasn't escaped the attention of digital customers that they don't need to spendanymoney to get digital goods.Pirate versions of digital goods are only a few clicks away, and the likelihood of being prosecuted for downloading is about on par with the likelihood of being struck by lightning.What's more, the pirate versions come withnorestrictions at all. The inadvertent lesson of price discrimination through DRM is that people who pay more get less.In 2010, a group of independent game developers launched an experiment in voluntary price discrimination. They called it theHumble Indie Bundle, and offered a collection of independently produced, DRM-free, Mac/Windows/Linux video games on a "name your price" basis.Customers were invited to pay whatever they thought the bundle was worth, and were allowed to come back later and pay more if they reconsidered. They were also given the option of diverting some (or all) of their payment to two named charities: theElectronic Frontier FoundationandChild's Play.The theory behind this pricing model is both honest and sophisticated. Honest, because it is a public display of trust and generosity, a message to customers that says: "We don't need DRM to keep you honest, and we know you'll pay us what this is worth."Sophisticated, because the canny game developers behind Humble introduced all sorts of game-like mechanics to encourage maximum spending, including:• A public leaderboard, listing the biggest spenders – some deep-pocketed customers got into a bidding war against each other to maintain pride of place.• An "over-the-average" premium that unlocked access to more games for any purchaser who'd put down a higher-than-average sum – which meant that the average was being steadily driven up.• Grouping users into teams by their operating system, and informing them continuously of the relative generosity of Windows, Mac and GNU/Linux users, encouraging platform advocates to stump up more money to prove their side's virtue.It was a tremendous success, garnering more than a million dollars in the first week alone. Humble has heaped triumph upon triumph since, and the most recent Bundle made nearly $5m (£3.1m) in its first week.It turns out that people do the right thing when given the chance; enough, anyway, to offset people who don't give a damn about doing the right thing.Since last spring, I've been volunteering with Humble to curate their first-ever ebook bundle, which launches today, and includes my latest book, Pirate Cinema, a young adult techno-thriller about kids in London who make their own remix movies and show them on hidden screens in cemeteries, squatted pubs, even old sewers (and who end up in hot water with the entertainment industry when word gets out).Almost without exception, the writers I approached for inclusion in the ebook Bundle were enthusiastic about it. However, many of these authors were disappointed to learn that their publishers wouldn't allow them to sell their books without DRM, and had to pull out of the project.But even with those setbacks, I'm delighted with the authors who've come to the Bundle: Kelly Link, Neil Gaiman (with Dave McKean, no less!), Lauren Beukes, John Scalzi, Mercedes Lackey, and a host of others (some will not be revealed before the end of the first week).The charities for this Bundle are theElectronic Frontier FoundationandThe  Science Fiction Writers of America Emergency Medical Fund(the lack of reliable public healthcare in the US means many writers risk destitution from even minor illnesses and accidents).And we're trying a new price-setting strategy: in addition to the information about how different platforms' users are spending, customers will also get insight into how their city or region ranks in a worldwide league table of relative generosity.We have no idea how this will fare. But the ebook market has been riven by fights over pricing and DRM, and with a roster of brilliant writers and exciting books, I can only hope that readers will follow the example of the gamers before them, and do the right thing.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle publishes more guidelines to help developers build 'quality tablet apps' &gt;&gt; The VergeGoogle has put together another tool for developers in the form of its tablet app quality checklist. In ten easy steps, Google lays out the most important things developers needs to do for their tablet apps to be successful, including optimizing for larger screens, taking advantage of a tablet's extra space, and adjusting fonts and widgets.Cisco cuts ties with ZTE after Iran sales &gt;&gt; FT.comCisco said it had cut ties with ZTE after an internal probe revealed that the Chinese company had sold Cisco's equipment to Iran.Sales of US technology products to Iran have been banned by the US government, but ZTE is understood to have sold Cisco internet routers to the company that controls the Telecommunication Company of Iran (TCI).Coming after the Huawei/ZTE criticisms by the House Intelligence Committe, this starts to look like a trend.Emirates passengers can now yammer on their cellphones in flight &gt;&gt; AllThingsDDubai-based Emirates said Monday that it will start letting passengers on its A380 aircraft talk using their cellphones while in flight.The service works with standard phones in conjunction with OnAir, the company that provides Wi-Fi service for Emirates' aircraft.The only major limitation is that, per Federal Aviation Administration rules, the phones can't be used over the US, so the service shuts down within 250 miles of the States."Dubai more technologically flexible than US" isn't a phrase you expect to hear often.iPhone 5 review: Marveling at the existence of the greatest phone ever made &gt;&gt; Slate MagazineFarhad Majoo:All top-of-the-line smartphones on the market today do pretty much the same things. Since they've all got similar specs--superfast LTE networking, great cameras, great displays, app stores that carry most of the apps people want--the only reason you would choose one over the other is personal taste. If you like a wider screen, you might go with the Samsung Galaxy SIII. If you like Windows' more informative start screen, you'd go with something made by Nokia. The iPhone's unique comparative advantage is build quality: If you want a phone that is a pleasure to hold, one that just looks and feels better, there's no equal on the market. No other phone is even close.A month ago Manjoo reckoned the iPhone 5 was "boring". Now he's changed his mind.Study: Americans don't know what ad tracking is, but they sure don't like it &gt;&gt; Forbes"Study Finds Broad Wariness Over Online Tracking" is the headline TheNew YorkTimes put onits storyabout the results ofa new survey by researchers at the Berkeley Center for Law and Technology. "Study Finds Broad Ignorance Over Online Tracking" would have worked just as well.A poll of 1,203 adults demonstrated three things. First, Americans don't like the idea that marketers are collecting data about their online behavior and shopping habits. Second, Americans have only the foggiest understanding of how their data is being collected and what can be done to limit that collection. Third, Americans are confused about what they actually want.Only 13% had heard of Do Not Track.Critical Adobe Flash Player update nixes 25 Flaws &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityAdobe has issued an update for its Flash Player software that fixes at least 25 separate security vulnerabilities in the widely-installed program. The company also pushed out a security patch for its Adobe AIR software.The chart below shows the newest patch version numbers released today. Updates are available for Windows, Mac, Linux and Android systems. Windows and Mac users can grab the latest updates from theFlash Player Download Center, but be on the lookout for bloatware toolbar add-ons that come pre-checked (like McAfee VirusScan).Android users outraged over Motorola's broken promise &gt;&gt; CNET NewsMotorola is not doing well by users of phones that it said could be upgraded to Ice Cream Sandwich... and then didn't.The decision to deny some phones an update came down to stretched resources, [Punit] Soni, [Motorola head of software management who joined from Google a month ago] said. Ultimately, Motorola chose to focus on speedy, consistent updates to a limited number of older phones and all of its new phones, rather than its entire product lineup, which would have led to long, unpredictable upgrade cycles and headaches for the leaner staff."We couldn't do both," Soni said. "If we went down that road (of upgrading every device), we couldn't meet our commitment to be future-facing."Motorola confirms death of Webtop, laptop accessories &gt;&gt; CNET NewsMotorola Mobility's Webtop concept, which enabled its phones to act as the brains of a laptop or television entertainment hub, has quietly been killed off, the company confirmed to CNET today.Webtop was software that allowed a Motorola smartphone, such as the Atrix 4G for AT&amp;T, to be docked into a special laptop accessory and run with some computer functionality such as the browser. When it was unveiled, many had called it the future of mobile computing.More like "some" had called it the future. And it still looks promising. But not with that software or price.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Does Purple Haze mean more to users of the iPhone 5's camera than just being a Jimi Hendrix song? According to a number of sources online, the camera on the new Apple phone differs from its predecessors in one significant way: if you take a photo with "lens flare" from an out-of-picture light source, the flare will appear purple – rather than white or yellow.DP Review, one of the most authoritative sites on the web for camera reviews,looked at the iPhone 5 camera– andon page 3 of that reviewcomes to the vexed issue: "people began reporting an issue with a mysterious 'purple haze' appearing in photos taken with a bright light source just outside of the frame," its reviewers noted. "There has been a lot of speculation to what may be causing this phenomenon."They then go on to consider – and reject – a number of possibilities:sensor blooming("No. Blooming happens when the intensity of the light reaching the sensor is so great that there is an overflow of electrons that spill over into adjacent pixels. This is not a satisfactory explanation for the iPhone 5's purple haze, since sensor blooming affects the entire imaging field").Chromatic aberration("No, definitely not. Typically visible towards the edges of the frame especially in images taken using wide-angle lenses, CA takes the appearance of a green-and-magenta or blue-and-yellow 'fringing' around peripheral scene elements"),infrared sensitivity("No, it isn't. This is one of the more outlandish suggestions"), orinternal reflections/lens flare("Almost certainly, yes").And indeed, Apple has now put up a support note entitlediPhone: Camera image effects, it says that:Most small cameras, including those in every generation of iPhone, may exhibit some form of flare at the edge of the frame when capturing an image with out-of-scene light sources. This can happen when a light source is positioned at an angle (usually just outside the field of view) so that it causes a reflection off the surfaces inside the camera module and onto the camera sensor. Moving the camera slightly to change the position at which the bright light is entering the lens, or shielding the lens with your hand, should minimise or eliminate the effect.But why is it these effects are only now showing up? As DP Review notes: "The primary way that lens manufacturers prevent lens flare is to coat the glass elements in an anti-reflective coating. The iPhone 5's lens elements are coated, but we don't know if the coatings are identical to those used in the iPhone 4S's lens. Maybe the sapphire glass has to be coated differently – we don't know. And we won't know, unless Apple releases a more in-depth statement about the technology."The support note doesn't really fit that bill, though.Jared Earle, who is a sysadmin by day, photographer by … other days, suggests that the purple element of the flare is definitely down to the anti-reflective (AR) coating: "The iPhone 5 uses a new sapphire lens, and the AR used on sapphire is different to the AR used on mineral glass," he explains. He also offers two photos taken by an iPhone 4S (which has a different lens), in one of which he's put an AR filter on as well.iPhone 4S picture with no filter.And now, the same camera but with a piece of sapphire with mild anti-reflective coating:iPhone 4S picture with sapphire filter. Note extra lens flare.But is that all? To find out a little more about the challenges of avoiding lens flare in cameraphones, I spoke to Damian Dinning, who works for Nokia as its lead program manager on imaging experience.Of course, he points out that he cannot speak about what Apple's done, though he has seen the discussions about purple haze online. "It could be caused by a number of things. Apple may know exactly which part is the cause."Lens flare is a known problem, of course: "In an SLR [single lens reflex, such as the cameras used by professionals] lens it's much easier to protect against, though it's still a challenge," he explains. "Often you'll see long lenses with lens hoods; and TV cameras have them too." Those all protect the lens against incident light from areas you're not pointing the lens at.But building cameraphone optics turns out to be a hugely complex process, which is full of tradeoffs. You want your phone to be thinner (usually); but thinner means you have less depth in which to put the multiple lenses you can use to filter out effects such as lens flare.But multiple lenses are needed: "you put in one lens, and then another lens to correct errors such as aberration or soft edges in the first, and then another lens to correct the errors in the previous one," he explains."We prioritise having a wider angle lens, and protect against lens flare in the design with the lens coating. And we also have matt black internal surfaces." The latter protecting against internal reflection from lens elements which could cause other sorts of flare.So between DP Review, Apple, Jared Earle, and Nokia, it seems pretty clear what the answer to the iPhone 5's purple haze is: the combination of the anti-reflective coating and the sapphire lens. What's also clear: ever since the iPhone 4, people will examine new iPhones minutely for anything that seems slightly different from what went before –phone reception,battery life, and of coursemaps– and analyse it to bits.
"Wherever children are, we've got to be there with them."No, not the words of an overbearing parent. The sentence above is what came from the lips of just about every broadcaster or producer who stepped onto the stage at the MIPJunior conference in Cannes this weekend.The gist: lots of children are using tablets, laptops, smartphones, iPod touches and handheld games devices, so owners of children's brands and/or shows know they need to take them to those platforms. Otherwise children will find other new characters and stories to love who are there.In a research presentation based on a survey in July 2012 of 933 British 7-16 year-olds, 1,120 parents and 202 teachers, Family Kids and Youth managing director Dr Barbie Clarke claimed that 58% of British children aged 7-16 are using a smartphone, tablet or iPod touch, and that of those, 78% download apps.It has finally dawned on the TV industry that significant brands are being built on these devices: Angry Birds, Moshi Monsters, Cut the Rope and Talking Tom Cat being four prominent examples.It's generating a heady mix of fear and excitement. Fear, because the brands above have built fervent fanbases in the tens of millions without needing a TV show to do it. And now they're all making their own animation content.Yet broadcasters, producers and big studios are also quite excited about the potential to follow suit, creating their own new characters and stories on digital platforms (apps and YouTube in particular) and then bringing them back to TV.MIPJunior highlighted both. It had Russian developer ZeptoLab talking about how its two Cut the Rope games have generated 250m downloads and have 50m active monthly players, but also Disney explaining how its first new character created for mobile phones – Swampy the alligator from the Where's My Water? game – had powered to 100m downloads in its first year.Swampy is now sploshing his way to other parts of Disney's business, including animation, merchandise, toys and even amusement parks. Cut the Rope has a TV game-show deal with Sony Pictures Television, while ZeptoLab is making a series of 50 one-minute shorts to be distributed digitally.Elsewhere, Angry Birds has passed 1bn downloads andannounced a partnership with Star Warsthat will encompass a new Angry Birds game, as well as a line of toys and merchandise; Moshi Monsters has parlayed its 60m registered users into a multimedia franchise encompassing magazines, music and its own online TV network; and Talking Tom Cat's creator Outfit7 is working with Disney on animated webisodes.This idea of building a children's brand digitally and then (perhaps) bringing it back to TV is catching on. Hence Cartoon Network's boss Stuart Snydertelling the MIPJunior audiencethat "I don't think everything has to be created as a show. Things can be developed as shorts, they can start as games, they can start as apps."Or look at CBeebies, which launched its The Lingo Show on its website, before bringing it back to TV. "We are looking for more online brand initiation. The Lingo Show started online and went to TV. It would be good to look for more high-quality commissions there," said Alison Stewart, head of CBeebies production, animation and acquisitions at the BBC."The Lingo Show was a massive success, and it was brilliant to see how that brand grew, and came to TV later. we'd love to be able to do that again with the right commission."So, broadcasters are increasingly keen to commission webisodes and apps first, but the independent developers and producers who they might work with are also realising that they can launch ideas without having to wait for a commission.For example, CBeebies' partner on The Lingo Show was Bath-based firm Complete Control. It now has a division devoted to making its own content, including a set of children's characters called the Roodie Noodies who made their debut in an iOS game."We didn't know where it fitted," said creative director Glynn Hayward. "We didn't think it was a pre-school show, so we didn't have a natural home for it until the App Store arrived."ustwo's Whale Trail has been picked up by Penguin for a storybook appLondon studio ustwo also talked about its Whale Trail game, which launched in October 2011 and is now nearing 1m downloads across iOS and Android.This brand, too, is branching out, with Penguin Books having signed a licensing deal to turn it into a storybook app, which will be released in December. "The tagline is currently 'Yellow Submarine for the digital generation'," said ustwo's creative director of own-IP content Neil McFarland."Penguin want to build stories and are looking for great places for those to come from, and they'll take them where they can find them. They saw it as a story that could grow."One important trend is the desire of independent producers and developers to retain control of their intellectual property, rather than hand it over wholesale to a broadcaster or publisher."Keeping control of IP and being in charge of our own destiny is very important," said ZeptoLab chief executive Misha Lyalin. "We have direct access to an incredible amount of consumers… I think now it would be foolish to give up on your content ownership."Those views were matched by Josh Selig of Little Airplane Productions, whose Small Potatoes pre-school TV show has evolved into a popular Facebook community for teenage girls."If you hold onto your IP, you can riff with your IP. You can play, you can experiment. This is the best time in history for experimenting with IP," said Selig.In short, this is the state of affairs. Broadcasters want to start building new children's brands online and in apps, and they are increasingly keen to commission independent developers and producers to do it.Yet those independent companies are looking at the App Store and YouTube channels, and wondering if they shouldn't do this themselves first, to build an audience and put themselves in a position to keep hold of more rights if they do a deal with a broadcaster.Fear, excitement and disruption in equal measures. No wonder the children's entertainment industry is such an interesting place right now.
You can tell a lot about a politician's priorities from who they deign to follow on Twitter. When David Cameronjoined the service on Saturday, he&nbsp;started out following just three people:Boris Johnson,Jeremy HuntandWilliam Hague. Not, one suspects, because those are his three best buddies, but perhaps because those are the people he simply couldn't be seen to have snubbed. If a person's "following" list is the new window to their soul, then the 30 people the PM has since added tell us quite a lot about him: every single one is a Tory MP.Meanwhile, fellow Twitter newcomerMaria Miller, who replaced Jeremy Hunt as secretary of state for culture, media and sport, has already been bombarded with retweets of the question,first posed by arts producer Danielle Rose, "Dear @Maria_MillerMP, why do you not follow any artists, small to medium arts organisations, festivals, or human rights organisations?"Miller, to be fair, is now following more museums, galleries and charities than her predecessor in the role;of the 103 people Hunt follows, almost all are either politicians or political journalists. There are just two spots reserved for cultural types, which go toStephen FryandKevin Spacey, who Hunt presumably felt would give him all the information on the arts he'd ever need.The undisputed king of Twitter failure, however, has got to be online popularity guruGrant Shapps. The Conservative party chairman follows, at time of writing, 23,226 people, including several hundred users tweeting exclusively in foreign languages. Too many tweets may make you appear a twat, Grant, but too much following just makes you look creepy.On the other side of the floor, Labour leaderEd Milibandfollows 1,244 people, ranging fromBarack ObamatoBoris Becker, though on close examination the list doesn't quite ring true. Is he really, for example, an avid devotee of the wisdom ofGary Barlow? Are we honestly to believe that the geekiest party leader since Neil Kinnock keeps doggedly up-to-date with the goings-on of TeamLorraine Kelly? Does any adult in their right mind need to be followingtwo separate accountsforVanessa Feltz? The political robot doth protest too much.The lesson here? Be human, but not too human. And above all, don't be Grant Shapps.
"The boldest measures are the safest." It makes sense for this maxim to be stamped in tall lettering above the entrance to Dishonored's plague-ridden capital city, Dunwall. Here is a society that runs on whale oil, a sort of fuel that only a madly courageous culture would choose to pump through the veins of its infrastructure, a juice fetched from sea monsters just as likely to sink a ship under their deadweight as drag one under alive. It's the proverb of a whaler: go big or go home. Be bold and you might just harpoon Moby Dick, whose blubber could fuel the streetlights and security systems back home for months. Be meek and you'll die cold and hungry. Yes, Dunwall is a city fuelled by bold measures.It's also the adage of the effective assassin, and Dishonored – more than any other – is a game built around the assassin. You play as Corvo, a supernatural cutthroat and one time bodyguard to the Empress, framed for her murder. In the game's opening chapter you must break from prison and begin to enact revenge against a range of high-profile targets. As you creep through whorehouses, skulk through local whisky distilleries, kidnap scientists from top-floor laboratories and attend highfalutin' society parties you soon learn that boldness is the key to survival. Patience is a virtue too, of course – peeking through keyholes to plot guards' patrols is as essential a tool of the trade as the crossbow and dagger. But timidity is an occupational hazard. Corvo is a character fuelled by bold measures.DishonoredIt's also the proverb of the successful game developer working in 2012, who understands that, in time, familiarity usually breeds contempt in the modern audience. The phrase sits at the top of Dishonored's title screen, a statement of intent from first-time developer Arkane that, to make a mark in a medium saturated with identikit sequels and stagnant genres (in a year when some of the world's best known studios have closed), audacity is possibly the safest option. Make no mistake: Dishonored is a video game fuelled by bold measures.That boldness comes through focus primarily, the mad choice to eschew current trends. This a game without the bloat of the modern blockbuster – no co-op mode to allow two friends to assassinate hand-in-hand; no lip-service multiplayer to distract the development team and divert their budget; no upgradable hub to grow or furnish; no open world to impress and weary. Rather you're given a series of handcrafted missions, each with its own optional twists and turns, each with a start, a middle and an end, the plot written by a designer, the script penned by a scriptwriter and the narrative transcribed by you.DishonoredPlayer responsibility is a key way the game pushes against the crowd, especially the ongoing fashion for tightly scripted shooting games and their Hollywood set-pieces. Rather, Dunwall's spaces are wide and awkward, a jumble of walkways and underpasses that give rise to emergent scenarios and press the responsibility for the journey's details firmly into the player's hands. Clamber up chains and teeter along pipes, or use a paranormal upgrade to possess a rat and whisk in through a drain: these streets are yours to use how you will.Likewise, the objectives may be set by the story, but the way in which they are accomplished is up to you and the interactive vocabulary you have chosen for your Corvo. You're free to charge into a scenario, guns blazing, or take a more considered approach, skulking in the shadows, taking down guards under a cloak and with dagger. Where games usually compel us to kill, limiting progress till we murder our way through a checkpoint, Dishonored actively encourages restraint. As the kill count rises so the city deteriorates, the rat population increasing with the influx of corpses. As such, it's almost always preferable to smother a target and stuff their sleeping body into a dustbin, rather than break their neck and add to the rot and plague. Bold measures.Moreover, while Dishonored can be played as a straight shooter – blasting enemies with a pistol in one hand while controlling a rat swarm with a sorcerer's sweep of another, it's best played as a game of hide and seek, with its richest gains to be found in finding a way to eliminate your targets in non-lethal ways: the pacifist assassin. Eavesdropping on conversations can open up new routes to your objective, another way in which boldness pays off, as you kneel beneath a dresser, gathering high-risk clues.DishonoredOf course, it's not enough for a game to merely grant players freedom of choice. It must also encourage the player to exercise that choice in interesting ways, and in this respect Dishonored mostly excels. The game operates on a rune-based economy – the whalebone artefacts can be spent on unlocking and upgrading various skills and abilities that broaden Corvo's interactive vocabulary in interesting ways. Some upgrades are passive – returning assassinated bodies to ash – others, such as the ability to slow time for a few seconds, or to teleport a few metres up onto a ledge, or behind a guard are actively invaluable to secrecy. Upgrade the right places and you can even possess a target and throw them from a rooftop in what looks like a tragic cobblestone suicide.And what cobblestones these are. Half-Life 2 architect Viktor Antonov and his team have serviced a meticulous fiction, marrying Edinburgh streets with 1800s American whaling community spirit and smart Gestapo uniforms for its ruling soldiers. At times the world is reminiscent of the designer's pervious work but not because they necessarily look or feel similar so much as because precious few games build their worlds with such cohesive character, history and detail as Antonov. Dunwall is a depressing place – but it is vivid and memorable in all of its beautiful desecration.DishonoredIt is also vivid and memorable in play. The strength of video games is in their capacity to allow us to express ourselves within a fiction, impossible to do in the novel or on film. In this way Dishonored betters the Uncharteds and Modern Warfares of the medium by playing to this fundamental strength. After all, a story identical to that experienced by every other player of a game is far less powerful than one that is unique to the individual, and, crucially, is more likely to be passed on to others and shared. Dishonored is a playpen for expression, perhaps not as wide or diverse as it aspires to be, but wide enough. A bold measure on the developer's part then, and a safe bet for the creative player.
OnThursday 18 Octoberat5pm(BST), Guardian Technology will host its first Google+ hangout – a video chat for ten people on Google's social networking platform.Chaired by our digital media correspondent Jemima Kiss, the hangout follows our Battle for the Internet series - looking at the challenges facing the open web and who controls the internet ahead of the International Telecommunication Union conference in Dubai this December.We're looking for participants to take part in the hangout alongside our panel of global internet experts. To take part, simply fill in the form below telling us the question you'd like to ask and areas of the debate you're interested in. One of our team will contact you about being involved in the hangout if you are successful.Please note you must be signed up on Google+ before registering your interest, you must be following+The Guardian, and you will need a webcam, headphones and microphone to take part.If you want take part but are unable to make the time for some reason, please join us forthe live hangout event on Google+._UPDATE: Please note we are no longer accepting submissions to take part. Thanks for those who registered an interest.
If you think you've already seen all the Angry Birds brand extensions you're even likely to, you're wrong. There is another.Due to be announced at the Times Square branch of Toys-r-Us later today, but now exploding all over the internet, Angry Birds Star Wars is a forthcoming themed version of the hit physics-based catapult game.The game will be based around the Angry Birds Space version of the title, with the birds replaced by Rebel Alliance stars like Luke, Han, Ben Kenobi and Leia, while the stormtrooper pigs will be marshalled by a suitably porcine version of Darth Vader. The planets, of course, will be recognisable worlds from the Star Wars universe, including Tatooine and icy Hoth. The famous John Williams score has also been re-worked for the title."They are not Angry Birds dressed up as Star Wars characters," explained Lucasfilm's president of licensing and consumer products marketing Paul Southernto USA Today. "They are characters in their own right."Rovio revealed in May that the Angry Birds series, which debuted on the iPhone in 2009 has now seen almost 650m downloads of its various incarnations. The Angry Birds Space version, released in February sold 100m downloads in just 76 days, while a new spin-off Bad Piggies, took just three hours to top the US iTunes chart when it was released in September.And the game, which is hitting iOS, Android and PC platforms on 8 November, is only part of this lucrative deal. Bringing Hasbro into the equation, Rovio is also set to reveal a range of branded toys and accessories includingan Angry Birds Star Wars version of Jengawith a collapsible Death Star anda range of plush figures, which look charmingly (cheaply?) handmade.
12.04pmBSTPlay our game!Double Droids: online and ready to play!  Photograph: Keith Stuart and Theo ChinI was meant to close the liveblog last night, but got home and slept instead. But this gives me chance to end witha link to Double Droids, our award-winning game! Have a go and see what you think.I&apos;d lust like to thank Will Luton, Jo Twist at Ukie and all the students from Derby university for making this interesting experiment possible.12.04pmBSTAward acceptanceMe and Theo collecting our award  Photograph: Develop Magazine12.04pmBSTmega grats to @keefstuart&amp; @_tcrfor winning#journodevhack@ London Games Festival! Read their 3 day ordeal here:bit.ly/OM7KU0&mdash; Aleks Krotoski (@aleksk)October 7, 2012Thanks Aleks!12.04pmBSTWe won!Theo and I won the game jam! We beat some amazing titles to grab the inaugural Dev-Journo Swap Up award. I&apos;m so thrilled. And so tired. Photo to come, but for now, here&apos;s a screenshot of the winning entry.Double Droids: the WINNING entry in the Dev-Journo job swap game jam!  Photograph: Keith Stuart and Theo Chin12.04pmBSTFirst review in – we got 85%!Andrew Smith of SpiltMilkStudios has given us 85%! Read his excellent reviewhere!Sample quote:&quot;This game is a barebones love letter to auto-runners, with the dual-control system adding a much needed fresh twist to this well-worn genre. If you&apos;ve never liked auto-runners this game won&apos;t convince you otherwise, but as an example of the form it is sharp, unforgiving and addictive.&quot;Stupidly proud, especially as Theo did all the hard work. Now let&apos;s see what the judges think...12.04pmBSTWaiting time...The developers have now handed in their reviews of our games. The judges are having a quick look over those and then the prizes for best game and best writer will be revealed. Nerve-shredding stuff.12.04pmBSTThe judging has startedMiles Jacobson, the managing director of Sports Interactive, plays our game during the judging process  Photograph: Keith StuartThe judging of the four Game Jam projects has now commenced. I&apos;m surprisingly nervous, and the other titles are all pretty strong. Louis fromsavygamer.co.ukhas managed to add an online highscore table to his game!12.04pmBSTThat's it, man, game over!The jam is finished! Our game is done - kind of. There are a few little bugs here and there, and we didn&apos;t get chance to implement a high score table (or a trendy free-to-play monetisation model), but what the heck. Now the judging commences...12.04pmBSTWoohoo – our first customer!@keefstuart@spiltmilkstudioDay one for me!&mdash; Rich Stanton (@RichStanton)October 7, 2012Thanks Rich!12.04pmBSTOne hour to go!Everyone is very quiet in these last few minutes of the game jam. Lots of final testing and polishing going on. And by the looks of those bowls, we're not eating anywhere near enough fruit.  Photograph: Keith Stuart12.04pmBSTDid I tweet this? It's amazing. @keefstuartLive-blogging on the journalist game developer swaptinyurl.com/9qm844s&mdash; Jim Griffiths (@JamesRGriffiths)October 7, 2012Thank you Jim!12.04pmBSTMark Backler from Lionhead talks game jammingI got a quick video interview with Mark Backler, game jam contestant and games designer at Lionhead Studios. Here&apos;s what he has to say about being a journalist for the last 48 hours - and on game jams in general.12.04pmBSTThe final straightWe&apos;re galloping home now. Just a few last-minute problems to iron out. Until a few minutes ago, the level difficulty wasn&apos;t resetting when you started a new game, so players didn&apos;t get the easier start section. Turns out the value for distance wasn&apos;t being put back to zero after game over. A simple thing to fix. Phew.12.04pmBSTTop game making packages – the pros and consI&apos;ve asked the games development students from Derby University to run through what they like and dislike about the three main game creation packages. Here&apos;s what they say:Unreal Development kit (UDK)This is the free version of Epic&apos;s well-known Unreal Engine 3, which is used throughout the games industry.Pros:FreeExtremely powerful and very advancedSimilar to the tools used by professional developersHas mobile supportIt&apos;s great for artists and non-coders because it has a visual scripting toolCons:Steep learning curveThe finished games are always large in terms of file sizeThe scripting language isn&apos;t great (but is being removed in future versions)UnityA complete game development package, used by both small indie studios and major developers.Pros:Comparatively straightforward to learn. Luc Shelton, one of the Derby students, learned how to use it within hours of starting the jamEasy to deploy code to different platforms including console and smartphoneBig community with lots of help available on forums and chatroomsThe asset store lets you buy plug-ins and editor extensions (and some are available for free)Cons:It doesn&apos;t have UDK&apos;s excellent materials editorYou&apos;ll need to work harder to get your game to look as professional as a UDK titleGame MakerAn all-in-one games development package, aimed at 2D projects. &quot;It&apos;s ridiculously quick to make a game with this&quot; says David Jones, who&apos;s on the computer games programming course.Pros:You start with a drag-and-drop interface, which is easy, but has a powerful programming language behind itEasy to port across platformsIt&apos;s affordable – there&apos;s a free version which has limited features. Then there&apos;s a standard edition for $45. The full &apos;Master Collection&apos; edition is $450You can stick with drag-and-drop, but you can write script too when you become more proficientCons:You&apos;re limited to what you can achieve. It&apos;s very difficult to write 3D games on it and the results won&apos;t be as good as UnityIt keeps you very separate from the underlying functionsThere are a few of other possibilities includingGameSalad(which is iOS only),Multimedia Fusion 2andConstruct 2. AlsoFlashis still a popular tool.12.04pmBSTIt's my particle and I'll cry if I want toTheo has made a particle explosion for when one of the robots dies, and is trying to apply it to all the death states. Luckily, there are only two. However, when he stops the game world from moving, the particle effect stops processing. &quot;I reckon the robot sprite deactivates too soon after the player dies,&quot; he says. He&apos;s watching the game run in the Unity editor window, which lets you visualise aspects of the game code, so you can actually see relevant events being processed on screen and amend them accordingly.12.04pmBSTWill Luton: the remixLast night, Ukie CEO Dr Jo Twist made a remix of her video, showing games consultant Will Luton playing on the Kinect. The game is Star Wars, by the way. He&apos;s doing the Rancor mission.12.04pmBSTFirst gameplay footage of Double DroidsHere&apos;s what our game looked like at about 9pm last night! Not the best video, but it gives you an idea of the gameplay.12.04pmBSTThe final five hours...Here we go – the final push. The Game Jam finishes at 3pm, and we have a working game, it&apos;s just a case of putting the final features in and cleaning everything up. Theo slept for nine hours last night. We&apos;re in the home stretch and everything should be okay.The last morning of the Game Jam. I feel worse than I look  Photograph: Keith Stuart12.04pmBSTWhat are quaternions?&quot;I don&apos;t believe there&apos;s anyone in the room that really understands quaternions,&quot; says Theo with a sigh. Quaternions are a means of representing rotations in a 3D space. He&apos;s currently using this arcane unit to make sure the objects on the bottom of the rails in our game are upside down. You can read a definition of quaternionshere.12.04pmBSTThe pressure is beginning to tellIt&apos;s 22:50 on the second night of the game jam and this is Will Luton, game design consultant, playing a Kinect game. This is actual video evidence for why people aren&apos;t buying Kinect games anymore.12.04pmBSTNot being as sympathetic as I should be"Ha ha, look, my lazy coder has fallen asleep! Ha ha! What? He didn't sleep at all last night? He coded all the way through, even when I crept off for a three-hour snooze? ... He's still alive, right? ... Theo?" Photograph: Will FreemanThis photo is from the officialJournodevswap Tumblr.12.04pmBSTThis is what the programmers do when they're not programming. Post-it art by Christopher Barnes and Jake Woodruff. Photograph: Keith Stuart12.04pmBSTMe on the JournoDev game jam...Oh man, I look rough - but please try to bear in mind that I have had less than 180 minutes sleep in the last 36 hours.12.04pmBSTWe totally forgot to tell you to follow the Rt Hon @keefstuart's excellent liveblog of#journodevhackon the Guardiangu.com/p/3bv8j/tw&mdash; develop (@developonline)October 6, 201212.04pmBSTAnother positive report from the developer-turned-journalistsYes, our game has attracted anotherenthusiastic piece, this time from Mark Backler, a game designer at Lionhead Studios no less! Mark was tasked with writing an &apos;exclusive&apos; story on our project, and he centred it on the fact that me and Theo produced the first actually functioning prototype last night. That was more down to Theo than me, I have to admit. The article is illustrated with a picture of me sucking a lollipop, for heaven&apos;s sake.Me and Theo hard at work and caught unawares  Photograph: Mark Backler12.04pmBSTThe stars of our gameJake has finished designing our droids. They&apos;re made up of bits and pieces from several photos.Shall we call them Huey and Dewey? V.I.N.C.E.N.T and B.O.B?  Photograph: Jake Woodruff and Keith Stuart12.04pmBSTBuilding the robotsWe now have Jake Woodruff, a computer games modelling student from Derby, doing some graphics for us. He usually works in 3D, but he&apos;s designing our robots as 2D sprites in Photoshop. I handed him a whole bunch of photos – things like tin cans, car parts, robot pieces – and he&apos;s putting them all together to create our handicraft droids.Jake hard at work constructing robots out of tins  Photograph: Keith Stuart12.04pmBSTParticle of faithTheo is now adding a particle system to the game so that our robots explode into flaming chunks when they hit the back wall. Once again, Unity has come up trumps. &quot;It has a particle editor that is incredibly fully featured,&quot; he explains. &quot;You can literally drag a particle system into the scene and then modify it to your heart&apos;s content&quot;. Parameters include the speed, colour, size and number of particles as well as how they behave – so they can physically interact with planes and cascade, creating sparks, or you can create an explosion that&apos;s followed by the elements seemingly floating away in the breeze. It&apos;s all achieved through a series of slider bars – even an idiot could do it. (I couldn&apos;t do it.)The particle editor in Unity  Photograph: Theo Chin and Keith Stuart12.04pmBSTAdding meat to the bonesRight now, Theo is putting the sound effects into the game as well as setting the environment up so we can add background textures. He&apos;s just spawned a plane, using the pre-fab meshes already in Unity. Then he made it so it faces the camera, and is now planning to spawn some of our texture tiles onto that plane so we have a background.As for the textures – I made those! I went out onto the streets of Soho this morning and took photos of metal grills, brick walls, manhole covers, entry code pads in doorways... anything that looked sort of gritty and industrial. I&apos;ve then tweaked the shots in a free online photo editorPixlr(which is amazing, by the way) and handed them over to Theo as lossless PNG files. We might not use them in the final game but it&apos;s something to fiddle with for now, while we&apos;re waiting for help from one of the two floating artists.12.04pmBSTOur first previewJim Griffiths, a creative producer atMediatonic, has writtena previewof our game! It&apos;s pretty complimentary:The initial experience is excellent – it’s immediate and compelling, and using one key per avatar to move it both up and down is a neat little trick that sees players crashing out early in their first tries. But the important thing is that everyone comes back for a second and third try, eager to get to grips and survive beyond the first few bars.And how is Jim finding life as a journalist? &quot;I&apos;m really enjoying it, but it&apos;s also incredibly stressful, especially writing the opinion piece. I&apos;ve done game jams before as a coder and it&apos;s a really useful thing - I feel like I want to get more involved, but I have to hold those opinions back; instead, I&apos;m releasing them through the writing! Also, knowing the team has read what I&apos;ve written is... interesting.&quot;12.04pmBSTAudio experimentationWhile Theo is resting, I&apos;m messing about with a free browser-based sound effects editor, catchily namedAS3SFXR. It comes with a range of traditional game sound types like &apos;jump&apos;, &apos;explosion&apos; and &apos;power-up&apos; and you can just tweak all the parameters and then save out as a wav. It&apos;s fun.AS3SFXR – a super easy-to-use FX editor  Photograph: Web12.04pmBSTHandmade visualsThe Clangers . . . masters of the moon? Photograph: AlamyI think we&apos;ve decided to go with a sort of Oliver Postgate handicraft look for the game. I&apos;m searching the web for photographic images like tin foil and crumpled paper that we can use for textures.12.04pmBSTWe have a game nameWe&apos;re going with Double Droids. I like it because:• It sounds like Double Dragon• It communicates the dual nature of the game• I thought of it, which means I&apos;ve done something useful12.04pmBSTDeveloper support@keefstuartGood morning! Looks like it's all going swimmingly - in line for that Develop award eh? :)&mdash; Blitz Games Studios (@_BGS_)October 6, 2012My chums at Blitz Game Studios clearly have faith in us!12.04pmBSTKidologyTheo has managed to carve out some time in his busy development schedule to stand and laugh at the other entrants.12.04pmBSTAs for Theo......Theo didn&apos;t sleep. He&apos;s been up all night, coding. In the time I was away, he has put in a menu system including a rudimentary front-end and a &apos;game over&apos; screen. He&apos;s also snuck in a power-up that moves the character forward, so players get to slowly recover their position during the action. &quot;Then I just started messing around,&quot; he shrugs. I think he&apos;s earned the right to mess around. I&apos;m going to the kitchen to make a bucket of coffee.12.04pmBSTThe morning afterOkay, I admit it, I&apos;ve had a little rest. I rolled out my sleeping bag in the office adjacent to the room that we&apos;re all working in andkind ofslept for four hours. Most of the journalists and some of the students did too – getting to the toilets last night meant tip-toeing through a maze of prostrate men. This is a glamorous assignment.12.04pmBSTWe have lift offIt&apos;s 02:54 in the morning and we have a working game! It looks very basic, but the gameplay is there. There are two characters both of whom travel along an upper and lower plane. You have two buttons, one for each character, and hitting the button causes the relevant avatar to switch between his planes. The idea is to avoid the obstacles, guiding both characters simultaneously as they move along. If a character hits an object they&apos;re dragged to the end of the screen – if you reach the edge, it&apos;s game over. We&apos;re going for a tense, Super Hexagon feel – just escalating toughness. This is cool!Our as yet untitled project. Possibly needs some graphics.  Photograph: Keith Stuart12.04pmBSTWill Luton, organiser of the journo/dev swap explains all...In case you&apos;re still not sure what we&apos;re doing here (and I don&apos;t blame you, because it&apos;s 02:19 here and I really don&apos;t understand it myself), let veteran developer and game jam organiser Will Luton talk you through it.12.04pmBSTThe journo/dev swap crewThis is the crew at#journodevswaptwitter.com/will_luton/sta…&mdash; Will Luton (@will_luton)October 5, 201212.04pmBSTSlight change of planTurns out making games in a very short space of time is all about compromise and bargaining. It&apos;s a tightrope between pushing yourself and accepting you can&apos;t do everything. So we&apos;ve changed things. Getting the jump move to work in Unity was a nightmare – there were weird irregularities in the physics engine – we don&apos;t have time to figure out what&apos;s going on. So now we&apos;re having two characters, each running along split screen worlds. The player controls both simultaneously, but neither has to jump: when they reach an obstacle, they &apos;swap&apos; to the plane below. That doesn&apos;t sound easier does it? It is, though. Apparently it is.12.04pmBSTOur game!It looks beautiful doesn't it?  Photograph: Keith StuartThis is what our game looks like at the moment. You&apos;re viewing it in the Unity editor. This is where you build each level and tweak values. It&apos;s also got all the project files, allowing you to manage assets – that&apos;s any graphical object that appears in the game. Unity treats everything as an asset: code, models, text – all of this stuff is managed in the editor. You can also debug the code here, too.12.04pmBSTDevelopers on journos: part oneWhile the games writers have been struggling with development, the professional developers at the London Games Festival job swap game jam have been having their first taste of journalism. The four developers had to hand in their first articles about the four game hack projects at 10pm.Here&apos;s the one about me!12.04pmBSTWorking hard@keefstuarthasn't come up for air, such is his dedication...to win!#journodevswap#LondonGamesFestivallockerz.com/s/250562399&mdash; LondonGamesFestival (@londongamesfest)October 5, 2012Check the photo link out in that tweet. That&apos;s me trying to download Photoshop CS6. I&apos;m scanning in textures that I&apos;ve crayoned on to post-it notes. Totally high end stuff here. Really pushing the envelope.12.04pmBSTMy toolsThese are my tools this evening. I&apos;m going to be creating the textures – effectively the wallpaper that decorates our platforms. I am going to do this using crayons and post-it notes. These are standard industry tools – all the best game artists use them. I don&apos;t expect you to understand.The tools of the trade.  Photograph: Keith Stuart12.04pmBST'More the sausage than the sizzle' here at#journodevswap@griddleoctopus@keefstuart@will_luton@doctoe&mdash; Andy Payne (@PercyBlakeney63)October 5, 2012A devastating indictment of our progress so far from Ukie chairman Andy Payne OBE. This is from the guy who heads up Mastertronic, the software label that started out in the eighties releasing games thatlookedlike they were written in 48 hours. (I love Mastertronic games, of course. Chiller! Clumsy Colin!)12.04pmBSTTo code or not to codeSo, veteran game developerSte Pickfordreckons that the journalists are cheating by not learning to code! It&apos;s not our fault, Ste – the government has taught us that students are there to be exploited. They&apos;re just lucky I&apos;m not charging them £9000 a day to do this.@percyblakeney63@keefstuartJournos using student coders sounds like cheating already. They should learn to code, the devs have to write!&mdash; Ste Pickford (@stepickford)October 5, 201212.04pmBSTUnity and adaptabilityRight, Theo is programming our game using the free Unity3D engine, which comes with a load of pre-built physics; it means he won&apos;t have to code things like the gravity that affects the distance of our character&apos;s jump. He&apos;s writing the code in C#. I am watching and nodding when he explains things. I&apos;m also wondering how helpful I&apos;m going to be. I think, at some point tonight, I&apos;ll need to start searching the web for textures we can use. For now, I&apos;m making the most of the free wine that the venue is providing.12.04pmBSTOur first prototype sketchReally testing my art skills here. Very much a valuable member of this team.  Photograph: Keith Stuart12.04pmBSTGenius stealsWe&apos;ve come up with an idea – it&apos;s essentially an endless runner type game, a platformer that never ends. Except, there are two mirrored environments that the player can SWAP between. Veteran game developer Will Luton, who is overseeing the jam, has pointed out that one of his staff has written something similar in the past. It&apos;s called Mirrornaut. But we&apos;re sort of adding to the concept. There&apos;s a video of Mirrornaut here...12.04pmBSTThe design/programming conundrumSo it turns out game creation is based around two paradigms that control the difficulty of the development task. Either a game is difficult because the design is complex, or it&apos;s difficult because the programming is complex. Things that the art team think are easy can represent incredible challenges for the coders - and vice versa.12.04pmBSTThe Game Jam theme has been announced!The theme is &apos;Swap&apos;. So basically, we have 48 hours to come up with a game that symbolises that word. Here&apos;s me with my partner for this quest, Theo Chin. He&apos;s wearing a Sonic T-shirt, so we&apos;re off to the perfect start! He&apos;s deciding whether to use Unity3D or XNA to code the game in. Think I&apos;ll leave that up to him...This is me and student programmer, Theo Chin.  Photograph: Keith Stuart12.04pmBSTTime to use our social media spam powers for others: @keefstuartis live blogging a game journo/dev swap,guardian.co.uk/global/gamesbl…&mdash; Loading Cafe/Bar(@drinkrelaxplay)October 5, 201212.04pmBSTBlitz Game Studios are watching!Make sure you keep an eye on @keefstuart's#journodevswapblogguardian.co.uk/global/gamesbl…He'll be live blogging throughout the hack!&mdash; Blitz Games Studios (@_BGS_)October 5, 201212.04pmBSTThe students are readyHere are the coders who&apos;ll be helping us journalists to make games this weekend. They&apos;re all from Derby University, mostly from the computer games programming and computer animation courses.Oh dear, they're already drinking beer. Photograph: Keith Stuart12.04pmBSTSome interest already from industry peers...Dan Maher is watching!“@keefstuart: I'm at the#journodevswap. Got live blogging set up. This is going to happen.” Keep an eye on this. Great idea.&mdash; Dan Maher (@MrPointyHead)October 5, 201212.04pmBSTDoing anything daft this weekend? I am. As part of theLondon Games Festival, I am competing in a 48-hour game jam at the headquarters of gaming trade body, UKIE. The concept is, four technology journalists will be making the games (aided by student games programmers), while professional developers will become journalists, writing up the events as they unfold. It&apos;s like Wife Swap, but with computers, writers and game developers. That&apos;s right, it&apos;s nothing like Wife Swap.
UK games chart, week ending 6 October 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (43)22 (–)Resident Evil 6(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)13 (2)Borderlands 2(18+)Xbox 360 (69)PS3 (26)PC (4)34 (–)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (91)Xbox 360 (7)PS3 (1)15 (3)F1 2012(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (48)PC (2)36 (–)Nba 2k13 (3+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (45)PC (1)PSP (0)17 (7)Rocksmith (12+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (39)28 (8)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (81)PS3 (12)PC (7)439 (5)Pro Evolution Soccer 2013(3+)PS3 (66)Xbox 360 (32)PC (2)310 (6)Sleeping Dogs(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (43)811 (12)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)1912 (10)New Super Mario Bros 2(3+)3DS (100)813 (17)Gran Turismo 5 Academy Edition (3+)PS3 (100)214 (9)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (22)Wii (22)PS3 (14)DS (13)1615 (13)Littlebigplanet PS Vita(7+)VITA (100)316 (14)Dead Island Goty Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (37)PC (1)1417 (16)Angry Birds Trilogy (3+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (29)3DS (12)218 (–)Darksiders Ii(16+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)PC (1)519 (15)Max Payne 3(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (41)PC (5)1520 (4)World of Warcraft: Mists of Pandaria(12+)PC (100)2UKIEGames Charts &copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Google's unilateral change to its privacy policy in March will come under fire from European data protection commissioners within days, sources say.The controversial changes, in which Google tied together the previously separate data collected under services including its search engine, YouTube and Google+ were announced in January andimplemented two months later. While creating a unified privacy policy across all the services, it also in effect amassed the data into a single location.That attracted widespread criticism – and now the group of 30 data protection commissioners from across the European Union are believed to have determined that Google has breached EU privacy laws.Now Google might be required to undo the changes – although Auke Haagsma, a lawyer advising the lobby groupIcomp, which is critical of Google's policies, said that would be like trying to "unscramble the egg".Data protection commissioners in a number of countries have varying powers. The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) in the UK declined to comment on the decision, but said that generally it can use its powers to force any company that breaks the law in altering its privacy policy to reverse the change. "We can issue an enforcement notice," said a spokesperson.The internet firm is already being investigated by the European commission's competition arm, which says that the way it orders its search results, uses other sites' content, and controls some elements of advertising is anti-competitive.The two sides have been locked in negotiations since July. Joaquín Almunia, the EC competition commissioner, warned Google in September that it could face court action if it was not more flexible in the negotiations.Some German data protection authorities are also considering their response to the news that Google has not destroyed all the data its Street View cars collected when they scanned Wi-Fi networks in houses and businesses adjacent to roads.The changes to Google's privacy policieshad already been described as being possibly in breach of EU lawby the justice commissioner, Viviane Reding, in March.Data protection commissioners, led by the French national agency CNIL, criticised Google at the time for making the change without offering consumers the chance to opt out by remaining with the existing policy. The only choices Google offered users were to move to the new policy, or delete their entire user profile. The CNIL and others wanted them to be offered the option of remaining with the existing segmented profile.Google said at the time that the changes would simplify the experience of using its services and that it was confident that they respected "all European data protection laws and principles". It said users would benefit because it would be able to tailor search results and advertising more specifically to users.Google declined to comment.
American companies and its government should avoid doing business with China's two leading technology firms, Huawei and ZTE, because they pose a national security threat to the US, the House of Representatives' intelligence committee will warn in a report to be published on Monday.The Republican-controlled panel also says US regulators should block mergers and acquisitions in the US by the two companies, which are among the world's leading suppliers of telecommunications gear and mobile phones.The panel's report will cause transatlantic friction over the role of the Chinese companies. In the UK, Huawei is a major supplier to the telecoms provider BT, and has supplied infrastructure being used in the new 4G superfast mobile network built by Everything Everywhere – the merged Orange/T-Mobile. Huawei provides access to its source code for GCHQ specialists who have reportedly examined it for threats and passed it as safe for use.Huawei is a private company founded by a former Chinese military engineer, and has grown rapidly to become the world's second largest supplier, behind Sweden's Ericsson, of telecommunications network gear, with operations in more than 140 countries. ZTE is the world's fourth largest mobile phone manufacturer, with 90,000 employees worldwide, and fifth-largest maker of telecoms equipment.While both companies' sales of mobile devices such as smartphones have grown in the US, espionage fears have proscribed any move into network infrastructure sales.ZTE has also enjoyed growth in its sale of mobile devices, although in recent months it has faced allegations about banned sales of US-sanctioned computer equipment to Iran. The FBI is probing reports that the company obstructed a US Commerce Department investigation into the sales.The intelligence panel says ZTE refused to provide any documents on its activities in Iran, but did provide a list of 19 individuals who serve on the Chinese communist party committee within the company. ZTE's citing of China's state secrecy laws for limiting information it could release only added to concern over Chinese government influence over its operations, the report says.Reflecting growing US governmental and commercial concern over cyber-attacks traced to China, the report also recommends that US government computer systems not include any components from the two firms because that could pose an espionage risk."China has the means, opportunity, and motive to use telecommunications companies for malicious purposes," the report says. It also raises the diplomatic temperature by warning that "Huawei and ZTE have failed to assuage the committee's significant security concerns presented by their continued expansion into the US … In fact, given their obstructionist behaviour, the committee believes addressing these concerns have become an imperative for the country."But Huawei's US vice-president for external affairs, William Plummer, hit back: "Baseless suggestions otherwise or purporting that Huawei is somehow uniquely vulnerable to cyber mischief ignore technical and commercial realities, recklessly threaten American jobs and innovation, do nothing to protect national security, and should be exposed as dangerous political distractions from legitimate public-private initiatives to address what are global and industry-wide cyber challenges," he said. Huawei is a "globally trusted and respected company," he said, insisting that it had cooperated with investigators.ZTE said it "profoundly disagrees" with the committee's claims: "ZTE should not be a focus of this investigation to the exclusion of the much larger western vendors," it commented in an open letter.The recommendations are the result of a year-long probe, including a congressional hearing last month in which senior Chinese executives of both companies testified, and denied posing a security threat. The most recent hearing, in September, was titled"Open hearing on national security threats posted by Huawei and ZTE".The bipartisan report is likely to become fodder for a presidential campaign in which the candidates have been competing over their readiness to clamp down on Chinese trade violations. The Republican candidate Mitt Romney, in particular, has made it a key point to get tougher on China by designating it a currency manipulator and fighting abuses such as intellectual property theft.The committee made the draft available to reporters and wire services in advance of public release on Monday, but only under the condition that they not publish stories until the broadcast Sunday of a CBS 60 Minutes report on Huawei. In the CBS report, the committee's chairman, Republican Rep Mike Rogers, urged American companies not to do business with Huawei."Find another vendor [than Huawei] if you care about your intellectual property; if you care about your consumers' privacy and you care about the national security of the United States of America," Rogers said in comments broadcast on the programme.The panel's recommendations are likely hamper Huawei and ZTE's ambitions to expand their business in the US. Their products are used in scores of countries, including in the west. Both deny being influenced by China's communist government."The investigation concludes that the risks associated with Huawei's and ZTE's provision of equipment to US critical infrastructure could undermine core US national-security interests," the report says.The report says the committee received information from industry experts and current and former Huawei employees suggesting that Huawei, in particular, may be violating US laws. It says that the committee will refer the allegations to the US government for further review and possible investigation. The report mentions allegations of immigration violations, bribery and corruption, and of a "pattern and practice" of Huawei using pirated software in its US facilities.An unclassified version of the report will be released at 15:00 BST, though a classified annex with "significantly more information adding to the committee's concerns" will remain redacted.Similar concerns have ledthe Australian government to ban Huaweifrom bidding as a supplier to the A$38bn National Broadband Network (NBN). And in November 2011, the US online security company Symantec dissolved a joint venture in which it was the 49% minority partner with Huawei because it feared being shut out of US government business.However, "Huawei has not and will not jeopardize our global commercial success nor the integrity of our customers' networks for any third party, government or otherwise," senior vice-president Charles Ding testified to the committee in September, suggesting it would be corporate suicide to do so.The report says the companies failed to provide responsive answers about their relationships and support by the Chinese government, and detailed information about their operations in the US. Huawei, in particular, is criticised for failing to provide thorough information, including on its corporate structure, history, financial arrangements and management."The committee finds that the companies failed to provide evidence that would satisfy any fair and full investigation. Although this alone does not prove wrongdoing, it factors into the committee's conclusions," it says.In Washington, Huawei executive Plummer said on Friday that the company co-operated in good faith with the investigation, which he said had not been objective and amounted to a "political distraction" from cybersecurity problems facing the entire industry.All major telecommunications firms, including those in the west, develop and manufacture equipment in China and overlapping supply chains require industry-wide solutions, he added. Singling out China-based firms wouldn't help.Plummer complained that the volume of information sought by the committee was unreasonable, and it had demanded some proprietary business information that "no responsible company" would provide.In justifying its scrutiny of the Chinese companies, the committee contended that Chinese intelligence services, as well as private companies and other entities, often recruit those with direct access to corporate networks to steal trade secrets and other sensitive proprietary data.It warned that malicious hardware or software implants in Chinese-manufactured telecommunications components and systems headed for US customers could allow Beijing to shut down or degrade critical national security systems in a time of crisis or war.The committee concluded that Huawei likely has substantially benefited from the support of the Chinese government.Huawei denies being financed to undertake research and development for the Chinese military, but the committee says it has received internal Huawei documentation from former employees showing the company provides special network services to an entity alleged to be an elite cyberwarfare unit within the People's Liberation Army.The intelligence committee recommended that the government's Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or CFIUS, bar mergers and acquisitions by both Huawei and ZTE. CFIUS is a multi-agency regulatory panel chaired by treasury secretary Timothy Geithner, and screens foreign investment proposals for potential national security threats.Last year, Huawei had to unwind its purchase of a US computer company, 3Leaf Systems, after it failed to win CFIUS approval. However, Huawei employs 1,700 people in the US, and business is expanding. US revenues rose to $1.3bn in 2011, up from $765m in 2010.
It's Monday! Sorry about the lateness of the Chatterbox post, I overslept after spending the weekend competing in the London Games Festival jounro/dev swap game jam. Make sure you have a read of thelive blogthis morning!
Something odd has happened to Android.While its growth rate continues to grow (yes, a second-order change; sales are accelerating), we aren't seeing the changing of the guard from the older version to the newer one that we have over the past two years - such as the end of 2010, when "Froyo" (version 2.2) replaced "Eclair" (version 2.1) and then the end of 2011 when Froyo was replaced by "Gingerbread" (version 2.3).Going by the statistics shown onGoogle's platform versionspage (which shows the version of Android being used by devices connecting to Google Play in the two weeks up to 1 October, and is revised monthly), Gingerbread has been the most-used version of Android since November 2011. At that point it was running on 42% of devices connecting to Google Play (then the Android Market), just passing the 40.9% using Froyo.Versions of Android accessing Google Play to October 2012. Click for larger version. Source: Google, Wayback MachineAs I forecast around the end of last year, this has beenthe year of Gingerbread: it has been by far the leading version, peaking in June at 65% of devices. And now, as has happened in the past, its share is starting to fall, as the next version, "Ice Cream Sandwich" (4.0, hereafter ICS) starts to appear on newer devices, and older ones get updated via carriers.Can't catch the Gingerbread, manExcept the difference now is that Gingerbread isn't dropping off as fast as predecessors. Go back a year: at the start of October 2011, Froyo was down to a 45.9% share (from a high of 65.9% in May 2011) and Gingerbread had risen to 36%, and was adding about 6 percentage points every month. Similarly, by October 2010 Eclair was at 40.4% (down from a high of 59.7% in August) and Froyo was at 33.4%, and adding 4 to 5 percentage points per month.Now look at today: Gingerbread is falling, down from that 65% in June to 55.8% at the start of October - but ICS is at just 23.7%, and has risen by only a couple of percentage points. True, if you add in "Jelly Bean" (4.1) then you bump up the 4.x figure to 25.5% . But that's still a long way adrift.What that adds up to is that unless something changes quite dramatically in the next couple of months, Gingerbread will remain the dominant Android version for quite a while. It's only losing a couple of percentage points per month, while ICS/Jelly Bean gain about the same. With a 30% gap between the old and the new variants, it could take another year before things changed.Drawing breathAt this stage, we need to make a few points. First, looking at the numbers in this way masks the enormous growth in the total number of devices actually accessing Google Play. The latest figure given by Eric Schmidt, at the start of September, was 480m Android devices. That compares to 190m announced in Google's Q3 earnings on 13 October 2011. So in less than a year, the number of devices (almost all handsets) has more than doubled.In turn, that means -ifwe accept that the number of devices accessing Google Play is proportionate to the ratio of devices in the wild (though there's no way to know that; only Google really knows) - that:• in October 2011 there were 68.4m devices running Gingerbread• in October 2012 there were 268m devices running Gingerbread, and 122.4m running 4.x.In other words, there are more devices running 4.x now than there were running Gingerbread a year ago. So even while it might appear that 4.x (ICS and Jelly Bean) hasn't made much progress, it has - but that's obscured by the huge growth of Android.A couple of things to note from those numbers:• ICS/Jelly Bean wentfrom nowhere to 122.4m in a year• Gingerbreadgrew by 200m devices in the same period, to that 268m figure. It looks like many manufacturers are still using it because it's a known quantity.Estimated number of devices running different versions of Android to Oct 2012.So now there are nearly 360m devices out there which are running versions of Androidbefore4.x. It's unlikely that a significant number of them will be upgraded; yes, some might here and there, but it's not actually in manufacturers' interests to provide an endless upgrade path for Android phones, because if you keep using a phone, they can't sell you a new one. (Apple offers long upgrade paths because it sells services on older handsets such as music and apps, and those keep people tied into its ecosystem. Android handset makers don't have the same breadth of services; most of what comes on Android is via Google, rather than say Samsung or HTC specifically. It's noticeable that Samsung is making significant efforts to move into services through extras such asS-Voice.)What does it all mean?Gingerbread isn't going away. About 200m of those handsets are one year or less old, so they're going to continue for at least another year - possibly two or three.ICS/Jelly Bean is growing fast in absolute numbers, but even if a million a daysolelyrunning ICS/Jelly Bean are added, then it will take about 100 more days before 4.x overtakes 2.3. That's some time in January. However, it's unlikely that's going to happen - because the numbers suggest that Gingerbread devices are being added even more quickly than ICS/Jelly Bean ones.Again, though, what does that mean? If Gingerbread persists, does anyone lose out?According to Google, thebenefits of 4.x for developersinclude a "social API" which can "store standard contact data as well as new types of content for any given contact, including large profile photos, stream items, and recent activity feedback", and a "calendar API" that makes it easier to add calendar services to apps, a visual voicemail API, Android Beam (for NFC-powered data transfer), "low-level streaming multimedia" (for DRM-based media), and a whole slew more.If you're not using Android 4.x, those aren't available to you, and they're not available in any apps you might get. Of course, it doesn't matter to the handset makers, who have got paid by the carriers; doesn't matter to the carriers, which have sold a phone; doesn't much matter to Google, which has another customer. So who does it matter to?Only, perhaps, to app developers which can't offer higher-grade apps (and so can't get people to spend more on those new apps); to some of the media companies which can't take advantage of DRM-enabled streams.; and of course to users who might have heard about the benefits of ICS/Jelly Bean, but can't get them because their handset isn't being upgraded.The number of devices that get updated, relative to the total number out there, is likely to be minimal. The reason that Gingerbread isn't falling away faster is because handsets are still being shipped with it on (though there's no way of telling, it's possible that many of those are in China, where Android ran on 80% of the handsets shipped there in the second quarter).An update on the Update AllianceFor those who want an upgrade from Gingerbread to ICS or Jelly Bean, the situation is much the same as it ever was: it might happen, or it might not. The Android Update Alliance,announced at Google I/O in May 2011with carriers including AT&amp;T, T-Mobile, Vodafone, Sprint, and Verizon, and handset makers HTC, LG, Samsung, Sony Ericsson, and Motorola, was dead within months. Its promise that "any new Android phone would receive timely OS updates for at least 18 months following launch": whenPC Mag followed up in December 2011it was almost entirely ignored, and by June this yearArs Technica found no mention at all.But in many ways that's not surprising. Thefigures for US sales of Samsung phones(released in the Samsung-Apple patent trial in July/August) showed that phones had a brief life cycle: they'd appear, sell well for a few months, and vanish, to be replaced by another model.For the handset maker and carrier, the hassle of writing and checking OS updates for a phone that might not even be on sale any more (or if it is has already been overshadowed) isn't outweighed by any other benefits. It doesn't bring any extra sales (indeed, it might slow up sales of new handsets with whizzy new features, because you'd get those features on the new OS).Updating certainly brings extra support calls - and you can guarantee that the number of support calls that follow a new Android OS update will far exceed the number of support callsbeforean update asking where it is. Possibly that's part of the reason why Motorola has reneged on its promise to update a number of handsets,to the annoyance of users.If updating won't bring the handset maker or the carrier any extra money (and might even cost both), you can see why they'd be reluctant to do it. Only the pressure of seeing rivals doing so will impel them to do that - which is where Google, with its Nexus line, needs to be leading the charge. If it can push out updates, that might drive more updates. But don't hold your breath, because (as the Samsung trial figures showed) Nexus devices don't sell in huge numbers; you have to look to Samsung for that.So that's the thing about Android. It's getting so big that the inertia of its existing installed base ihas just begun to act as brake on the arrival of new OS-based features in the broader market. While Google wants to push its new products - Google Currents, Google Now - which require the new APIs, and while those might be attractive for users,  the interests of the handset makers and carriers's aren't necessarily aligned with them. And this isn't going to change any time soon.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamContext is the new battleground between Android and iOS &gt;&gt; Scobleizer"Apps that understand context" is Robert Scoble's new riff, and he seems to be onto something.Early adopters and developers are going to want to get Android devices to play around with this new contextual world. As Google's Project Glass comes out next year the difference in ecosystems between iOS and Android will become more stark. Even Dave Morin admitted that his team will use Android more as R&amp;D and as a proving ground for new, contextual features.He offers in another post the question you'd want to pose to your smartphone: "where's the best place for me to eat lunch tomorrow?" Think about what answering that question involves and you're into the arena of context.Raspberry Pi: a cautionary tale &gt;&gt; John NaughtonSo Raspberry Pi ships with a) sshd on b) root login on sshd on c) the same default password on every Pi - doh! Do not plug in your pi to a net before changing at least one of the above, or you will, like a famous professor in the [Cambridge] computer lab last week, get hacked, and deserve to be:)The spatial distribution of Americans in relationship to Starbucks &gt;&gt; Edible GeographyUsing a Voronoi diagram (the same kind of map used by physician John Snow to pinpoint the Broad Street Pump as the source of the Soho cholera epidemic in 1854), Davenport discovers that the furthest possible distance from a company-owned store (i.e. not a grocery store franchise) in the contiguous United States is a mere 170 miles.Researchers Sequence Whole Baby Genome In 50 Hours | Singularity HubUsing new technology, researchers were able to sequence and analyze whole genomes of infants in about 50 hours. While the rapid data is impressive, even more impressive was how they demonstrated the data's timely value. After sequencing the genomes of seven babies that died near birth, the doctors were able to retrospectively diagnose five of them, demonstrating that the quick turnaround between sequencing and diagnosis has the potential to save many of these fragile lives.There are 3,500 single-gene mutations, and up to a third of babies admitted to neonatal intensive care in the US have genetic diseases, the release says. (Not clear how many of those cases are *caused* by those diseases.)EXCLUSIVE: More details on LG's forthcoming Nexus &gt;&gt; MoDaCoo The device is based on the Optimus G but doesn't look the sameoUpdated Android release (currently 4.2)o Quad Core Snapdragon S4 processoro 2GB RAMo 1280x768 True-HD IPS screeno On screen soft keys (of course);o 8 Megapixel Camerao No microSD sloto 8GB and 16GB versions only (at least initially)o Non-removable batteryo Wireless charging built ino The retail name of the device is yet to be decided.Yup, you read that right... no microSD and max 16GB. Oh Google!Slated for release mid-November. The writer says it will have a 4.7in screen. We don't know if those details are correct. Commenters on the piece seem concerned about the prospect of no SD with limited storage, and not being able to replace the battery (or remove it if the system crashes).MacBook Air to occupy 39% of global slim notebook market in 2012, 28% in 2013, say Taiwan makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesApple's MacBook Air is expected to have a global market share of 39% for slim notebooks in 2012 and the market share will slip to 28% in 2013 due to increasing sales of ultrabooks, according to Taiwan-based notebook supply chain makers.If the market expands but sales remain static, market share falls. Inexorable.Video Messaging: Fail &gt;&gt; Light ReadingQuestion: What's the best way to share a video message between an Android, an iPhone and a Windows Phone?Think carefully before answering.An unordered (and likely incomplete) list of things that happened on Steve Jobs's watch &gt;&gt; David ChartierIt's a long list.Is Apple Maps really less of a data hog than Google Maps? &gt;&gt; Macworld UKTested on iOS 6 v iOS 5. International travellers, read this before travelling if you're on iOS.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
I am driving through London in summer. There is no traffic. The sun is out, the roof is down, and a bus driver who has been edging aggressively close leans out of the window and says: "Madam, I like your car!"Every part of this scenario sounds false. And yet, thanks to the Olympic summer, it was true: I had uncovered actual pleasure in cruising through the city. It might have had something to  do with the transport-chaos scare stories that havecleared the roads of congestion quicker than a vat of  Vicks. Personally, though, I put my happiness down to the 1968 Mercedes 280SL I was driving.I had taken possession of this serene soft-top from Nigel at the Classic Car Club, which houses a batcave of beauties just off the Old Street roundabout. Nigel's stable stretches from vintage Rolls-Royces to modern sports cars; members pay a joining fee and an annual subscription to take them out. It's an (expensive) haven for petrolheads, but they are welcoming to the ingenue like me, who just wants to purr around in something stylish on the odd weekend.Nigel led me past a Lotus Elan and an E Type to the more amenable touring car he had picked out for me. With its angular body and  wide grille, this was a car that looked as smug as I would feel driving it.I was given a few words on its  quirks and asked to "take it slow". Oh-so-gently, I put my foot to the pedal. I went nowhere. I inched the pedal downwards. Still nowhere.  Old cars: tsk. Nigel walked over. "You're in neutral."In a vintage car, I needed a suitably old-fashioned destination. I headed for the South Downs, and for the  Old Railway Station outside Petworth. This is a former  station converted  into a B&amp;B, with the added charm that you can sleep in 1920s luxury in one of the lovingly restored Pullman carriages that grace its sidings. As I pulled up outside, a man in his 50s leaned out of what must once have been the ticket office window. "280SL!" he called out, the oddest greeting I've been given. "Automatic or manual?" "Automatic," I replied. "Ngh," he grunted. "Shame. Very  rare to see a manual."It transpired that Gudmund Olafsson, the Icelandic proprietor of the Old Railway Station, was more of a car enthusiast than a trainspotter. He talked me through my shining silver steed's good points (reliability, comfort) and bad (tricksy roof mechanism, rubbish as a getaway vehicle). Then I set out for a short  tour around the countryside – a picnic on the Downs, some rubbernecking at the racecourse and a quick stop for a photo outside the Goodwood estate, spiritual home of classic cars. It was a showery afternoon, so I became adept at getting the roof on and off and secretly hoped this would catch people's attention. In fact, the car  got far more glances when I wasn't in it. It sat there, all pleased with itself in car parks, attracting a swarm of interest – men too polite to touch, hovering over the chassis, peering through the window.I decided I didn't mind being my car's sidekick. I was standing straighter. I was developing  a demure smile. I even caught myself sashaying. This new sophistication was, of course, temporary – even  a full membership of the Classic Car Club would only get me kitted out  like this once a month. But it could  be addictive.The Classic Car Club has branches in London and New York (classiccarclub.co.uk). Membership costs from £1,555. The Old Railway Station (01798 342346,old-station.co.ukhas doubles from £92 including breakfast
Mobile phones used to be just for calling your friends, but with a super-fast mobile network set to launch in the UK, opening web pages in a split second and watching TV in high definition will soon be a reality for smartphone-addicted Britons.It has taken years of legal wrangling, lobbying, interventions from two secretaries of state and head-scratching by regulators but, by the end of this month, Britain will have a 4G network. The country's largest operator, EE, will launch the service in 10 British cities on 30 October in a bid to grab an even bigger slice of the market than the 34% it already controls through its Orange and T-Mobile brands.Every decade or so brings a new generation of mobile phone technology: 1G brought us the brick-like analogue phones that so date films made in the 1980s; 2G saw digital phones shrink almost to the size of business cards; 3G made phones "smart" and able to use data. So what is the "fourth generation" technology, and will EE's head start give it an unassailable advantage over competitors, who will have to wait until after this year's spectrum auction?In essence, 4G is a way of squeezing larger amounts of data over radio waves. Essentially it turns your phone into a device with links to the internet as good as a desktop computer's – in theory making watching BBC iPlayer, video calling or multi-player gaming just as seamless on the move as it is at home.Standards body the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) originally defined 4G as technologies that deliver speeds of one gigabit per second to stationary users, but today's version falls well short of that.The top laboratory-tested speed on EE's 4G network is around 50 megabits per second (Mbps) – equal to superfast home broadband. In practice, the company is promising speeds of up to 12Mbps, which is not that different from the latest version of 3G."Technology-wise, 4G is an evolution," says James Barford, telecoms expert at Enders Analysis. "The latest version of 3G is quite close in performance to the current 4G. That said, EE's network will be virtually empty for at least six months, so the speeds experienced are likely to be impressive."Actual speeds depend on many factors. Data moves more slowly in the wild than in a lab because information is carried in such large packages, that if there is any interference, the signal degrades fast. Other factors include the proximity of a mast, the speed of the phone's processor (the state-of-the-art chip inside Apple's new iPhone 5 makes a big difference), and the amount of other users drawing down information from the same cell on the network.Networks vary in quality according to how many masts they have in a particular area. Owning lots of spectrum helps, too: spectrum is divided into bands, some of which are reserved for the military, or commercial broadcasters, but a growing number are reserved for mobile telecoms. The more bands of spectrum a network owns, the more room it has to carry data.Cabling is also important. Mobile web traffic is typically carried over the air only as far as the mast. After that it travels through wires, which ultimately connect to the internet: some networks rely on cables that carry only a handful of megabits per second. Three and EE have installed higher-capacity cabling, and Vodafone's recent purchase of Cable &amp; Wireless Worldwide will allow its masts to plug into one of the UK's largest fibre-optic networks.Many consumers will wait until 4G is available on multiple networks and over a wide area before taking the plunge, says Ernest Doku at price comparison site uSwitch. "The early adopters, who have to have the latest and greatest technology, will switch to EE because it has the service first, but a lot of consumers could be prepared to sit on their hands."
Warcraftplayers have been anxious about rumours of the latest expansion pack,Mists of Pandaria. Giant kung-fu pandas? Pokémon pet battles? Everyone knewWoWhad lost 1 million subscribers in the past year and there was fear that dumbing down might be the response.Two weeks of play in, the doubters have been quieted. The history of the new Pandaren race is recounted beautifully in a breathtaking new zone, where numerous cut scenes are interwoven with questing, making for an immersive experience that is too good to rush. Meanwhile, playing as a monk panda and the addictive pet battle system are largely successful and may even tempt gamers back.But will they stay? There have been suggestions among the hardcore that the new heroic dungeons are too easy, and thus concern that raiding will be as well, and that the emphasis on daily quests will become a chore. As always with large-scale online games, only time will tell, but for nowMists of Pandariais&nbsp;superb.
According to the Pew Internet surveys, which are probably the best guide we have to internet use in the US,a quarter of all American adults now have a tablet computer. Most of those tablets are AppleiPads, and, although the preponderance of iPads seems to be diminishing as Google, Samsung and Amazon get their tablet acts together, the iPad remains the dominant product in that market. To date, Apple has sold more than 80 million of them, and my guess is that by Christmas Day that figure will be nudging 100 million.Pause for thought. Before the iPad, therewasno tablet market. And, indeed, for quite a long time after it launched, it was effectively an iPad-only market. Not surprisingly, therefore, it was a product that inspired a mixture of admiration and envy in Apple's competitors: admiration of the elegance and innovation embodied in its design, and envy at Apple's profit margins and its ability to deliver such a complex product in huge volumes.Recently, however, rumblings of dissent have been heard from the design community. For example,this: "iCal looks like John Wayne's daily ledger for Indian-killing sprees, a heinous mash of leather-bound schlock and 21st-century date-keeping," writes one critic under the heading, "Ugh. God. Why Is Apple Making Everything Look Like an Ugly Wild West?" "Who ever owned a calendar that looked like this? What is this appropriating? If I upgrade to iCal Pro will it come with animated beaded tassels? I don't want my calendar to look like anything, I want graceful, minimal windows that put my schedule at the fore. I don't want a pair of homeless shelter moccasins."Or considerthis, fromWiredmagazine, claiming that Apple's iPhone app, Find My Friends, "includes astonishingly ugly, faux stitched leather that wastes screen space. On the new iCal for the Macintosh, things are odder yet: When you page forward, the sheet for the previous month rips off and floats away, an animation so artless you'd swear it was designed personally byBill Gates."Ouch! What Apple's designers are being accused of, it turns out, is the grave sin of skeuomorphism. Now there's a conversation-stopper if ever I saw one. A skeuomorph is, according to the OED, a ‚"derivative object that retains ornamental design cues to a structure that was necessary in the original". Skeuomorphs,explains the anthropologist Nicholas Gessler, "are material metaphors. They are informational attributes of artifacts which help us find a path through unfamiliar territory. They help us map the new onto an existing cognitive structure, and in so doing, give us a starting point from which we may evolve additional alternative solutions."Quite so. Perhaps this is why iPad note-taking apps offer skeuomorphs of yellow legal pads, squared paper, ring-binders, etc. Or why iCal's leather stitching was (allegedly)based on a texture of the interior decor in Steve Jobs's Gulfstream jet. I mean to say, how naff can one get? AGulfstream!The most striking thing about this burgeoning debate is that it's just the latest outbreak of a row that's as old as industrial design – the argument about form versus function. Digital artefacts can effortlessly slip the surly bounds of analogue materials: a digital calendar, for example, can encompass a thousand years, and have a separate slot for every minute of the day. A note-taking or word-processing program doesn't have to work with "pages" – it can be like the huge rolls of paper on which PG Wodehouse used to type his novels; or like the index cards on which Nabokov composed his. And so on.Skeuomorphism stems from the suspicion – or fear? – that consumers coming fresh to the infinite possibilities of digital technology might be intimidated or confused by them. Most of us have an instinctive understanding of what a calendar looks like and how it works. So, if our tablet computer mimics the analogue artefact, then we know what to do with it without having to read a manual or adjust our mindsets. Skeuomorphism works, even if it offends purists.Besides, this is a show that is perpetually moving on. Once upon a time, word-processing software had to mimic typewriters, because that's what early users of computers were familiar with. But most of Facebook's 900 million users have never seen a typewriter, so skeuomorphic representations would be pointless in their case. The interesting problem will&nbsp;come in 10 years' time when designers will be disdaining the new computer interfaces that mimic the apps-centric interfaces of 2012. The French have a phrase for this:plus ça change.
The explosion of smartphone titles such asFlick Kick FootballandNew Star Soccerhave made football games more accessible than ever, opening the genre to audiences likely to balk at the convoluted menus and realistic gameplay of Fifa. But for the full football experience, it is the latter that remains the best title on offer, and this year's edition maintains the&nbsp;pedigree.Fifa 13offers a big step forward over its predecessor, with player stats that now reflect their real-life counterparts, vastly improved dribbling, better team-mate AI, and commentary that includes touchline reports and score updates. There's also a new score-based challenge mode, Skill Games, which is almost as addictive as the aforementioned smartphone titles.But the biggest change involves ball control. Players can no longer expect near-perfect first touches, and poor passes to average players may result in loss of control. It can be frustrating, but it also adds unpredictability and excitement to the gameplay.Fifa 13's depth and realism make it a more difficult title to pick up and play than its handheld rivals, but given time even players who may initially find its complexity daunting will discover one of the finest sports titles ever made.
Resident Evil 4was seen by many as the high point for Capcom's lumbering horror franchise; the fifth instalment dipped. Now, number six lurches along, promising a return to form. Instead, it delivers a curious "best of", an assemblage of the series' most popular moments with a heavy focus on multiplayer.I found the constant push for co-op rather distracting, confusing even. Launch one of the three starter campaigns (one each for returning heroes Leon and Chris, and a third for newcomer Jake) and you're asked to choose between controlling the title characters or their partners. Then, in what for all purposes is a multiplayer lobby screen, you're nudged to invite someone to control the remaining figure. It takes a moment to realise that pressing the start button places the secondary characters under AI – not a terribly clear interface at all.But the real problem comes when you enter the game itself. Whatever pretensions of horror remain inResident Evil's spent cadaver are thoroughly eviscerated by the mere presence of a support character. You're not alone, ergo you're not afraid. Action replaces terror, most sections becoming brutal shootouts with strings of headshots.Barrelling through the three male leads' stories unlocks a fourth, that of femme fatale Ada Wong. Much closer to classicResi, Ada's solo adventure more authentically captures the isolation and fear of earlier games, with some appropriately challenging puzzles. However, the 15 hours you'll need to devote before experiencing it may prove off-putting.There are high-points – the bioterrorism plot is as delightfully twisted as any before, and putting together the full narrative chronology through each campaign elevates it to something greater than the sum of its parts. Overall though, the piecemeal approach taken byResident Evil 6makes it more of a Frankenstein's monster than a zombie opus worthy of Romero's – or even original creator Shinji Mikami's – legacy.
Codemasters' precision-engineered Formula One sim reaches its third incarnation with this year's outing and, building on the previous two, it is making a credible case to be the finest F1 series on any generation of console.Handling has always been key to the realism of this sim, and while some of the oversensitivity of the previous games has been stabilised, the cars have been modelled without exhaust-blown diffusers (now banned in F1) and therefore don't grip quite as well. So with driver aids switched off, these are trickier beasts to handle, but also more predictable, which places more emphasis, entirely realistically, on mechanical grip and tyre wear. It rewards intelligent driving and is Codemasters' best physics engine yet.There are flaws – the lack of Friday practice sessions and scaled tyre degradation in shorter races will irk the purists – but equally there's a nice tutorial for new gamers in the form of the Young Drivers' Test, a truncated Season Challenge for more concentrated thrills, and a Champions mode pitting gamers against the six current world champions, which will doubtless appeal more to anyone looking for a run-out less demanding than a full career-long drive. There's fine-tuning ahead for Codemasters (notably in the shape of the still occasionally witless AI), butF1 2012has a front-row slot nailed.
Resident Evil 6, Xbox 360 &amp; PS3After protracted whinging about Resident Evil 5, Capcom has set out to make this episode all things to all people.With a total of four discrete campaign stories – each with its own distinct feel, enemies and setting – you'll be whisked all over the globe in a relentless undead assault. The strong focus on co-op play means you're  accompanied either by a human or AI partner, which saps the creeping dread of early Evils and replaces it with a set of romps through a zombie-infested apocalypse.Capcom, £39.99Tokyo Jungle, PS3Humans have vanished, leaving animals in charge. Starting as either predator (a feral former pet pomeranian) or herbivore (sika deer) your job is to search for food, escape threats, mark your territory and breed. Known affectionately as "the dog shagging game", there's actually considerably more to it, notably stealth and a risk/reward structure that leaves survival in gigantic, jungly Tokyo almost completely open-ended, letting you approach the tricky task of longevity however you see fit. There is a lack of refinement, but that's more than made up for by its deep mechanics.Sony, PSN: approx £9.99FTL: Faster Than Light, PCYou're a starship captain charged with conveying vital data to the federation, under pursuit by some standard issue ruthless rebel scum. You make progress via staccato light speed jumps, plopping you into new scenarios where you must make decisions and fight battles using a plan view of your ship to power up subsystems, move your crew about and train weapons on the tricky enemy. Its intricacies are immediately absorbing although getting good at it takes time, which means frequently watching aliens overrun your ship and your tiny crew members asphyxiate in the icy, lonely, all-encompassing vacuum of space.Subset Games, download approx £6.40Games newsJetpack JoyrideTheBotPrizeis an annual award for creating an AI-controlled Unreal Tournament 2004 player that could be mistaken for a living person. Human players carry a judging gun that lets them rate adversaries as machine or meatbag, and this year two AI bots achieved human ratings of 52%, compared with real people who ironically averaged just 40%. …Games currently doing the rounds include,Rocksmith(Xbox, PS3 &amp; PC), which uses actual (rather than cheap plastic) guitars for its on-screen play-along, making your faltering efforts sound considerably more rock god;We Sing 80s(Wii) lets you and your drunken friends pretend to be T'Pau, Yazoo and Tears For Fears;Dragon Ball Z Kinect(Xbox) supplies another wearying demonstration of Kinect's inability to know what the hell you're doing; and bestsellingJetpack Joyride(iPhone), gets revamped for the new iPhone 5.
