Apple made its play to dominate the fast-growing tablet market on Tuesday byunveiling an "iPad mini"- a new tablet half the size of its existing iPad - to compete with Google's Nexus 7 and Amazon's Kindle Fire.But the price may prove a barrier for potential buyers considering it against its rivals: the iPad mini will start at $329 (£269 in the UK), against $159 for the cheapest Kindle Fire and $249 for the Nexus 7.Even so, Apple chief executive Tim Cook pointed to the momentum that Apple has built up in the tablet market, saying that two weeks ago the company had sold its 100 millionth iPad - "unprecedented for a new product in this category," he said. The first iPad went on sale in April 2010."Others have tried to make tablets smaller than the iPad and they have failed miserably," said Phil Schiller, Apple's senior vice-president of worldwide marketing, who introduced the iPad mini in San Jose, USA.The new iPad mini, which can be held in one hand, has a 7.9 inch (20cm) display, weighs in at 0.68 pounds (0.3kg) and is 7.2mm (0.3 inches) thick, a quarter thinner than the new fourth generation iPad which was launched at the same event.Apple has had about 70% of the entire tablet market up to now, but the launch in the summer of Google's 7in Nexus 7 tablet - estimated to have sold around a million in three months - and of the Kindle Fire, launched in the US in October 2011, has pointed to huge potential in the market.While PC sales have been stuttering and even shrinking by double-digit amounts in the US, those of tablets have rocketed since Apple introduced the iPad, followed by a number of rivals using Google's Android mobile software.Now Apple is trying to dominate the whole space as it did with the iPod in the digital music player market, where its top-end iPod was broadened to the iPod mini and nano.A research group is forecasting that sales of smaller tablets will double this year. IHS iSuppli expects about 34m smaller tablets – with screens of about 7 inches diagonally– will be sold worldwide in 2012, up from 17m last year.Jason Jenkins, editor of CNet UK, forecast "a bloodbath" in the market and said that the length of time that Phil Schiller, Apple's marketing chief, spent comparing the iPad mini to the Google Nexus 7 during his presentation - where he compared the app experience and screen size for browsing unfavourably with the new product - suggest Apple is "scared": "there is a real chance one of its rivals could take its dominant tablet market share away," Jenkins said.But Fred Huet, managing director of Greenwich Consulting, said that it showed that Apple was not content to let rivals get a larger share of the market: "Whilst mini in size, this device is set to throw one almighty punch in the direction of all competitors, who have for so long now had a torrid time competing against the 10-inch iPad. The iPad Mini is a clear warning shot to all competitors that the world's most valuable company is not willing to share any of its 70% market share in the tablet industry, at least not without a strong fight."Salman Chaudhry, mobile computing analyst at the UK-based research company Context, said sales of 7in tablets in the UK have soared from 10,000 between April and June to 220,000 from July to September - kicked off principally by the Nexus 7."Market figures point to a big opportunity in this segment," said Chaudhry. "Our figures show that there is now massive demand for this form factor. A 7in iPad should worry most of the competition in the tablet space, but most of all, we expect it to take revenues away from Amazon, as an 'iPad mini' will make the device much more of a content consumption device than its siblings."
Facebook has a billion users, the social media giant announced on Tuesday as it unveiled its latest quarterly results and modestly beat analysts' expectations.The company hit a historic 1bn visitors early this month, climbing 26% from a year ago. The number of daily active users rose 28% to 584 million. The number of mobile monthly active users rose 61% to 604 million.Facebook posted a loss of $59m in the third quarter as costs and expenses rose 64% to $885m, but its advertising business posted a 36% rise in revenues to $1.09bn, accounting for the majority of the firm's $1.26bn revenues. Fourteen percent of ad revenues, about $150m, came from mobile, an area where the company and analysts have expressed concerns about making money."Our opportunity on mobile is the most misunderstood aspect of Facebook today," said Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's co-founder. He said mobile would be "fundamentally good" for Facebook.The company's shares had closed the day at $19.50, close to half the price they sold for at Facebook's initial public offering in May. But they soared in after-hours trading, at one point rising 20%.Zuckerberg also defended the $1bn purchase of Instagram, the photo-sharing app company, made shortly before Facebook's controversial IPO. Zuckerberg said the number of Instagram users had grown to 100 million from 27 million since the purchase. He said that people spend more time on Instagram than on Twitter, according to Comscore's analysis.Zuckerberg also addressed the problems at Zynga, the online gaming firm responsible for games including Words With Friends and Draw Something. Zynga's payments to Facebook dropped 20%. "Gaming on Facebook isn't doing as well as I'd like," Zuckerberg said. Zynga's shares have collapsed over 76% since its IPO in December 2011.In his second presentation to analysts, Zuckerberg spent much of his time trying to "dispel the myth" that the firm could not make money on ads. He said Facebook was just at the beginning of monetizing mobile, the fastest growing way that people access the service. Zuckerberg said 70% of mobile users visit Facebook every day and that he expected advertising revenues to be better on mobile as the ads will be more integrated into the service.Facebook has suffered after its much-hyped IPO fell spectacularly flat. The company was briefly valued at $100bn on its first day of trading but is now valued at $41bn.After a sharp selloff that has triggered lawsuits from early investors, the company's shares have hovered at around $20 for weeks. Even news that the firm now has over a billion users worldwide has failed to cheer the stock price as analysts cooled on Facebook's ability to make money.
7.57pmBSTFinal summaryTo round up, here are the details of the iPad mini announced by Apple in San Jose today:Screen size: 7.85inResolution: 1024x768 pixels, the same as the original iPad, but on a screen that&apos;s half the sizePrice: starting at $329 in the US and a reported £269 in the UKConnectivity: 3G and 4G versions and willCompatibility: will run all the existing iPad and iPhone appsThe price isn&apos;t as low as some had thought Apple needed to go for to immediately kill the Kindle Fire or Nexus 7. They&apos;re likely breathing easier in Amazon as a result. The Nexus 7 has its fans, but it will also keep some pricing space beneath the iPad mini – which has to be good news for Google.The specs otherwise are precisely as expected - apart from the inclusion of 4G *cough*.7.57pmBSTHere&apos;s thefirst take of our news story:Applehas unveiled a mini version of itsiPadas part of its move to muscle in on the market in smaller, cheaper tablets – one dominated for now by Amazon and Google.The newiPad mini- which can be held in one hand and has a 7.9 inch display - weighs in at 0.68 pounds and is 7.2 milimetres thin, a quarter thinner than the new fourth generation iPad which was launched at the same event.Prices in the US for the iPad mini start at $329 (£206.40) for the 16GB version - a figure likely to disappoint many who had hoped it would come in at slightly less - with the cost rising to $459 (£287.97) for the 4G version .&quot;Others have tried to make tablets smaller than the iPad and they have failed miserably,&quot; said Phil Schiller, Apple&apos;s senior vice-president of worldwide marketing, who introduced the iPad mini in San Jose.7.57pmBSTMore picturesApple senior vice president of worldwide product marketing Phil Schiller announces the new iPad Mini.  Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesApple product marketing boss Phil Schiller demonstrates the iPad Mini at an Apple event in San Jose.  Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesApple senior vice president of worldwide product marketing Phil Schiller announces the new iPad Mini in San Jose.  Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images7.57pmBSTCook closes the showTim Cook says: &quot;We told you earlier this year you would see some incredible innovation from Apple this year, innovation only we could deliver. We think we delivered on that promise.&quot;He lists the achievements:- Mountain Lion OS- iOS 6- two new iPods, nano and iPod touch, redesigned- new iPhone with 4in retina display- refreshed entire line of notebooks with retina display- announced unbelievably thin new iMac- third-generation iPad with retina display, replaced today with faster fourth-generation iPad- iPad miniHe goes on to say: &quot;Yes, it has been an incredible year with all of these products and cloud services, this has been a prolific year of innovation for Apple.&quot; He delivers personal thanks to the team at Apple: &quot;They dedicate a huge parts of their lives to making the best products on earth.&quot; (This is a standard line at Apple events, but you don&apos;t hear it that often from CEOs.)&quot;It&apos;s a privilege and inspiration to work with them.&quot; And that&apos;s it – now the media scrumreallystarts as people try to get hands on the new devices.7.57pmBSTNow the question becomes: hot much of a threat is this to theKindle Fireand the Nexus 7? The iPad mini has come in at the high end of the price spectrum; it still leaves room under the &quot;pricing umbrella&quot; for those rivals.7.57pmBSTFirst picture: the iPad miniApple senior vice president of worldwide marketing Philip Schiller introduces the new iPad mini during an Apple event in San Jose.  Photograph: Robert Galbraith/Reuters7.57pmBSTiPad mini: from $329Schiller returns after a video – there&apos;s even new Smart Covers for the iPad mini – to say that pricing for the 16GB, starts at $329. (That&apos;s going to disappoint some who hoped it would come in below $300.)The 4G version starts at $459. Preorders start Friday 26 October and then start shipping Wi-Fi versions all over the place, and 4G versions soon after starting in US.7.57pmBST(So my own predictions that it wouldn&apos;t have 3G/4G turn out to be wrong – after I wrote the story to that effect, I started getting other information suggesting that carriers might be looking at it. Very dependent on sources, these things.)7.57pmBSTThe CPU is dual-core A5 chip, there&apos;s a Facetime HD frontside camera, 5MP back side camera, all the WiFi. Lightning connector. 10 hour battery life.3G/4G LTEtoo.So this means that it&apos;s gotall the elements of the iPad 2 - but squeezed into device half the size. Plus 4G. So now the big question is what the prices will be.7.57pmBSTSchiller says: &quot;This is just a shrunken-down iPad, every detail is thought of... there is nothing as amazing as this. It&apos;s incredibly thin.&quot; He gets one out from one of the display boxes. And there&apos;s the shot you&apos;ll see: Cook holding this little tablet in his hand.On to questions now: will it have retina display? And what price?It will be 7.2mm thin, as thin as a pencil, 0.68lb, 53% lighter than the fourth generation iPad, &quot;as light as a pad of paper&quot;. He goes on: &quot;We were going to say books, but books are much heavier.&quot;&quot;What screen size have we picked and why? We want an iPad capable of running that amazing software without developers having to do extra work.. We wanted it to be easy. 9.7in for the big sibling, 7.9in for the new one.&quot;And it&apos;s 1024x768 - so that all the software for the original works. And works in portrait or landscape.&quot; (Little dig there at Nexus 7? Apps there can be particular about portrait or landscape.)&quot;For all your apps.. iLife.. iMovie... it is so much fun to sit there and play.&quot;&quot;If you like creating content.. if you love playing games..&quot; (If you like pina coladas ... and getting caught in the rain.. no, that&apos;s an old song.)&quot;Others have tried and failed miserably.&quot; Now he&apos;s going head-to-head with Nexus 7.On bezels: &quot;Theirs is thicker and heavier than iPad mini even though it&apos;s a smaller display. 7.9 v 7in ... the actual area 21.9sq in for the Android, 29.6 sq in – that&apos;s a huge difference, a third larger for the iPad mini. And what&apos;s the No.1 thing people do on their iPads? Surf the web.&quot;7.57pmBSTApple's Phil Schiller announces the new iMac.  Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images7.57pmBSTiPad mini&quot;So what else can we do to help customers use i in ways they&apos;ve never thought of...&quot; The screen revolves to reveal a small iPad (no name yet) behind it. It is, as everyone has expected, the same 4:3 ratio.7.57pmBSTApple senior vice president of worldwide product marketing Phil Schiller announces the new iMac during an Apple special event in San Jose.  Photograph: Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images7.57pmBSTExisting iPad line gets refresh, new connector, 4G in UK&quot;Updated to the new connector, the Lightning connector... and some new cables for cameras, video out, HDMI.. all of this technology and performance is based on a system with a retina display.&quot;(Aha, this is the old iPad refreshed.)7.57pmBSTNew iPadSchiller announces the &quot;fourth generation iPad. It&apos;s amazing, the pace the team is at, the pedal-to-the-metal engineering attitude, this is a powerhouse.&quot;Inside the A6X chip delivering even faster performance. Doubles the performance for CPU tasks [over the A5X] and graphics. Added new generation for image stabilisation.. and 10 hours of battery life.&quot;&quot;Also updating frontside camera,expanded LTE - includes Everything Everywhere.&quot;7.57pmBSTCook says the iPad is &quot;taking the business market by storm.&quot; He says 94% of companies in Fortune 500 are &quot;testing or deploying&quot; iPads. (They seem to have been doing that a long – can aanyone point us to stats on how this figure has changed over time?)&quot;We&apos;re just getting started. Earlier this year we announced an iPad with a beautiful retina display. This has been the fastest selling iPad of all time. But we&apos;re not taking our foot off the gas.&quot; With that, Cook hands over to Schiller.7.57pmBSTiPad in educationCook is talking about the use of the iPad in education. &quot;One of the things that&apos;s so amazing to us is how quickly iPad has been embraced in education&quot; (Sounds like a lead-in for the mini... which is meant to be aimed at education..)&quot;With iPad the possibilities are endless and we saw this early on, early this year we announced iBooks Author to allow it to be easy to create rich engaging multi-touch textbooks. .. are now available for 80% of the US high school core curriculum.&quot;(Hmm, but can kids get them? Obvious line is that if you make iPads more affordable then schools will buy in preference to PCs.)7.57pmBSTiPadCook is back and says thatApple has sold its 100 millionth iPad two weeks ago.&quot;This is unprecedented for a new product in a new category.&quot;&quot;We sold more iPads in the June quarter than any PC manufacturer sold in its entire PC line. It seems like every day there&apos;s another tablet shipping but when you look at the ones being used it tells a different story. iPad accounts for 91% of web traffic.. why is iPad so phenomenally successful? People love their iPads.. the big display, the fast fluid responsiveness, the front camera for FaceTime and the rear iSight camera which takes photos and video, they love that they can connect anywhere they can go, they love iPad&apos;s all-day battery life, and all of the amazing apps that have been optimised for iPad.&quot;7.57pmBSTDo twitterfolk think there&apos;s a point in optical drives?Here&apos;s one answer..And plenty more saying &quot;no&quot;. Lots of people responding...@charlesarthurcan't even remover last time I used a DVD or CD. Years maybe.&mdash; Roberto Kusabbi (@RKTweets)October 23, 2012@charlesarthurthe day of the drive is done.&mdash; Jord Farquaad (@IveGotNoSocksOn)October 23, 2012@charlesarthurI use my drive little enough that I'd rather save the weight/size.&mdash; Rob Styles (@mmmmmrob)October 23, 20127.57pmBSTOh, you can get an optical drive &quot;for those who are stuck in the past..&quot;7.57pmBSTThe new iMac offers a combined NAND (flash memory) and the HDD (hard disc drive) in a single &quot;fusion&quot; drive. The operating system sits on the Flash and then all the apps and documents sit on the HDD. So the HDD isn&apos;t quite dead yet, though Apple is pushing NAND Flash as hard as it can.7.57pmBSTApple CEO Tim Cook speaks during  Apple's special event to introduce iPad Mini at the California Theatre in San Jose, California.  Photograph: KIMIHIRO HOSHINO/AFP/Getty Images7.57pmBSTSchiller compares the new iMac to the old one, which looks fat. &quot;Isn&apos;t it interesting how something new can make the previous version instantly look old?&quot;The 2mm air gap between display and front glass has been removed, as hasthe optical drive.(Somewhere, the people who make blue diode lasers are weeping.)He&apos;s talking about the technologies – laser welding and plasma deposition processes. It&apos;s like a third year manufacturing degree course.Features include facetime camera, dual mics, stereo speakers, 40% less volume, and 8lb less weight. There&apos;s a &quot;serious computer in this thin design,&quot; Schiller says. (Nope,no optical drive. Is this the moment when the Superdrive began heading to the big junkyard in the sky?)7.57pmBSTNew iMacSchiller describes the iMac as the all-in-one computer.A great design evolved over many years. It started in 1998 ... this really relaunched all of our products, how we make products ... epitomised something where we innovate and then relentlessly improve ... 7 generations of iMac, each one better than the last. Today the first of the new generation.The screen shows very, very thin design – pretty much just a pane of glass. Plenty of hootin&apos; and hollerin&apos; from around here.It sort of looks like an iPhone 5 made extremely large. There&apos;s a very bright screen. It looks really thin though there&apos;s the suspicion that it&apos;s using black edging to hide the reality of the computer inside - rather like those fashion jeans that hide the hips.7.57pmBSTMac miniAnd now: the Mac mini. &quot;You knew there&apos;d be something called mini in this presentation, didn&apos;t you?&quot; teases Schiller - whose dry humour is hard to beat.Mac mini is the &quot;headless Mac&quot; – you can now get at it by taking the bottom cover off. There&apos;ll be a i5.i7 processor, with up to 16GB memory, up to 1TB HDD or 256GB flash. It will ship at $599. &quot;And other configurations&quot;. Also comes in a server configuration. &quot;All starts shipping today.&quot;7.57pmBSTThere will be a &quot;powernap&quot; feature where the device can perform backups and updates while it&apos;s in &quot;sleep&quot; mode. Her&apos;s the pricing: $1699 for the 2.5GHz, 8GB RAM, 128GB NAND.The 15in model &quot;has been a bit hit&quot; but this is $500 cheaper. It &quot;starts shipping today&quot;. It&apos;s interesting how Apple gets these things lined up and makes them happen – none of the &quot;announce and wait&quot; that many other companies do.It also rather killsthis Digitimes storywhich is headlined &quot;Rumor about delays in Apple launch of Retina 13-inch MacBook Pro emerge; but are quashed by Apple&apos;s supply chain partners&quot;. Having it both ways there.7.57pmBSTThe new 13-inch Macbook Pro will be 0.75in thick, &quot;20% thinner&quot; than the current model. It weighs 3.5lb, much lighter, &quot;our lighest MacBook Pro ever&quot;. The optical drive has been removed, headed for the junkyard, it seems.The screen will be 13.3in diagonal, and 4x resolution – so it&apos;s 4.096m pixels, &quot;world&apos;s second highest-resolution notebook&quot;. 15% more pixels than others. By comparison with HD TV it&apos;s almost double the pixels.(Now - are extra pixels a selling point? Is the lack of a optical drive an anti-selling point? Macbook Air seems to have been selling fine without optical, so looking at this seems like the distinction between MacBook Air and MacBook Pro becomes minimal - except there are more pixels in the &quot;pro&quot; line.)7.57pmBSTSchiller says: &quot;It starts with Macbook.&quot; If you&apos;re waiting for the iPad mini, best hit the snooze button – Apple is going to work through the rest of the lineup first. However if you&apos;re interested in laptops and desktops, stick with us.7.57pmBSTCook now turns to the Mac, which he says has been outgrowing PC market for the past six years. &quot;The Mac is consistently named No. 1 in customer experience and reliability&quot;. &quot;No1 desktop and No. 1 notebook in the US.&quot; Not sure what&apos;s meant by &quot;no.1&quot; in that. Not best-seller, but perhaps by some customer satisfaction thing.&quot;Going to continue innovating with the Mac... got some really great stuff.&quot; Cook hands over to Phil Schiller. Who today is not wearing taupe.7.57pmBSTThe walls of the California Theater in San Jose are decorated with an Apple logo.  Photograph: Marcio Jose Sanchez/AP7.57pmBST&quot;iBooks is better integrated with iCloud... you can tap one and begin reading just where you left off.&quot; Same as Kindle.. &quot;And you can tap on your favourite quote and share on Facebook and Twitter&quot;. Intriguing.One from Korea using &quot;crisp beautiful fonts&quot; and Japanese and Chinese. This is a big aim for the Kindle market. iBooks 3, free download now. (Some distance from Steve Jobs and &quot;nobody reads books any more&quot;.)7.57pmBSTCook is now giving App Store figures. He says 35bn apps have been downloaded, $6.5bn paid out to developers ($9.3bn total once you add Apple&apos;s 30% cut back in).He&apos;s now talking about iBooks and &quot;the bookshelf&quot;. Interesting point to emphasise.7.57pmBSTTim Cookcomes on stage, wave to the crowd. &quot;Morning! Morning!&quot;He says that 200m devices have upgraded to Apple&apos;s latest operating system iOS 6, the &quot;fastest upgrade rate every for any mobile operating system - for any operating system&quot;.7.57pmBSTOK, and the scrum of journalists and TV camerapeople and guests and everyone else are inside the theatre. Everyone is taking photos like it&apos;s their last chance. The theatre is sort of faded 1930s glamour; the same place where RIM held its BlackBerry Jam event a few weeks back, though apparently much less crowded than this is (where the 250 or so people are packing the ground floor; the circle above is closed off).10 minutes or so to go.7.57pmBSTiPad mini: ahead of the start...Welcome to our liveblog on the expected launch of Apple&apos;s &quot;iPad Mini&quot; - for which the alternative suggested names are already &quot;iPad Air&quot;, &quot;iPad Play&quot; and even &quot;iPad U&quot; (Brian Hallon the latter - like the Wii U?).Theanticipated detailsare that it will be7.85in diagonally(so half the size in area of the existing iPad) – but what&apos;sunclearis thepricing, andwhether it will have 3G/4G capability. The latter would mark it out from almost all the other 7in tablets, and particularly the Google Nexus 7, which has sold extremely strongly.We&apos;re also expecting that there will be updates to the MacBook Pro laptop line – perhaps adding a 13in &quot;retina display&quot; version, like the 15in one launched in June - and updates to the iMac and perhaps even the aging Mac Pro desktop lines.If you needa little reading ahead of time, here&apos;s whatSteve Jobs said in October 2010 about 7in tablets;what we&apos;ve been hearing about starting prices (£249 in the UK?); and whether it will have 3G or even 4G capability, and whether there might be arevised version of the &quot;big&quot; iPad which will have UK-compatible 1800MHz 4G.(Then again, given how much – judging by my Twitter feed – people hateEverything Everywhere&apos;s £36-per-month-for-500MB starting pricingon 4G, that might not be a hot seller.)Oh, and note our disclaimer.Along with a number of other European and UK journalists, Charles Arthur&apos;s travel and accommodation was paid by Apple.
On this weeks edition of Tech Weekly with Aleks Krotoski and Guardian technology editor Charles Arthur, we hear from Alec Saunders, RIM's vice-president of developer relations, about the next big step for BlackBerry phones.Aleks and Charles also discuss the soon-to-be-launched iPad Mini and Jemima Kiss returns to a tech company she visited three years ago, Songkick.  Co-founder Ian Hogarth discusses the recent investment of $10m into the company and why their new initiative Detour is set to change music fans' role as consumers of live music.
Apple's expected launch on Tuesday of an "iPad mini" – which some think could also be called the iPad Play, iPad Air, or iPad U – will find an eager market seeking smaller, cheaper tablets, according to research from the British analysis company Context.Salman Chaudhry, mobile computing analyst at Context, also warns that it poses a threat to Amazon's Kindle line, because it will be positioned as a content consumption device – and so could cut into expected sales of the Kindle Fire tablets, launched in September."Market figures point to a big opportunity in this segment," says Context, which says that in the UK alone 7in tablet sales rocketed from about 10,000 in the second quarter to the end of June, to more than 220,00 in the three months to the end of September.Apple is expected the unveil the device, along with updates to its desktop and laptop computer lines, at an event in San Jose on Tuesday. Market and supply chain data suggest it will have a 7.85in screen, giving it roughly half the screen size of an iPad.Google's Nexus 7 has sold an estimate 1m units worldwide since its launch at the end of July, helped – according to Context – by selling it to retailers are prices below wholesale cost in the first month, at least in the UK. The Nexus 7, made for Google by Asus, had a starting price of £159 for a version with 8GB of storage, and £199 for a 16GB version. A 32GB version is expected to be unveiled at an Android event next Monday in New York.Amazon is also launching its 7in Kindle Fire in the UK, as well as the US, creating a wave of smaller tablets that will be attractive to cash-strapped consumers who may not want to spend the £350 or more required for larger, 10in tablets.Some analysts have suggested that Apple could sell 10m cheaper "iPad minis" in the months to Christmas.So far BlackBerry-maker RIM's Playbook and a number of Android tablets such as Samsung's Galaxy P3110 have been the principal offerings in the 7in market – but without having much impact on the market.Chaudhry said that the spike of sales in 7in tablets in August and September was mainly down to price cuts in the Playbook, and the eagerness for the Nexus 7 and Samsung P3110. "Across western Europe and prior to Google's and Samsung's launches this summer, the market share of in tablets was around 7% in June. This skyrocketed to 36% in September," he said."Our figures show that there is now massive demand for this form factor. A 7in iPad should worry most of the competition in the tablet space, but most of all, we expect it to take revenues away from Amazon, as an 'iPad mini' will make the device much more of a content consumption device than its siblings. We expect to see Apple take sales away from the Kindle family of devices and the Kindle app itself, as Apple will be marketing the tablet as an iBook, iTunes consumption device. "
So if Apple is reallylaunching a 7.85in "iPad mini", how does that square with what Steve Jobs said two years ago? You might recall that on 18 October 2010, Jobs popped up on the discussion of Apple's earnings results to put in his two billion-worth.Apple at that time had had yet another good quarter: sales of the new iPhone 4 were going well (a record, with phone sales up 94% year-on-year to 14.1m, and iPad sales too had begun gaining momentum – up from zero when the iPad went on sale in April 2010, just six months earlier, to 4.2m for the three months to September.But at the IFA exhibition, Samsung had shown off a 7in tablet – and others were starting to move into the tablet market, focussing on 7in devices partly because it made the screens cheaper.So what did Jobs say? After taking a potshot at RIM ("We've now passed RIM, and I don't seem them catching up with us in the foreseeable future") and the lack of figures for Android phone sales – estimated by analysts at 20m for the quarter, though Nokia's Symbian was still the largest at 29m ("Unfortunately, there is no solid data on how many Android phones are shipped each quarter. We hope that manufacturers will soon start reporting the number of Android handsets they ship each quarter" – a hope that still hasn't been met).Microsoft hadonly just launched Windows Phone, so there was no point in discussing that as a competitor.And now we come to tablets.Transcript courtesy of Seeking Alpha:I'd like to comment on the avalanche of tablets poised to enter the market in the coming months. First, it appears to be just a handful of credible entrants, not exactly an avalanche. Second, almost all of them use seven-inch screens as compared to iPad's near 10-inch screen. Let's start there. One naturally thinks that a seven-inch screen would offer 70% of the benefits of a 10-inch screen. Unfortunately, this is far from the truth. The screen measurements are diagonal, so that a seven-inch screen is only 45% as large as iPad's 10-inch screen. You heard me right; just 45% as large.If you take an iPad and hold it upright in portrait view and draw an imaginary horizontal line halfway down the screen, the screens on the seven-inch tablets are a bit smaller than the bottom half of the iPad display. This size isn't sufficient to create great tablet apps in our opinion.So, how would you deal with that, Mr Jobs?Well, one could increase the resolution of the display to make up for some of the difference. It is meaningless, unless your tablet also includes sandpaper, so that the user can sand down their fingers to around one quarter of the present size. Apple's done extensive user-testing on touch interfaces over many years, and we really understand this stuff. There are clear limits of how close you can physically place elements on a touch screen before users cannot reliably tap, flick or pinch them. This is one of the key reasons we think the 10-inch screen size is the minimum size required to create great tablet apps.Third, every tablet user is also a smartphone user. No tablet can compete with the mobility of a smartphone, its ease of fitting into your pocket or purse, its unobtrusiveness when used in a crowd. Given that all tablet users will already have a smartphone in their pockets, giving up precious display area to fit a tablet in our pockets is clearly the wrong tradeoff. The seven-inch tablets are tweeners, too big to compete with a smartphone and too small to compete with an iPad.Let's note that: 7in tablets as "tweeners". You've got to think that if the "iPad mini" is that sort of size, then Apple's executives have already been practising their responses to "but Steve Jobs said tablets this size were tweeners!" for the event on Tuesday.Oh, and back to Steve Jobs in October 2010:Fourth, almost all of these new tablets use Android software, but even Google is telling the tablet manufacturers not to use their current release, Froyo, for tablets, and to wait for a special tablet release next year. What does it mean when your software suppliers does not (inaudible) to use their software in your tablet? And what does it mean when you ignore them and use it anyway?Fifth, iPad now has over 35,000 apps on the App Store. This new crop of tablets will have near zero.The apps point remains true, of course, but the question now has to be: if 7in tablets (or even 7.85in ones, as Apple's expected to unveil – though don't be too certain) are "tweeners", how will apps written for the 9.7in iPad look on them?A little maths: if the smaller iPad does have a 7.85in screen, and the same 4:3 proportions as the existing iPad, then it will have a screen area of 29.6sq in, compared to the 45.2sq in of the existing iPad – so the new one would be two-thirds the area (alternatively, the old one is 50% bigger; it depends what you use as the denominator).By contrast, the Google Nexus 7 has a 7in screen; its proportions – 16:10 – mean that the actual area of the screen is 22sq in. The Amazon Kindle Fire, which also has a 7in diagonal, has even stranger proportions – 17:10 – which means its area is 21.4sq in.That means that the "iPad mini" would, if those measurements are the same, have a screen area about a third bigger than either of those two devices (or their screens would be 25% smaller; again, pick your denominator).This raises a couple of questions: will that screen size make the device seem bulky in comparison? Its measurements will be 6.3in by 4.7in, compared to the Nexus 7's 5.9in by 3.7in. So barely any longer, but noticeably wider (a whole inch).Of course, there's always the possibility that this will be a differently proportioned device. Which would trash all those calculations.Back to Mr Jobs:And sixth and last, our potential competitors are having a tough time coming close to iPad's pricing, even with their far smaller, far less expensive screens. The iPad incorporates everything we have learnt about building high value products from iPhones, iPods and Macs. We create our own A4 chip, our own software, our own battery chemistry, our own enclosure, our own everything. And this results in an incredible product at a great price. The proof of this will be in the pricing of our competitor's products which will likely offer less for more.Price, of course, is going to be the other testing ground. Amazon is pricing the Kindle Fire pretty much below cost, starting at £159, as is Google with the Nexus 7. (See what we know so far here.)Jobs's parting shot:These are among the reasons we think the current crop of seven-inch tablets are going to be DOA, dead on arrival. Their manufacturers will learn the painful lesson that their tablets are too small and increase the size next year, thereby abandoning both customers and developers who jumped on the seven-inch bandwagon with an orphan product. Sounds like lots of fun ahead.Indeed, the other 7in tablets pretty much foundered. And although Amazon and Google have proven that there is a market there, it doesn't look like the biggest – with Amazon reckoned to have sold 5m in the past year, and Google about 1m in the past quarter (based on data in its financial results).There's a market there, but it isn't that big – so far. Can Apple make any difference, with or without sandpaper?
Tuesday has arrived, and Monday is gone! Did you manage to play any games last night?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMy walletless month: happier, healthier and ready to ditch cash forever &gt;&gt; Wired.comReturning to a topic we looked at before:Wielding an iPhone 5 and a Samsung Galaxy Nexus, I loaded up on apps, got on board with Google Wallet, and left my real wallet at home. No cards, no cash. I've ordered everything from my Halloween costume to sushi to plane tickets -- throughout the Bay Area and even for a vacation in Hawaii - using purely mobile means.What I've found: Although we're a long way from where we were even a few months ago, being able to live completely walletless is still a long ways off. There are just too many entrenched forces -- primarily government agencies, mom-and-pop stores, and anyone who requires an ID -- for this change to happen quickly. However, on the mobile payments front, it's pretty darn doable (and in fact, enjoyable) -- at least if you live in a major metropolitan area.That's good, although it essentially means that vast swathes of the population don't have a hope of going cashless - even if they want to. (Also: healthier?)OWC Mercury Electra 3G MAX 960GB review: 1TB of NAND in 2.5" form factor &gt;&gt; AnandtechThe real question is, why aren't there more 1TB NAND SSDs on the market?The reason behind this limitation is simple: with twice as much NAND, you have twice as many pages to track. A 512GB SSD with 25nm NAND already has 64 million pages. That is a lot of data for the controller to sort through and you need a fast controller to address that many pages without a performance hit. 128Gb 20nm IMFT NAND will double the page size from 8KB to 16KB, which allows 1024GB of NAND to be installed while keeping the page count the same as before. The increase in page size is also why it takes a bit longer for SSD manufacturers to adopt 128Gb NAND dies. You need to tweak the firmware to comply with the new page and block sizes as well as change program and erase times. Remember that page size is the smallest amount of data you can write.Cloudwash &gt;&gt; DilbertDilbert is never not good, but this has an added twist.Why things fail: from tires to helicopter blades, everything breaks eventually &gt;&gt; Wired.comThen there are the warranty "events." When a company gets something seriously wrong, it shows up in an [Eric] Arnum [of Warranty Week] spreadsheet. Asked for a dramatic example, he thinks for a second, then says, "the Xbox 360."Long read, but fascinating.Motorola posts list of phones not receiving Jelly Bean, confirms which phones will get the update &gt;&gt; Droid LifeWhen Motorola first unveiled the new RAZR family at the beginning of September, they told us that they wouldn't be able to update all of their previously released devices to Jelly Bean (Android 4.1). Since they had too large of a portfolio and would need to leave some out of the fun, they mentioned that owners of these devices would be able to buy a new Motorola phone and then trade in their old phone for $100. They posted the list of devices, this afternoon, which we have below.The $100 is nice, but would you want to spend it on a Motorola phone? Motorola may be counting on the fact that most vouchers like this don't get taken up - and if these are, it keeps the customer. Win-win.Google Voice lost my number; how I got it back &gt;&gt; Sultan SolutionsIt took a few minutes for the initial shock to ware off, I reassured myself that it must be a simple mix-up and a quick phone call to Google Support would straighten everything out. I went searching through the Google voice support page to try to find an email address or phone number where I could get a hold of a Google voice rep. After looking around for close to half an hour I realized there wasn't any way to directly get a hold of Google. The only way to report an issue with Google voice was to use their support forum.Uh-oh.Apple invents biometric features for e-commerce &amp; security &gt;&gt; Patently AppleOn Tuesday Apple was granted a patent for atwo-step unlock screenfeature that has yet to be implemented. Today, Apple introduces us to an all-new unlock screen feature that utilizes higher integrated security features via biometrics that could also be used in e-Commerce transactions. In late September we reported on Intel's big push into building biometrics into future Wintel devices - and so it comes as no surprise that we now find that Apple has been refining next wave e-Commerce security features using highly sophisticated biometrics.Explains the acquisition of Authentec. Possible applications: e-commerce.HTC and Sharp unveil devices with next-generation screens &gt;&gt; BBC NewsHTC and Sharp have unveiled devices featuring next-generation screens.HTC's J Butterfly phone has a 5in (12.7cm) display offering an industry-leading 440 pixels per inch.This offers 25-40% higher resolution - meaning more detail - than comparable devices from Samsung, Apple, Nokia and LG.Sharp's new Aquos Pad tablet is the first to use its new Igzo technology which promises sharper images while using less power.(Thanks @pedgington for the link.)Blog Wars - Cisco and Huawei duke it out &gt;&gt; Lame JournalCisco and Huawei have been entangled in legal battles over a number of years in the past, with accusations of wholesale code theft, uh, I mean "code reuse", the duplication of IOS documentation, Huawei's replication of the IOS configuration system, and so on, with varying degrees of success.I love though that yesterday Cisco issued a blog-based slapdown to Huawei's Senior Vice President and Chief Representative in the US, Charles Ding, over claims he had made in public.More than a week old now, but still relevant given what's happened more recently with the US House intelligence committee report.What is Windows RT? Redmond, we have a problem &gt;&gt; WinsupersitePaul Thurrott:I've been writing about Windows for almost 20 years, and I feel like I've kind of seen it all. But for the past several days, I've been struggling under the weight of the most brutal email onslaught I've ever endured over these two decades. And if my email is any indication, and I believe it is, the majority of people out there have absolutely no idea what Windows RT is.This is a problem.It's a problem because, for every reasonable, probing question I get about Surface with Windows RT--the recently launched Microsoft device--I receive at least 10 questions that betray that simple truth: Most people have no idea what's going on here.(Thanks @gcday for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Yahoo beat analysts' expectations on Monday as it posted its first set of results under Marissa Mayer, the former Google executive who took over the troubled internet firm in July.Mayer said her first "nearly 100 days have been incredibly energizing" and that the company had achieved three quarters of modest growth. "Yahoo is a truly iconic company, one I've had respect for since I discovered it in 1994 as a Stanford student," she said. "While we have a lot to do, the future for Yahoo is incredibly bright."Mayer, the first female engineer to be hired by Google, is Yahoo's third full-time CEO since the company fired Carol Bartz in September 2011."Companies are all about people, it's no secret that our team has experienced numerous changes," she said.  She said she had assembled a "dream team" to turn the firm around.She said the company had made a "solid foundation" with its last three sets of results. Mayer said the company was positioning itself to compete once more with consumer internet firms like Facebook and Google. "We will become a growth company by inspiring and delighting our users," she said. There was no "giant pivot", said Mayer. Yahoo would not go into new businesses but grow by capitalising on search, news, its homepage and mobile.The company's shares rose in after-hours trading as Yahoo announced a slight increase in net revenue, which excludes fees paid to partner websites, to $1.09bn, compared with $1.07bn in the same period a year ago.A $2.8bn gain from the sale of the company's stake in China's Alibaba drove up revenues, but earnings were still up from a year ago and above estimates.Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners in New York, described the results as "solid". "The stock has been trading like a distressed asset, so the fact that it's not a sharp decline is great," he said.But Gillis said the results suggested Mayer and Yahoo were far from out of the danger zone. He said display advertising, an area where Yahoo is losing ground to Google and Facebook, was down quarter over quarter and flat year on year."She doesn't have a lot of time to turn that around," Gillis said.
The world's biggest family history website has been bought for $1.6bn (£1bn) in a private equity-backed deal that will make multimillionaires of two of its bosses.Ancestry.com's chief executive, Tim Sullivan, and its finance chief, Howard Hochhauser, were part of a buyout led by the private equity firm Permira that has taken the genealogy giant private at a 41% premium to its share price before speculation over a sale started pushing the shares up."This is a successful outcome for our public stockholders, and a great day for Ancestry.com employees and subscribers around the world," said Sullivan.The group of buyers includes Spectrum Equity, the biggest shareholder with a stake of about 30%.Permira said that it intends to invest in international expansion of the business, which was once cited as potential suitor for the failed UK social networking site Friends Reunited.The 15-year old Ancestry.com allows users to scour more than 10bn digitised records from around the world, some dating back to the 13th century. Records include Australian election rolls, US military records and transatlantic steamer passenger lists.The company has more than 2 million subscribers paying up to $34.95 a month, mostly in the US, although it has users in Canada, Australia and the UK. The website has operated in the UK since 2001 and sponsors a Who Do You Think You Are? genealogy live event.It boosted subscribers by more than 40% through its association with the US version of the TV programme Who Do You Think You Are? on NBC – but its share price dipped 12% when the show was cancelled earlier this year after three series.The company started out as Ancestry Inc in the early 1980s, when the only way to research family history was by going to far flung libraries.In 1996 it moved online and three years ago it became Ancestry.com and listed on the Nasdaq stock market.The firm now has 850 employees in 10 offices in the US, Britain, Italy and Germany, and revenues of around $475m.Earlier this year it bought Archives.com for $100m.In 2009 the companywas linked witha potential bid for ITV's Friends Reunited. The profitable element of the social networking site was its Genes Reunited sub-brand. Friends Reunited – which ITV bought for £175m – was eventually sold to Dundee-based DC Thomson, which publishes Beano and The Dandy, owns findmypast.co.uk and runs 1901censusonline.com, for just £25m.Since listing on the Nasdaq stock exchange Ancestry.com has performed relatively well. In the second quarter it beat analyst expectations with earnings per share of $0.44 and revenues of $119m."With its pioneering technology and market leading position, Ancestry.com is an exciting investment opportunity for the Permira funds," said Brian Ruder, a partner at Permira, the European private equity firm. "We are thrilled to be able to back the company as it continues to develop new and innovative content, and expand in both its core markets and into new geographies."Ancestry.com received offers from the private equity firms in August, but they did not meet the price at the time.
Age:As old as the internet chatroom.Appearance:Faceless, vile – and all over the tabloids.Tabloids?On Monday, the Sun's front page noted that "TROLLS TARGET MUM ADELE." And thena MailOnline headline, reporting  the ideas of said trolls, wondered:  "Is Adele's baby fat and handicapped?"  Which is ironic.How ironic?I'll explain in a minute. But don't you want to know about Adele first?Not really, but go on.Adele had a baby. Then  a random tweeter using the sobriquet "Vanessa Bieber" –Any relation to Justin?Highly unlikely.  Anyway, by way of comment on Adele's firstborn, "Vanessa Bieber" said: "Aw, Adele gave birth to a baby. Is it fat and handicapped lol? Just murder it already lol."So "Vanessa" is the troll in question. But where's the irony?The irony is in calling her a troll.Why?Becausetechnically speaking, a troll  isn't someone who is merely offensive.Who are they, then?They're people who  purposefully drag an online conversation  off-topic – often by being offensive, but sometimes just by being needlessly pedantic or bizarre. Bieber, tweeting to her small echo-chamber of  followers, was being rude – but she wasn't actually trolling.But the Mail?In banging on about trolls, you could argue the Mail was behaving like a sort of macro-troll.Because?Two things, really. One: by drawing  Vanessa's insults (which would previously  have been seen by only a smallish number  of people) to the attention of their vast audience, MailOnline made her insults into a much  bigger deal than they actually were. And in  doing so, they hijacked the news of Adele's  baby, and turned it into a story about something else.And two?Their above headline, which has thankfully since been changed, didn't attempt to question the rhetoric of the trolls. It simply restated their vitriol, and left it at that.Do say:"Adele's had a baby, and we wish them all the best …"Don't say:"…  and in the process, we're going to inadvertently draw attention to a load of trolls."
Children and young people are posting thousands of sexually explicit images of themselves and their peers online, which are then being stolen by porn websites, according to a leading internet safety organisation.A study by the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) reveals that 88% of self-made sexual or suggestive images and videos posted by young people, often on social networking sites, are taken from their original online location and uploaded on to other websites.Reams of sexually explicit images and videos are being uploaded by children and young people, the study found. During 47 hours, over a four-week period, a total of 12,224 images and videos were analysed and logged. The majority of these were then mined by "parasite websites" created for the sole purpose of displaying sexually explicit images and videos of young people.The original pictures and videos were uploaded by young people on to commonplace websites but then stolen by porn sites for display. Of the 12,224 images and videos monitored on 68 different websites, 10,776 were later found on parasite websites.Organisations warned children and young people of the dangers of "sexting" – sending sexually explicit texts or emails – and allowing friends to take suggestive pictures or video of them. Young people had to be aware that once an image was available digitally the image was no longer under their control, said Susie Hargreaves, CEO of the Internet Watch Foundation, set up in 1996 by the internet industry."This research gives an unsettling indication of the number of images and videos on the internet featuring young people performing sexually explicit acts or posing," she said. "It also highlights the problem of control of these images – once an image has been copied on to a parasite website, it will no longer suffice to simply remove the image from the online account."We need young people to realise that once an image or a video has gone online, they may never be able to remove it entirely."The charity gave examples of children whose lives had been devastated because sexually explicit images and videos of them were available online. One young woman explained that she had taken a sexually explicit image of herself when she was 15. She had not posted it to the internet herself but it was now freely available online."[It] could jeopardise any future career I have or if any family [or] friends come across it," she said.Another  found explicit photos of herself online after her phone was stolen, while another admitted to attempting suicide after losing control of sexually explicit images: "I came to regret posting photographs of myself naively on the internet and tried to forget about it, but strangers recognised me from the photographs and made lewd remarks at school," she said. "I endured so much bullying because of this photograph and the others … I was eventually admitted for severe depression and was treated for a suicide attempt."The organisation has been contacted by young people who want them to help remove explicit photos online. One wrote: "Please remove this from the internet as soon as possible as one family member has already come across it … I feel like ending my life as I am so ashamed and embaressed [sic] and this has been put up without my concent [sic]."Of the sexual content monitored by IWF, 7,147 were images while 5,077 were videos. UK Safer Internet Centre, a group that campaigns for responsible internet use, will  use the research to inform new campaigns aimed at children.But the organisation warned that if it cannot provide watertight proof that the young person in a sexually explicit image is under 18 they have no power to remove it from the internet. Sarah Smith, technical researcher at IWF, said the charity had not been surprised by the amount of sexually explicit material available, but added they were shocked by the number of parasite websites taking advantage of images online."Young people have to realise that once they take a digital image, once it is uploaded, it essentially becomes public property and is virtually impossible to remove," she said. "The clear message is that if you post this content you are going to lose control of it."Will Gardner, director of UK Safer Internet Centre at Childnet, said adults had a responsibility to ensure children and young people knew about the dangers of posting suggestive or sexual images of themselves online."In all of our work we see that conversations and education with young people are vital in helping them to stay safe online," he said. The organisation has developed a drama-based education programme to address "sexting" and support teachers in starting a dialogue with pupils "to help young people think about, role play and understand the consequences of creating and sending indecent images", he added.David Wright, the director of UK Safer Internet Centre at South West Grid for Learning, said it was not uncommon for children to "sext" despite warnings from adults. "Much of the advice for children and young people is, quite rightly, to not 'sext'," he said."However, this research, coupled with our experience, demonstrates that it is still not uncommon. We hope that our new resource will help and support those who have shared self-generated content to take positive action."
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 20 October 2012PositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (1)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (42)Wii (3)VITA (2)42 (–)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (46)Xbox 360 (34)13 (2)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (36)PC (6)24 (6)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (92)Xbox 360 (7)PS3 (1)35 (–)Doom 3: BFG Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (41)PC (9)16 (3)Pokemon Black Version 2 (3+)DS (100)27 (4)Resident Evil 6(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (48)38 (8)Borderlands 2(18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (30)PC (5)59 (5)Pokemon White Version 2 (3+)DS (100)210 (7)XCOM: Enemy Unknown(12+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (28)PC (17)211 (9)F1 2012(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (47)PC (3)512 (–)007 Legends (16+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (49)113 (10)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (77)PS3 (15)PC (8)4514 (14)Rocksmith (12+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (30)PC (25)415 (12)Pro Evolution Soccer 2013(3+)PS3 (66)Xbox 360 (33)PC (1)516 (15)New Super Mario Bros 2(3+)3DS (100)1017 (11)Sleeping Dogs(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (45)1018 (19)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Wii (26)Xbox 360 (22)DS (15)PS3 (12)1819 (13)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)2120 (16)Gran Turismo 5 Academy Edition (3+)PS3 (100)4UKIEGames Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
BioShock Infinite has returned to gaming news radars with an explosive trailer that puts a premium on run-and-gun action. Here it is:The intriguing video also confirms that the game, in which players juggle superpowers and antique weaponry in a floating Steampunk city circa 1911, is set for release in February of next year. That last tidbit is likely to please any fans worried about the games production after recent news stories reported quite a few of the game's  development team had jumped ship in the last few months.Going by the trailer, BioShock Infinite looks in fine fettle. It opens with a brief respite in which the game's protagonist, ex-Pinkerton Booker DeWitt, alludes to the shady reasons behind his presence in the floating city of Columbia. As DeWitt's gravely tones cut through the opening bars to Nico Vela's 'Beast', Columbia is displayed as a place of otherworldy beauty, where buildings cast in marble tower over cobbled streets flanked with greenery. We also catch a glimpse of one of the game's tougher opponents, the Handyman, which is displayed on stage owned by Betterman's Autobodies.When the action kicks in, it showcases some of the frenetic action glimpsed previously in previews of BioShock Infinite at E3. Players, it seems, will have access to a decently varied arsenal, which includes Gatling guns, submachine guns, shotguns and auto-load pistols. They'll also be mixing up gunplay with supernatural powers – such as the ability to summon a murder of crows to confound their enemies. The trailer also shows off the game's signature Sky Hook, which DeWitt uses to get around the city on rails that link the different floating platforms.All told, it's an impressive – and necessary – sign that BioShock Infinite is on track for its release date next year, and in light of the recent high profile departures at Irrational, this is news that's as welcome as it is unexpected.
It was the game that broke a thousand joysticks and now it's coming for your iPad: Daley Thompson's Decathlon is back. Developer Black Company Studios  has produced a new version for touchscreen devices, featuring all the classic events and spruced up visuals.Originally released on the Spectrum, Commodore 64 and Amstrad computers back in 1984, the game challenged players to compete in a series of athletics events by waggling a joystick or hitting keys to increase Thompson's speed. It was part of a craze for joypad-hammering action kicked off by Konami's arcade classic, Track &amp; Field. But timed to cash in on the LA Olympics, the Daley Thompson title, published by Manchester firm Ocean, caught the imagination of British kids – much to the annoyance of parents who had to pay out for new joysticks when over-enthusiastic armchair competitors broke them.The new version gets players to tap two different virtual buttons on the screen to compete - which sounds substantially less damaging. Favourites like the 100m sprint, long jump, shot put and high jump are all included, and there's social connectivity so you can bombard your friends with high scores on Facebook and Twitter. They'll love that."I have often said if I had a pound for everyone who comes up to me in the street and says they loved the game but almost wore out their computer joysticks or fingers playing my decathlon game in the '80s I would be a millionaire," said Thompson, who has apparently advised on the new version. "It felt right this year with the Games in London to bring it back out for phones and tablet computers – I loved playing it then and am getting pretty good at the new version!"The game is out now on iOS and Android for £1.49. I was more of an Epyx Summer Games 2 man, myself...
Every week brings dozens of new, individual book-apps for children, but an increasing number of startups are experimenting with storybook-store apps, through which parents can access dozens of digital stories paid for using in-app purchases.The latest to launch on Apple's App Store – this is almost entirely an iOS phenomenon for now – isMe Booksfrom British startupMade in Me.The app is based on an engine that the company previously used for two apps with Penguin:Ladybird Classic Me BooksandPeppa Pig Me Books, which together have more than 100,000 active users according to Made in Me chief executive James Huggins.Like those, it offers a library of digital books from an in-app store, but this time they're drawn from a variety of publishers and brands.Penguin, Puffin, Ladybird, Bloomsbury and Andersen Press are all on board for the app's launch, with characters including Beatrix Potter's Peter Rabbit; Elmer, Topsy &amp; Tim; and titles from the previous Ladybird and Peppa Pig apps.They sell for between 69p and £1.99 each, with voice narration provided by celebrities including Richard E. Grant, Sir David Jason, Tamsin Greig, Adam Buxton and Josie Lawrence."It's the very logical extension of the first two Me Books apps," says Huggins. "The functionality in the app itself has been tweaked and polished, but the main feedback we got from Me Books was that people loved the apps, and they wanted more books."Huggins describes Me Books as "the digital equivalent of an independent picture-book shop" which is trying to help parents who are struggling to filter the sheer number of book-apps available on iOS."It should be exactly like going into a little picture-book shop where you trust the guy who runs it, and know the stuff he's selling is good," says Huggins."We've very much sold it to publishers on the basis that we are just another independent book shop that would like to sell their books. It just so happens that here, they send us the digital assets, we do the original audio in most cases, then publish it through what is essentially a retail platform for them."One key feature of Me Books is its "draw and record" feature, where children can draw an area on-screen – a "hotspot" – and then record their own sounds or words for it.That may sound minor, but in the Peppa Pig and Ladybird Me Books apps, it was enormously popular with my own children, whether they were inventing their own zebra calls or insisting that visitors to the house record their own take on Daddy Pig.Huggins describes the feature as "a way to bottle and keep a lot of the good conversation, silly voices and invented stories that happen around picture books", and says that more than 95% of people with an existing Me Books app have created more than 10 hotspots."In the future, we'd really love the notion of people being able to save, swap and share versions of the stories, both with other people that have the app, but also the ability to, say, send your version of The Three Little Pigs to grandparents."Huggins says the company has also been thinking about the prospects for an all-you-can-read subscription, where people pay a single monthly fee for access to Me Books' entire library."I personally am a big fan of that model," he says, while admitting that it will only be feasible once publisher partners are convinced that such a model makes sense.Some other companies are already trying, such as fellow British firm Mindshapes with its cross-platformMagic Townservice. There, parents pay a monthly subscription to access a library of digital picture books."I know those guys and really like them," says Huggins, although he notes that Magic Town's challenge is convincing parents to pay £7.99 a month after a relatively short free trial period, when they may not yet know how much they'll use the app in the long term.The positive thing is that both Me Books and Magic Town are available: a sign that publishers and startups are experimenting together, which is healthy for the industry. "Publishers are becoming much more amenable to experimenting," says Huggins. "What are they going to lose, as long as their brands are being represented in the right way?"Me Books has launched for iOS first, but Made in Me has plans for an Android version, likely in the first quarter of 2013."It's still an absolute fact that in terms of revenue and providing an environment that's friendlier to small developers, iOS is still way out in front," says Huggins, although he sees Android as important to the future of Me Books. "We're wanting to build a channel, a brand and a community, so Android is appealing enough based on the number of users alone."As an app, Me Books is very impressive, but only time will tell if that translates into a sustainable business for Made in Me and its publisher partners.Huggins says the company's deals with those partners vary between traditional licensing agreements and retail distribution-like deals mirroring real-world bookstores."If we're selling a book for £1.99, Apple takes its 30%, and then in most cases we share the net receipts for what's left evenly with the publisher," he says. "If we do audio – sound effects and narration – we do all of that for nothing."If parents flock to Me Books, that investment will prove worthwhile, although the elephant in the room is Apple and its own iBooks store and reader app. iBooks 3.0 is strongly rumoured to be one of the announcements at Apple's press launch this week, which could well include more features for picture books.If so, it would be unsurprising if Apple were to encourage picture-book publishers behind the scenes to focus their energies on iBooks rather than third-party apps like Me Books. Even so, getting out early with some big publishers on board gives Made in Me's app a fighting chance at winning an audience.
FollowingEric Schmidt's remark to Kara Swisherin October that he wouldn't comment on the smartphone patent wars because he "doesn't understand all the details", we'd like to be of service.Yes, Eric Schmidt is far smarter than me, and probably than anyone reading this piece (unless your name is Larry or Sergey and your surname is Page or Brin), but we find that if you break these things down into small pieces, it's easy enough. So here is your comprehensive guide to understanding what's behind the smartphone patent wars. (Note: contains pictures of kittens. Well, one picture.)The legal details in this article were checked by Darren Smyth, patent and design attorney and partner at IP law firm EIP. He is not, however, responsible for any errors in it.What is a patent?Are all patents the same?What's a "trade dress" or "registered design" patent?What's "patent infringement"?How do you defend yourself from patent infringement claims?What are software patents?Can you be sued over software?What are "standards-essential" patents (SEPs)?What is FRAND?How much is a standards-essential patent worth?What's patent exhaustion?Can standards patents holders sue or injunct others?When should you not use SEPs in lawsuits?What would be antitrust with SEPs?SEPs in court: why not?Are SEPs different from non-SEPs?Why do "registered designs" matter?Why are there so many patent battles?Why can't one court decide them?Will they carry on?What can I do about the patent battles?What is a patent?Yes, let's start here. A patent is a government-granted monopoly to an invention. It's bestowed on the inventor who files for it with the relevant patent office. As Patent Baristasput it: "Patent applicants must show that the invention is new and non-obvious and applicants must describe the invention such that a person in the industry would know how to make and use the invention."Let's unpack that. To qualify as a patent, something must bea) novel - so a patent application can be disqualified by "prior art" showing the same concept portrayed elsewhere at or before the applicationb) non-obvious - the test being that someone in the field in which it's filed, at the time at which it is filed, wouldn't see it as a direct extension of what exists (so adding an extension to a paint roller is "obvious", but you might find a "non-obvious" way to attach that extension to the existing roller) – this is exactly the same as the idea of an "inventive step"c) feasible - so you can't patent a perpetual motion machine or something else that, say, breaches the Second Law of Thermodynamics.Are all patents the same?Nope. Although they're all awarded by patent offices, they cover different things and have different applicabilities. Here we'll deal with four kinds: software patents, functional patents, "standards-essential" patents, and "trade dress" patents.What's a "trade dress" patent?Software patents are mostly code, but have some physical outcome;functional patents can cover anything, from vacuum cleaner parts to software to gigantic trucks to processes for identifying genes;"standards-essential" patents are, well, essential to standards;registered designs (confusingly called design patents or "trade dress" patents in the US) cover how a product looks and its aesthetic appearanceWhat's "patent infringement"?Producing something that has the same features or performs the same function in a way that's covered by the patent that's already been granted.Example:take Apple's "slide to unlock" system for the iPhone, which has been patented in the US and Europe. (Ignore for a moment the question of whether it should have been awarded. Just accept that it has.) If you produced a phone interface that looked and functioned exactly the same, you could expect Apple to come after you. But if you produced a touch interface with a thin line along which you slide a ball to unlock the screen, you could expect that that too would be judged "infringing". That's why HTC and Motorola changed the interface of their Android phones in Germany: a court there reckoned that their interfaces infringed Apple's patent. (We'll explain why it was Motorola and HTC, not Google, which was sued in a minute.)However, if you can find a way to get the same outcome but by a different route (ie, avoiding the existing patent's "inventive step") then you aren't infringing. But often that has to be decided in a court, either by a judge or jury - an expensive outcome that's generally to be avoided.To show infringement in registered designs, you'd have to show that the infringing object looked very similar to the registered one.How do you defend yourself from patent infringement claims?Assuming you can't do it in a friendly way (which if someone is claiming you're using their patent, you probably can't), your options are: • invalidate the patent by showing that there is prior art• invalidate the patent by showing that it shouldn't have been awarded because it fails one of the three "tests" - where "obviousness" is a common line of attack• show that what you do is different from the patent.• show that you've already paid to use the patent through some existing licensing agreement; in this case the principle of "patent exhaustion" comes into play, which boils down to "you shouldn't have to pay twice to use the same thing".One point: if the claim is over "standards essential" patents (SEPs), only the last of these is an effective defence There is another defence in "standards essential" patent (SEP) claims, which is that the amount being demanded is unreasonable. This is only a defence in SEP-related cases; in any other situation, a patent owner can charge what the hell they like. They can even refuse to license a patent and demand the withdrawal of infringing products via a court injunction. (Appledoes this a lot.So does Microsoft. Andnot to forget Motorola.And HTC.)Cases over patent infringement will often end up in court, which both sides will (or should) know is generally like going blindfold into a casino with all your money and credit cards stuffed in your pockets. You might come out even richer, or with less than nothing.What are software patents, and how can they possibly be valid?Strictly speaking, in Europe, you can't patent software as such, but you can patent software that achieves a technical effect.  The precise rules differ from country to country, and the rules in the USA are more lenient than in Europe.t.The "software patents" that the US Patents and Trademarks Office (USPTO) grants are for theimplementationof something through software. So in the US, Amazon's (controversial) 1-Click patent on its store is granted on the combination of a piece of code which implements easy ordering by user interaction, plus some manipulation of what the site already knows about you, plus the fact that you have to interact with the code. It's a "business process", and in the US Amazon has that patent. (Apple, for example, licenses it from Amazon for the iTunes Music and App Store in the US.)There's a key difference here between the US and Europe. Amazon has repeatedly tried to patent 1-Click in Euope. But it has been rebuffed just as repeatedly because 1-Click doesn't satisfy the European standard for patentability, which is that to be patentable, a piece of software has to cause somephysicalmanifestation. (This difference is why Apple has been able to patent slide-to-unlock to some - though not universal - effect in Europe: the slide-to-unlock system has the physical effect of allowing you to interact usefully with the rest of the screen with your fingers or whatever.)So you can't be sued for software? Then how can all these lawsuits be going on?You can't be sued for the fact that some code exists, but once you embody it in something - a smartphone, say, or a tablet - and make it do something, youmightbe infringing on the invention that is embodied by another piece of code.Thus Apple has sued HTC and Motorola over "slide-to-unlock" implementations on their phones. But it hasn't sued Google, because Google only wrote the code. It was up to HTC and Motorola to figure out whether their implementations infringed Apple's patent. (This isn't easy.)Note, by the way, that nobody is suggesting that HTC or Motorola (or Google)stoleApple's code from the iPhone and implemented it. It would be shocking if the actual program looked anything like the same. But it's the implementation - what it enables and how it enables it (in this case, sliding a finger along a displayed track on a multi-touch screen in order to enable the rest of the screen) - that infringes.This is why, for example, modern versions of Android's unlock system let you pull a lock icon in pretty much any direction. There's no line to even hint about how you should drag the lock - only a target to show where to aim for. That cleverly lies outside the patented "slide-to-unlock" functionality.This stuff is boring.Come on, Mr Schmidt, give it your best! Lots of people don't get past this point, which means they miss out on the really important bits, of standards-essential and "registered design" (aka trade dress) patents.What are "standards-essential" patents, then?They're patents that are essential to a standard. That might sound tautologous, but it's key to understanding many of the fights that are going on.A standard such as Wi-Fi (802.11a,b,g,n…) or GSM or GPRS or 3G/UMTS or 4G/LTE consists of lots of interlocking pieces of code. Take Wi-Fi, which involves things like frequencies of transmission, data encoding, frame rates, SSID transmission, channels, naming methods, and hundreds of other software engineering elements put together in a lattice that has to be robust enough that it will work when implemented by multiple vendors in a wide range of conditions.You don't want Wi-Fi compatibility to be like operating systems, where Android programs won't run on Windows because they're essentially part of competing ecosystems; you want any device that is certified as Wi-Fi compatible to be able to communicate with any other device with the same certification.That means standards. But how do you standardise something like that? Through long, arduous negotiation, that's how. Be grateful you're not part of the committee with that task (unless you are, in which case we salute you). Frequencies and tolerances for frequency variability are agreed. Data transmission formats are agreed. And so on.Part of the input into these discussions is the patents that will be used to implement them. Imagine that you're working on a standard where you want to have a circuit whose output will vary by no more than 5kHz over five seconds. Turns out, someone on the standards committee works for a company that has written a generator that will do just that. It's patented, of course. But you need that patent so you can have the standard you're working on.Rival bids will probably come in from other members - and then the haggling will start too over how important the patent is in the overall scheme of things. By the time the (exhausted) members of the committee have finished their job, they'll have a collection of specifications, and patented processes, which uniquely identify the standard they've been working on. So Wi-Fi embodies a ton of patents, often for boring things like making sure that chips output a signal within two given frequencies. As patents go, they might not be particularly thrilling; it may be perfectly feasible to get the same result without infringing the patent.But if you do that,you won't be adhering to the standard. By not using the patents essential to the standard, you're putting yourself outside the standard. This is why companies like Microsoft (which has lots of smart programmers) and Apple use really quite old software for systems like 802.11b: they have to, to comply with the standard.Do all the processes in a standard have to be patented? No; but in implementing new commercial standards, it's a lot easier to get companies to agree to take part if they feel they'll get financial benefit from it. Otherwise they might as well go and build their own, new, proprietary standard.What's FRAND?So: you have a new standard, and it comes with a series of patents. As part of the standards approval process run in Europe by the ETSI (European Telecommunications Standards Institute), the holders of those patents agree that they will license them to anyone who wants to implement the standard on a "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory" (FRAND) basis. In the US it's often known just as RAND - the "fair" element isn't thought to add anything special to the description."Non-discriminatory" means that you'll license it to anyone - Microsoft, Apple, Joe Bloggs - who asks to license it. This is very important: if someone offers to license your standards-essential patent to meet the standard, you're required to license it. Refusing to do so is frowned on by the US government, the European Commission, ETSI, and possibly your mother.How much is a SEP worth? It's a "standard", so it must be valuable, right?"Reasonable" is becoming the sticking point for many court cases. How much should you be able to charge for holding a standards-essential patent?What's clear is that if you charge too much, you'll put people off using it. Here's an example from recent history: two companies, X and Y, managed to get standards built around their competing communications technologies. Company X's technology was much faster and, at a time when PCs were pretty feeble, didn't tax the CPU much. Company Y's technology was slower, and chewed up a lot of CPU time when being used.However Company X tried to charge a substantial amount for the use of its patents - far more than Company Y. That, allied to other factors (particularly the relative sizes of X and Y) meant that Company X's standard didn't thrive, and eventually it was left as almost the lone user.(X was Apple, with FireWire; Y was Intel, with USB.)The question of "how much should an SEP be worth?" is ticklish. In one sense, an SEP is a lottery ticket: suddenly everyone has to license your patent, which does nothing more than (say) count clock cycles on a quartz chip, if they want this whizzy new Wi-Fi wireless technology! You control the world! You can demand any price you want!Oh, wait. Apple and Firewire. Right. Notanyprice. Then again, if you're providing something that is going to be part of a mobile phone communications standard, you're going to have millions and millions of licensors.So how do you value a patent such asthis Samsung one, described as "Apparatus and method for generating scrambling code in UMTS mobile communication system"? (By the way, looking at it, you'd think it is pretty much a piece of code - software - described in words. Yet it can be patented, because in reality it is a patentable idea that just happens to be implemented in practice using software.)The argument put forward by Judge Richard Posner in the US, in dismissing a case brought by Apple (which didn't have an SEP in the case) and Motorola (which did), was that the way to calculate the value of an SEP is to ask: how much was it worththe day beforeit was nominated a standard? (Or alternatively, how much would it be worth if it hadn't become part of a standard?)On that basis, you'd have to say that for many SEPs, the answer is: not much. Any decent coder can write a program that will monitor the output of a quartz chip and use modern feedback systems to control the variability - hell, they might even do it better than the one in the standard. Similarly for the scrambling code patent above. This argument applies all over the patents used in a standard: though collectively they're crucial, on their own each might be trivial. It's like building a very large club from hundreds of twigs.Here for example is theIEEE's list for the 802.11 standard, which covers multiple wireless standards. If you look at thefirst letter linked from the list(which involves more than 100 companies, including Apple, Samsung, Fujitsu, Nokia, RIM and Microsoft among many others), it asks the patent holder to agree that "the technology will be made available at minimal cost to all who seek to use it for compliance with an incorporated standard".So even though it's true to say - as Google does - that a smartphone embodies thousands of patents, that doesn't mean that the ownership or use of many of those patents is necessarily in dispute. For those used in standards, their application is pretty straightforward, and the patent holder is required to agree to provide it without challenge.What's patent exhaustion?If Company B licenses Company A's patent, and includes it in a product that Company C then includes in its own product, then Company A (the patent owner) can't chase Company C for a patent licence. Its claim to the rights is "exhausted". This is one defence that Apple used in the Samsung-Apple trial over some standards-essential patents owned by Samsung. Samsung said that Apple hadn't licensed the patents. Apple said it had a contract with Intel to buy chips which had licensed Samsung's patents, which meant the claim was exhausted. The jury accepted that argument.Why would it be bad to sue someone for not paying for the use of SEPs, or to injunct them from selling things which used SEPs?It wouldn't be bad, and it's perfectly legal to do seek an injunction,once other avenues have been tried and failed. (That second part is important.) The convention however is that you don't seek an injunction if a company is willing to pay. Then the problem comes down to one of how much should be paid. And it's that point - the "how much?" - which has seen the real disputes.For example, you could argue that Nokia kicked off the "smartphone patent wars" when itsued Apple in 2009, claiming Apple was using a number of its SEPs without paying royalties. Apple denied it, butin June 2011 eventually coughed uphundreds of millions of euros in back payments. Nokia however never sought to injunct Apple from selling the iPhone. It just let the sales - and future royalties - mount up. The price seems to have been a few euros per handset sold.By contrast Motorola, which holds SEPs that are part of the H.264 MPEG-4 video decoding standard, has been demanding 2.5% of theretailprice of Microsoft hardware such as Xboxes, and other devices - such as PCs - that use Microsoft software which uses H.264. On the "bundle of twigs" premise, it's hard to see how that price is reasonable. It certainly doesn't sound like "minimal cost".Samsung, meanwhile, used SEPs to fight back against Apple, which was suing it in Europe overnon-SEPs - that is, patents which Apple is claiming to itself and hasn't made part of a standard.And what's wrong with that?Using SEPs like that in effect looks like bullying. In particular, seeking an injunctionbeforeyou offer FRAND licensing terms is the highwayman's method and breaches the standards agreement.Apple has argued that Samsung did that in Europe, and Microsoft that Motorola did it in the US, and both those SEP-holders are being investigated for antitrust abuse - by the European Commission's competition arm, and the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC).Why might that be antitrust abuse?Because SEPs constitute a sort of automatic monopoly: as said earlier, if you want to meet a standard, you have to use them. And denying a company the opportunity to use them on the same terms as other companies means you're using the monopoly to wield market power. That's abuse. Neither the EC nor the FTC has announced whether they think Samsung or Motorola has acted in breach of any acts.Why shouldn't someone who owns SEPs use them in a court fight against someone who doesn't, and is suing for alleged infringement of their patents?They can, but SEPshaveto be licensed, whereas non-essential patents don't. That puts the SEP-holder at a disadvantage in legal terms; their benefit comes from the payments they're guaranteed. By contrast, non-SEPs don't have to be licensed. So the SEP-holder might end up with just the standard payment, and no licence to the other side's patents. It's tough - but that's the payback from patents.So SEPs are really different from non-SEPs?They're all patents. What's different is the licensing obligation. SEPs aren'tintrinsicallymore valuable than non-SEPs. In fact, non-SEPS can often get bigger prices, per licence, than SEPs.This is really long.Kittens: easier to think about than patents. Photograph: G.K. & Vikki Hart/Getty ImagesSorry, Mr Schmidt. Here's some pictures of kittens.OK. Enough of standards. Let's move on. Why do "registered designs" matter?"Registered designs" or "design patents" cover, roughly, "what something looks like" rather than what it does; form, not function. They are different from regular "patents", but they are a form of intellectual property, and do cover tangible things, and as they have been important in the smartphone wars, it seems good to talk about them here . Really, asthis piece on Groklawpoints out, it's really a part of trademark law:Trade Dress is not really a "subset" of trademark law. It is trademark law. Lanham Act Section 43 allows protection against any use of a mark or device that might confuse as to origin of goods or sponsorship. Trade dress is that device, so if the trade dress causes confusion, then it will generally be actionable. But the story doesn't end there. You must have distinctiveness.Apple has argued in US and English courts that its iPhone and iPad designs have registered designs, specifically for elementsincludingits rounded corners. That is, it argues that, for example, the rounded corners - at a particular radius - are visually distinctive features that were unusual when they first introduced them.Why are there so many patent battles? It seems like they're always in the newsThere are so many because the smartphone business is really valuable. Getting a few points of share or installed base is very valuable. Winning court battles hinders rivals.Plus Steve Jobs felt very strongly about the patents that Apple did have on the iPhone - and probably knew that Apple would really need them, because it was the entrant in the phone market, setting itself against a number of gigantic incumbents then including Microsoft, RIM and Nokia, as well as the existing players such as LG, Sony Ericsson and Motorola (the latter having pretty much created the mobile phone market).Jobs had already been burned badly by Creative Labs - which sued Apple in 2005 for its use of hierarchical menus on the iPod, something on which Creative Labs hadfiled a patent application in January 2001, when the iPod was barely a gleam in Apple's eye. (The iPod was launched in October 2001.)He then saw Android's use of techniques such as pinch-and-zoom, and double-tap to expand, as infringements of implementations Apple had patented (or filed for). And so he first approached Eric Schmidt to try to settle it - without effect - and then began launching lawsuits, starting with HTC and then moving on to Motorola and Samsung. (Motorola sued Apple first, though it may have been a case of getting its retaliation in first.)Is there a single court that will decide all this, so we can say that it's all finally finished?Sadly, no. The main battlegrounds are the courts in the United Kingdom, regional courts in Germany, the International Trade Commission (ITC) in the US, federal courts in the US, and appeals courts in the US. None is definitive (though some are more senior than others) and the deliberations and decisions of one aren't necessarily binding on another. What the ITC decides doesn't affect what a US appeals court decides, and it's risky to think that anything one says will influence another.So we should expect these patent battles to just carry on?Perhaps. There have been reports that Google has been making overtures to Apple for some sort of peace, although its acquisition of Motorola Mobility - which was meant to give it a big patents warchest - doesn't seem to have worked out quite as straightforwardly as expected. If Apple wants this to go on, it could do. But there are some signs that doing so is hurting its public reputation, while heightening that of the companies it sues: in Australia, for example, many people had no idea that Samsung had a tablet offering until they began hearing news reports about Apple seeking to ban it. And the billion-dollar win in the US over Samsung may have brought the Korean company to the attention of people who didn't previously know of it as a worthy rival in the smartphone space.That's depressing. What can I do to make these companies stop doing this?Sadly, this is like being an ancient Greek; they imagined there were multiple gods who were often at war with each other, leaving mere mortals as spectators. That's the situation we find ourselves in.
The programmer Dan Salomon once wrote, "sometimes it pays to stay in bed on Monday, rather than spending the rest of the week debugging Monday's code". But whether you're still in bed, or you have managed to struggle into work, we can at least talk about games.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamResearch shows serious problems with Android apps' SSL implementations &gt;&gt; ThreatpostThere are thousands of apps in the Google Play mobile market that contain serious mistakes in the way that SSL/TLS is implemented, leaving them vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks that could compromise sensitive user data such as banking credentials, credit card numbers and other information. Researchers from a pair of German universities conducted a detailed analysis of thousands of Android apps and found that better than 15% of those apps had weak or bad SSL implementations.Survey of IT managers suggests preference for Microsoft mobile platforms &gt;&gt; ComputerworldAlmost half of IT managers in a survey last month said that they plan to standardize their company's mobile platform on devices running Microsoft operating systems, including smartphone OSes Windows Phone 7.5 and Windows Phone 8 and tablet OS Windows RT, according to ThinkEquity, a research and institutional investment banking services firm.48% of respondents said they would choose Microsoft technology as their corporate mobile standard, up from 44% in a similar survey three months before, according to a research note from ThinkEquity financial analyst Yun Kim. Google's Android OS dropped to 8% from 11%, while Apple's iOS grew from 10% to 14%.Two thoughts: (1) this leaves 30% who either aren't standardised, or use RIM - down from 35% previously; (2) if their intention was so high before, why haven't they already done it?Some advice from Jeff Bezos &gt;&gt; 37signalsJeff Bezos gave a talk at 37Signals:He said people who were right a lot of the time were people who often changed their minds. He doesn't think consistency of thought is a particularly positive trait. It's perfectly healthy -- encouraged, even -- to have an idea tomorrow that contradicted your idea today.He's observed that the smartest people are constantly revising their understanding, reconsidering a problem they thought they'd already solved. They're open to new points of view, new information, new ideas, contradictions, and challenges to their own way of thinking.Fantastic advice.Who's in worse shape: RIM or Nokia? &gt;&gt; BGRLooking past the financials, I think that Nokia is in worse shape than RIM in terms of long-term business strategy as well. RIM, for better or worse, is at least in control of its own destiny to some extent. Yes,it's still losing important customers,its BlackBerry 10 operating system has been delayedand it hasn't released a new smartphone in what seems like ages. But here's the key: RIM is in exclusive control of its own operating system and it has a loyal customer base who will stick with it to the very last. This is important because people who still want the RIM experience have nowhere else to go: It's BlackBerry 10 or bust for them and they will shell out cash to get it.This might be the crux of it.Gangnam Style from Hitler &gt;&gt; YouTubeThis is great. It's Monday! Enjoy!Google Wallet exec: no surprise digital payments are slow going &gt;&gt; AllThingsDIt took 50 years for the credit card to become the dominant means of payment, so it shouldn't be surprising that mobile payments haven't immediately taken off.Everyone is expecting change to happen in weeks or months, but it will take time, says Osama Bedier, Google's VP of Wallet and payments. "We will have mobile payments," Bedier said, speaking at the Global Mobile Internet Conference in San Jose on Friday.Also says that mobile payments have to save time, or money, or both. Even so, he reckons half of transactions will be mobile within five years.Anatomy of a Hoax: The Sony Nexus X &gt;&gt; UnknownAs far as I know, nothing of any notable significance occurred on Monday, October 15, 2012. The social web was still abuzz from the spectacular achievement in human ingenuity from the night before, brought to you by Red Bull and science. People continued to predictably politick and Rainn Wilson did an AMA. However, for an infinitesimal segment of the human population, October 15th was marked by a frenetic search for answers fueled by an anxiety that can only come from leaked photos of an up-and-coming piece of shiny new tech.I faked the Sony Nexus X. Truly sorry. But I did come away from the experience with a few observations. I will share these musings, along with how and why I created these fakes.Ended up with more than 500 articles saying "IS THIS THE NEW SONY EXPERIA NEXUS X???" As the anonymous author points out, not a single person tried to contact the actual Picasa account owner (him) where the photos were originally posted.Judge denies Apple's request to seal financial documents from Samsung trial &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderThe judge originally denied the request to keep the Damages Motion sealed, saying that Apple needed to reveal the documents because it is seeking an enhancement of $535m on top of the $1.05bn awarded by the Apple v. Samsung jury in August. In that motion, Apple is looking to permanently enjoin the sale of 26 Samsung products already on the market."As Apple appears to have realized in introducing that exhibit, it cannot both use its financial data to seek multi-billion dollar damages and insist on keeping it secret," Judge Koh wrote in her order. "The public's interest in accessing Apple's financial information is now perhaps even greater than it was at trial."At this rate they're going to have to include it in the court-ordered advert.Man behind 'Jailbait' posts exposed, loses job &gt;&gt; CNN.comCNN video interview with Michael Brutsch, aka "Violentacrez" - though to hear him describe it, Violentacrez was almost a different person. We'd love to know what a psychiatrist would make of this interview.A first look at some changes to commenting &gt;&gt; guardian.co.uk betaWelcome to our brand new comment platform which is available at the bottom of this page. We've launched this post as a dry run to verify our setup and ensure that the new platform will scale successfully when we roll it out across the site.Part of the reason for this new platform is technical: we've re-architected it to separate it from our content management system, so that high comment traffic will never compromise our ability to serve up pages quickly. We'll have more details soon on ourdeveloper blog.Coming soon to a screen near you. (Thanks @angusthebull for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's the tale of two touchscreens this week as Microsoft and Apple go head-to-head launching their latest tablet devices. Microsoft has pulled out all the stops to convince the world that Surface is the small tablet to beat, with a no-expenses-spared New York event on Thursday. Apple, a notoriously secretive company, prefers a bafflingly minimal PR strategy that would utterly fail for any other organisation you could think of. Dedicated rumour sites hum with speculation for months beforehand, encouraging Apple evangelists to soap themselves into a frenzy of excitement.This is a busy sector of the tablet market, with Amazon's bestselling Kindle Fire and the Nexus 7 powered by Google's Android software. Apple will have noticed this potential and, given its venomous competitiveness, will want to obliterate Google from the small tablet market. Microsoft needs a small miracle to reverse its fortunes.Surface is a bold product with some great touches, like the magnetic cover that turns into a keyboard and a minimal, Apple-like body. Although there are two cameras – at the front and back – Microsoft appears to be pitching this more as an executive toy, there's also no 3G connection so buyers don't have the worry of an extra contract. The real delight is Metro, the impressive navigation interface, which is so beautifully designed it feels like a breath of fresh pixellated air, made up of zingy typography and brightly coloured navigation squares. Pre-orders for Surface sold out in the US over the weekend, so it would seem it has the tribe excited.Microsoft launched its first tablet in November 2002 – nearly eight years before the iPad – but the following years of swivel-screened, pen-tapping slates weren't exactly Microsoft's JK Rowling years. The incarnation as a touchscreen coffee table didn't speak to the mobile trend, either. Apple's late chief executive Steve Jobs wasn't shy about sticking the knife into the lumbering Microsoft beast; in a gleeful aside while launching the iPad 2 in 2011, Jobs claimed Apple had sold 15m iPads in the last nine months of 2010 – "more than every tablet PC ever sold".Surface is being launched alongside Windows 8, Microsoft's overdue operating system update, described as the biggest change in Windows history, replacing the familiar desktop with Metro's tiles. Disappointing quarterly results last week showed Microsoft is being hit hard by the move from PCs to mobile and tablets, so Windows 8 is built for the touchscreen world. An unprecedented marketing spend estimated at $1.8bn shows either confidence that Windows 8 will reinvent the Microsoft experience – or a desperate last investment to preserve the empire. Either way, Microsoft needs Windows 8 to hit the spot.As for the date clash, this is partly about grabbing the Christmas market, but it's not hard to imagine Apple wanting to steal some thunder from its old adversary. After all these years of hyperbolic product launches, the world's most valuable company ($571.67bn) is rather more porous than it might like. On Tuesday we can reliably expect something provisionally called the iPad Mini, roughly half the size of the current iPad with a 7.85 inch-diameter screen, 4G connectivity and a starting price of around £249. Before the new device is even announced, let alone on sale, analysts are predicting the iPad Mini could eat 15% of iPad sales.Look back exactly two years, and Steve Jobs appeared to dismiss smaller tablets: "The seven-inch tablets are tweeners, too big to compete with a smartphone and too small to compete with an iPad." Reading that now it sounds more like clever Jobsian code, making a case for a new product that doesn't compete with the iPhone or iPad.Dan Crow, the former senior engineering manager for Apple and project manager at Google, thinks it is a sign of Apple's maturity that it is pushing into more niche sectors of the market. For Microsoft, it's a diversification from larger touchscreen products that consumers have not warmed to. "Touchscreens have been tried on desktops for years, but as soon as the screen is vertically orientated your hands get tired … I don't see touch taking over traditional desktop computers, but the proportion of tablets and smartphones is going to keep growing, and tablets are eating into the laptop market."Where does Apple go from here? Crow thinks the company has peaked, and that the new,error-ridden maps toolwas a mistake that wouldn't have happened under Jobs. "That's indicative of the sort of missteps that Steve was very good at stopping. They build up over time and erode people's confidence in the company. I think we may have seen the peak of Apple. We're past the golden era."Two days after the launch of the iPad Mini, and very probably a new MacBook, Apple's fourth quarter results will be released. After a gloomy week for Intel, Microsoft andGoogle shares, investors will be looking to Apple to lift the spirits and the finances of the tech sector. Last quarter, Apple admitted product rumours were disrupting sales, but this quarter should see the beginning of iPhone 5 takeup. Next quarter will be the big one, covering Christmas and watching that iPhone 5 roll flood in. It's worth remembering that Jobs's talent was not in predicting the future. It was in creating good products and then – master salesman – convincing everyone that this was the future. Microsoft had better hope it has its banter all worked out.Elsewhere in the technology triumvirate, Larry Page, Google's co-founder and chief executive lost his voice in June after an as-yet-unnamed throat condition. Last Thursday he had to find it again to explain why Google's downbeat quarterly financial results had leaked early and the company's market value had dropped by $20bn. He somehow found the words. Google will be hoping that its new Chromebook laptop and anticipation of the new Nexus 7 handset, likely to be unveiled on the 29th, creates a nice distraction. And maybe claws back a little of that $20bn.• This article was amended on 23 October 2012 to show that the Surface has two cameras; the original article said it had none.
Anarticle in theNew York Timescaught my eye. In it, Nick Bilton, aNYTcolumnist, recounts a recent dinner party that he hosted, in the middle of which his phone beeped with a text message. "Hey, I see you're having people over," it read. "OK if I stop by?" What puzzled Mr Bilton was how this person knew he was having a dinner party.Then he looked at his guests. "Over the course of the three-hour dinner," the poor sap eventually discovered, "my friends posted seven photos on Path, sent six Twitter messages (five with photos), six photos on Instagram and two people checked in on Foursquare. When I added up the collective follower counts of the people in the room, my little dinner party was potentially viewed by more people than watchThe Late Showon CBS: over three million." (Two of his guests have large numbers of followers on Twitter.) And, to add insult to (self-inflicted) injury, a few days later he telephoned someone in a work-related call, only to be told by the other person – who has never crossed his threshold – how much he "just loved" the lamps hanging above the Bilton kitchen table.Welcome to our socially networked world. One of the most puzzling things about it is why normally sane, well-adjusted, intelligent people lose not only their judgment but also their marbles when confronted with the opportunities for exposure offered by Twitter, Facebook, Foursquare, Path, Instagram et al. As I wrote that, my Twitterstream updated. "I'm at Leicester Square underground station (London)," tweeted one of the (normally sane, well-adjusted, etc) people whom I follow. Then I checked with Foursquare, a service to which this person subscribes. "xxx checked in at Leicester Square London underground station," it burbled, before excitedly adding that xxx had earned seven "points" for managing to find a major tube station. Three of these points were for "First time at Leicester Square London underground station", and four were for "First Tourist Information Center!"Foursquare, in case you haven't come across it, is possibly the daftest application of GPS technology yet devised. It's a mobile application that allows registered users to "check in" at a particular location. Checkers-in are rewarded with "points" and sometimes "badges". (I am not making this up.) Check-in requires active user selection and points are awarded at check-in. Subscribers can also opt to have their checking-in achievements automatically posted to Twitter or Facebook.But wait, there's more! If you've checked in to a location on more occasions than anyone else over the past 60 days, then you are crowned "mayor" of that location. But of course some other rotter can depose you by checking in even more frantically and no doubt even as I write there are epic tussles going on for the mayorship of, say, Tooting Bec underground station, or the third litter bin on the left at the exit from Waterloo station.If this business of points, badges and mayorships reminds you of the collection games that five-year-olds play with picture cards, Pokémon accessories and other gewgaws, then you're right on the money. The thing is, though, that,according to Wikipedia,the Foursquare game is currently being played by 20 million adults, which makes one wonder if perhaps the time has come to rethink the whole business of universal adult franchise. Should anyone this idiotic have the vote?But actually Foursquare is simply the looniest extreme of this mania for self-revelation. In pondering Nick Bilton's story about his inadvertently broadcasted dinner party, I was suddenly reminded of Erving Goffman's great book,The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life, which first appeared in 1959 and which I read as a student in the late 1960s. In it, Goffman uses a theatrical metaphor to interpret social interactions between people. In everyday life, he argues, we are all actors, each of us playing a variety of roles. The audience consists of the other people with whom we interact. And, as in the theatre, we operate in two zones – one when we are, as it were, on stage, and the other when the curtain is down and we can revert to being ourselves – ie discard the role or identity we assume when in the presence of others.Goffman's analysis was entirely predicated on the face-to-face encounters of social life as it used to be in a pre-internet age. In those days, it really was possible to go backstage, as it were: to discard one's public face and be oneself. It still is, but now you have to switch off your phone and resist the egotistical temptations of social networking and location-based services. And, hey! – if you do that, then maybe people will start inviting you to dinner again.
Forzafans, rest easy.Horizonmay sacrifice real-world circuits and a motorsport focus, but the game's racing heart beats on with its exceptional driving physics moved into a sprawling open-world scenario based on the Colorado Rockies. And a gorgeous world it is, too, with stunning vistas and a day-night cycle creating frequent breathtaking moments.The story, based around the Horizon car festival, is largely forgettable and the character acting even more so, but it gives structure to progression in the game. More exciting are the point-to-point and mixed-surface events adding spice to the usual tarmac fare.The difficulty level is also more forgiving thanForza 4, with driver assists making the action more accessible for newbies. Turning them off makes cars handle like wet soap, but rewards with more points for close shaves with oncoming cars and destroying scenery, in addition to the usual drifts and overtaking.The car selection is also less expansive, but intentionally so, to encourage hanging on to vehicles for longer, squeezing every ounce of potential from the plentiful mod options. The result is a closer relationship with each machine (thankfully stopping shy of aTop Gear-esque infatuation) as you learn its idiosyncrasies while eating up the competition.There are also mini-games, such as registering high velocities on the speed cameras featured along major roads, along with arcade-style multiplayer battles that will ensure longevity but ultimately,Horizonwill succeed through winning new fans by utilising the franchise's core strengths, reinterpreted here to great success.
The video clip on YouTube already has the feel of a history lesson. It has taken on the atmosphere of a fateful moment, a before and after, like the signing of the Yalta treaty, or a Moonie wedding. The moment of the launch of Facebook as a $100bn public company seemed to show the myth of the American Dream in real time, visual proof that something – potentially the world's most valuable entity – had been made out of nothing, a simple idea in the head of a Harvard undergraduate. Half a year on, it looks as much an ending as a beginning.You can see a lot of that story in the film clip, on faces gathered outside Facebook's headquarters at Hacker Square in Menlo Park, California, on 18 May 2012. Our digital age has acclimatised us to extreme numbers, the winner-takes-all lottery of wealth distribution, but rarely have we seen such a group of people instantaneously enriched beyond their imagination. The colleagues look like they have turned up on this bright spring morning to man the stalls at a high-school fete, or for a charity walk, in hoodies and T-shirts and fleeces and jeans. One second they can count their wealth in five or six zeroes, the next in eight or nine or 10. As the clip rolls and Mark Zuckerberg signs his name on a transparent Nasdaq screen, signalling that Facebook is open for trading, an&nbsp;excitement passes through the crowd. On the TechCrunch website there is a ticker running, a reckoning of instant plutocracy: "Ted Ullyot, general counsel, $234,181,060. Mike Schroepfer, VP of engineering, $340,141,012. Mark Zuckerberg, $20,305,226,592…" How do the&nbsp;people attached to these numbers look? They look happy, fit to burst.That happiness, at that moment, extended far beyond Hacker Square. It extended to all the investors large and small who believed. Zuckerberg, 28, had long demanded faith in Facebook. And all his believers knew the story – they had all seen the movie, and most importantly they felt the insistent pulse the social network had generated in their own lives. On the clip after Bob Greifeld, chief executive of Nasdaq, presents Zuckerberg, "your visionary, your leader", with a commemorative hoodie, the world's favourite boy wonder, makes a little speech reaffirming that faith. "Here's the thing," he says in his slightly disconnected way, "our mission isn't to be a public company. Our mission is to make the world more open and connected… All of you out there have built the largest community in the world." Not surprisingly, as he speaks his colleagues have the moon-faced look of disciples at the Sermon on the Mount  captured in medieval stained glass. They have been through a lot together; some, those crowded most closely around Zuckerberg, have been believers in his miracles from the start. Their rewards have come sooner than heaven.All of the night before, news networks have accessed all areas on the Facebook campus to capture the atmosphere before the big sell-off. The Facebook workers, or hackers, as they prefer, have duly performed like children on Christmas Eve. They have given up on sleep and engaged in the ultimate "hackathon", playing roller hockey in the square, watching movies, camping out on sofas and doing bits of programming for the site, ordering in Chinese and pizza, recreating once again the essential exportable spirit of their organisation: faces illuminated into the early hours by laptop screens, buzzing on energy drinks, silently instant messaging across the room, making the world ever more connected before our very eyes.They have not been thinking about performance cars and stupidly early retirement; they have been thinking, as ever, about enhanced user experiences and ever-cooler interfaces. Still, they are aware that for days and weeks the valuation of their company has been the subject of mass speculation.  The wisdom of a Silicon Valley crowdsourced poll has produced an aggregate of the expected value of Facebook come the end of the first day of trading. The figure that has been collectively arrived at is $135.1bn– a single-day rise that represents more than a gain of one-third of the opening offer price of $38 per share. The investment bankers handling the offering, Morgan Stanley, have surely been conservative in their thinking, the crowdsourced feeling goes; they wouldn't want to risk their credibility on an inflated valuation.There is much talk of a "pop" on the news networks: "Do you think we will see a pop?" "How big a pop do you think there will be?" The pop in question refers to the explosive growth as the stock hits the market, like a kernel of corn reacting to a hot pan. For those few cynics among the faithful – who perhaps have a working knowledge of Charles Mackay's 1841 volumeExtraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds, or who at least had, as they like to say, "drilled down into the figures" and placed their bets accordingly – that pop was also, you guess, the sound of bubbles bursting.Nearly six months on, those doubters with their sober analysis or contrarian instincts, who gambled against Facebook stock from the beginning, have been counting their winnings. Daniel Niles, who runs the AlphaOne Capital Partners, made millions of dollars for his investors by "shorting" Facebook the moment it opened for trading at $42 a share. Shorting involves borrowing quantities of shares and selling them at the high price, waiting for the price to fall, then buying other cheaper shares to return to the lender and pocketing the difference. Niles explained his analysis as follows: "If you looked at Facebook, the good news was you had a very public comparable company with a lot of the same issues and good things going on, which is Google. To some extent, it was like two houses on the same block… But you look at Google, and investors were valuing it at roughly six times annual revenues; and you look at Facebook, and despite it growing [only] twice as fast as Google, they valued it at about 24 times revenue… To me, this looked like  a recipe for disaster, and that's why we shorted at the open." Another such investor, representing a major fund, described his decision with slightly less mathematical nuance: "My mother asked me to get Facebook shares and she has never been interested in IPOs [initial public offerings] before. A cab driver asked me about the IPO, too. That's when you want to short it."On the first day of trading, markets reported that the share price had been propped up by Morgan Stanley, the bank that had acted as the lead underwriter in the sale on Facebook's behalf. What had looked like a&nbsp;major coup for the bank's Silicon Valley investment chief Michael Grimes quickly became a headache. In an attempt to defend the $38 opening price some observers suggested the bank may have spent a billion dollars buying back stock, though Morgan Stanley will not comment on the issue.A few even among the closest circle of Facebook believers were perhaps not quite as faithful as they at first seemed. Peter Thiel, the canny founder of PayPal, who had invested $500,000 in Facebook in 2004, cashed in a&nbsp;thousand times that on the first day of trading. On the right side of things, as ever, Goldman Sachs, which had bought a $500m share in the company last November, sold about another billion dollars straightaway, as did Zuckerberg, in what turned out to be nice wedding gift to himself when he tied the knot with his long-term girlfriend Priscilla Chan in a surprise ceremony the day after flotation.Even by the time Zuckerberg and Chan were on honeymoon in Rome a postmortem on the IPO and share price, which had by then fallen almost $10, was underway. It was already being talked of as the most disastrous IPO in history; and the first lawsuits had been filed. Facebook spokespeople united with Morgan Stanley in suggesting that technical glitches on the Nasdaq system, which delayed the start of trading by 45 minutes and saw investors struggle to get confirmation of trades, had damaged confidence. Major fund managers laid the blame with the decision, in the week before the IPO, to increase the number of shares being sold by 25% and to raise the asking price from a range between $28 and $35 to one between $34 and $38. A $100bn valuation had a convenient headline ring to it.At the same time a hardening rumour persisted that those closest to the deal were party to more information than regular small-time investors. By 23 May, shareholders had filed five lawsuits against Facebook in New York and California. That number quickly swelled to around 40. On 1&nbsp;June, three small Facebook shareholders – David Goldberg, Kevin Hyms and Garrett Garrison, who had invested retirement funds and lifetime savings – filed a class action suit against Zuckerberg and his company. Court records detailing their case argue that Facebook had been less than forthcoming about the fact that in the weeks leading up to flotation there had been a downgraded forecast of revenue, which had caused some analysts, even those at Morgan Stanley, to revise down confidence in the company – information only allegedly shared with major investors. Facebook and its underwriters strongly refute these allegations. The case, which will be heard on behalf of perhaps thousands of IPO believers, mums and taxi drivers among them, will also draw on evidence from the Securities and Exchange Commission about Facebook's apparent reluctance to release some key data – notably the way it counted mobile users, and the revenue it generated from them – even when pressed  to do so. Facebook will argue that it displayed no such equivocation and that such exchanges were a&nbsp;normal part of such a process.Andrew Goldenberg, one of the attorneys representing Goldberg, Hyms and Garrison, described how the three men came to his office "confused and frustrated and angry… They are not sophisticated investors," he said. "They thought they were buying into a company that had a promising future." Nearly 200 others followed that trio and are now part of the claim. "They all tell the same story," Goldenberg said. "They feel cheated. You are talking about an unprecedented loss after five months for this kind of high-profile IPO. Hype drove it, and that is fine. But you can't do that on the basis of incomplete information. They feel it is another example of the citizen being taken advantage of by these banks and big corporations."Where money has been lost on such a scale, conspiracies abound, but two key reasons for the freefall of the stock price, which quickly lost half of its value, seem to have existed in plain sight. The first was the timing of an announcement by General Motors, which the day before the IPO made the decision to pull all advertising from Facebook, suggesting that, having looked hard at its numbers, it had no clear evidence that advertising on the site was effective. The second, perhaps more fundamental, explanation for the market's pessimism lay in the rhetoric of Mark Zuckerberg.Zuckerberg had never been convinced he should take his company public, though regulatory changes made it inevitable. He worried about shareholders who wanted Facebook's first thought to be its bottom line rather than its product. And he feared a loss of control. To this end, he had created two classes of shares, which guaranteed that he would have 57% voting control of Facebook with only a 28% financial stake. His anxieties were realised almost immediately.Zuckerberg was used to updating users of his site, but not so practised at reassuring investors. Before the IPO he affirmed what he repeated at the moment of the sale: that he did not see himself primarily as a man in charge of a multibillion-dollar business but rather as a man on a mission to teach the world to poke in perfect harmony. Fundholders are not  traditionally seduced by missionaries.Over the summer Zuckerberg was strangely silent, as if adjusting to his new realities: married life and problems at the office. He had perhaps the first premonitions of what all prodigies  discover: that he, too, would have to grow up. In his first call with major investors at the end of July, he pursued a line about the Facebook model that "the best type of advertising is a message from a friend". This had sounded reasonable enough when he had uttered it to interviewers and journalists over the years, and it seemed to chime with popular psychology about tipping points – but was it really true? And if so, where did it leave companies like General Motors, which were spending a small fortune on creating consistent messages about their products  that were measurable in terms of sales?Over the few years since its inception, Facebook had been somewhat cavalier about its revenue strategies, making the seductive argument that once it had a critical mass of users, money would surely follow. Google had solved the intractable problem of how to monetise its audience by having advertisers bid for keywords, selling sponsored links and charging for each time a user clicked on them. Facebook's advertising model was always more intangible, based largely on precisely targeted display adverts and the vaunted "engagement" of the user, who typically spends an hour a day on the site. In a widely quoted figure, Google made $88 from each of its users, Facebook only $15. Moreover, Google's model worked potentially equally well on mobile formats as on desktops. Facebook had been slow to see the shift to mobile, and that apparent anxiety over releasing user data which angered the likes of Hyms, Goldberg and Garrison suggested they were still troubled by the problem of how to make effective use of display advertising on a&nbsp;screen no bigger than a playing card.Zuckerberg's first public appearance was on a technology platform in September – he talked 10 to the dozen for 20 minutes about the new realities of his business. His message had changed somewhat in the months since the YouTube clip. There was a little less emphasis on the incontrovertible value of pursuing an open and connected world and a little more on the prospect of specific plans for generating increased advertising revenue from "monetising eyeballs". Zuckerberg admitted the company's previous strategy for mobile (he pronounced the word to rhyme with "no bull") had been wrong. But without too many specifics, he was confident Facebook could eventually make more money per user on mobile phones than on desktops. He was also in the bizarre position, having lately made a&nbsp;good many of his staff wealthy beyond reason, of having to face questions about office morale and employee retention. He talked soberly of incentive packages and share schemes, and hoped that his people would stay with him: "It is not the first up and down we have had."One of the things Facebook has added to the culture in the few years of its existence has been a redefinition of some of the most common elements of our language. It has, according to theOxford English Dictionary, changed our understanding of the words "like" and "friend", not to mention "poke". It&nbsp;is, Zuckerberg hinted, about to tamper with the dictionary entry for "want" in the same way. Users will be able to have the product they want at the click of a mouse.The shifting of linguistic usage extends pointedly to the purpose of the company itself. As David Kirkpatrick, Facebook's authorised biographer, notes, one characteristic of the first eight years was a tendency for Zuckerberg and his inner circle to sit around late at night and try to establish exactly what business they were in. These reported conversations are remarkable, in a way, for their lack of clarity. Early on Zuckerberg liked to refer to his creation as "a directory of people" in these discussions (arguably not the most marketable of propositions); Sean Parker, the maverick first president of the company, used to suggest Facebook was "a device you carried around and pointed at people and it would tell you all about them". Later Zuckerberg resolved that it was a product "to help people understand the world around them".If that was its higher purpose, however, the business Facebook has been in from the start is&nbsp;disclosure. Its products are its users and their friends, who willingly supply personal data about themselves and their habits and tastes on a scale previously unimaginable. Its clients are corporations which can exploit that information to understand an individual's desires and to sell them things based on that knowledge. Facebook's data bank can in this way do empirically what Don Draper ofMad Mendid instinctively – it will reveal its users' moment-by-moment wants, conscious and subconscious, and attempt to satisfy them.Zuckerberg's genius has been to find a way to not only track and store all of that data but also to make it accountable to an identifiable individual, all in the process of "sharing". Facebook rightly makes great capital of its uniquely "granular" privacy tools while whispering all the time about the liberating virtues of total transparency and openness. In this it shares a philosophy with its great rival, Google. As Sergey Brin, Google co-founder, once observed of the implicit contract of internet usage:  "If you have something you don't want anyone to know, maybe you shouldn't be doing it in  the first place."Given that its product is its community, you would have thought that Facebook's announcement earlier this month that it had signed up its one-billionth user might have sparked a rally in its share price. In fact that announcement produced not a blip in the markets, which maintained stubbornly that Facebook was worth less than half what it had been on 18 May. To celebrate the remarkable statistic that one in  six people on the planet was now a Facebook user, Zuckerberg noted on his home page another new definition of what his company had become. "We belong to a rich tradition of people making things that bring us together," he wrote. "We honour the humanity of the people we serve. We honour the everyday things people have always made to bring us together: chairs, doorbells, airplanes, bridges, games."This curious list, which sounded like it had been conceived after one too many hackathons, re-emerged a few days later as Facebook's first-ever piece of brand advertising. A&nbsp;commercial to be released in 13 key territories visualised Zuckerberg's extended simile: Facebook was like a chair, because people connect with each&nbsp;other when they sit together. That kind of thing.On message boards and blog posts the advert also appeared to suggest a&nbsp;quality that Facebook had never previously communicated and which is arguably the last thing an advert really needs: desperation. The ad was the work of Wieden + Kennedy, which is credited with the "Just do it" branding for Nike, but you can't help feeling its sentiment was Zuckerberg's own. The CEO likes to talk in mantras, and the one he has been repeating for a few years now is the apparently neat  idea that "Facebook is a utility". This then was his somewhat clunky attempt to show that Facebook's "place on earth" was now a fixture; it is literally part of the furniture.Is that true? Certainly for millions of its avid and addicted updaters it may sometimes seem that Facebook has become as fundamental to their lives as electricity. Existence without Facebook may be social suicide in those quarters, but could it really be said to have become a&nbsp;necessity? Zuckerberg, seldom shy of ambition, is placing his faith in the idea that it is, or that one day soon it will be. The share price depends on it. He wants us to believe his company will be not one communication platform among many, but will pretty much make up a&nbsp;global network itself. Zuckerberg has, until very recently, an enviable track record of being right in such hunches. And undoubtedly there is an argument that given both its reach and its financial muscle Facebook is here for good and that things can only get better. It may still be that the YouTube clip will be played to future generations in history lessons as the moment when the means by which they most naturally engaged was first formally valued by the world – and that after a summer of discontent its growth never let up. Or it may just look like the best of times for the social network, and that nothing of&nbsp;the future was ever quite so sunny.
Price £22,995MPG 61.4Top speed 126mphDear Martin, I've just got divorced and I'm in the market for a new car. I want something with great looks, that's cheap to run and that won't let me down. Any ideas? Rachel, by emailSometimes writing about cars can feel like being a relationship counsellor. We're in search of excitement, happiness, dependability, sexiness… All I'd have to do is replace the word "car" with "partner".Anyway, if you are back in the automotive dating game – maybe you have suffered  a domestic write-off and you're looking for a new ride – you'll be amazed how things have moved on.Take this latest family SUV from Mazda. Most new cars have a certain amount of carry-over from existing models within the range – baggage, if you like. The chassis may already feature on another car in the line-up, the interior may have been sourced from the group's parts bin. But this Mazda is all new. Untainted. Not only have the engine, transmission, chassis, bodyshell and styling never been seen before, but the thinking behind the drive train is groundbreaking, too.On the rear of the CX-5 you'll see a&nbsp;small badge that says: "SkyActiv". The CX-5 is the very first Mazda to carry the badge and in future all the Japanese maker's vehicles will feature SkyActiv technology. It amounts to a mission statement. While other manufacturers chase their tails creating futuristic hybrid and electric engines, Mazda's engineers have decided that there's still plenty of life left in the ICU (not intensive care unit, but internal combustion unit). You might say, that Mazda has rescued the ICU from the ICU! Ha… where were we? Oh, yes, so Mazda decided it was going to concentrate on improving existing technology and make its engines more efficient, its bodies lighter, and ensure its gearboxes were friction free.It's easy to make these sugared promises, but Mazda seems to have delivered with its CX-5. Two engines are on offer: a&nbsp;2-litre petrol and a&nbsp;2.2-litre diesel. The former boasts the highest compression ratio ever seen in a road car – this ensures that emissions are driven down, power output is pushed up and the minimum fuel possible is burned. The diesel, which I tested, is a real charmer – smooth, strong, quiet and responsive (we're back to dating).So much for the drive, what about the looks? The CX-5 is the first to feature what the company calls its "Kodo" design theme or "soul in motion". Not sure quite what that means, but it is handsome enough as far as family SUVs go and it has a pleasantly feline set to its chops. Inside it's remarkably spacious, with plenty of leg and head room in the back, plus an enormous boot. Handily, the parcel shelf can be stored under the floor – which is a lot better than losing it in the shed.So, if your relationship wish list features direct and focused steering, good grip and reasonable body control, along with a slick gear change as well as the ability to cope with a&nbsp;long run with the minimum of fuss, it might be worth spending a day test driving a Mazda CX-5.Can women save money on insurance?With less than three months until the EU gender ruling comes into force, women across the UK are preparing for the inevitable increase in their insurance premiums when they next come to renew. While the average car insurance policy for a young woman aged 17-25 currently stands at £1,959, the EU ruling could mean an increase of up to 25% in quotes for women, according to The Association of British Insurers.Autosaint, the car insurance provider for young drivers, has released its top five tips on how young females can save once the prices rise:1. Renew early:If your insurance is due within a couple of months after the gender ruling, it may be worth considering cancelling your existing insurance to renew before 21 December 2012 to receive the "gender discount".  Weigh up your options carefully: you could lose your no-claims discount and incur cancellation charges, so be certain the discount is worthwhile.2. Choose your car wisely:Choose a car with a small engine and don't buy an old banger - cars valued at under £1,000 will be likely to increase your premium, not reduce it. After all, they are probably more likely to have a fault.3. Occupation can make a difference:Occupations in female-dominated industries can help reduce premiums. For example, hairdressers and beauticians will have lower quotes than mechanics or electricians, as females are typically expected to be safer drivers. In addition, keep things simple. If you're a hairdresser, state it. Don't overcomplicate forms by calling yourself a creative hair manager. This can confuse insurance systems, causing them to default to occupations (such as manager) which may incur higher premiums.4. Be honest about mileageIf you only drive 5,000 miles per year, but state 20,000 on your insurance documents, this will significantly increase the amount you pay. Calculate how far you travel each week and work out your realistic mileage.5. TelematicsTelematics policies, which base premiums on how safely you drive, can reduce premiums by as much as 70%, compared to standard quotes. These policies include having a telematics box, installed in the policyholder's car, which will measure harsh braking activity, fast acceleration or if the driver is breaking the speed limit – all factors which will increase the premium on a quarterly basis. Drivers who continue to drive safely will benefit from the cheapest premiums.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
If theShifting Worldtitle sounds familiar, it is because the 2D platforming game started life as a range of cult browser titles, playable on the internet. Back in 2008 that series was namedShift, and charmed many who stumbled upon its stark monochrome visuals and brilliantly simple core gameplay mechanic.And as it was withShift, so it is withShifting World. For this 3DS version, there is only black-and-white. Black platforms are solid, and white serves as a backdrop. So far, so ordinary. But, with a jab of the console's buttons,Shifting World's environments flip upside down, while black and white switch properties. To progress through the game, you hop between the dimensions of shade and negotiate increasingly elaborate and convoluted puzzles.Unlike the original games,Shifting Worldalso introduces the ability to manipulate the relationship between the second and third dimensions, which creates an even more well-crafted game that is full of challenges.However, it is more suited to the short play sessions that underpinned the design of the browser version. Played in lengthy chunks, it can feel somewhat repetitive. But if you're looking for a perfect distraction to fill all those little two-minute gaps,Shifting Worlddoes the job admirably.
This atmospheric first-person puzzler has more than a little in common with Valve's spatial-awareness masterpiece (and, really, thank videogames for making such an unlikely phrase into reality)Portal. Instead of firing wormholes to short-circuit geography, though, here it's balls of black paint to reveal geography, giving shape and perspective to an otherwise blindingly white and impenetrable maze.Also, as withPortal, it feels like the mischievous world-tinkering came first and the story was filled in later, though the tale of an orphan exploring the unfinished artworks of his absent mother is a fine fit with the game's hushed monochromatic feel.Not that it stays monochromatic. Feeling a path with paint is just the first stage of what builds into an ever more complex set of puzzling scenarios – spreading climbable vines through an abandoned castle by firing giant drops of water, using a glowing ball to light a path through a dangerous shadowy forest, and eventually building blocks, steps and towers to negotiate taxing 3D obstacles.It's wonderfully inventive and, being a downloadable title, relatively short, which means none of the various mechanics feels over-used. Critically, despite requiring the occasional bit of nimble jump-and-dash co-ordination, the game is rarely frustrating, makingThe Unfinished Swanan ingenious, challenging joy.
Dishonored, Xbox 360, PS3 &amp; PCAs bodyguard to the empress, the only thing worse than seeing her killed in front of you is that everyone thinks you did it.In Dishonored, revenge is a dish best served piping hot, and after escaping death row, your job is to turn the tables on those responsible. Taking place in Dunwall, a grimily beautiful playground styled in the now contemporary classic look of steampunk, filled with decaying architecture and plague-ridden slums, you come to inhabit its interstices from sewer to rooftop. Approaching each task is deliciously open-ended, letting you infiltrate by possessing a fish and swimming in, dropping in through a skylight, or doing a favour for someone who makes the whole problem go away. The interplay of buildings, alert guards and your increasing battery of weapons and supernatural powers make the missions into a series of fascinating, immersive experiments that get you deeper into a conspiracy at least as unsavoury as the one that put you in prison. Dishonored is a wonderful, black-hearted joy.Bethesda, £24.99-£34.99Forza Horizon, Xbox 360Somebody at Microsoft clearly thought the classic game of Forza was looking a little starchy because this update has steeped itself in standard-issue marketing department cool, with three in-car radio stations and the Horizon festival which, if it weren't for the cars, would look simply like a massive party. Taking place in a microcosm of Colorado, with gently winding roads giving way to mountain passes and muddy shortcuts, the reinvention isn't all cosmetic; you drive between events, and every drift, near miss and flattened road sign earns you more popularity at the festival. Naturally, what really matters is driving cars as fast as possible and, whether that's on a track or its lightly populated public roads, the sense of power and momentum make for an intense and hugely satisfying workout for armchair petrol-heads. Some of the characters can be cloying and its multiplayer modes may not win any awards,  but the driving feels absolutely brilliant.Microsoft, £39.99Games newsSkylanders: GiantsMarkus "Notch" Persson, the man behind runaway indie hit Minecraft, has a new project, the mysteriously entitled0x10c, a space adventure simulator where he wants your ship to have a crumbling, Sellotaped-together feel inspired by watching Firefly. "Nothing in the game is fun right now," he admits, indicating a long gestation period.Shorter-term good news from Capcom, which will releaseResident Evil 6's first downloadable content free, with an extra-hard difficulty level and Ada Wong's campaign, and both of those without having to plough through everything else to unlock them.Games out this week includeDance Central 3(Kinect for Xbox), enabling two-player dance-offs; Activision's merchandise-shifting answer to Pokémon,Skylanders: Giants(Xbox, PS3, Wii, 3DS) andJames Bond: 007 Legends(Xbox, PS3, PC), which lets you play six strangely non-classic Bond missions.
You'll have seen this one around the place. It looks, at first glance anyway, a little bit like a Bentley from the front. But then the more you see of it, and the more you&nbsp;look, the less like a Bentley it becomes. It's brasher, louder, cheaper, more American. Actually, on this, the car's second incarnation, the grille is less like a Bentley's; it's been replaced by a more American one. The car has lost some of its distinguished looks.It is still distinctive, though, with its high sides and squat windows, there's a certain badassness about it, the kind of car you can possibly imagine a Chicago gangster driving, or cruising along The Strip in Vegas. Maybe the rear window lowers, the muzzle of a semi-automatic weapon appears, pow pow pow, the window is raised as the car speeds off to the sound and smell of burning rubber...Here, parked on my Victorian London terrace, it just looks ridiculous. Itisridiculous, and it's embarrassing. It's too big, it doesn't fit. And it's too big driving around town, too. It's vast, a proper tank.On the open road it makes a&nbsp;bit more sense – powerful, easy, comfortable, big. You get a real sense of momentum in it, the feeling it will carry on, for ever, in a straight line, on a straight road… in America, where it belongs. And where this kind of vulgarity is acceptable. And where the 28th amendment to the constitution protects an individual's right to burn oil, no matter what the&nbsp;cost to the planet.OK, so in Europe it comes with a V6 diesel engine, but even so it's a lot thirstier and CO2fartier than the equivalent European (probably German) diesel luxo barge. The German will be a better car, too, more suited to Europe's roads, and&nbsp;more refined inside.So all the Chrysler really has going&nbsp;for it is its style. But looks alone aren't enough to keep a relationship going. Especially when they're not as striking as the&nbsp;previous model's. And when they don't stand up to closer scrutiny. Look at it, it's not really as badass as it thinks it is, is it? I don't believe any self-respecting gangster would really want to be seen dead (maybe literally) in one of these. No&nbsp;rapper either, or footballer, just as they wouldn't want to have a fake gold Rolex on their wrist.Because that's what this car is, a&nbsp;fake. And if you're going to not give a toss about the environment, you may as well do it&nbsp;in style. In a&nbsp;real Bentley.Chrysler 300C CRD V6 ExecutivePrice£39,995Top speed144mphAcceleration0-60 in 7.4 secondsCombined consumption39.2mpgCO2emisions191g/kmGreen rating3/10Cool rating4/10
When mourners arrived at the peace park in Maple Ridge, Vancouver, to pay tribute toAmanda Toddthis week, few could have realised quite how widely the effects of the 15-year-old's death were being felt.News of her suicide, apparently as a result of years of cyberbullying, provoked the internet vigilante group Anonymous to reveal the personal details of the man it says tormented her under an online pseudonym.It came in the same week that an American journalist outed the real-life identity of one of the"biggest trolls on the web"as Michael Brutsch, a man accused of posting sexualised images of underage girls and graphic images of domestic violence on Reddit, the hugely popular open-source website now considered so influential it recently hosted a question and answer session with Barack Obama.Does this represent a turning point in the history of the web, when the cloak of anonymity was torn away from internet trolls?"This has been a wake-up call to the people who participate in these online communities to really think through what their responsibilities are," said Zeynep Tufekci, of the centre for information technology policy at Princeton University. The events surrounding the exposure of Brutsch's identity, as well as that of Todd's alleged tormentor, represent a sea change, according to Tufekci. "People are realising they cannot afford to have this 'live and let live' ethos to what is posted on their site. I feel like this is a social movement on a par with the Arab spring."Brutsch, 49, wasouted as a prolifically offensive user of Reddit. Under the user name Violentacrez, he habitually published pictures of underage girls in a now defunct section called Jailbait. As well as creating forums under the names Chokeabitch, Niggerjailbait and Incest, Violentacrez was also responsible for the reviled Creepshot series, which published images of women and girls taken without their consent.A number of recent cases in the UK and Europe have brought to light a growing division in public opinion over the murky boundary between offensive online behaviour and freedom of speech. This month a Yorkshire man who posted an offensive Facebook message following the deaths of six British soldiers wasgiven a community order. In July, a Welsh teenager was arrested after sendingabusive tweets to the Olympic diver Tom Daley, but charges were later dropped.Adrian Chen, the journalist who exposed Brutsch, came under instant criticism from Reddit's moderators when the story broke. "We stand for free speech," said Reddit's Yishan Wong. "We are not going to ban distasteful subreddits [subsections]." But Chen, who works for Gawker, says the response to his story elsewhere has been "overwhelmingly positive"."I thought there would be more of a backlash about the story, but people really are willing to accept that anonymity is not a given on the internet and if people use pseudonyms to publish sexualised images of women without their consent, and of underage girls, then there's not really a legitimate claim to privacy," Chen told the Guardian.Aleks Krotoski, author of the forthcoming book Untangling the Web: What the Internet is Doing to You, believes we are entering a new phase of the internet age, one in which trolls can no longer pretend they are not part of the real world. "The rise of Facebook and Google ushered in an enormous number of people who hadn't previously used the web, and this has seen a shift in attitudes towards anonymity. Ten years ago people were used to having many different personas – at work, at home, with their friends."During this time, fewer people used the internet and anonymity was the norm. Now that most people have an online identity on Facebook or the like, anonymity is regarded with suspicion and associated with hackers, abusive commentators and scammers."A recent exampleinvolved a man who called himself David Rose, inventing a life online as a deaf man with quadriplegia. His Dave on Wheels blog attracted a devoted audience, but soon after it became an internet hit, Dave "died". His fans were left bereft, doubly so when the entire episode was revealed to have been faked, allegedly by a 53-year-old man from San Francisco."People themselves are becoming less and less inclined to be anonymous online because it is now associated with bad behaviour," said Krotoski.Chen is keen to highlight a crucial difference in the way the man at the centre of the Amanda Todd case was outed and the story that unfolded around Michael Brutsch. "What Anonymous did by outing this guy was invite a mob response, which is no more responsible than abusing someone online in the first place," said Chen, who investigated Brutsch for many months before confronting him and Reddit. He pointed out that attacking a website which provides the structure for depravity and non-consensual sexualised imagery is very different from inviting the world to attack an individual whose guilt has not been proven. The Vancouver man named by Anonymous has denied responsibilty for the bullying.Wendy Grossman, a technology specialist who sits on the Open Rights Group committee, pointed to other dangers if anonymity online is undermined: Outing Michael Brutsch is absolutely justified for public interest. But the Todd case is clearly complex. Say, for example, Amanda Todd had used a pseudonym to seek help from a women's forum online because she already felt too vulnerable to use her real name. She would have been entitled to that privacy."Krotoski agreed. "Privacy is crucial to human development," she said, "but it is more and more scarce now that so much of the general population is online. But what these last few weeks show us is that we're entering a new phase of understanding about what is and isn't acceptable."Amanda Todd's storyLike many 12-year-olds, Vancouver teenager Amanda Todd liked going on chat rooms to meet people. When a stranger told her she was "perfect, beautiful, stunning", Todd was coerced into flashing her breasts for a man she did not know. That moment of naivety would contribute to her death suicide three years later.The details of exactly what happened remain unclear, but Todd publisheda nine-minute video on YouTubethat explained her story via a series of cue cards.A year after the webcam incident, a man contacted Todd on Facebook, claiming he had pictures of her exposed breasts and would publish them unless she "put on a show" for him. He carried out that threat and sent her picture to "everyone". Years of bullying followed. Todd changed schools twice but the picture continued to be circulated, possibly by the same man, to new friends wherever she went. Depression, substance abuse and self-harm preceded two suicide attempts before Todd finally had enough and took her own life on 10 October. She was 15. Police in Canada are investigating claims made by the "hacktivist" group Anonymous that a 32-year-old Vancouver man is responsible.
We had an overwhelming response to our hangout on Thursday night on "Who controls the internet?" – far more than we might have hoped for, given that we were debating internet governance. The trick is to not use the word governance...Google'sDavid Drummondstuck up well for Google's position in support of the open web, which might support the company's business position but, he argues, also provides opportunities for the developing world. We need an open internet for innovation to flourish.Alexander Ntokofrom the International Telecommunication Union did a good job explaining how the organisation works. Why shouldn't the public look to their governments to protect them from cybersecurity threats? That's fine as long as you trust your government. But, he said, ITU proposals also reflect international law, so defused the criticism that some proposals would threaten free speech. ITU is subject to Article 33, for example.Alice Munyuafrom many places, but especially Kenyan government internet policy, was a much needed voice on the needs of the developing world. She said the internet in Africa was growing but still has low levels of access, with only 40 million users in Kenya. Trying to increase access to affordable broadband was still a big issue, and the ITU was important in helping this, but we should be able to collaborate internationally to deal with issues of cybercrime to protect the vulnerable such as young girls who might not know how to protect themselves.AndEleanor Saitta, most recently with the International Modern Media Institute, explained how the internet is under threat of militarisation, so how can we trust governments to protect us when they are simultaneously engaging in cyber-sabotage and surveillance – sometimes against their own citizens? No single organisation, she says, can impose a top down governance on the internet because it is a self-organising network.Is it in the interest of the public that the internet is fragmented into political, corporate or ethical sub-domains? The answer was equivocal – the internet must stay together. That's one valuable conclusion on a debate that ended on a high. The goose that laid the golden egg is safe for now.
In case you haven't seen it yet, here's the new trailer for Halo 4, produced by Hollywood's David Fincher and directed by Tim Miller. It's a two-minute backstory for lead character Master Chief, with a few glimpses of the new aliens he'll be facing in the latest title.We're seeing lots more of these cinematic teasers, with both film and game footage, but it's especially relevant here as Microsoft is accompanying the release of the sci-fi shooter with an episodic live-action series,Forward Unto Dawn.Anyway, have a look and see if it gets you all excited for the release on 6 November.
Google is in a showdown with the French government over proposals to make search engines pay a charge for each link to French newspaper content.Google is threatening to exclude French media sites from its search results if Paris goes ahead with the plan for such sites to receive a commission fee each time they are referenced.It is the latest in a series of confrontations between the US company and European governments. This year German politicians examined draft legislation for a similar scheme of commission fees for newspapers sites. Editors claim the search engine is benefiting from advertising opportunities that are being lost to their sites.Last month a group of leading French newspaper publishers called on the government to adopt a law that would force search engines to pay copyright fees for links in their results. For example, if a Google search about the French president, François Hollande, returned a list of articles by the newspapers Le Figaro or Les Echos, Google would have to pay a commission fee for displaying those links.Google executives met government representatives in Paris on Friday. In a letter to ministers obtained by Agence France Presse, Google said such a law would "threaten its very existence", and it would be forced to stop referencing any French media at all.The letter, later published on Google'sEurope blog, said the search engine redirected 4bn clicks a month to French media sites. It said making search engines pay for directing people to news websites was like "asking a taxi driver to pay for taking a customer to a restaurant". It said the proposed law would limit people's access to information.Aurelie Filippetti, the French culture minister, who is in favour of measures to help the struggling French media, questioned the tone of Google's letter. "You don't deal with a democratically elected government with threats," she told Agence France Presse.In aneditorial, Laurent Joffrin, editor of the news weekly Le Nouvel Observateur, accused Google of "straightforward blackmail" of the government and likened the company to a modern-day feudal lord.
Let's begin with a quiz. What was the Christmas No 1 in 2005? The correct answer is Need For Speed: Most Wanted. If you yelled out, "Shayne Ward – That's My Goal", then apologies; that's never a dignified thing to do. It's also the wrong answer.The videogame that tops the charts at Christmas remains a less culturally significant achievement than its pop equivalent, but – with the biggest games mostly being released in the last few months of the year – it's an important indication of the franchises that really matter. Need For Speed claimed the crown for two years running (Most Wanted's predecessor was No 1 in 2004). In terms of sales, it's the most successful driving series ever, selling in excess of 100m copies, around 10m ahead of the various iterations ofMario Kart, its closest rival.But Need For Speed's star has faded in recent years. The series became increasingly uninspired and sales dipped. It still shifts games, but since 2006's Need For Speed: Carbon, they've failed to generate anything like the excitement they once did. The obvious question is "why?", and the simple answer is that the team making the game was pushed too hard. John Riccitiello, CEO of the publisher EA, admitted tocomputerandvideogames.comearlier this year that, "We had a single studio, Black Box, up in Vancouver, building our [Need For Speed games] annual iterations. No rest for the weary. The title declined dramatically. It was our fault."Eventually, in 2009, EA decided to do something about it. It didn't have to look very far to turn its fortunes around. A benefit of running one of the world's biggest publishers (coming a close second to having stacks of cash) is that Riccitiello has a portfolio of other studios at his disposal.Criterion, based in Guildford, was already responsible for EA's other successful driving series, Burnout. If any team could revitalise the ailing Need For Speed franchise, it was Criterion. The game they produced, Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit, was released in late 2010 and instantly repositioned the series as a critical darling, winning awards, including a Bafta, and becoming the best-reviewed game in the franchise. Need For Speed was back. It only lasted 12 months.At the time, EA was using an arrangement much like the one Activision employs forCall Of Duty. Instead of asking one studio to unveil a new game every year, it employs two, allowing for a 24-month development cycle. The theory is that with extra time available, the developers aren't rushed, and the games are better.'With Most Wanted, you have friends at the centre of everything. You can instantly see who's fastest past every speed camera' – Matt Webster, CriterionNeed For Speed: Most WantedIn 2011, Black Box, the studio behind the series' original hits, returned withNFS: The Run. It did not fare well. Where Hot Pursuit purified the experience by creating an exhilarating cops-versus-street-racers mechanic, The Run was a mess, incorporating clunky on-foot sections to its thrill-lite racing.It was to be the studio's final Need For Speed game. With the series apparently back on track, only to suffer this new setback, EA made Criterion the lead studio and last month moved to replaced Black Box with a new studio based in Gothenburg.Now it's over to Criterion to lead the way. Matt Webster, executive producer of Criterion's games, is in no doubt as to why the studio will succeed where its predecessor failed. "It's about not being afraid to change your mind," he says. "A lot of games will have a cut-off point, but we will make change after change, later and later, because that's where the game takes its true shape. Ultimately it's about favouring the player. A dose of healthy paranoia, never believing anything is good enough, also helps."It all sounds promising, but it's easy to talk a good game. Steven Spielberg said he'd only make a fourth Indiana Jones film if it would stand up alongside the original three, and look how that turned out. This time, however, there's past form to back it up. Take Criterion's Burnout Paradise, where updates and new modes were regularly added for 17 months after the original release. That's dedication.Webster is clear on where the future of the Need For Speed franchise lies. "Players want to be social," he says. "The problem is, a lot of online games are insanely macho, competitive experiences that are scary to go off and play. With Most Wanted, you have friends at the centre of everything. You can instantly see who's fastest past every speed camera. Whichever of your friends has jumped the furthest as they've smashed through a billboard, we put their face on it."Twelve months ago, the chances of another Need For Speed festive chart-topper seemed incredibly remote. Now, that's all changed. Perhaps Shayne Ward should be taking notes.
Heard ofSongPop? More than 50m people have played the social music game across iOS, Android and Facebook since its launch in May 2012, and the game currently has 20m monthly active players.Those figures come from Mathieu Nouzareth, chief executive of SongPop's developer FreshPlanet. He was speaking at the Amsterdam Dance Event conference about SongPop's success so far, and its plans for the future.The game involves guessing song clips as they play, as quickly as possible, then challenging friends to guess them faster, like a musical version of Zynga's Draw Something – one of the other big mobile/social hits of 2012.Around 50% of SongPop's traffic comes from the US, with the UK its second most popular market according to Nouzareth, who added that 68% of the game's players are women, and 32% men.FreshPlanet has spent "almost nothing" on marketing, with its growth coming from a mix of word-of-mouth, app store promotions, positive reviews and a glowing recommendation by Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg on the social network earlier this year.Nouzareth said that SongPop has two key groups of players: teenagers and young adults who are guessing today's hits; and older players who are guessing the music from their own youth."We have a lot of mothers playing with daughters too," he said. "It's becoming a tool for generations to play with one another, and maybe have the daughter discover the music the mother likes, and the other way around."FreshPlanet is keen to work more closely with the music industry on SongPop. One example: the company has just launched an in-game promotion for Carrie Underwood's upcoming tour, which includes a playlist devoted to her music.It's the first of a planned series of artist-branded playlists, which will end with full-screen interstitial ads helping fans follow the artists on Facebook and Twitter, or linking through to iTunes, YouTube, Spotify and ticketing services.SongPop also shows iTunes links to players after every round of the game. "We're driving a significant amount of traffic to iTunes directly," said Nouzareth. "We've become one of the largest iTunes affiliates in the world today… We're driving a huge number of clicks: close to a few hundred thousand every day."Some music industry executives have wondered about how (or even whether) FreshPlanet is paying licensing fees for the music used in SongPop. Nouzareth said the game currently streams around 300m music clips every day. Although players guess songs in 2.7 seconds on average, there are still royalties to be paid to labels and publishers."We have licences with the big labels and publishers, and we pay them," said Nouzareth. "There is this urban myth that if you use a small clip, you don't have to pay anything, but it's not true."He also talked about the future for SongPop. "We think we've just scratched the surface in what we can do combining a game and music," he said.Coming soon will be updates boosting the music discovery features for SongPop. Nouzareth showed a screenshot of the next version of the game, which will display Spotify and YouTube links for individual songs as well as iTunes links.FreshPlanet is also looking to increase the social aspects within SongPop itself. "The feedback we have from players is they want to make new friends who like the same kinds of music genres they like," said Nouzareth.That means the game will start matching people with other players near their location who share their music tastes, alongside the existing Facebook connections. "We're not turning it into a dating service, per se," he stressed.SongPop currently has three main revenue streams: in-game ads in the free version; sales of the ad-free paid version; and in-app purchases for virtual currency used to unlock new playlists and help on unknown songs (similar to the 50:50 lifeline in Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?)FreshPlanet has more plans. "We are also launching a new subsciption model: it's called the VIP subscription model, and you'll have access to exclusive content if you subscribe on a monthly basis," said Nouzareth.The biggest challenge for FreshPlanet, though, is how to keep growing. Nouzareth was asked during his presentation what he's learned from the very public growing pains of Draw Something.Social games analytics service AppData – which only counts players who've connected SongPop to Facebook – indicates that the game has beengently sliding downwards over the last monthin terms of monthly and daily active users. Is there a danger that the game has peaked, and is about to decline?"I think we are very different from Draw Something," said Nouzareth when questioned at ADE on this point."The emotional link people have to music is very strong, probably stronger than just a drawing. Building a social network and adding more music discovery is designed to address this issue. We are building a community of music lovers, and we hope they are going to stay in the game for a very long time."
I died for the first time in my friend's kitchen at university. Armed only with a six-shot revolver, I ran down the stairs of their student house away from two zombies only to go down when a third emerged unexpectedly from a doorway and mauled me, slowing me enough for the others to catch up. I went down yelling.That was one of my first experiences with live games. Five years later, as part of one of the games I help to run, 40 or so surviving players armed with revolvers, shotguns, axes, clubs, and (in four memorable cases) Morris dancing sticks with bells on their legs retreated away from a mob of about 80 zombies, many they'd fought alongside just minutes before, desperately hoping they could keep them away for long enough to get the doors of the mall open and escape. Heart-pounding, adrenaline-pumping, epic combat – the sort you normally get in Left 4 Dead, but for real.Live games – as distinct from board games, video games, card games and so on – are the sort of games you played in the playground as a kid. Some have more in common with sports than anything else, and are played competitively, while others have much more in common with improvisational theatre and encourage much more collaborative play, with winners and losers emerging more through story than through mechanics. There's a growing body of interesting games that merge digital and live mechanics –Johann Sebastian Joustis an obvious one, but it's a young field and more pop up every time you turn around.Live games is becoming an umbrella term that covers a lot of ground. At one end of the spectrum there's live-action role play – LARP for short – which can mean massive, weekend-long events with thousands of players and crew in full costume and kit. At the other, there are five-minute simple games requiring no kit or costume and working with a very simple mechanic - for instance,Punch the Custard, a fairly self-explanatory game featured at the recent Hide &amp; Seek Weekender.The games I help to design and run, withGrant Howittas lead designer, tend to fall somewhere between the two. We've been making games for more than six years, mostlyzombie-related ones, though we've been branching out into sweetshop-based heists and, this Sunday, will be runninga new gameto coincide with the launch of Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter on Blu-Ray.After a lot of experimentation – including a dramatically unsuccessful attempt to tell a story to players in the way Final Fantasy games do, which ended up with the players shooting at our main set pieces and running away – we always try to build systems that let stories emerge naturally from what players do. If you've played Day Z or Minecraft, you'll have had a taste of what happens when game creators let players decide how to act and what to do within a game world; we try to make that happen in real life.Admittedly, "real life" is something of a misnomer when you're trying to get people to pretend they're part of a zombie outbreak or defending a building against a vampire attack. The biggest challenge live games face is getting people – by which I mean adults – to suspend their disbelief, stop being cynical and lose themselves, either in a simple but often very silly activity, or in pretending to be something they're not. Live games – and this may sound obvious – also take place in physical space, where there might be other people around who aren't playing, so creators have to think about setting, boundaries and making a distinction between players and audience.It also means no flying, no teleportation, no disobeying the laws of physics, and no magical effects unless you can physically represent (phys-rep) them in some way. Large fantasy systems often have rules about kit and equipment, requiring people within the play space to stick to in-character props - no electric torches in a Victorian townhouse,no modern tents in Rome– which can also mean some stunning theatrical moments. A friend tells me of a small horror LARP he went to on an island, which rowed its players across to the site in a small boat. Halfway across, a scuba-diver in monster costume emerged from the water, dragged a participant – who was in on the surprise – into the water and then shared oxygen with them so they didn't come back up to the surface again.Other games use much smaller, intimate systems: Delerium, a live game set in a psychiatric hospital, used blinks and hand gestures as its main communication mechanic, adding to the sense of paranoia. Others, like the games we run, focus on tools that make actions feel as realistic as possible, but that perhaps don't look quite as realistic. If you're pretending hard enough it's possible to ignore things that don't quite look real, especially if they work right.So NERF guns and Buzz Bee guns are great mechanical abstractions, and cored foam LARP weapons that look like fire axes and baseball bats are picked for their heft and the satisfaction of swinging them as much as for their looks.People play live games for all sorts of reasons. We tend to find two groups of players at our events: those who come for the story, to pretend to be something, and those who come for the mechanics, to try to win. People go to live games with friends, for community, the way others play MMOs; people aim to test their skills, to master something new, to try on characters they might not otherwise explore, or to lose themselves in a moment of escapism and flow.Many want more than one of these things at once. But the rewards for playing a live game are often more visceral than those for playing a video game – the adrenaline and emotion run more highly, the skills much less abstract, the experience far more intense. Plus it's surprisingly good fun to play dress up, to test the rules of a game world, and to make something creative and exciting with your friends.And for me, as a designer, there's an enormous thrill in the stories that are born from the games we create. There's nothing better than listening to your players tell stories you helped make happen, excitedly going over the events of the game between them, lost in the retelling.Encouraging people to play together, and being part of the glorious experiences they build, is worth all the hours of debate, writing, wrangling, ordering obscure props off the internet and working out precisely how to program the zombies so the game balances on a knife edge. When it all works right, you get to be a tiny god, and the results of your creations are always so much more exciting than anything you could envisage beforehand.Live games are a hugely diverse and growing field, with a lot of experimentation going on – much like most other forms of game right now. But the main objectives for most games are remarkably similar to those for video games: make a fun experience through playful, fair mechanics, and often give players a story to explore or to create themselves. We share a vast common set of ideas and systems with video game designers – from social game structures and collaborative systems that encourage altruism to emergent and procedural design. Getting away from the controller is just another way to play.Forthcoming eventsApocalypse How?– a London treasure hunt, with various dates in October and November.Wink Murder– Gothic horror and parlous games at London Bridge (2 November)Skullduggery– Live action role-playing in the woodlands of Kent (next event 29 October)Empire Winter Solstice event– "a game of politics and epic battles set in a richly-detailed fantasy world" (March 29 to April 1 2013)LARP Camp– A huge range of LARP events and talks at Huntley Wood, Staffordshire (5-7 July 2013)Vampire Hunting Live– A two-hour live gaming session based around the movie, Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter. (Sunday 21 October)
It will be one of the most expensive emails ever sent, the one that sent Google's results to the shares regulator (SEC) four days early wiped $20bn (£12.47bn) from the company's market value. The problem was not that the results were released early, but that they were missing the context (and reassurance) of comment from Larry Page, Google's chief executive. And the stock market never likes surprises.Henry Blodget onBusiness Insiderpicked apart the problems with the figures. Some were small misses, like operating profit coming in at $3.95bn against a forecast of $4.1bn, but this "modest miss in core business" came from an unexpected drop in the price-per-click. The real problem is mobile – specifically Google's acquisition of Motorola which only generated revenue of $1.7bn on estimates of $2bn."So, there's actually some good news in here. Most of the disappointment came from a business that was almost certain to disappoint – the dying elephant known as Motorola. Google's core business, meanwhile, came in just below expectations."Kai Petainen onForbes' (annoying ad warning)  came down hard on Google in a hit-and-run analysis."A large portion of the funds that hold Google are concerned about growth in stocks, for their funds.  It's in Google's growth, that I see a 'red flag' ... That's not good. Google has had a remarkable run with 'earnings momentum', but perhaps that momentum is finally slowing down.  As most funds that hold Google are categorised as GARP [growth funds], this could create downward pressure on GOOG. Funds may want to trade out of a stock with a slowdown in earnings momentum and look for other prospects."Reuterswas asking how long Google's shares could keep hitting record highs. There's only one way to go after that all-time high of $744.38 per share on 5 October. Mobile is an area of concern because, as with Facebook, there's a challenge in shifting a web ad model to mobile, where's there's simply less space on screen and a different engagement pattern. But there's also a looming anti-trust case in the US and the EU too."The FTC is not likely to demand actions nearly as dramatic as the forced breakup of telecom giant AT&amp;T in 1984, but the constant threat of antitrust investigations makes it a more highly scrutinized company and therefore they need to tread more carefully than others," said Colin Sebastian, an analyst at Robert W. Baird &amp; Co. "It becomes a perception issue that could affect how aggressively Google tweaks its search algorithms," he added.TheSan Francisco Chroniclewas upbeat:"The search giant is still one of the most influential firms in technology. Our perspective is that Google is in a fundamentally good position," says Clark Fredricksen, vice president at Web analysis group eMarketer. "The company now holds more revenue than any other company in the US search, display and mobile advertising markets, respectively."Barronsquoted JP Morgan analyst Doug Anmuth, who sealed the consensus on the episode: It looked more dramatic than it was. Google has a challenge on its hands building up its mobile ad business fast enough to meet the levels of growth its shareholders expect. But it hasn't lost its mojo just yet."While still light overall, Google numbers are not as bad as they initially appeared ... Core Google margins were light, though at least part of that is likely attributable to higher than expected Nexus 7 tablet sales. We would expect Google shares to regain some ground once they begin trading again and we'd be taking advantage of the sharp sell-off."So not so bad, after all. Apart from the poor butter-fingered schmuck who sent the email to the SEC. That head has probably already rolled.
We're used to the idea of "peak oil" – that there's only a finite amount of that stuff in the ground. What's the equivalent in the computing field? Two of them seem to be happening at the same time: "peak desktop" and "peak search" – both of which raise serious questions for two titans of the business, Microsoft and Google, which reported their quarterly results on Thursday.Peak desktop is a big threat for Microsoft. It saw its revenues and income dip year on year, by 8% and 26% respectively, as a slowdown in the PC business (ahead of next week's launch of Windows 8) took hold.In the Windows division, revenues were down 33%, and profits by 50%, the latter to $1.6bn (£997m). Even though the mood music emanating from the company is positive, the reality is that the world is changing, and Windows 8 is Microsoft's only chance to keep up with it.That's because the world is shifting to mobile formats:smartphones have been outselling PCssince the end of 2010, and tablet sales (of the iPad and dozens of Android tablets) are rocketing in scale, so that this quarter they could be at least a 25% share of the worldwide total for PCs.And even though Google's Android mobile operating system is the most widely sold for smartphones, the search giant isn't immune from this shift either. The results announced prematurely through a slip of the finger at its printers showed that the shift to mobile is hitting Google hard too."Cost-per-click" – how much advertisers pay on average when someone clicks on an ad – has been dropping for the past four quarters, after rising for eight previous quarters. There's no reason to expect it to rise again.Why? Google explained three months ago in its previous results: "The decrease in the average cost-per-click paid by our advertisers was driven by various factors, such as the general strengthening of the US dollar compared to certain foreign currencies (primarily the Euro), the changes in platform mix due to traffic growth in mobile devices, where the average cost-per-click is typically lower compared to desktop computers and tablets, and the changes in geographical mix due to traffic growth in emerging markets, where the average cost-per-click is typically lower compared to more mature markets."Leave aside the currency issue (though Google's people played up the effect of currency fluctuations; less discussed is what sort of taxes should be paid on those foreign revenues), and you have the stark position: people aren't using desktops or laptops so much; they're using smartphones, and mobile isn't such a great advertising platform for search.Plus, the places where people are now going online just don't pay as much. The mature economies are tapped out. After years where Google's revenue growth is slowing down; "Peak Google" might be in sight.Certainly, some analysts think we've hit peak search – at least on the desktop. Ben Schachter from Macquarie Securities noted that in September, desktop search volume fell in the US for the first time ever.More and more people are using smartphone apps to find things such as restaurants or to search train times. Photograph: Fabrizio Bensch/ReutersAppy daysWe're all peering at our smartphones, or swiping around on tablets, and sometimes we'll even do those in preference to firing up a laptop. For a number of tablet users, portability trumps power, so they use them during the evening rather than sitting with a laptopEven worse is that "search" isn't so important on mobile. In the modern age, people use apps on smartphones: if they want train times they'll get an app that tells them, rather than searching. If they want to find a restaurant, they might search – or they might bring up a restaurant app such as Yelp. It's that closed nature of mobile apps that really has Google worried, just as much as it worries about Facebook.Sergey Brin, Google's co-founder, admitted as much while making the more general point about government threats to the web whenspeaking to the Guardian in April: "all the information in apps – that data is not crawlable by web crawlers," he said. "You can't search it." And for Google, if you can't search it, you can't sell ads against it. Collapse of stout business model.Be in no doubt that this is a serious problem for Google. Larry Page (his voice only partly restored after a mysterious throat ailment) insisted that everything is good, and told analysts that Google now has a $8bn "annual mobile run rate". That was contrasted with a $2.5bn "run rate" a year ago– but neither figure indicates how much is actually going into Google's coffers.Last year, Google only included revenue from mobile ads (but didn't say how much is split with carriers or companies such as Apple, which offers Google's search on the iPhone and iPad). For the bigger number, Google threw in the kitchen sink – gross revenue from mobile ads and gross revenue from mobile sales of Google Play content (apps, ebooks, music and movies). A big chunk of those – between 45% and 70% – gets shared with partners.Page is undaunted: "we are really starting to live in the new reality," he told analysts, "[a] kind of ambiguity of the [desktop and mobile] screens. Apps users really move from intent to action much more faster and more seamlessly. So I think this will create a huge new universe of opportunities for advertisers if they can focus on the platform."Talking about desktop or mobile wouldn't make much sense, he suggested: "advertisers will be dynamically adopting across so many different devices to reach the right audiences at the right time."You wouldn't want to bet against Page – who with Brin is one of the brightest minds around – but equally, it's a giant challenge to make this shift effectively without seeing your business model stolen away by a nimbler upstart, or even distributed far and wide among app developers.The same challenge lies ahead for Microsoft, which has recognised – like everyone else – that the future of computing is mobile. It began working on Windows 8, its upcoming version to be released next week, even before Windows 7 was released; and Steve Sinofsky, the head of the Windows division, could see the writing on the wall. Mobile is the future. But what does that mean for the PCs that have made Microsoft rich, and once the most valuable listed company in the world?We have definitely seen peak desktop – the number of desk-bound computers being shipped is gradually falling away. Photograph: GettyDecline of the desk boundA problem, that's what. We have definitely seen peak desktop – the number of desk-bound computers being shipped is gradually falling away. The number of laptops being made is still growing, but there's the hint of danger in this pause before Windows 8, allied to economic problems, and the fact that tablets are for the main part just cheaper, have longer battery life, do much of the same jobs (email, web browsing, spreadsheets, document composition and reading) and can include mobile broadband connections – something most laptops still don't.If we stop buying desktops and laptops, and if Windows 8 on a tablet such as Microsoft's Surface (which has the same sort of British-designed ARM chip as a smartphone) is just as effective, will we need PCs?It's as though we've been driving around in trucks, and suddenly someone discovered how to build cars, instead. But for Microsoft, which (if we extend the metaphor) has been making the fuel for those trucks, the change is a problem."A computer on every desktop and every home, running Microsoft software" was theoriginal vision. Well, mission accomplished, Mr Gates. Now, though, Windows is less of a force than before: the Windows division brought in $3.2bn in revenues in the past quarter, which is dwarfed by the $9.2bn Apple got from iPads from April to June (we don't have the latest figures; they'll be announced next Thursday) or $16.2bn from iPhones.True, that's not like-with-like: Apple's numbers include hardware, not just software. But Apple's model – sell hardware and software – begins to looks more robust in that light.But does it? Is selling hardware really the way to adapt to the mobile world? Even there, it's not clear. Only Samsung and Apple are making serious money in the mobile handset world; HTC iskeeping its head above water, just about, but even it is troubled.Everywhere else, handset makers are bleeding money – notably including Nokia and RIM, which show that being there at the start of the shift to mobile doesn't necessarily help. Both had smartphones, or smartphone functionality, well before Apple, and years before the first Android phone. Yet both have been left in the dust by the rapid changes.Is there an answer? A simple one? No – only that we have trouble wrapping our heads around the changes that are going on. Perhaps in five years, and certainly in 10, anyone who wants to buy a smartphone will be able to, even in the poorest countries. (Whether they'll be able to afford internet data is a different question.)We might think Google and Microsoft have problems, but we – and our governments – haven't even begun to think about what such connectivity is going to do to our learning, communication, businesses, civilisation.A printer's slip of the finger might have hurt Google's shares temporarily, but it's silicon that will have the biggest effect in the coming years.
If you've found yourself with a few free weekends in the remainder of 2012, don't waste them doing your Christmas shopping, or sitting in the pub with "friends", go to video game events! Here's our latest selection of recommended festivals, shows and conferences with a gaming theme. And if we've missed off the one you're organising, shout at is in the comments section and we'll pop it in.London Games FestivalWhen:27 Sept - 28 OctWhere:various venues, LondonWhat:There's still time to enjoy this month-long celebration of gaming, taking place throughout the capital. The always livelyMCM London Comic Con(26-28 October) is set to close things out in style.Hackfest TVWhen:26-27 OctoberWhere:Greenwich Digital Peninsula, LondonWhat:A fascinating get-together for transmedia makers, featuring talks and workshops and, of course, a competition to create new transmedia content using a ton of SDKs and APIs. The likes of Ogilvy Innovation Labs, Portal Entertainment, BBC Writers Room, Young Rewired State and Agora Media will be there. It's the future of television - and games!GameCity 7When:20-27 OctoberWhere:various venues, Nottingham city centreWhat:The annual games event that I will go ahead and call 'utterly unmissable to anyone who has even glanced with ardour at a video game' is now a week-long odyssey, taking in the usual selection of inspiring talks, indie game expos and amusing evening shenanigans. Gamesblog will there too, albeit in a reduced capacity, hosting one of seven different mornings at the Broadway Cinema cafe. I'll also be taking part in the Friday evening event,'Reads like a seven', which also features fellow Guardian writers Christian Donlan and Simon Parkin! You must also see theSix Sides of Terry Cavanagh,Proteus Liveand (added to this section due to popular demand)One Shot Left.ExPlayWhen:31 October -2 NovemberWhere:The Assembly Rooms, BathWhat:Now into its second year, ExPlay is boutique conference aimed at small studios and game design students in the West of England. It features a bootcamp to guide start-ups through their first project as well as loads of interesting talks and discussion events. It was in Plymouth last year, but now its moving to Bath, and is being sponsored by Edge magazine, which will be hosting a quiz on the last night. And you get to visit the lovely Assembly rooms, where Jane Austen no doubt discussed the state of indie game development in Somerset, while supping tea and observing the stultifying cruelty of Georgian society.Launch conferenceWhen:13-14 NovemberWhere:Birmingham Science Park, AstonWhat:Aimed at developers, start-ups and students, this friendly and diverse conference showcasesG the most interesting work coming out of studios and academic institutes in the Midlands. There's a huge range of speakers including Rod Cousens (CEO of Codemasters and all-round industry veteran), Trevor Williams (co-founder of Playground Games, the developer of Forza Horizon) and Jo Twist (CEO of UK games industry trade body, UKIE), plus, I'll be there talking about games journalism! This is a really valuable event for wannabe developers in the region, with lots of access to movers and shakers in the region.The Gadget Show Live ChristmasWhen:30 November – 2 DecemberWhere:ExCeL, LondonWhat:A new sister event to Birmingham's regular Gadget Show Live. It's a general consumer electronics love-fest, of course, but there's a huge games contingent, with Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo all showing off their wares, including Halo 4, Wonderbook and the Wii U. EA will also be present with its latest titles. Entry is £11 four adults on the Friday or £12.95 on the Saturday or Sunday.
Go into a big electronics retailer such as PC World and you'll find no signs that boast of the percentage of recycled electronic components a laptop or smart TV uses. And it's probably an arrangement that suits many in the industry, as they make their money selling more and more new components.However, a technology that is about to be spun out of Oxford University may change this forever."It is a technology that is going to fundamentally change the way we build computers," says Dr Mark Gostock, a technology transfer manager at the University of Oxford's ISIS Innovation. "And there are going to be a lot of people who make a whole lot of money from the way we do it now who aren't going to be happy when they hear what we have got."Chris Stevens said: "The PCB [printed circuit board] industry in particular has already made a big investment in manufacturing infrastructure and they are not going to want to change."Stevens is the engineering lecturer – and successful academic-entrepreneur with one spin-out already to his name – who has led the team that aims to challenge the status quo. Taking the science behind thePentagon's cloaking device, they came up with a technology that replaces the solder, pins and wiring of the conventional computer with Lego-like blocks of silicon stuck to a Velcro-likemetamaterialboard that can wirelessly transmit or conduct both data and power. Science fiction turns into reality, with wallpaper that links up the components of your entertainment system and computers disguised as wristbands."We saw the potential first of this technology because most people have been looking at metamaterials from a physics perspective, in terms of cloaking devices or optics, and other potential applications like this use of radio frequencies were seen to be niche, with little research excitement," says Stevens.Stevens says he even tried to persuade Microsoft to use the new metamaterial for its newSurface tablet, so that "you could put your mobile on the screen of the tablet and all the apps on the phone would seamlessly appear on the larger screen".  But it was too unproven for the software giant to bite.Watching the videos of the first demonstrations it is easy to miss the potential of the technology, as the copper-wire and balsa-wood test beds look more like something created by British scientists during the second world war rather than the future of computing.However, as the LEDs light up as they are waved over the wire and the data from a USB stick is flashed up on a screen simply with a tap of the stick on the metaboard, the potential for this cheap transmitting and conductive technology becomes clear."Right now we can achieve 3.5 gigabit-per-second data transfer rate and hundreds of watts of power – enough to recharge any number of mobile devices without loss of efficiency – but the circuits have the capacity for increased performance and the limits aren't really known," says Stevens.By embedding copper coils into a conductive layer of material to a form a kind of sealed circuit board, Stevens says "you can then produce an individual chip that has no legs, no pins and can in no way be damaged and which is simply stuck – even glued – on to the metaboard".As a result, rather than "throwing on the tip PCBs which could last for 25 years if it weren't for the six-months-to-a-year built-in obsolescence embedded in the product life cycle", the chips could be simply peeled off and reused in a lower-end computer, then again in a smart TV, and at the end of their lifetime, in a washing machine.However, Stevens admits that, "while I have already done a lot of the physics and I have things that work in individual bits to my satisfaction, it is going to be hard to convince a lot of people until I have built an actual carbon demo".And that depends on funds."If Samsung funded it, they could do all the hard work of silicon integration (which is what they know about) within a year. If I have to fund it out of academic research grants it could take three to four years."Stevens's work "displays significant potential to alter the current design, manufacture and use of electronic circuits in a wide number of applications", says Darren Cadman, research co-ordinator at the Innovative Electronics Manufacturing Centre at Loughborough University."By removing solder it offers a novel solution to the problems of reliability. The removal of the need for cables and wires is obviously a huge benefit with the increasing costs of copper and the multitude of electronic devices found in every home. Additionally the simple and cost-effective manufacture of the circuits means they have an excellent chance of finding widespread adoption and use," Cadman says.However, like Stevens, he acknowledges that "further investment will be needed to ensure it is robust enough for its intended applications – robust in terms of data rates, accuracy of data, range or proximity of devices".Warren East, chief executive of Cambridge-based ARM, which designs the architecture used in the chips powering almost every mobile phone in the world, agrees with Cadman that Stevens's work has a great deal of potential – but warns that "sometimes being truly groundbreaking is just not enough"."We have had a number of on-going discussions with Chris about a range of different technologies he has been working on to improve the reliability of packaging materials," East says, and in particular "the use of such conductive materials"."After all, while we can do amazing things with chips now, it doesn't make much sense making chips smaller and smaller if the connections using wires and pins are actually larger than the chips themselves and also unreliable."Cadman cautions that "while a lot of the ideas in research laboratories appear to be groundbreaking the challenge is always to get them into economic production". For every idea that makes it to commercial exploitation, "hundreds get no further than proof of concept as the need to manufacture chips in their billions reliably and cost-effectively is quite a difficult hurdle to overcome".Nonetheless, he says, "it's sometimes simple inertia that holds an idea back, and then they suddenly appear".3D transistorsare a good example of something launched with a great deal of fanfare recently but that have been around for at least 10 years."Similarly, people in the industry should be interested in recycling", East says, but at the moment "there are the commercial disincentives not to do so". Silicon companies make their money by supplying chips and "they want to supply more of them. If a quarter were recycled then it would mean less profit."In the end East believes that the goal of truly flexible electronics, where the whole computer is flexible and can even be worn like a wristband, is possible only "if we can do away with all physical connections and do it wirelessly". Yet "the people who are making the money now aren't going to want to be displaced".For Cadman, this wireless technology "is the sort of clever creative technology that Britain is so good at, and serves as an example of the strength of work in electronics design and electronics manufacturing currently going on in the UK".Despite such plaudits, Stevens is realistic enough to know that the success of the technology depends "on the economic gain of the cost of first manufacture and the motivation of manufacturers to improve recycling"."The problem is that nobody is making anything in the UK anymore. If we had our own research institute just down the road where I could pop in for tea then I believe the road ahead would be different."Gostock though is more bullish: "In fact it's a real case of Oxford University versus the rest of the world – and not for the first time."And with interest from some of the biggest names in electronics and chemicals from the USA, Korea and India, perhaps Oxford will win again.
With the PC market receding ahead of the launch of Windows 8, is this the right time to launch a new laptop? Samsung and Google reckon so, announcing a new ultrabook-style Chromebook laptop which will cost $249 (£155) in the US and rely on the search company's cloud-based Chrome OS.With an 11.6in screen – smaller than the previous $449 model – and based on an ARM rather than Intel CPU and with minimal onboard storage of about 16GB and 2GB of RAM, thenewest Chromebookis a fresh attempt by Google to attract businesses and users which want to store their data in the cloud rather than on their computer.In effect, thenew Chromebookis a laptop only useful when it is connected to the internet – and particularly to Google's cloud services. The search giant is offering 100GB of storage on its servers to go with each device.However, the new model does not have built-in 3G connectivity, though it does offer Wi-Fi connections.A3G-capable version priced at $330is listed on Amazon, which says itincludes 3G Service from US carrier Verizonwith up to 100MB of data per month for two years.Thehigher-end Samsung 550 modeloffers 3G connectivity as an optional extra.The laptop is designed to hook up directly to Google's services such as YouTube, Google Drive and Gmail.Google firstintroduced the Chromebookline in May 2011, and began shipping in June. Initially it targeted businesses, offering them for hire at $28 per month, though the laptops were also on sale for about $449 in Best Buy stores in the US and through Amazon. Those were Intel-based models.Now it is offering the new ARM-based models at a significantly lower price. Made by Samsung, it is less than 0.8in thick, weighs about 2.5lb (1.1kg) and Google says it will have about 6.5 hours of battery life."This is a big step in the journey for us," Sundar Pichai, Google's senior vice president of Chrome and apps, told journalists at the launch on Thursday. "I think it's generally an exciting time in the computing industry."The design of the product has already drawn comparisons from some commentators to Apple's 11in MacBook Air product. Joe Wilcox of Betanewscommented: "There's no mistaking the design similarities to MacBook Air, which can't be accidental."At the Wall Street Journal, its blogging team on the company's third-quarter resultsremarked"Google's new $249 Chromebook laptop reminds me of another prominent company's thin silver machines, but I can't quite put my finger on it…" and, with a picture, "this is the product Samsung and Google are releasing, months after Samsung got dinged in a lawsuit for creating products that look too similar to things made by Apple" – a reference to the billion-dollar award made against Samsung for patent infringement against Apple iPhones and software.So far Chromebooks have had minimal impact on the PC market, partly because they do not run apps written for the dominant Windows platform and partly because they require constant connectivity to the internet to be useful. Google has not released any sales figures or cumulative user numbers.Microsoft saw revenues and profits in its Windows division slump in the third quarter as consumers and businesses awaited the launch of new computers with Windows 8 built in next week. ThePC market overallhas also slowed down substantially while tablet sales have risen. Apple is expected to push that trend next week with the launch of a new, smaller iPad, while Microsoft has seen strong interest from consumers in its ARM-based "Surface" tablet, due to go on sale at the end of this month.
Friday! Tell us your weekend gaming plans - we demand to know!
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPlunging sales for Lumia Windows Phones means Windows Phone 8 will be make or break for Nokia &gt;&gt; Computerworld BlogsSales of Nokia's Lumia Windows Phone devices plunged in the third quarter, to 2.9 million units, compared to 4 million units in the quarter previous. It's now clear that unless Windows Phone 8 rejuvenates the company's sales, Nokia may not survive.Symbian is still selling well... better. And the Asha range is propping up the midrange. But Nokia is burning cash.'No free lunch' with Office on Windows RT for business, says analyst &gt;&gt; ComputerworldMicrosoft confirmed Wednesday that owners of Windows RT hardware, including the company's own Surface RT, must acquire a commercial license for Office 2013 to use those devices' bundled Office apps at and for work.The requirement isn't new, analysts said, and is consistent with current Microsoft policies related to Office versions designed for consumers.Windows RT comes with four touch-enabled apps - Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote - that combined to form Office Home &amp; Student 2013 RT Preview. The scaled-down suite is included with each copy of Windows RT, the touch-first spinoff of Windows 8.Surface really doesn't look like it's aimed at business, though.What's really going on with Color is a small Apple talent acquisition &gt;&gt; AllThingsDAfter some days of rumours:What's really happening is that Color's engineering team -- about 20 people, comprising almost the entire company -- is being "acqhired" by Apple at what's being called a "nominal" price of something like $2m to $5m, according to multiple sources familiar with both sides of the situation. To repeat, there are no "double-digit" millions involved, according to many people familiar with the deal.Apple is not buying Color's technology, intellectual property, domain names or liabilities. Those are being left with the company, which still has considerable cash in the bank -- something like $25m -- and is going to be wound down.Is there a joke about returning the money to the shareholders? The story says the team will be "working on cloud technology" at Apple, which is about as vague as you get. Color was initially a "social discovery product" and then a "Facebook-connected silent video app" and then was going to be a "live video app" on Android.The New IMAP in Outlook 2013 &gt;&gt; Microsoft Outlook blogIMAP is an important protocol for many of Outlook's customers, and we've heard from many of you that Outlook's IMAP support is not at the level of quality that you expect from a product like Outlook. We heard your feedback, and this release we made a significant investment in IMAP.That's cheering you can hear.Op-Ed: prepare for Windows 8-induced user rage &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaSean Gallagher lent his machine with Windows 8 and Office 2013 to his wife:I wasn't handing Windows 8 to a tech novice. My wife is the textbook definition of an information worker, and she spends a good deal of time helping out both colleagues and customers with tech issues. But the Start screen and settings were Chinese finger traps to her, and the navigation between "Desktop" and Metro was maddening.And while she kept mostly to the safe path within Word 2013, she found it just different enough to drive her nuts. The same was true of the browser experience. Some Web application editing controls simply didn't function well. The changes in the browser interface were less than intuitive--"How do I change the search engine? How do I bookmark this?," she had to ask. While she eventually managed to get done what she needed to do, I could tell I was going to be paying for the experience for the next week at a minimum. There were several accusations of cruelty.Going to be interesting to see how this one pans out.Sandman Pricing &gt;&gt; ongoingTim Bray gets hit by customer-sensing pricing:So maybe it's a lit­tle un­clear ex­actly who is doing the dirty work here, but it's still ob­vi­ously true that when I shop that Ama­zon, I'm being ripped off.I re­al­ized that I'd en­joyed [the book Sandman] Slim's com­pany and the dark sparkle of the con­ver­sa­tion so much that I'd ig­nore the silly back story and car­toon the­ol­ogy and give the se­quels a try. I'm glad I did, be­cause they're ter­rific fun.But then I no­ticed peo­ple talk­ing about how the book was on sale cheap, like for 99¢; I'd paid a lot more.Experimenting with two browsers, one signed in and one not, exposes this.Witch killing and the rule of law in Africa &gt;&gt; Institute for Ethics and Emerging TechnologiesMeanwhile, outside the filter bubble:The killing of persons accused of witchcraft continues to take place in different parts of Africa despite the existence of enabling laws and human rights mechanisms.Occasionally there are arrests, prosecutions and conviction of witch killers. But that has not brought this murderous campaign to an end. Alleged witches in Africa are at risk of being attacked, tortured or lynched with impunity by mobs. This regional calamity continues to spread.The details given are truly scary.Smartphones, tablets causing the IT supply chain to fall into imbalance &gt;&gt; DigitimesThe rapid growths of the smartphone and tablet markets have started to impact demand in other industries such as desktops, notebooks, and digital still cameras (DSC), while causing resources in the two markets to accumulate among only a few major vendors such as Apple and Samsung Electronics. Sources from the upstream supply chain are concerned that ecosystem is gradually turning to imbalance and will soon face a crisis for over relying on only a few clients.Digitimes is getting all existential. But it's a valid point: in value terms, smartphones are rapidly overtaking PCs. And Samsung, which is the biggest in this market, doesn't give much value to outside contractors.3D printing to transform the economy, UK report claims &gt;&gt; Phys.orgRadical thinking will be required if government policy is to keep pace with the development of the technology. The report raises serious concerns about the UK's readiness to cope with 3D printing, including the need for a more flexible intellectual property system, incentives for investors and designers and the need for regulation so that the Government can prevent 3D printers being used to produce guns and illegal objects.Andrew Sissons, report co-author and researcher at the Big Innovation Centre, said: "3D printing will place major strains on laws and government policy in the UK. The Government must begin planning a policy framework for 3D printing, one which promotes innovation and prepares the ground for a mass market in 3D printing."Samsung Electronics (UK) Ltd v Apple Inc [2012] EWCA Civ 1339 (18 October 2012) &gt;&gt; BailliThe judges' decision, led by Sir Robin Jacob, on whether Apple should have to advertise that Samsung didn't infringe its iPad design:Given the massive publicity of HHJ Birss's "not as cool" judgment, if there had been nothing else I would not have let the order he made come into force. Events had made it unnecessary.But I have come to the firm conclusion that such an order is necessary now. The decision of the [German] Oberlandesgericht received much publicity. What was the ordinary consumer, or the marketing department of a potential Samsung customer to make of it? On the one hand the media said Samsung had won, on the other the media were saying that Apple had a German Europe-wide injunction. Real commercial uncertainty was thereby created. A consumer might well think "I had better not buy a Samsung - maybe it's illegal and if I buy one it may not be supported". A customer (and I include its legal department) might well wonder whether, if it bought Samsung's 7.7 it might be in trouble before the German courts. Safest thing to do either way is not to buy.And this is where going to court can backfire in the most enormous way. If Apple hadn't been pursuing a separate case in Germany, and if His Honour Judge Birss hadn't been sitting in a Community-wide court, it wouldn't have mattered. Now, unless Apple appeals this further, it's going to be stuck spending money talking about a rival's product.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Microsoft has suffered a worse than expected 24% fall in profits, but chief executive Steven Ballmer countered by promising a "new era" for the world's largest software company as it prepares to fight for a share of the mobile computing goldrush with next week's launch of Windows 8.Wall Street was braced for a contraction after news that PC sales were down 8% in a quarter as consumer spending switches from the desktop to tablets and phones.Microsoft obliged by announcing a year-on-year fall in first quarter profits before tax from $7.3bn (£4.5bn) to $5.5bn and revenues of $16 billion, the lowest reported since March 2010. Income from its Windows division fell to $3.2bn, the worst performance in three years.The best selling software's most radical redesign since Windows 95 has seen its interface reinvented for the touch screen, and its arrival today will be accompanied by the launch of the Surface tablet, Microsoft's answer to the iPad."The launch of Windows 8 is the beginning of a new era at Microsoft," said Ballmer. "Investments we've made over a number of years are now coming together to create a future of exceptional devices and services."On Monday 29 October, Microsoft will make a concerted push into the smartphone industry with the unveiling of Windows Phone 8. Its arrival will be followed in November by new handsets using the operating system from Finland's Nokia and Taiwan's HTC.It is an alliance that spans three continents, and to which the fortunes of all three companies are closely tied. Admitting the PC market was "challenging", Microsoft finance director Peter Klein said the company was preparing for the "largest launch wave in our history".Revenues from other divisions have held up, with sales of servers and tools rising 8% to $4.5bn, while the Xbox games console helped revenues from entertainment and devices hold firm at $1.9bn.The number of calls on Skype, the online phonebox acquired by Microsoft last year, rocketed 58% to 120bn minutes."Investors were not expecting a home run," said analyst Daniel Ives at FBR Capital Markets. "All expectations are on the launch of Windows 8 and the entrance into the tablet market. In light of the environment, the macro and PC situation, these are respectable numbers."Nokia will be hoping Microsoft's Windows marketing push delivers an uplift for its beleaguered smartphone business. Announcing results for the three months to 30 September, the Finnish group revealed on Thursdayit has burned through €633m (£514m) of cash in three months, with sales falling by 20% in a year, thanks to sluggish demand for its smartphones and a near €1bn collapse in takings from China.Nokia has spent almost a third of its cash reserves in 12 months, and has €3.6bn left to fund its transformation into a smartphone maker capable of competing with Apple and Samsung. At its current rate of spending, those reserves will have vanished by March 2014."The big investor concern is that Nokia might run out of cash before Windows phone builds a successful following," said analyst Mark Sue at RBC Capital markets.Nokia has lost almost 90% of its value since Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007. Yesterday it reported its sixth straight quarter of losses since dumping its own Symbian phone software and adopting Microsoft's Windows Phone.Third quarter sales fell to €7.2bn, better than analysts were forecasting but down from nearly £9bn in the third quarter of 2011, as smartphone shipments withered by 10m to 6.3m units. Overall shipments fell 22% to 83m, with only 300,000 phones sold in North America.Shipments of Lumia smartphones fell to 2.9m units from 4m in the second quarter.Customers have stayed away because only the new Lumia models, which Elop confirmed would be released in a "select" number of markets in November, will be able to run Windows 8.The decision to push Lumia in just a few markets before Christmas means Nokia can concentrate its marketing firepower, but the company warned fourth quarter smartphone volumes would not see the usual seasonal uplift.There was a silver lining in the form of a turnaround at Nokia Siemens Networks. The telecoms equipment maker swung back into profit after making more than 14,000 job cuts to concentrate on mobile rather than fixed line networks.Nokia will benefit from the fact that mobile networks are keen to see an alternative to Android and Apple emerge, Elop said. "We are seeing increasing concern among operators about the concentration of power that is landing with two particular ecosystems that are out there today," he told analysts on a conference call. "You are going to see operators in the West beginning to say we need a third ecosystem."
It was the printer's error that wiped about $20bn from the value of the world's biggest search engine. Shares in Google were suspended after an accidental email to the US stock market authorities revealed that the company's latest quarterly results were far below Wall Street's demanding expectations.The inadvertent – and clearly unfinished – financial release began with the words "PENDING LARRY QUOTE" – referring to the company's chief executive, Larry Page, whose job, normally, would be to put the best gloss on the financial figures. But he was likely to be offering different sentiments after the stock tumbled 9% before trading was halted. After trading resumed the shares recovered slightly to close down 8%.Company results circulate internally for several days as they are being prepared for public release to strict timetables, normally under strict secrecy. Leaks of the figures are extremely rare, but on this occasion Google tersely blamed financial printers RR Donnelly for filing its draft third quarter results "without authorisation".Compounding the situation was the fact that Google's figures missed expected profits and a showed a big slowdown in revenue growth for its main search engine advertising business. The company had little choice but to suspend trading in its nosediving shares.The surprisingly poor figures also point towards the challenging future that has already hobbled Facebook's stock after its dismal flotation earlier this year: the problem of making money from mobile advertising as users shift from the desktop to the smartphone to do their searching.The figures showed that Google earned $9.03 per share in the third quarter – notably below analysts' consensus estimates of $10.63. Its search engine revenues were also below expectations, hitting $11.5bn (£7bn) where analysts had expected it to show $11.9bn (£7.38bn).Nevertheless, even Google's misfiring revenues showed 19% growth from the same period last year. But, critically, that was a substantial slowing for a business that had consistently shown revenue growth since the end of 2009, when the global financial crisis was at its deepest.A key reason for the revenue and profit miss seemed to be a fall in "cost per click" – the amount that advertisers pay when people click on Google's adverts. Google said that such revenues fell by 15% year on year and by 3% compared with the second quarter, even while the number of "paid clicks" grew 33% year on year.Advertising rates for mobile phone advertising are typically lower than on desktop computers – rates that are in turn lower than for printed media. At the same time, as noted by Ben Schachter from Macquarie Securities, people used search engines less for the first time since anybody began tracking data showing their use – because people are discovering new content via apps on iPhones and other smart devices. That also suggests that the widespread shift to mobile use which has affected Facebook's prospects is starting to affect Google too.Another concern for Google will be the upwards creep in "traffic acquisition costs" (TAC) - the money that it pays to external websites to direct traffic to its search engines. That has risen as a proportion of advertising revenue from a low of 23.7% a year ago to 26% – back towards the 30% figure that it saw at the end of 2007. The higher the proportion, the higher the drag on profits on a search engine. Those too may come from Google's mobile business, where it pays money to Apple for some positions on the iPhone, and to some mobile carriers.Charlie Kindel, a former Microsoft general manager who worked on its Windows Phone development, commented on Twitter that Google might have to start focusing on ways to make its free Android mobile operating system pay. He said: "Mark my words: a few more quarters like this, Amazon doing well with Kindle, and Google's approach to Android will quickly change." Amazon uses its own version of Android, stripped so that Google gets no ad revenue, in its Kindle Fire tablet.But Clark Fredricksen, vice-president of eMarketer, which tracks the online advertising business, said that despite the setback he feels that Google is in a strong position because of its underlying strength. Google remains dominant in search, with a 74.5% share of the US search ad market, according to eMarketer. In Europe, its market share is more than 95% – and the overall digital advertising market in the US grew by 17.7% in the third quarter of 2012.Fredricksen added: "The company now holds the largest more revenue than any other company in the US search, display and mobile advertising markets, respectively – and the company's market share in each category is expected to grow in the coming years. Particularly in the mobile arena, Google holds a commanding lead over all other players, taking home more than half of all US mobile ad revenues. The nearest competitor, Pandora, takes home less than 10% of the market."Meanwhile, a sheepish printer said it was "fully engaged in an investigation to determine how this event took place and are pursuing our first obligation – which is to serve our valued customer".Its shares fell too in the wake of the Google leak – but only by 2%.Tech giants lose their touchThe titans of Silicon Valley are beginning to lose their air of invincibility. Since Google's initial public offering in 2004, American technology companies had enjoyed an unprecedented run of good fortune, culminating in Apple's overthrow of oil giant Exxon Mobil as the world's most valuable business. But one by one, through a combination of greed, hubris and clerical error, the masters of the technology universe have been shooting themselves in the foot.First came Facebook's catastrophic initial public offering, when early investors cashed in their chips at too high a price. The shares skidded remorselessly downwards, and now trade at half their float value.In September, it was Apple's turn. The launch of the iPhone 5 lit up the internet, and sales have been spectacular, but within days of its arrival in the shops the company's chief executive Tim Cook had apologised for forcing a substandard mapping service on his customers. By giving Dublin and imaginary airport and turning Helsinki railway station into a park, Apple had proved itself capable of releasing a poorly designed, unfinished product. Now Google has made the same mistake, in the form of its latest financial results.Juliette Garside• This article was amended on 19 October 2012 to correct the title of Charlie Kindel. Kindel is a former Microsoft general manager, not a former Microsoft engineer as the original said.
Nokia has burned through €633m (£514m) of cash in three months with sales falling by 20% in a year, thanks to sluggish demand for its smartphones and a near €1bn collapse in takings from China.The Finnish company has spent almost a third of its cash reserves in 12 months, and has €3.6bn left in the bank to fund  into a smartphone maker capable of competing with Apple and Samsung."The big investor concern is that Nokia might run out of cash before windows phone builds a successful following," said analyst Mark Sue at RBC Capital markets.The shares rose more than 8% in early trading, before closing up less than 1% at €2.20 as bad news about handsets was balanced by a turnaround at Nokia Siemens Networks. The subsidiary, which makes telecoms equipment, swung back into profit after making more than 14,000 job cuts and reducing its product lines to concentrate on mobile rather than fixed line networks.Once the mobile market leader, Nokia has lost almost 90% of its stock market value since Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007. On Thursday it reported its sixth straight quarter of losses since adopting Microsoft's Windows phone software.Third quarter sales fell to €7.2bn, better than analysts were forecasting but down from nearly £9bn in the third quarter of 2011, as smartphone shipments withered by 10m to 6.3m units. Overall shipments fell 22% to 83m, with only 300,000 phones sold in North America. Devices sales fell in every region except Latin America, with takings in China collapsing from €1.2bn to €300m. A spokesman said this was due to a switch in strategy by Chinese mobile networks, which have begun subsidising handsets but are generally pushing models with a lower cost than those made by Nokia.The group's Lumia smartphones, which run on Microsoft's operating system,  declined in popularity with global shipments falling to 2.9m units, down  from 4m in the second quarter.Customers have stayed away because only the new Lumia models, which Elop confirmed would be released in a "select" number of markets in November, will be able to run the latest version of Windows Phone software, due to be released by Microsoft on 29 October.The decision to push Lumia in just a few markets before Christmas means Nokia can concentrate its marketing firepower, but the company warned fourth quarter smartphone volumes would not see the usual seasonal uplift."New products will ship halfway through the quarter into an overwhelmingly competitive and congested market," warned Geoff Blaber at mobile research firm CCS Insight.Nokia will benefit from the fact that mobile networks are keen to see an alternative to Android and Apple emerge, Elop said. "We are seeing increasing concern among operators about the concentration of power that is landing with two particular ecosystems that are out there today," he told analysts on a conference call. "You are going to see operators in the West beginning to say we need a third ecosystem."After Apple's mapping fiasco, he was keen to highlight Nokia's well regarded location services, and the company has now started publishing how much it earns from licensing its maps technology. Sales to third parties such as Amazon and Yahoo! were €180m in the quarter.Elop brushed aside suggestions that Nokia's special relationship with Microsoft was threatened by Taiwan's HTC. Microsoft chief executive Steven Ballmer made a personal appearance last month at the launch of HTC's new range, which the company is calling Windows Phone 8 as it attempts to establish its handsets as the truest expression of the Windows operating system.Microsoft pays Nokia $250m a quarter in marketing money, which more than offsets software royalty payments back to Microsoft, and Windows uses Nokia maps. "The fact that Microsoft has a critical dependency on us for location based services highlights the importance of this relationship working well in both directions," said Elop.
Twitter has blocked the account of a neo-Nazi group accused of inciting hatred towards foreigners.In what amounts to an unprecedented move for the company, Twitter announced it had complied with a request by German authorities who have been monitoring the activities of the banned far-right group Besseres Hannover (Better Hanover) for some time.The San Francisco-based company said it had used a device developed earlier this year to monitor content. "We announced the ability to withhold content back in Jan," Twitter's lawyer, Alex Macgillivray, tweeted. "We're using it now for the first time re: a group deemed illegal in Germany."The move came after an investigation into about 20 members of the neo-Nazi group in Lower Saxony, northern Germany, after they were charged with inciting racial hatred and forming a criminal organisation. The group was banned last month by the state's interior ministry. In particular the group, which is estimated to have around 40 active members, stands accused of being behind a threatening video that was sent to the social affairs minister of Lower Saxony, Aygül Özkan.Macgillivray posted a link to the letter the firm received from German police requestingTwitter to close the account "immediately and without opening a replacement account". In a further tweet he wrote that the company aimed to comply with the law as well as retaining its status as a platform for free speech. "Never want to withhold content; good to have tools to do it narrowly &amp; transparently," he wrote.Besseres Hannover has been watched by the authorities for past four years after drawing attention to itself through various anti-foreigner campaigns. Its account, @hannoverticker now carries the notice "withheld".Dirk Hensen, a Twitter spokesman, said the contents of Besseres Hannover tweets were still available outside Germany because the German police did not have the jurisdiction to request bans overseas. The group's website has also been blocked.The Hamburger Abendblatt described Twitter as "walking on a tightrope" in its attempts to preserve free speech as well as complying with the law, particularly in the light of the  Arab spring during which opposition groups made use of Twitter despite mounting pressure on the firm by governments to block accounts.It is working together with an anti-censorship group called Chilling Effects to publish requests it receives to withhold content, except where it is legally prohibited from doing so.
Google's shares have been suspended after its third-quarter earnings results were accidentally released early and showed a big miss against expected profits and radical slowdown in revenue growth.The results, which leaked out at 12.31 ET (17.31 BST), came out while the stock market was still open, rather than their scheduled time of 17.30 ET.Figures filed with the SEC began with the phrase "PENDING LARRY QUOTE" – clearly implying that the document released was not completely ready.The figures showed that the company had earned $9.03 per share in the third quarter – notably below analysts' consensus estimates of $10.63.Google blamed its printers for the leak, saying that RR Donnelley had filed a draft earnings statement to the SEC "without authorization". The company said it had ceased the trading of its shares whilst working to "finalize the document" – and said it would hold its earnings call at 1.30pm PT as promised.Revenues were also below expectations, hitting $11.3bn (£7bn) where analysts had expected it to show $11.9bn (£7.38bn). That was a 18.6% growth from the same period last year – a substantial slowing when the company has been showing revenue growth of more than 20% since the end of 2009, when the financial crisis was at its deepest.A key reason for the revenue and profit miss seemed to be that people are paying less in "cost-per-click" adverts, suggesting that the widespread shift to mobile use which has affected Facebook's prospects is starting to affect Google too. Analysts say that the number of searches carried out through desktop computers in the US peaked earlier this year as more and more people use smartphones for searches.
Theruling by His Honour Judge Colin Birss in Julyin the Apple-Samsung fight in the London high court is likely to go down in the history books. Because it's so fabulously clever.Samsung's tablet, Birss decided - in the role of an "informed user", rather than someone who has never seen a tablet before - would be compared side-by-side with Apple's.Here's part of what he said:"These products are sold to the public in shops and on websites. There is nothing in this case to make a side by side comparison impractical or uncommon. Considering the design corpus generally, Mr Sherman [for Samsung] explained that the idea of tablet computers has existed for a long time, and pointed out they had been imagined in science fiction, referring to Star Trek (from 1966 onwards) and 2001: A Space Odyssey (Stanley Kubrick, 1968). Item 2 in Schedule A is a display device from 2001: A Space Odyssey. Mr Sherman's view was that optimal design principles for tablet computers had been commonly understood for a long time and by 2004 it was understood that any tablet computer should offer unfettered views of electronic media by means of a large display screen and that the screen would be the main element in the design of any tablet. I accept that evidence."And just to show you what sorts of things judges have to decide over, the two disagree about how to interpret the images: "Apple submitted [that] the curves are on the front of the unit curving away to a crisp edge at the rear. Samsung submitted the curves are on the rear side, curving towards a crisp edge at the front." Is that a classic difference that makes no difference? But here's HHJ Birss: "If Samsung is correct the shape of the object [Samsung's tablet] overall is very similar to the Apple design. In my judgment Apple are right."And so it goes on, to that fateful announcement thatThe informed user's overall impression of each of the Samsung Galaxy Tablets is the following. From the front they belong to the family which includes the Apple design; but the Samsung products are very thin, almost insubstantial members of that family with unusual details on the back. They do not have the same understated and extreme simplicity which is possessed by the Apple design. They are not as cool. The overall impression produced is different.So Apple won - it's cool! - except it lost. And Samsung won - it doesn't infringe! - except it lost, in that it's been declared not cool.But he also ruled - and theCourt of Appeal upheld his decision- that Apple should advertise the fact that Samsung doesn't infringe, and do it on its website, in newspapers and magazines.Which leads to the big question: what is Apple going to say? (It wouldn't say on Thursday.) Neither HHJ Birss nor the appeal court judges has been prescriptive about it. It's not clear whether the advert will have to be approved by Samsung.So here's anearly suggestion from Forrester Research's Harley Manning:"I don't know whether Apple can get away with what I'm about to suggest, but here's the ad I'd love to see them run: Official Government Verdict: The iPad Is Cool And The Samsung Galaxy Is Not Cool."Well… Marketing might have something to say. But it's a start.. Potential slogans from Apple or Samsung welcomed.
It's time for our weekly roundup of new games for smartphones and tablets, this time covering iOS, Android and Windows Phone.The week's pick of new and notable games includes football, superheroes, music conducting, zombies, demons and baseball. A heady brew.Fluid FootballAlongside New Star Soccer, the iOS version of Fluid Football has been proving that there's room in the football game genre for indie innovation. Its Android port will be welcomed by fans, with its line-drawing gameplay as you plot the best route to goal for your players.AndroidMarvel War of HeroesOriginally intended for inclusion last week, this is a big deal: Marvel's stable of superheroes (including Spider-Man, Hulk and Iron Man) meet DeNA's Mobage social mobile gaming network, and the card-battling genre that's been so lucrative for games like Rage of Bahamut. In this case, you're building a team of superheroes and battling other players.iPhoneMy NBA2KThis is a companion app for console game NBA 2K13, but it's also a collection of basketball-themed mini-games in its own right. The clever bit is that playing this mobile version earns you virtual currency for use in the console edition, on PS3, Xbox 360 and Wii U. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadSymphonicaSquare Enix is having a crack at reinventing music games for touchscreens with Symphonica, which focuses on a classical music conductor. It wraps a proper storyline around the conducting gameplay, which features nearly 50 works. Individual chapters are sold via in-app purchase. The link above is for iPhone, buthere's the iPad version.iPhone / iPadGlobal OutbreakGlobal Outbreak is the latest game from location-based games publisher Red Robot Labs, following its popular Life is Crime. That focused on gangsters, but this has more of an "enraged zombie mutants" vibe, as you travel the world ridding the streets of the undead.AndroidSonic JumpSonic the Hedgehog returns to iOS, but this time Sega has him jumping upwards rather than running sideways. The game involves bouncing on platforms grabbing rings, unlocking new characters and power-ups, and beating bosses. And if all this sounds a bit too much like Doodle Jump for comfort, well, the game was out for feature phones before the iPhone even existed...iPhone / iPadReal Football 2013Shortly after its iOS release, Real Football 2013 has also launched on Android. Gameloft's football game has a hatful of licences, impressive graphics, and – new for 2013 – a deeper club development mode. It's also freemium, which should make for some interesting competition with rival FIFA 13.AndroidKnights of Pen &amp; PaperThis looks marvellous: an "indie turn-based retro style pixel-art RPG" that aims to recapture the feel of pen'n'paper roleplaying in the 1990s. Expect sackfuls of monsters, loot and dungeoneering, with the nice twist that you get to play dungeon master as well as hero.AndroidCarmageddonHere's a famous name from the days when a few red splashes on-screen were enough to get tabloids frothing about violent games (oh, actually, those days never did go away...) Carmageddon is a driving game with the emphasis firmly on the knocking things over and causing carnage side of driving.iPhone / iPadSumioni Demon Arts THD"You will be demon ink!" promises the Google Play listing for this stylish Android game, which is certainly a pitch I haven't heard before from a mobile game. It originally appeared on Sony's PS Vita handheld, with characterful graphics. Runs best in its current incarnation on devices with the latest Tegra processors.AndroidRazor Salvation THDAnd here's another Tegra-focused Android game, the first in a planned series of action titles that sees you saving the world from an alien invasion. Beefy graphics and destructible environments make the most of the processors, and it also works in stereoscopic TV when your device is hooked up to a compatible TV.AndroidCracking SandsMicrosoft is continuing its steady flow of one Xbox Live game a week for Windows Phone smartphones. Off-road racer Cracking Sands is the latest, which ditches the idea of vehicle categories in favour of a great big free-for-all where dirty tactics go side-by-side with racing skills.Windows PhoneSir DeathIf you've been thinking 'really, there aren't enough zombie games on the App Store, WHO will bring me another?', help is at hand from Gamevil. You play the Sir Death character, dealing lordly execution to the brains of hordes of zombies, with lashings of blood and freemium business models.iPhone / iPadHum This!Covered in more depth on the Apps Blogearlier in the week, this is a cross between Draw Something and SongPop that sees you humming assigned songs then pinging them to friends to guess the tune. O2, HMV and Ticketmaster are on board to supply prizes for the best successful streaks, and 30% of the profits are shared between charities Nordoff Robbins and War Child.Android / iPhone / iPadMLB Winning StreakThis baseball game is thus far only available in the US for Android devices. It's another Mobage-branded card battler game, this time with an official licence from Major League Baseball. That means the gameplay involves constructing the perfect team while playing against people online.AndroidFighting Fantasy: Blood of the ZombiesHere's another well-loved brand from a few decades ago being revived for the App Store. Ian Livingstone has teamed up with Tin Man Games to make a "digital Fighting Fantasy gamebook" based on the famous roleplaying books series. And yes, zombies are the focus here too.iPhone / iPadW.E.L.D.E.R.For all the console-quality 3D graphics and action-adventure games (and zombies) being flung at mobile devices in 2012, it's still hard to beat a really good word game for addictiveness. W.E.L.D.E.R. is areallygood word game that's just made the leap from iOS to Android. It's like a supercharged mutation of Boggle and Scrabble, with power-ups and multipliers aplenty.AndroidSuper-FluidSuper-Fluid has an unusual history: it's the work of a collective of young developers, gathered by Virgin Media as part of its 100 Day Game Project to make a new mobile game in... Well, you can guess the time limit. It's a puzzle game that sees you transforming between solid, liquid and gas states.Android / iPhone / iPadMonster QuestMonster-training is a huge game genre in its own right in Japan. Monster Quest brings the idea West, as you collect monsters and create your own to battle against others. Hundreds of quests and goals give plenty of depth, with its online aspects also spanning the globe.iPhone / iPadRobbery BobChillingo's Robbery Bob was great fun on iOS, and looks just as good on Android. It stars a "hapless burglar" called Bob, who has to sneak through a bunch of buildings avoiding guards and dogs while snaffling whatever you can get your hands on.AndroidThat's our selection, but what are you playing this week on your smartphone or tablet? Make your recommendations, or provide feedback on the games we've chosen, by posting a comment.
