A burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle's Loon balloon descended too soon &gt;&gt; Yakima Herald RepublicKate Prengaman:Google this: Where did one of the Internet giant's high-tech, high-atmosphere balloons land?If Google knows, it's not saying.But this much we do know — or at least we were told Thursday by the Federal Aviation Administration: It dropped from the sky Wednesday somewhere over Toppenish.An FAA spokesman in Auburn told the Yakima Herald-Republic that Google notified the federal agency the device was descending so that air traffic control could track it and ensure that all aircraft stayed safely out of its path.The fate of the falling device remains unknown.Part of the planned 1.5m balloon systems intended to give 99% internet coverage.Notebook vendors demanding price cuts &gt;&gt; DigitimesNotebook vendors have asked ODMs and component makers to lower quotes in an attempt to maintain profitability due to stagnant demand, according to Taiwan-based supply chain makers.Among notebook vendors, Lenovo was the fist to ask for cut, the sources indicated. At a Lenovo suppliers conference held in China, company CEO Yang Yuan-qing emphasized that reducing production costs is Lenovo's main goal in 2014, the sources noted.Curved screens make our brains light up with pleasure &gt;&gt; New ScientistPeter Nowak:THE future looks curvy. A spate of gadgets sporting concave displays has already been launched, and the big manufacturers will soon be hurling yet more TVs and smartphones with curved screens on to the shelves. Rumours continue to swirl that even Apple's forthcoming iPhone 6 will bend to the craze later this year.There's more to the trend than just a novel shape, though. It may be tapping into a deep-seated desire to get away from the hard corners and rectangles that have defined our appliances for decades. The craze for curves is also fueling a search for materials and manufacturing techniques that will help companies exploit it to the full."The first adjective used by people to describe curves is 'soft'," says Oshin Vartanian, a neuroscientist at the University of Toronto, Canada. "The story about curvature is a real story about emotion in the brain."Welcome to "neuroasethetics" - which involves fMRI among other methods. Have you bought a curvy TV?Apple's IoT 'Good Housekeeping' Label: MFi &gt;&gt; EE TimesJunko Yoshida:Expect Apple to beat Google to the punch by unveiling its Internet of Things (IoT) strategy on its home front at Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference next week in San Francisco.Apple will lay out a plan to connect a plethora of IoT devices -- light bulbs, thermostats, door locks, washing machines, refrigerators -- with iPhone. Apple's iPhone will serve as a screen to set up each of these IoT devices (since some of them are physically too small to have a screen of their own) and automatically connect them to the home network, after which the iPhone becomes the smart home's all-purpose remote control.EE Times has learned that the key to its execution is a wireless chip - WiFi, Bluetooth, or Zigbee - and an MCU, combined with a piece of software that allows each IoT device to be certified as an MFi (Made For iPhone/iPad/iPod) device.The beauty of the scheme is twofold.First, it's simple.Simple? That's going to disappoint a lot of bloggers.Google's Motorola Mobility to close factory in Texas &gt;&gt; WSJMotorola, which Google plans to sell, opened the factory in May 2013. A few months later, Dennis Woodside, the handset unit's chief executive at the time, said it would challenge conventional wisdom that manufacturing in the U.S. is too expensive.At its peak late last year, the plant employed as many as 3,800 people, most on behalf of contract manufacturer Flextronics International. Today, the factory employs about 700 workers who assemble high-end Moto X smartphones that are sold in the US, a Motorola spokesman said.Market researcher Strategy Analytics said Motorola sold 900,000 Moto X smartphones world-wide in the first quarter. By comparison, Apple sold 26 million units of its newest iPhone 5S in the same period."What we found was that the North American market was exceptionally tough," Motorola President Rick Osterloh said in an interview.…Late last year, Motorola began pursuing a new "value" strategy to sell smartphones at lower prices than rivals, a strategy Mr. Osterloh said will continue. The smaller profit margins may help Motorola regain market share, though they put more pressure on the company to control costs.Be interesting to see how Lenovo views the "value" strategy. (Subscription required for full story.)Are GPUs about to enter IT's mainstream? IT should watch carefully &gt;&gt; Freeform CommentUntil relatively recently most in IT looked upon Graphics Processing Units (GPUs[1]) as specialty technology with dozens or hundreds of cores optimized to run complex mathematical modelling and analysis, numerically intense calculations or for driving sophisticated graphics and rendering. In effect GPUs were for where conventional processors did not have the horsepower to solve specific types of 'scientific' problems that could exploit parallel processing. The implicit specialisation that this represented is, however, changing. GPUs are becoming general purpose, with so-called GPGPUs, and these are likely to enter IT's mainstream because of three separate yet coincidental developments which complement each other.Creating location services that understand you with Desti &gt;&gt; HERE Three SixtyAt HERE we recognize that the world is changing quickly and thatmapmaking must evolve. Our plans to incorporate Desti technology into our location platform is aimed at enabling us to better anticipate the questions people have throughout their day."At HERE we match people with the places that matter to them, so that they feel like a local wherever they are," said Don Zereski, HERE VP of Search and Places. "We want to create a new class of location services that implicitly understands who you are and what you're looking for, sometimes even before you ask."Though Desti is less than two years old, it is already meeting people's desires for unique travel experiences. According to theHuffington Postit's a "virtual travel agency that aspires to master human-like judgment and taste."Started as an iPad app. Unclear if it will remain so. (HERE is the maps division of Nokia - it wasn't sold to Microsoft.)IOS split screen a no-show for WWDC &gt;&gt; TwitterBrian Chen of the New York Times: "I've been told that the split-screen feature for iOS 8 isn't ready yet and won't be shown at WWDC. Still a work in progress."Windows Phone 8.1 now on over 5% of Windows Phones &gt;&gt; Windows Phone CentralThe Nokia Lumia 520 is still the most popular Windows Phone ever. That said, other devices are slowly gaining popularity and eating into the Windows Phone device market share that is commanded by the Lumia 520. About 33.7% of all Windows Phone devices out in public right now are the Lumia 520, followed by the Lumia 625 in the number two position with 6.7% and the Lumia 920 in third with 6.2%. The surprise is the Lumia 521 (exclusive to T-Mobile here in the United States) jumping seven spots to take the number four position with 6.0%.That's a huge gulf - the Lumia 520 (the low-end phone) has been Nokia's salvation (such as it is). "Others" - as in other manufacturers - make up 21.9%. Based on total Lumia shipments since 2010, that suggests there are a maximum of 65m Windows Phone in use.This striking iOS 8 concept reinvents the homescreen &gt;&gt; The VergeIt looks natural and in keeping with the design and functionality of iOS as it stands today, and looking at "iOS Block" for the first time you might be forgiven for thinking it's a leaked feature from iOS 8. The concept works by expanding your fingers on an existing app icon to get a Block with information like weather forecasts, calendar appointments, and music controls. You can then pinch it back to a normal icon, or place it permanently alongside other icons on the home screen. [Designer Jay] Machalani has created three sizes: iPhone, iPad in portrait, and iPad in landscape orientation. You can have multiple Blocks on a home screen, and the iPad versions leverage the additional space on a tablet display.Widgets, done in a Windows Phone-style way.BEA 2014: can anyone compete with Amazon? &gt;&gt; Publishers WeeklyAs the Amazon-Hachette showdown continues to dominate talk at BookExpo America this week, many industry insiders are wondering whether any retail player can challenge Amazon's dominance.Research conducted in March by the Codex Group found that in the month Amazon's share of new book unit purchases was 41%, dominating 65% of all online new book units, print and digital. The company achieved that percentage by not only being the largest channel for e-books, where it had a 67% market share in March, but also by having a commanding slice of the sale of print books online, where its share in March was estimated at 64%.Amazon and Barnes &amp; Noble are the only two book outlets that have a meaningful share of both the e-book and print markets, assets that are becoming increasingly important as book buyers turn more and more to online channels to purchase books. According to the newest figures from Nielsen Market Research, online outlets accounted for 41% of book purchases in 2013, while bookstore chains accounted for 22%.Google, Bing: time to junk these parasitic download sites &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWritingAnderson had to help out a friend whose PC became infested with adware after they downloaded what they thought was iTunes - via an advert on Google.Who is to blame for all this? Well, the warning signs may be obvious to those of us in the trade, but frankly it is not that unreasonable to go to your trusted search engine, type in iTunes, and click the download link.The blame is with Google (and Bing) for taking money from these advertisers whose aim is to get to you download their intrusive ad-laden extras.Apple iTunes is free software and you can get it from Apple here.Note that Google is experimenting with removing the address bar altogether, so you can only navigate the web by searching Google (which is what people do anyway). This would make users even more dependent on the search providers to do the right thing, which as you can see from the above, is not something you can count on.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The irony of social media is that it makes you antisocial. Instead of talking to friends, you hunch over your phone and tell internet acquaintances that you're talking to friends, attaching a photo that nobody will ever look at because they're too busy posting their own selfies to Instagram. Ditto social gaming, which has morphed from rowdy groups of drunken idiots shooting their best mates in the face inGoldenEyeor good-naturedly beating each other to death in Street Fighter II, to millions of people on their own in darkened rooms, silently killing avatars representing remote strangers on the internet.Video games were invented as a social medium. Tennis For Two, arguably the first video game ever made, ran on lab equipment and was multiplayer-only. Television games, the humble origin of the multi-billion-dollar games industry, were designed to be enjoyed with friends and relatives. Early-90s consoles were advertised with pictures of perfectly manicured families smiling enthusiastically into their TVs, and came packaged with two controllers. Saturn Bomberman (1996) let up to 10 cosily positioned players blow each other up in charming cartoon mazes, unleashing a frenzy of swearing and explosions few games have since managed to emulate.Even as games migrated online, many strove to retain the riotous in-the-same-room multiplayer experience. Halo can run on two adjacent TVs, giving up to eight armchair space marines the chance to blast the chops off those sitting next to them. Online,Halomatches take more or less the same form asCall Of Duty: you get shot before being informed of your mother's sexual activities by someone you've never met. Against friends in the same room, the invective is just as focused but funnier, making it part of the entertainment, not something you mute with a weary sigh.Sony's SingStar was another multiplayer gaming success, bringing the magic and tragedy of karaoke home, allowing you to pound out ballads without psychologically injuring fellow drinkers. But the apex of same-room multiplayer remains Nintendo'sMario Kartseries, in which races against your fellow animated go-karters are actually humbling, cheerful life lessons. A round of Mario Kart offers a very practical demonstration of pride coming before a fall, a cocky race leader sure to receive swift karmic retribution at the hands of the game's reliable comedy weaponry.Of course, online multiplayer gaming isn't all about competition and petty one-upmanship. World Of Warcraft's highly addictive long-term grindathon does let you kill other players' characters, but is more conducive to teaming up to fight beasts that would be too dangerous to tackle alone or planning complex raids on other guilds. People make close friends in World Of Warcraft – friends that in most cases they will never, ever meet. League Of Legends has pushed online play further, becoming a vastly popular spectator sport with prize funds running into millions, making superstars of its most successful players and teams. It helped catapult video game streaming siteTwitch.tvfrom relative obscurity to the brink of a billion-dollar acquisition by Google. But something's missing from this kind of geographically isolated online play. Sure, it means you can enjoy these games even when your pals aren't in town, and encourages the kind of epic, persistent-world gaming that never would have been possible offline, but it lacks the fundamental silliness of real-life interaction. Whether you end up playing Wii Bowling with your mates long into the night or find yourself plunging from pole position to last place in Mario Kart on the wrong end of a blue shell, getting together with people you love to partake in sports that don't actually exist is a joyous, foolish counterpoint to the serious-minded headset-wearing solitude of playing online.Mario Kart 8 for Wii U is out in the UK now
Price £16,999MPG 67.2Top speed 111mphHercules strides into the ring and strikes a power pose which makes his deltoids twerk around his colossal shoulders. Under the canvas ofZippo'sbig top he has already bent an iron bar and hefted a telegraph pole into the air with five people dangling from it. But the strongman hasn't finished with us yet. He tears his leotard from his heaving frame and lies on the sawdust, making the sign of the cross in the air. Drums beat. A&nbsp;4x4 comes out of the darkness and drives towards his prone body. His father's at the wheel. Very Freudian. Do it, we scream. Yes! It drives right over him! Circus life, eh? He has to do it again at 6pm…By coincidence, we too have driven to the circus in a four-wheel drive. Not a big chunky one like Hercules's dad's, but a new slimlineSuzuki SX4 S-Cross. The circus's man vs car stunt is the exact opposite of what today's 4x4 builders are trying to do. Land Cruisers and Land Rovers were all about thrashing all that had the temerity to lie in their paths, but these new light-footed "crossovers" are more accommodating. They want a working relationship with Mother Nature, not a madame/slave set-up.The Suzuki SX4 S-Cross, with its smooth DDiS 6-speed manual gearboxThe best crossovers combine family car practicality with sensible off-road capability. You get the fun of driving an SUV without the associated costs of piloting a huge technically capable land grabber. They are lighter, smaller, simpler, more efficient. They'll cope with tracks and trails, but not the wild. But, honestly, do you really need to?The champion in this class is Nissan's Qashqai – Britain's bestselling car. To be a contender Suzuki knew it had to bring its A game. So, did it? Well, on first impression it's not much to look at. It's not particularly chunky or sporty. But climb in and it soon grows on you. Having spent a week in its company, I'd say it's one of the most likable, versatile and drivable cars I have driven in years.Let's start where it hurts the most – your wallet. The SX4 is £2,500 cheaper than the Qashqai. It's available in a choice of four specifications: SZ3, SZ4, SZ-T and SZ5. It has a smooth DDiS 6-speed manual gearbox and can be in fuel-saving permanent 2WD or Allgrip four-wheel drive. There's also  a choice of sprightly petrol or frugal diesel engines. Step inside and you'll find a neatly styled, no-nonsense cabin. The simple dash is easy to use and the touchscreen infotainment and satnav are refreshingly straightforward. You also get a lot of standard kit: heated seats, reversing camera, keyless entry and a vast double sliding panoramic sunroof.Sky high: view from the 'likable, versatile, drivable' Suzuki SX4 S-CrossI drove the 1.6-litre diesel, which was as silky as the circus acrobats' leotards.Michio Suzukifirst got into business in 1909 making silk looms – maybe it's still in the blood. He must have been abstemious, too, as at the end of long 350-mile week, I was getting 60 miles to the gallon.It's not a showstopper, but this  SX4 deserves a round of applause.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.uk. Follow Martin on Twitter@MartinLove166
You will have heard, I am sure, of the Google driverless car. In fact, if you're a regular reader you will be thoroughly familiar with the vehicle if only because this columnist seems to be alwaysgoing on about it. The justification for this obsession is that the success of the autonomous vehicle project should serve as a wake-up call to anyone who is complacent about the superiority of humans to machines.That said, there was something oddly reassuring about the original driverless cars. For one thing, they were regular Toyota and Lexus saloons equipped with $250,000 worth of computers, sensors, lasers and associated kit. Secondly, they had steering wheels, gear&nbsp;shifts, brake pedals, rear-view mirrors and all the other appurtenances of a standard-issue car. A human "driver" could always take control simply by touching the steering wheel. So, in a way, you could think of it as just a standard vehicle with an autopilot.There was, however, one slightly unsettling fly in the ointment. It was revealed that the fleet of Google cars had covered over half a million miles on busy Californian roads and that in all those journeys only one had ever been involved in a (minor) accident. It happened when one of the cars was actually been driven by a human. The implications of this might not have been obvious to everyone, but if the Google vehicles were ever to be let loose on public roads, then one industry in particular would sit up and pay attention – insurers. One could envisage the day when car owners would have to pay higher premiums if they wished to take the wheel themselves.We now know that the implications of the driverless cars' safety record were not lost on Google either. Last week the companyrolled out its latest variationon the autonomous vehicle theme. This is a two-seater, pod-like vehicle which scoots around on small wheels. It looks, in fact, like something out of the Enid Blyton Noddy stories. Thepromotional videoshows a cheery group of baby-boomers summoning these mobile pods using smartphones. The pods whizz up obligingly and stop politely, waiting to be boarded. The folks get in, fasten their seatbelts and look around for steering wheel, gear shift, brake pedals etc.And then we come to the punchline:none of these things exist on the pod!Instead there are two buttons, one marked "Start" and the other marked "Stop". There is also a horizontal computer screen which doubtless enables these brave new motorists to conduct Google searches while on the move. The implications are starkly clear: Google has decided that the safest things to do is to eliminate the human driver altogether.At this point it would be only, er, human to bristle at the temerity of these geeks. Who do they think they are? Better, however, to calm down and try to guess at where this is heading.Here's one way of looking at it. Google is,par excellence– and to a degree rarely seen in industry – an engineering company, and engineers dislike the untidy irrationality of real life. They look at our motorised world and see that we spend fortunes on the purchase, upkeep and operation of cars that are usually driven by a single human, spend a good deal of their time immobilised in urban congestion, and much of the rest of the time parked in streets. They see governments and local authorities driven to distraction, if not to bankruptcy, by the costs of providing roads and infrastructure to support our motoring habit. They see the mortality, environmental and health costs of human-controlled automobiles. And they think: this is nuts.So, say Google's engineers, why don't we stop thinking of cars as possessions and start thinking of them as services? We all feel the need to own and operate our own cars because taxis are expensive, buses are unreliable and your car is available whenever you need it. But what if urban areas were flooded with Google's autonomous pods, each capable of being whistled up in an instant, using a smartphone which can detect the one nearest to you? It could pick you up and deliver you safely to your destination. And do so much more cheaply than any human-driven vehicle.Wouldn't that be a more rational way of organising urban transportation?Until recently, the question would have been moot. But Google's engineers have shown that it's technically feasible. They're throwing down a gauntlet to our political systems, and also to our own prejudices. Oh, and just in case you think that they don't know what they're doing, Google has a stake inUber, the company that enables you to hail a nearby car by smartphone. Said cars are currently driven by humans, but… well, you get the point.
WhenWatch Dogswas first shown off at E3 two years ago there was tangible excitement at the prospect of this graphically gorgeous, mysterious, open-world title, which offered the promise of hacking into the infrastructure of an artificial Chicago and its inhabitants.If the game can't live up to that initial hype it's no surprise, but what it does do is provide some novel tweaks to a familiar formula, and offer the hope of much more to come.You play as grieving hacker Aiden Pearce, bent on revenge for the death of his niece, and willing to use all the computerised tricks in the book to achieve it – raising street bollards to smash chasing cars, or switching traffic lights to send oncoming vehicles into them. But at its heart is the all too familiar structure of activate main story mission, cut-scene, go there, kill him, chase him, find this, finish, activate side-missions, etc. It has you zipping all over the lovingly recreated streets of the Windy City – and the addition of the on-road directions to the next waypoint are greatly appreciated – but there's nothing that leaps out as groundbreaking.Credit to Ubisoft, there's a decent variety in the type of tasks that can be taken on outside the main story and the publishers do have previous with disappointing opening chapters to new franchises that have gone on to produce superb sequels. BothFar CryandAssassin's Creedbecame progressively more impressive with age – and there's no reason to think Ubisoft can't do the same withWatch Dogs– they just haven't nailed it down yet.The car handling feels a bit too responsive, and vehicles a bit too tank-like, smashing through traffic with ease. Meanwhile, in-game avatar Aiden spends the entire time glued to his mobile like a distracted teenager as he looks for hacks to exploit, regardless of what's going on around him. In the age of Google Glass this seems peculiarly old fashioned – but at least that's in keeping with the game mechanics, which while hinting at exciting future possibilities (online multiplayer where you can hack into somebody else's single player adventure to cause chaos; a fully interactive, connected city; an app that lets you invade others' games), are still very much rooted in the rapidly dating model that began with GTA III in 2001.
WhileGroundeddoesn't quite breathe brand new life into the marvellousThe Last of Us, it fulfils the downloadable content remit by successfully providing dedicated players withmore to enjoy.The multiplayer component focuses on prolonging the longevity of the game with completely new experiences. New weapons emphasise skill specialisation over upgrades to existing kit and it's refreshing to see more unusual designs, such as the grenade-launching potato gun. Equally, extra perks and maps give players more options and more variety but nothing at the expense of the metagame.In single player mode, the addition is the titularGroundeddifficulty mode, featuring more aggressive AI, reduced health and the removal of the heads-up display. Checkpoints have also been retooled to appear less frequently, making late-game encounters merciless stretches of tense stealth, where a wrong move signals instant death. It is without doubt difficult, but struggles to balance challenge and frustration. Situational awareness is the skill to be mastered becauseGroundedwon't give you an inch.
Against the odds, Nintendo seems to have perfected a model of perpetual resurgence. While Xbox and PlayStation host the industry's blaring blockbusters, Nintendo's focus has turned inwards to its established roster of stars – none more so than dinky titan Mario.InMario Kart 8he's on wheels rather than jumping platforms, but the approach is the same – reformulating and folding the series' recipe back on itself to maintain an extraordinarily imaginative high.Mario Kartis still about drifting, weapons pick-ups and scrambling multiplayer, but with the kind of light-touch tweaks that bring out the best in what's already there.New weapons gel with the existing shells-and-mushroom line-up (and a sound-horn pick-up finally gives players a way of deflecting the infamous blue shell) while an anti-grav track design renders classic courses in free-form beauty. Flawless presentation – the game is in HD for the first time – rounds off a masterfully maintained classic.
Father's Day is coming up but let's face it, it's a celebration driven more by commercial pressure than a national need for an appreciation of dads. Calling your dad to say you love him on any day other than Father's Day will count far more. Expressing your love of machines, however, is a different matter: most people are entirely dependent on them, and yet expressing your love is seen as part of geek culture, not national culture. It's fine to be vocal about your appreciation of mums and dads upon whom you rely, so why not machines?On 6 October 2007 I held a party for my newly arrived washing machine, the Siemens WM12E468GB, which, apart from being an effective and efficient washer of clothes, has a feature by which it weighs the clothes and adjusts the water required automatically. Am I alone in thinking this attention to detail to be very pleasing? At the party, apart from toasting the new arrival, I challenged my guests to bring heavily stained items of clothing to test the abilities of my washing machine on a short cycle wash. You may now be making a mental note never to accept an invitation to one of my parties, but I have to tell you that the party was a success. However, seven birthdays have come and gone and the machine has received no birthday cards. Even the thought of someone sending one seems ludicrous, and yet the washing machine is a robotic slave without which our domestic life would descend into chaos. In most homes a broken washing machine must be mended or replaced in a matter of days otherwise a crisis soon builds. Having a washing machine is fundamental to our lives, yet while the machine is working we spend little time celebrating it, valuing it, descaling it, or removing the fluff from the trap underneath the flap. The same goes for the other essential machines in our lives such as kettles, fridges, toasters and mobile phones. Which really is the point: what we need is not a day when everyone sends a card to their favourite machine, but one day of the year when we all take stock of the huge amount of automation in our lives and think about how we can best repair and maintain our machines.I am not trying to anthropomorphise machines. I am well aware that my admiration of my washing machine is not reciprocated. Nevertheless our collective indifference to the maintenance of machines is a national defect. Imagine if it was normal in Britain to leave your garden unmaintained until it became overgrown, at which point you got an expert to come in and replace it. This would seem dysfunctional and yet this is how we are with our machines. We don't need National Garden Day, because tending gardens is part of our culture; we don't need Mother's Day or Father's Day for similar reasons, but we do need National Machine Day. It would be a day to wash your car in the street and see that everyone else is out there too, peering under bonnets and changing the oil. If we did that we would find out something important – that our machines are becoming less repairable.Sorry to keep returning to my washing machine, but this machine could be made to last for my whole lifetime. I know that my family and I will need to wash our clothes for our lifetimes, so why wouldn't we want a machine that lasts as long? Of course some of its parts, such as the heater element or bearings, would need to be replaced every 10 years, but most of the machine, like the casing, the drum and the door, could all be made to last a lifetime. But design for repair does not seem to make economic sense for manufacturers, and nor do consumers seem to want it. The cost of washing machines has steadily fallen in the past decade and so have the life spans of these machines,falling by three years in the past decade. In other words, machines are getting cheaper and lower quality.The average smartphone now has a lifetime of about 22 months. Compare that with your home phone, which can last decades.The value of repair is not purely economic. If you cycle to work, as I do, you have to take care of your bicycle, and by and large this is simple – the odd puncture repaired, oil applied, spokes adjusted. But it is something you actively have to do, and doing it is satisfying: it changes your relationship with a machine on which you rely. Mending clothes or a dripping tap is similarly satisifying. Conversely, cars, computers and phones are getting harder to mend without specialist tools and deep knowledge. Our helplessness at those times when "technology fails us" alters our relationship with these machines, making us feel estranged yet reliant. The cheapness of modern technology solves that problem because we can just ditch broken phones and get new ones. But our unease with these machines remains.It's not all doom and gloom though. The internet is making repair easier becauseinstruction manuals are available onlineand these are supplemented by YouTube guides (search for "replacing the screen on your iPhone", for example). This is truly delightful, because not only can you see exactly what to do, but it is as if you are looking over the shoulder of someone doing the exact same repair. You can pause, replay, post questions – above all you are reassured that if they can do it so can you. Websites likeeSpares.co.ukmake getting hold of spare parts simple, and the increase in public workshops such asFab LabsandHackerSpacesis making access to the right tools much easier.I do hope this rise in repair culture continues and that it encourages manufacturers to make machines that are repairable. Let's all agree to abolish Mother's Day and Father's Day and instead have National Machine Day, a day when we maintain and repair the machines in our lives – and yes, all right, maybe send them a card.
'I suppose it's quite nice looking," says my mum, looking at the Mazda3 we've&nbsp;come to visit her in. I&nbsp;can tell from her tone, though, the teeniest hint of&nbsp;disdain in her voice, that she doesn't really mean it. "I just think&nbsp;it's trying a bit too hard," she&nbsp;adds. See, I told you! Well, I&nbsp;do&nbsp;know my mum reasonably well.What does it matter what my&nbsp;mum thinks, you ask. Is she also&nbsp;a world-famous motoring journalist and automotive expert? (The meaner, bitterer, among you might be wondering if she knows even less about cars than her famous son does.) No, she has no interest in them; she is also possibly the world's worst driver. But she does have an eye for interesting, innovative design, and I think she might have a point.They've thrown everything at it – a waistline that rises jauntily to the rear, a curve here, an edge there, a&nbsp;bit of nip and tuck all over. It's not bland, more striking than previous Mazda3s certainly. But in some ways&nbsp;cars are like ladies at Ascot (I'm&nbsp;told, I've never been) – the harder they try to be classy, the less classy they look. Elegant understatement is the way. Posher rivals – VW Golfs, Alfa Giuliettas, 1&nbsp;Series BMWs – have less going on. It's the Seat Leons, Honda Civics and Mazda3s putting in all the effort. Trying a bit too hard, as&nbsp;Mum says. It makes her sound like a terrible snob; that's one thing she's not.And that – the car trying too hard, not my mum's snobbishness or lack of it – is really the only thing wrong, the only boo among a whole bunch of yays. Well, maybe it is a little cramped in the back. Who cares? I'm not in the back, the back is for children. Though, actually, the rear windows are a little too small and too high for even our eldest child to look out of. So he's not over the moon, and his aesthete granny's not happy… Who is?I am. Everything the driver comes into contact with is in the right place, is the right size and is made out of material that isn't unpleasant, even on this bottom-of-the-range model. This one also has the smallest, least gutsy petrol&nbsp;engine&nbsp;which you have to work&nbsp;quite hard to get any joy from, but it's still nice to drive, feels good on the road. I'm pleased with my&nbsp;ride, and with how far I&nbsp;can go on a gallon of petrol, and that I'm not doing the planet too much damage en route, and because I've&nbsp;got cash in my pocket&nbsp;because I didn't get a Golf, with its boring flat flanks and so-called understated&nbsp;classiness. It's yay, yay, yay all the way.What shall I do with that extra money? Go to Ascot, of course. Mum, get your hat.Mazda 1.5 100PS Hatchback SE NavPrice£17,295Top speed113mphAcceleration0-60mph in 10.8 secondsCombined fuel consumption55mpgCO2 emissions119/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating6/10
Games out this week includeBorderlands 2, which somehow manages to cram the entire open-world game and all its downloadable content into a PS Vita, then ruins it with wonky touchscreen controls;Worms Battlegrounds(PS4, Xbox One) is yet another game featuring the warmongering soft-bodied invertebrates, in a series that has remained bafflingly unchanged since its launch in 1995; theF.E.A.R. Onlinepublic beta test is now open, taking the spooky PC first-person shooter into the tawdry world of free-to-play; much anticipated sci-fi-meets-fantasy massively multiplayer game,WildStar(PC) finally makes it into shops; and PlayStation 4's most downloaded game,Warframehas had a big update with a new watery Warframe to trundle about in, along with upgraded melee combat and plenty of previously unseen weapons and enemies.
I once suggested in print that the correct collective noun for London taxi drivers – the drivers of black cabs, that is – would be a "grumble". Pretty feeble, I admit, and a reader wrote in to suggest that a "Nuremberg rally" of taxi drivers would be nearer the mark&nbsp;This is how they are commonly viewed: 20,000 Jeremy Clarksons, motorised barrow boys, ardent free marketeers except when it comes to their own bit of the market and the 300 years of legislation that enshrines their privileges.But this time they've really got the hump. On 11 June London taxi drivers plan to create gridlock on the streets of the capital. The nominal target of the protest is Transport for London and its "fitness as a regulator". The cabbies'big concern is that TfL has "given the nod" to an American appthat wants to change taxi ordering not just in London but the whole of Britain and the world. Just as retail booksellers met their Amazon, and coffee shops their Starbucks, now taxi drivers are meeting …Uber.Uber, which is backed by Goldman Sachs and Google, is on course for record-breaking fundraising that could bring its value to $17bn (£10bn),its chief executive, Travis Kalanick, trumpeted this week. We can imagine it as a blubbery monster that lurched out of Silicon Valley four years ago and began picking fights with taxi drivers. There have been protests against – and sometimes violent clashes with – Uber drivers in New York, Sydney, Toronto, Berlin, Brussels and Paris. Uber was licensed as a private-hire operator in London a couple of years ago, and the fight has been brewing ever since.All you need to order a minicab through Uber is a smartphone … which I do not actually have, so I asked my better-equipped son to download the app. We registered and gave the details of a credit card. We were invited to enter a destination. I wanted to go from my home in north London to King's Cross. But the app didn't seem to acknowledge the existence of King's Cross railway station, so I selected Euston Road, on which King's Cross stands. We were invited to seek an estimate of the fare, which came up as between £10 and £15. We pressed the order button, and watched the word "requesting" for two minutes. Then came a text: "Your Uber is on its way. Abdel (4.3 stars) will pick you up in 13 minutes."Abdel (I have changed his name) was a nice man in a nice, new Prius. He was uncertain about my destination, which it seemed I hadn't properly specified. He said: "What is the postcode of your destination?" I said: "I don't know offhand." Tapping at his satnav, Abdel counselled politely: "You should always have the postcode because London is a very big city, you know." And as he spoke those words and performed that action, I thought of all the dead black-cab drivers turning in their graves.I asked him whether he worked full-time for Uber. He did, but many of&nbsp;their 3,000 registered drivers do not. Uber sees itself as part of the "sharing economy".Like Airbnb, which allows people to rent out rooms in their houses for short stays, Uber allows anyone who owns a good car – and can pass the regulatory tests – to make money as a&nbsp;minicab driver.When we reached Euston Road, Abdel pressed a button marked "end of journey" on what I will call a device. He said that if I was interested to see what the fare was, I could wait a minute and it would appear on the device. Either way the fare would be deducted from my card. Being naturally distrustful, I&nbsp;waited: the fare was £10. Reasonable enough, but at times of high demand (a Tube strike) Uber will implement what it brazenly calls "surge pricing", and higher rates apply. There was no question of a tip. The app had advised me not to give one, and Abdel was obviously fine about that, being happy with his 80% of the fare. Uber would be&nbsp;taking the other 20.The transaction just described has infuriated not only the black-cab drivers of London, but also the non-Uber minicab drivers. Steve McNamara, of the Licensed Taxi Drivers Association, which represents black-cab drivers, said: "For the first time in 40 years, we agree with minicab drivers on something." The objections go back to the legal agglomeration enshrining black-cab rights. McNamara accepts that many of those laws are redundant. So we're not talking about how the taxi driver must always carry a bale of hay. We are talking about Section 11 of the Private Hire Vehicles (London) Act 1998. "No vehicles to which a PHV Licence relates shall be equipped with a taximeter."McNamara contends that the device in Uber cars is a taximeter. He argues that it calculates the fare by a combination of distance and time "exactly like our meters. If it looks like a duck, and walks like a duck, it is a duck." The LTDA announced this week that it will be launching private prosecutions against Uber drivers on the grounds of the illegality of their meters.Travis Kalanick, chief executive officer at Uber Technologies. Photograph: Bloomberg/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesI sensed a certain opacity from McNamara about why nobody else should be metered. I suppose one possible answer might have sounded mercenary: a meter compensates for traffic. If a taxi falls below a certain speed, the meter keeps ticking – on the basis of time rather than distance. The meter is also a badge of the prowess of black-cab drivers. Only they are trusted to be summoned directly – to be hailed; only they can carry someone across London with a fare calculated as they go. The meter is their office and they carry it with them. They have earned this trust by havingpassed the notoriously difficult Knowledge exam. They know every street, and everything on every street, in a six-mile radius of Charing Cross.In the case of the minicab driver – the driver, that is, of a "private hire" vehicle – there can be no immediate consummation with the passenger. The minicab driver cannot be "hailed". Foreplay is mandated or, to continue this bawdy strain, three-in-a-bed is compulsory. The passenger must deal with the driver via an intermediary, namely a&nbsp;licensed operator working from licensed premises: the minicab controller. It is sometimes thought that the destination must be agreed in advance. That is not actually a requirement. So it doesn't really matter that when, having turned from King's Cross, I made an Uber request for a taxi to Timbuktu, the app blithely responded with a quote of between £6,528 and £7,659.But, to repeat, the licensed office is a requirement. This is why all minicab firms, in London or elsewhere, have shelled out for their licensed offices. They are proud of their organic local connection. I mentioned Uber to the highly effective – if outspoken – controller in my own nearest minicab office, and he said: "All these apps are used by young computer-minded …" and here he paused, searching for the right word, "twats." Any intelligent person sources a decent minicab firm. If they've got a mobile phone they've logged our number on it. But we don't want their bank details," he said with disgust, "and if they have a&nbsp;problem they know where we are."Now does Uber have a licensed controller, or was I dealing directly with Abdel? There seemed to be no human being between us. There was some software. The professional rivals of Uber consider that in summoning Abdel, I had in effect hailed him just as surely as if I had been a Guards officer raising a furled umbrella. (It is said that Guards officers carried their umbrellas for no other reason than to hail taxis.)On this question of intermediacy, Leon Daniels, managing director of Surface Transport at TfL announced with satisfaction this week that: "Uber have a base within the territory, and that has warm bodies inside it." As to whether the Uber device counts as a meter, TfL are referring that to the high court. Mr Daniel thinks it is not, since it "operates independently of the&nbsp;vehicle".TfL, Mr Daniel said, has subjected Uber to its "largest ever compliance investigation, and found it meets the current requirements on record keeping … its drivers hold the relevant licenses and insurance." There are some technical aspects of Uber's operating model that are "being addressed". But TfL is too well-disposed to Uber for the liking of the taxis and minicabs of London, and both are talking of legal action against TfL. According to McNamara: "TfL is scared of Uber's money." So the chances of their being unlicensed were nil.As of last month, Uber is also operating in Manchester. Max Lines, general manager of the Manchester operation, says: "The growth has been incredible. The ultimate mission plan is for Uber to be present in every British town." Uber may not be so strongly resisted outside London, where minicabs are allowed to be metered and there are fewer hailable taxis (Hackney carriages, in the jargon).Jo Bertram, Uber general manager for the UK and Ireland, says Uber is "bringing competition to an industry that hasn't evolved in years". But the black-cab drivers say they have modernised, and they have an app of their own: Hailo, which "works with London's 23,000 trusted black-cab drivers" under the slogan "Back to black". Or it did, because the cabbies have got the hump about that as well. Hailo recently announced it will apply to become a private hire operator extending its services to minicabs, presumably in a way that passes the test of intermediacy. ItsLondon HQ was daubed with the word "scab"and many cabbies have now "come off the app". One driver told me he thought Hailo had gone "a bit tits up actually" as a result of this backlash. Whether this is true, I can't say because a representative from Hailo would not speak to me.My conversations with taxi drivers this week were mainly about Uber, but I&nbsp;seemed to hit a freak strain of perfectly equable cabbies. The first one said: "To be honest, fella, I only read about it in the taxi press and that's bound to be a bit biased, isn't it?" Another one went so far as to concede the usefulness of GPS technology. "Late at night, you'll get a guy in the back who's had a few, and you'll say: 'Just give me your postcode mate, then you can relax, have a little kip.'" He thought the Knowledge was still relevant, but primarily as a symbol of achievement; of character. I thought ofJack Rosenthal's very amusing TV play of 1979, The Knowledge. At the start, two aspirants, "Knowledge boys", are talking in a caff. The first peremptorily demands of the second: "French Embassy to Fulham cemetery." "What?" says the second."'What do you mean: 'what'?" says the first. The second man responds: "Try me on Woburn Square to North London Polytechnic, I know that one." The first man then leans towards the second and says with disdain: "It's your mother what asks you the ones you know. Them sadists up the road asks you the ones you don't know."Uber's Bertram magnanimously added: "London black taxis are iconic, and I'm sure they're here to stay." But who can say that anything is here to stay with Uber/Google on the march? Pedals, steering wheel, driver … all are absent from the driverless car unveiled by the company this week. There is a passenger, of course, and soon we will all be passengers, numb sightseers on the great Google highway.Uber: testing the app driving UK black-cab drivers round the bend
On street corners, in taxi ranks, behind steering wheels, a war is raging. Britain's black-cab drivers areon the warpath. The enemy? Uber: a new piece of booking software that allows smartphone users to hail private-hire cars from any location. London's cabbies rage that Uber drivers are using their phones as meters, which under current law is illegal for private-hire vehicles. Meanwhile, Uber drivers just keep on driving.While the intricacies of transport law are examined in the UK courts, who is winning the battle on the streets? In an entirely selfless act, the Guardian threw itself into the fray, road-testing both Uber and a traditional black cab in a dash across London.The Uber leg does not start well. After the app is downloaded, it stubbornly refuses to acknowledge that the Guardian exists. Only with the help of an old-fashioned desktop computer is registration completed and a car booked for a four-mile journey from the Guardian's offices in King's Cross to Big Ben in Westminster. Like the welcome letter of an overpriced American pony camp, an email instantly exclaims: "We're excited to have you join us and start riding!" And at a touch of a smartphone screen, the nearest car, shown making its way towards our blue blob in King's Cross, promises to arrive in seven minutes.In the meantime, inevitably, a black cab pulls up outside Guardian HQ and two more sail regally past. But right on schedule, Paramjit Paramjit – a man with a name so good his mother gave it to him twice – pulls up in a shiny brand-new Prius. "Hello Lexy," he says. We set off at 1.23pm on the dot.Paramjit, formerly a minicab driver, only started with Uber last week, after a friend told him he could choose your own hours. He is hiring this motor, but saving for his own. So far, he is happy. He's making similar money – while giving Uber about 20% of his fares – and working fewer hours. "It's mostly decent customers, people who behave politely," he says. "When they call, they are ready to go, so you don't spend too long waiting."This car is clean enough to perform open heart surgery in. Paramjit, who's from Delhi and has lived in London for seven years, is smartly dressed, helpful and friendly.He has good reason to be – at the end of every Uber trip, the passenger rates the journey; drivers with bad ratings get fewer fares. But it goes both ways: clients who are drunk, disorderly, miserly or rude – traits only occasionally demonstrated in this fine city – can get a thumbs-down from drivers too, and if they are not careful could find themselves short of a ride in Barking after falling asleep on the night bus home.Paramjit drops us off outside Portcullis House at 1.45pm, 22 minutes after we set off. A bill, giving the exact distance travelled, a map of the journey and the time it took, drops instantaneously into my inbox. The £12 fare is taken automatically from my account.Stage one complete, we look for a cab, which takes four whole minutes, and we get into the hackney carriage for the return leg at 1.49pm. John Smith (yes, really) has been a cabbie for 18 years; his brother and brother-in-law are cabbies too. Once we are settled into the luxurious bosom of his car, the diesel-guzzling matron rumbling into action, he happily shares his discontent.'What's the point of spending three years of your life doing the Knowledge? It is worrying, because it's not a fair playing field," he says. "Why bother paying 36 grand for this, when you pay 10 and get a saloon?" Still, he's not jumping ship any time soon."I wouldn't do it, not in a million years," he says. "I'm not blowing my own trumpet, but black-cab drivers are the best in the world. This is not a stopgap job, it's a profession, it's something to take pride in. I love London, and I love being a cab driver."Earlier in the day, he took an American couple from Tower Bridge to Westminster Abbey, pointing out the sights and taking a picture of them in the cab when they were done. "Uber's not going to give them that, is it?" he says, interrupting himself to ask if it's OK to take the Farringdon route, to try to avoid traffic. The long cut taken, we get back to the Guardian's offices at 2.07pm; the journey has taken 18 minutes and cost £13."I took you the long way then, to be quicker," he says, with a just a smidgen of triumph. "That's why my knowledge is better than his satnav any day of the week." He switches his light back on and gives a wave. "You take care, Sweets," he says, and pulls back into the traffic.Will Uber kill the black cab?
When Apple's chief executive Tim Cook takes the stage at the Moscone Centre in San Francisco on Monday, he will face one key question: can Apple do it again? Can the company that upended the phone business with the iPhone in 2007, and made tablets an everyday item used by millions with the iPad in 2010, find a new must-have product – a fresh leap of innovation?The audience, thousands of developers who write apps for the iPhone and Mac, will be eager to know: their income relies on Apple getting its products in front of people. But for Cook and his executives the mutterings are growing louder before the Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) that Apple just isn't innovating any more, since the death in October 2011 of Steve Jobs, its co-founder and Cook's predecessor.To counter that, Cook and his team are expected to announce a "smart home" initiative, whereby an iPhone or iPad will be able to interact with lighting controls, heating systems, air conditioners and appliances, as well as a "Health Book" software for future versions of the iPhone that will gather personal health data – perhaps through some sort of unrevealed wearable technology.But is that enough? Apple's backers can point to its being the most valuable company in the world. Apple's revenues and profits outstrip the combined totals for Microsoft and Google; and iPhone sales are nudging 10% of the mobile phone market (including even the cheapest handsets), just behind once-dominant Nokia, though some way behind its bitter rival, South Korea's Samsung.Critics say Cook's team still has big questions to answer. Where, for example, are mobile payments to compete with Google Wallet, so its 800 million iTunes account holders – the largest number of credit card accounts outside a bank – can pay for things with their iPhones? Where is a smartwatch, when Samsung has released two versions since September, while Google is pushing its "Android Wear" software?Instead, critics argue, Apple has its $3bn (£2.2bn) purchase of Beats – a company that makes headphones and offers music streaming, both of which Apple does already. "It just makes no sense,"wroteanalyst Pascal-Emmanuel Gobry. "This deal stinks, but more importantly it reveals that Apple as we've known and loved it is gone – for ever."Apple's previous biggest purchase was of NeXT Computer for $400m in 1996 – a deal that brought Jobs back to lead the company.The suggestion that Apple is wallowing in its success clearly irks the team. "Can't innovate any more, my ass," growled Phil Schiller, Apple's head of marketing as he unveiled a Star Wars-style version of the Mac Pro desktop computer.But that was a year ago. And the pace of progress in the technology industry is relentless. In the past week alone Google and Microsoft have shown off a self-driving car and a system that translates between spoken languages in a Skype conversation."Apple's Beats deal is a Rorschach blot,"says Benedict Evans, a partner and analyst at the venture capital company Andreessen Horowitz, referring to the psychological test where people say what they "see" in a random inkblot. "People's reactions [to the deal] slot into their existing view of whether Apple still has 'it'. If you think Apple's lost it, the Beats deal is confirmation. If you don't, it's&nbsp;… perplexing. This is a very out-of character move for Apple – though having everyone puzzled is in character."Apple's top executives say they have plenty in store. Cook has promised "some exciting new products&nbsp;… across 2014", while Eddy Cue, who runs Apple's iTunes, Maps and iCloud divisions, said this week: "Later this year, we've got the best product pipeline that I've seen in my 25 years at Apple."Jan Dawson, of Jackdaw Research in Provo, Utah, says the iPhone is a historical one-off because of its price ($600 wholesale) and the colossal size of the smartphone market, where 1.2bn devices will be sold this year – about two-thirds of the entire mobile phone market. Apple's entire business took off with the growth of the iPhone, he says. "There's no single product that can ever achieve those levels of revenue growth for Apple again, because nothing shares the ubiquity, subsidy and price characteristics [of the smartphone]. As such, as the iPhone growth slows, if Apple wants to achieve the same sort of growth it's achieved in the past it's going to need to do it with a large number of products rather than just one."However, he says, "that's going to be a challenge for a company that has always prided itself on its focus on just a few great products".But what form will new products take? And can Apple still innovate without the ferocious perfectionism of Jobs, who oncecalled a senior Google executive on a Sunday morningbecause the second "O" in the Google logo on the iPhone screen didn't have the correct colour gradient. The other question is: quite what does "innovation" mean? Was the iPhone an innovation, or obvious? Was the iPad?Professor Andrew Graves, professorial fellow of technology management at the University of Bath's school of management, said Apple's biggest risk is becoming complacent in the face of success. "I knew Steve Jobs when I was at MIT in the 1980s. He had ideas about electronic books – we all thought he was crazy. He was very good at not being complacent."He thinks you can measure innovation – though he frets that there has been no radical innovation since the Moon landings, after centuries when breakthroughs would come every 20 years or so, from steam engines to electricity to powered flight to jet engines. "There's a dearth of companies being really innovative," says Graves, who worked in Formula One and, in the 1980s, on the concept of a driverless car as part of a Europe-funded project.Horace Dediu, a former Nokia executive who runs the Asymco consultancy, comments: "Innovation is not a spirit. It's not some incantation or magical power. Innovation is a process involving tens of thousands of people over many years. Inspiration can influence creation, invention or novel ideas, but innovation is a system."Apple developed a process over a few decades and I'm doubtful that it has changed. The study of innovation is a study of systems, not people."Academics agree. "Apple has always been known for its ability to develop business models, such as the iTunes Store, and products such as the iPod and iPhone for the mainstream market," says Bart Clarysse, chair in entrepreneurship, Imperial College Business School. "Most of these things existed before Apple turned the idea into a mainstream one. But they succeeded.  Their vision was always ahead of competition and they moved into spaces nobody expected."This basically means that it is not technology that is the driver of this sort of innovation, but a vision on the mainstream market. Technology is an enabler, but many of the products are not technically more advanced than the competitors – on the contrary."Cook, who joined Apple in March 1998, has always been insistent – as was Jobs – that "we're not in the junk business". Apple won't make low-cost products just to chase sales. Instead, his strategy appears to be to tempt smartphone owners using Samsung or HTC phones across to the iPhone, and then capitalise by selling apps that tie people to its platform.Dawson at Jackdaw Research thinks that will be the way forward. "I don't buy the 'Apple has lost its mojo' stuff. But I do think success can be crippling – when you have a string of hits such as Apple has had." He thinks wearables and smart homes are "too niche" for Apple – but thinks it could make huge amounts of money through mobile payments and video services via iTunes. "It could be an enormous revenue opportunity in a space that's at least as ripe for disruption as MP3 players, smartphones or tablets were when those products launched," he said.With iPad sales and the smartphone market slowing, Cook's biggest challenge is to demonstrate he can upset that pattern. The problem is that – as Steve Ballmer at Microsoft found before him – there's only one place you can go from being the world's largest company.
At least 12,000 people have signed an online form asking Google to remove links about them from their search results in only 24 hours since it offered the service. Privacy activists have cautiously welcomed Google's decision to provide the form for Europeans to make the request.Chief executive Larry Page said Google was "trying now to be more European, and think about [data collection] maybe more from a European context".The firm says it has received a surge of data removal requests since alandmark ruling earlier in May by the European Court of Justice, Europe's highest court, which said search engines were subject to data protection rules and so should remove "outdated, wrong or irrelevant" information from their indexes unless there was a public interest in keeping it.About 40% of the requests have come from Germany and 13% from the UK, Google told the FT. The biggest proportion of removal requests, about 31%, related to frauds and scams.Google said it had set up aweb form on its sitewhere people can request the removal of particular links, though it does not commit to removing them within any time limit. Decisions will be made by people, not algorithms, and information will start to be removed from mid-June. Although links to articles will be removed, the ECJ ruling says the original articles can remain.Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, which campaigns for privacy and free speech, said: "There are clear privacy issues from time to time about material published on the web. To actually have a mechanism to deal with this seems to be the right way to go."The ECJ ruling did not specify how Google and other search engines should weigh up user requests, saying only that they should balance the needs of data privacy and public interest – for example relating to politicians seeking to have information about themselves removed.Pagetold the FT: "I wish we'd been more involved in a real debate in Europe. That's one of the things we've taken from this, that we're starting the process of really going and talking to people."Google will also set up a 10-strong committee of senior executives and outside experts who will try to develop a long-term approach to requests. Among those already named are Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales, UN special rapporteur Frank La Rue, University of Leuven director Peggy Valcke, the former Spanish data protection chief Jose Luis Pinar, and Luciano Floridi, information ethics philospher at the Oxford Internet Institute.The web form only applies to searches in Europe. In the US, the first amendment means that freedom of speech and publication trump data protection rights, which are minimal.Dina Shiloh, of the law firm Mishcon de Reya, who has advised companies and individuals over online reputation management, called the move "baby steps" and said Facebook and Google's video subsidiary YouTube already had forms to request data removal. "Essentially, this is a clash that was ripe to happen. You have Europe's privacy rights, which are very different to the understanding in the US. Privacy is not dead in the EU."But she said the ECJ ruling would inevitably lead to court cases if Google turns down requests. "We're entering new territory with the internet."Google already removes about a million links per month from its index, mainly at the request of music and film copyright holders, said Professor Viktor Mayer-Schönberger, who follows internet governance and registration at the Oxford Internet Institute. "In that way, they are already editing the web, and have always – there are links to terrorist stuff, neo-Nazi stuff, to child abuse images. Government agencies contact Google and have them take stuff down."The real question is, is this going to be more repressive than the other things they are doing? Is it going to negatively impact the trajectory of the internet? I don't think it will."• This article was changed on 2 June. Dina Shiloh was misquoted as saying: "This is a clash that was right to happen". This should have read: "This is a clash that was ripe to happen."
From Friday night, worshippers will be able to take a virtual pew at St Paul's Cathedral by watching services on their smartphone.In a bid to raise money to maintain Wren's 304-year-old masterpiece, the St Paul's in Your Pocket service – costing £5 a month – will also give access to video footage of concerts, recitals and debates at the cathedral as well as news and invitations to forthcoming events.Since May, St Paul's has been operating an SMS-based giving service which enables churchgoers to make one-off donations via their mobile phone instead of putting cash into the collection plate during the service. Matthew Lagden, the cathedral's director of fundraising, said that he hoped the new mobile service, developed with the external agency Open Fundraising, would capture the attention of younger people."We have to be self-sufficient, we receive no government funding and spend about £8m a year on staff and maintenance of the building. We wanted to do something dynamic and modern that would enable younger more web-savvy people to interact with us."He said longer term St Paul's wanted to run specific events for members of the service, which will send out texts several times a week with links to news stories or videos uploaded on to social media site Tumblr.
There's a watchful quietness about Tim Cook: he weighs people, and his answers, before responding to questions. Where Steve Jobs had a fizz of nervous energy about him, Cook, 53, is quieter – although no less forceful.A fitness enthusiast who rises early and triages his email on an iPad in a coffee shop, Cook was the person who made Apple's unseen manufacturing and distribution systems supremely efficient. At big public events, he often seems hesitant, but in private, when he speaks on subjects on which he feels strongly, his voice hardens and he becomes deliberate and insistent.Apple has shifted subtly since he took over as chief executive in 2011, having joined in 1998. Under Cook, Apple has started matching employees' charitable donations, and is pushing for equal rights legislation. It also emphasises green topics – so much so he told climate change deniers at an AGM to sell their shares. And although Cook has said little about the Snowden revelations, it's noticeable that Apple has emphasised that its business doesn't rely on monetising customer data.Cook, following on from Jobs, has faced criticism. "The world's great companies all seem to decline after their founder or early leader leaves," said Pascal-Emmanuel Gobry, a writer and analyst. "Sony has been listless since its iconic founder Akio Morita left in 1994. Since Bill Gates left his day-to-day role at Microsoft [to be replaced by Steve Ballmer], the company's stock price has been flat and lost its edge. General Motors has been on a secular decline since it lost its legendary chief executive Alfred P Sloan." For Gobry, a $3bn deal to buy the headphones and streaming company Beats is the final straw: Cook, he says, is "Steve Ballmer to Jobs's Bill Gates," and a "suit".
Google has launched agamedesigned to help researchers and businesses find a much-abused vulnerability common across the web.The game,announced on Wednesday by Google engineer Ilya Grigorik, hopes to encourage better security practices amongst web developers.The vulnerability Google wants to help eradicate is known as a cross-site scripting (XSS) flaw. There are various types of XSS, one of the most prevalent of which occurs when a web application accepts input from a user and reflects information back to them without validating the code properly.If an attacker can convince their target to click on a link with the code (usually JavaScript) that exploits this vulnerability, they could do various nasty things to the victim, such as using the code to create fake login boxes for the affected web app or redirecting the user to their own fake site, which could contain further attacks.Or the hacker could have the “session cookie”, which the site deploys to identify the user, sent to their own machine, meaning they could take control of the account to which the malicious link was originally sent.Then there’s so-called “stored XSS”. An attack targeting this vulnerability would typically have the hacker post their malicious script on an online discussion forum. Once clicked, the script would then be able to steal the same data as the reflective attack, but from all visitors to that forum.In both cases, the user is unlikely to have any idea what has happened.Even though the problems should be simple to fix, XSS remains one of the top three threats in the world, according to the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP).Google is hoping to fix this with its game, aimed at developers who don’t have much security knowledge.“At Google, we know very well how important these bugs are. In fact, Google is so serious about finding and fixing XSS issues that we are paying mercenaries up to $7,500 for dangerous XSS bugs discovered in our most sensitive products,” readGoogle’s introductory notes to the game.“In this training program, you will learn to find and exploit XSS bugs. You&apos;ll use this knowledge to confuse and infuriate your adversaries by preventing such bugs from happening in your applications. There will be cake at the end of the test.”Some very basic JavaScript knowledge is required to play the game and, for those finding the tasks too tricky, there are three hints per level.There are six levels to progress through. Each level effectively walks the player through how an attacker would exploit an XSS flaw on a website, by having them enter code into forms or forum sections of a website.•Criminals selling dumps of stolen Steam passwords for less than £10•Smartphone security on a budget: four apps to try on Android and iPhone
When the Silk Road website was busted in October 2013, the closure took out 13,648 different drug deals,according to research by US online safety group, Digital Citizens Alliance(pdf). Yet today, the dark web is teeming with dozens of new markets and thousands of new dealers serving a growing consumer base.This week, a search of the revived Silk Road site, which has been back online since November 2013, showed 13,472 different drug deals. And according to arecent Reddit.com post,new darknet markets carry a total of 33,985 different drug deals – an almost threefold increase in darknet drug-dealing activity in just eight months.As well as Silk Road, police forces worldwide must now add new sites, Agora, Evolution, Pandora, Blue Sky, Hydra, Cloud Nine, Andromeda, Outlaw, Pirate, BlackBank, Tor Bazaar, Cannabis Garden and Alpaca.“Purchasing new and ‘old’ drugs via ‘darknets’ – underground, online networks permitting anonymous communication — represents a new challenge for law enforcement,” said the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction in a statement on Wednesday.Though some are scam or fraudulent listings, the wider growth pattern is clear. And as well as these centralised markets, with many vendors selling to large numbers of customers, there are now dozens of boutique single-vendor sites, specialty shops selling only high-quality cannabis, or LSD, or cocaine to invited guests only. There is now even a darknet search engine, Grams, as well as a central repository carrying reviews for all darknet drug dealers, called the Hub.Buying drugs online is no longer a niche activityBuying drugs online using bitcoins was, just a few years ago, a niche activity known about and practiced only an avant garde technical elite. Today it is becoming much more commonplace, says Adam Winstock of the Global Drugs Survey. Of the 80,000 respondents he surveyed in 2014, 22% had sourced drugs online and 44% of those had done so for the first time during 2013.“The growth of purchasing psychoactive drugs online in recent years reflects the growth of ecommerce more generally,” said Winstock, whose survey is the world’s largest inquiry into drug-user habits. “Convenience, product choice, price and user ratings make buying drugs online attractive to some users.”Users like Jonathan, a 24-year-old web developer from London, agree, and say choice, safety and convenience make online drug sourcing easier than buying drugs offline. A longtime Silk Road user, he migrated soon after the site closed in late 2013. “After Silk Road was closed I went to other sites, first of all Blackmarket Reloaded. When that shut down, I hung around online and soon found Agora.”&apos;It felt safer than buying from some bloke in a club&apos;Agora is a darknet site hosted on the Tor anonymising network and is named after the anti-state, anti-taxation philosophy of Agorism propounded by the original Silk Road operators. Last week, Jonathan bought MDMA at around £30 a gramme there.“The quality was spot on – and it felt a lot safer than meeting some dodgy bloke in a club,” he says.As well as drugs, a host of other illegal products and services are for sale, including forged documents, secret foreign bank accounts, money laundering services, hacking techniques, phishing and spam tools, anonymous mail drops and weapons.The US-based web crime group the Digital Citizens Alliance this month published a detailed report calledBusted, But Not Broken: The State Of Silk Road and the Darknet Marketplaces,(pdf) which reported that “there is significantly more competition today than when the original Silk Road was seized”.Dr Nicolas Christin of Carnegie Mellon University,whose pioneering 2012 study of the Silk Road (pdf)was the first to quantify that illegal marketplace’s economy, agrees: “Other markets have popped up, and at least in terms of items’ availability, it seems that they have mostly picked up where Silk Road left off.”The Silk Road bust has hit darknet user and vendor confidence, however. “There isn&apos;t a feeling of invincibility that was pervasive last year at the same time,” said Cristin. “People have realised that, while the technological infrastructure provides good anonymity when used properly, operational mistakes can be very costly.&quot;Perhaps more importantly, the number of scams [such as market operators absconding with the cash register] has shown that these anonymous online marketplaces are not without risk either.”Still reliant on postal servicesCustomers, and the sites themselves, are still reliant on physical delivery services. In the UK, the Royal Mail delivers 42m pieces of domestic and 2m international in the UK each day, including many containing illegal drugs from darknet markets. &quot;Where Royal Mail has any suspicion that illegal items are being sent through our system, we work closely with the police and other authorities to assist their investigations and to prevent such activities from happening,&quot; it told the Guardian in a statement.The new markets have suffered attacks, hacks and many have simply been scam operations. Silk Road itself was hacked and millions of dollars in bitcoin were taken this year. But the site’s owners have repaid 50% of the thousands of victims affected by waiving wages and donating commissions.Gwern Branwen, who has documented the Silk Road from its earliest inception, told the Guardian the markets are growing far beyond the original constituency of tech-savvy drug users.“Judging by the decreasing technical competence of users on the relevant forum, the black-markets seem to be reaching a wider audience and not just geeks. The black-market scene is overall growing, although it has fragmented a great deal. It does seem safe to say that it&apos;s recovered from the fall of Silk Road 1.”The current fastest-growing market seems to be Evolution, which uses the inbuilt multiple-person escrow facilities of bitcoin, known as “multi-sig transactions”, whereby funds are only released from a buyer to a seller once a third party has signed off the deal.Government: &apos;Anonymous tools are not totally untraceable&apos;The Home Office, which is responsible for policing the web and these illegal marketplaces, told the Guardian the issue was firmly on its radar. “We work with a range of UK and international partners to collaboratively address crime threats, including hidden-web criminal marketplace sites, and the use of fast-parcel and postal services to smuggle illegal commodities.&quot;Tools which aim to anonymise the identities of online users present challenges to investigations, but those challenges are not insurmountable, and numerous criminals who have thought themselves untraceable have found that not to be the case,” said a spokesman.However, the technological future of the sector looks assured – and increasingly complex. New bitcoin software Dark Wallet is specifically written to facilitate anonymous bitcoin payments, and inventors Amir Taaki and Cody Wilson have stated explicitly that they believe the freedom to buy illegal drugs is a positive consequence of encryption, bitcoin and Tor.“I want a private means for black-market transactions, whether they’re for non-prescribed medical inhalers, MDMA for drug enthusiasts, or weapons,”Wilson told Wired magazine this month.•Privacy under attack: the NSA files revealed new threats to democracyMike Power’sDrugs 2.0: The web revolution that’s changing how the world gets highis published on 5 June on Portobello in paperback
Mind Candy has an interesting problem – a problem most developers would love to face. In 2007 the company launched Moshi Monsters, a bright, beautifully designed online multiplayer game, filled with weird characters and silly puns. It was clever, it was stylish and by 2013 it had 80 million subscribers as well as a vast merchandising empire, including a music CD and a movie. The problem is, how do you follow that?On Thursday, the Mind Candy blog announced a new project, World of Warriors, an &quot;epic battle strategy game&quot; featuring the fiercest soldier clans from throughout history. Although it retains the slick cartoon styling of Moshi, it looks to be something a little bit different, something not quite as child-focused.&quot;We had all sorts of ideas bubbling away,&quot; says Mindy Candy founder and CEO, Michael Acton Smith. &quot;We&apos;ve been thinking about new characters, new stories... but we&apos;ve been very selective about what to go forward with. Rather than doing lots and lots of new things, we think it&apos;s smarter to focus on a very small number, but make each one as epic as possible.&quot;Ideas from everywhere, from everyoneAs with a lot of smaller, more experimental studios, Mind Candy organises regular in-house pitching sessions, where staff can put game ideas to the rest of the team. Double Fine has its amnesia fortnights, Bossa Studios up the road from Mind Candy in Shoreditch, has weekly game jams. Mind Candy has mini-festivals.&quot;We held an event about a year and a half ago that we called CandyStock,&quot; explains Smith. &quot;The whole company went away on a retreat for a couple of days. We had a party and various speeches, and as part of that, we encouraged people to get up on stage and present any new ideas they had. Our art director Johnny Taylor had an idea based around his son&apos;s obession with warriors from throughout history – he thought it could be turned into a game. Everyone was really excited by the concept, so we put a team to work on it at our Brighton Studio.&quot;In typical games industry fashion, he&apos;s not saying much about the new project just yet. But apparently it&apos;s not a kid&apos;s game, it&apos;s a family game – &quot;there&apos;s a lot of depth and complexity to it. It&apos;s nearer mid-core than casual.&quot; But is it nervewracking entertaing a smartphone sector that is hugely dominated by a handful of extremely successful titles? &quot;It&apos;s tough out there - I&apos;ll be honest,&quot; says Smith.&quot;The market has evolved a lot over the last two years - there are a small number of players who are doing extraordinarily well, but a very long tail of developers who are finding it tough. This is particularly true in the kids&apos; space. There is so much competition and so much great content that kids can play for free, so monetising content is extremely difficult. And kids have access to Clash of Clans, Candy crush Saga... those games are highly polished they have large development teams - so kids are less likely to be excited by content that&apos;s made just for them. The economics are tough and I&apos;ll be honest, we are finding it very challenging.&quot;Partly then, World of Warriors is being written for a wider audience because, seven years after the launch of Moshi Monsters, the children&apos;s market is a lot more crowded and complex. Moshi was a subscription game and that worked at the time, but now mobile has introduced the microtransaction model and that&apos;s a tricky area – every other week there&apos;s a newspaper story of some parent complaining about a £1000 phone bill after letting their child play a freemium title. No one wants to be on the wrong end of one of those stories.&quot;Developers have to be responsible,&quot; says Smith. &quot;We&apos;re building a business for the long term, so we don&apos;t want to make short term profits that damage our reputation in the eyes of parents. It&apos;s a tough one. Which is why creating games that appeal to a broad audience is the way to go. Making games for kids is such a challenge - it&apos;s really hard to justify the costs involved.But also, there are opporunities in the way the mobile games space is maturing. There will always be casual hits like Candy Crush Saga, but the success of more demanding simulations like Clash of Clans has hinted that &quot;mid-core&quot; titles – ones that push toward the complexity of mainstream console games – are a major growth area.&quot;More and more people are becoming gamers - they&apos;re carrying these amazing games machines in their pockets,&quot; says Smith. &quot;The on ramp is usually light casual games but once people get used to that and realise they enjoy gaming, they look for meatier more complex challenges and that&apos;s exciting, it&apos;s wonderful for the whole industry. And one thing we learned from Moshi is that kids are really sophisticated - they don&apos;t want to play simple games, they love games like Clash of Clans, they love the complexity. It&apos;s a mistake to dumb down.&quot;As for Moshi Monsters, subscriptions are falling since last year&apos;s high. Some feel there&apos;s been an over-saturation of brand extensions, but this sort of decline is also natural for a game that&apos;s been around for so long. Can the core success be maintained? &quot;It&apos;s a challenge,&quot; concedes Smith. &quot;The kids space is littered with fads that burned brightly then faded away. We want Moshi to be an evergreen and...it&apos;s easier said than done. It may not be as big as it was during its peak, but we still believe it can be a success over many years. It&apos;s our responsibility to keep introducing new stories, new characters, moving on to new platforms when they present themselves.&quot;Cloning the Moshi MonstersThe question plenty of developers will want to know is, how do you replicate the success of Moshi Monsters. What did Mind Candy do right? &quot;I wish it was an exact science,&quot; laughs Smith.&quot; It&apos;s more about art, it&apos;s a gut feeling, and there&apos;s a whole combination of factors and people involved.&quot;We never think of our projects as just games - the games are the starting point; they&apos;re the heartbeat of the franchises that we create, so we have to envisage something that can be built into an amazing game, but also the characters and the story have to be strong enough to expand offline into books, cartoons, toys and everything else. Moshi has been a great blueprint for that, but it&apos;s not straightforward. Very few ideas have got to the stage where we felt we could devote such a large team and financial resources to the development.&quot;The mobile gaming market is not Mind Candy&apos;s only target. It has other projects on the go, and there&apos;s a particular area that Smith is interested in – something he feels is being under-explored at the moment.&quot;We&apos;re looking very closely at the trend of children becoming more interested in social media,&quot; he says. &quot;They are signing up to Snapchat, Instagram and Facebook in their droves, long before they&apos;re supposed to – legally you have to be 13 to sign up. This begs the question, why isn&apos;t there a safe, creative community for these 7-12 year-olds?&quot;That&apos;s a big opportunity that we&apos;re spending a lot of time thinking about at Mind Candy.&quot;•Moshi Monsters revenues grew in 2012 but Mind Candy sees &apos;untapped&apos; mobile potential•Mind Candy – the monster that lurks on Silicon Roundabout
A series of Google smartwatches areset for release this yearthat hope to make the smart wearables finally a must-have gadget.Google developer Timothy Jordanrecently demonstratedhowAndroid Wear– Google’s new Android software that will power its new range of smartwatches – will work on the wrist and its interaction with Android smartphones and tablets.Google will leverage the small but ever-present screen on the wrist to deliver just-in-time information, primarily alerts from applications running on a smartphone or tablet, but also Google’s intelligent digital personal assistant,Google Now.‘A new generation of devices’Android Wear notificationsMessages will flash up onto the screen identified by a small program icon. Users will be able to swipe and tap the messages to expand them and read more of the notification, or interact directly with the app through large software buttons like a big tick to confirm an action or dismiss the notification.“One of the coolest parts of Android Wear is how it extends the Android platform to a new generation of devices out of the box, without any need to update your app,” notedJordan in a blog post.A simple “one line change” to the app’s code for developers, however, will expand the options and capabilities of the notifications displayed on the wrist,explained Wayne Piekarski, a senior developer advocate for Android Wear at Google.Beyond travel updatesGoogle Now will also be able to provide timely updates built on Google’s understanding of a person’s daily schedule and behaviour. Traffic updates will keep commuters updates on their journey to work, for instance, while flight updates like gate changes and delays could be pushed to a wear’s wrist.Beyond travel updates, Google Now also allows users to receive customisable sports and news alerts, weather updates and suggested information cleaned from previous Google searches, email and calendar events.Google's Android Wear preview.Swipy, tappy, gesture-heavyOne of the first Google smartwatches, the LG G Watch, was shown off in prototype form at the Korean company’s recent launch of its newflagship smartphone the LG G3.The prototype was running pre-production software, but was caught byGerman technology site AppDatedon camera showing off the ability to control settings like airplane mode and on a connected smartphone as well as being able to pull information like calendar schedule without having to activate the smartphone.German video shows how LG's G Watch will behave.The demonstration showed a very gesture-heavy interface with swiping and long-pressing forming the majority of the interactions with the touchscreen watch.The square LG G Watch is expected to be available in June for around £180, but will be closely followed byMotorola’s round Moto 360 smartwatch, also powered by Android Wear. Both smartwatches are expected to take the stage at Google’s annual I/O developer conference on the 25 June.•Smartwatches are the next big idea as sales of smartphones slacken•One third of wearables abandoned after six months as they fail to hold user’s attention
Encryption tool TrueCrypt has closed its doors, removed its downloads and advised users to switch to a competitor, citing only the end of life of Windows XP as a reason.To fans of the app, which lets users (including the Guardian) encrypt entire hard drives to ensure security and privacy, that rationale makes no sense – and many of them are casting around for other plausible reasons why the app and its development would cease so suddenly.&quot;The development of TrueCrypt was ended in 5/2014 after Microsoft terminated support of Windows XP,&quot; is the explanation given on the software&apos;s webpage. &quot;Windows 8/7/Vista and later offer integrated support for encrypted disks and virtual disk images. Such integrated support is also available on other platforms. You should migrate any data encrypted by TrueCrypt to encrypted disks or virtual disk images supported on your platform.&quot;But many users of TrueCrypt are, and always would be, reluctant to hand control of their security over to Microsoft. That&apos;s partially because of the belief in the cryptography community that open-source software, where the code that handles the encryption systems can be read and checked by anyone, is inherently more secure. And it&apos;s partially because of general distrust of Microsoft.Moreover, the date of Microsoft&apos;s termination of support for Windows XP has beenknown for two years; it makes little sense to abruptly shut down TrueCrypt without warning, owing to an event which has been in diaries since April 2012.Has Truecrypt shut because of a government warrant?The TrueCrypt development team has always remained anonymous, and isn&apos;t speaking about the software&apos;s death beyondthe sparse adviceleft on its download page – leaving users who don&apos;t believe the rationale ample room to speculate about other possibilities.One of the more popular suggestions is that the act is a version of what&apos;s known as a &quot;warrant canary&quot;. Warrant canaries are legal tricks employed by conscientious organisations to get around the fact that certain demands from the US government cannot be disclosed publicly. For instance, a company which has received a national security letter, commanding it to turn over user data, may not tell its users that fact.To manage that problem, firms such as Tumblr employ &quot;canaries&quot;. Tumblr&apos;s transparency report, issued in February 2014,says that the firmhas &quot;never received a National Security Letter&quot;. If later versions of the report do not contain that phrase, users can assume that Tumblr has received such a demand between the two reports. Disclosure without disclosing.Some TrueCrypt users wonder if the firm is taking a similar tack. &quot;With these events, TrueCrypt jumped very high on the suspicious software list,&quot;says kltion the Reddit thread about the shut down. &quot;Maybe that&apos;s the whole point?&quot; If TrueCrypt had received a demand from the security services that it didn&apos;t want to comply with, closing development and warning users away from the software entirely is certainly one way to fight back.Better to close down before a flaw is identified?Others question whether the development team isn&apos;t fighting back, so much as giving up. Despite the software&apos;s open codebase, the secrecy behind its team means that it&apos;s never been given a full third-party review. As the example of OpenSSL&apos;s massive Heartbleed flaw demonstrated last month, merely being open doesn&apos;t help security if no one else is checking for bugs.The security researcher Matthew Green raised $70,000 in December 2013 to do just such a check. While the first part of the code review, an analysis of the software&apos;s bootloader,came back mostly clean in February, Greentells Krebs on Securitythat he&apos;s &quot;a little worried that the fact that we were doing an audit of the crypto might have made them decide to call it quits.&quot;In other words, maybe there&apos;s a bug in the software so great that it&apos;s easier to walk away than fix it. Why do so in such an obfuscatory fashion? Because it&apos;s better to make sure that all your users have switched to a secure alternative before you reveal a flaw that renders their security moot.Or it may be that the developers simply wanted to quit. Leaving an unmaintained piece of security software live is a dangerous thing: flaws may be found, and never fixed. Better to warn users that the software is dead before it becomes insecure, rather than after. The one user who managed to get a reply from the coders reports that that&apos;s their stated reason:@matthew_d_greenDoubt it. He said Bitlocker is &quot;good enough&quot; and Windows was original &quot;goal of the project&quot;. No mention of audit in reply.&mdash; Steven Barnhart (@stevebarnhart)May 30, 2014@matthew_d_green1 more &quot;I were happy with the audit, it didn&#39;t spark anything. We worked hard on this for 10 years, nothing lasts forever.&quot;&mdash; Steven Barnhart (@stevebarnhart)May 30, 2014As for the oddness of the advice, from developers of a multiplatform security app, to switch to a proprietary Windows-only replacement, they have this to say:@matthew_d_greenDoubt it. He said Bitlocker is &quot;good enough&quot; and Windows was original &quot;goal of the project&quot;. No mention of audit in reply.&mdash; Steven Barnhart (@stevebarnhart)May 30, 2014That might satisfy some, but others will always be left wondering. They can choose to ignore the expressly stated reasons, but if they do, they should also settle for the fact that we may never know the true reason for the death of the software.•Emergency services recording tools vulnerable to hackers, experts say
The EU’s&quot;right to be forgotten&quot; rulingrisks empowering repressive governments and their control of the internet, Google’s chief executive, Larry Page, warned.Page explained that the new ruling, which forced Google to deploy anew webform for removal requests, would damage future technology startups and admitted that Google had been caught unawares by the European court of justice (ECJ) ruling, in an interviewwith the Financial Times.“It will be used by other governments that aren’t as forward and progressive as Europe to do bad things,” warned Page. “Other people are going to pile on, probably… for reasons most Europeans would find negative.”Google must &apos;be more European&apos;Page expressed that Google was trying for greater engagement with Europe to “be more European” in the company’s approach and thinking.“I wish we’d been more involved in a real debate... in Europe,” said Page over the ECJ&apos;s ruling. “That’s one of the things we’ve taken from this, that we’re starting the process of really going and talking to people.”Google has traditionally resisted any move that it claims would limit full internet transparency and has been involved in the current debate to preserve net neutrality, but Page admitted that he and the company is now more open to the conflicting issues and an open discussion to reach a suitable balance.Leveraging the company’s experience of removing links to child abuse material and copyright infringing content, Page said that responding to privacy takedown requests would be nothing new for the Google. But he said that smaller companies, without Google’s means, could struggle to respond threatening their survival and innovation.Public figures v &apos;everyday&apos; peopleThe balance between removing links for “everyday” people and for public figures is a key one for Page.&quot;Certainly, I worry about the effect that might have on democracy over time if we don’t do that perfectly,&quot; he said.Google has the power to reject a takedown request if it thinks the information is in the public interest, while media companies including newspapers are insulated from the majority of removal requests as most of what they publish is deemed as being in the public interest.Page praised Europe’s “vigilance” provoked by the NSA revelations which damaged European confidence in US internet companies,saying that the US has“imperfect political and legal systems” and said that having data stored with companies like Google, who have a reputation to protect, is better than storing it in the black hole of government.Page’s views on Europe and data privacy mark a significant change of tack for the US internet company, something that will be crucial to ensuring the differing attitudes to the internet between north America and Europe do not widen further through increased legislation.The internet is a global entity and rifts between continents could have a damaging effect on the flow of information that makes the web a tool for education and change.• Googlelaunches its ‘right to be forgotten’ web webform for Europeanprivacy removal requests•Explaining the &apos;right to be forgotten&apos;– what does it really mean?• Google’s self-driving car:how does it work and when can we take one for a spin?
I have been reading your responses to inquiries about Windows XP and Windows 7 etc with great interest as I have an old Windows XP PC (2003) with Microsoft Office installed. I am still in two minds about whether to buy a laptop or a desktop computer. I use my PC about three to five hours each day, as I run my small business from home.The HP ProBook 450 G1 seems most suited to my needs thus far, and at quite a reasonable price on Amazon.Also, could you advise whether I should buy an external hard drive for all of my data or wait until I buy a new PC and use the free Laplink option to transfer everything? I’m not sure how I can move the data from my old computer to the new one!Finally, could you advise the best office suite for my needs? I use the Word, Excel, Outlook and Publisher functions mostly. Could I get a discount because I am a teacher/tutor?TinaIf you bought your current PC in 2003 then it has done well to last this long, though you may be surprised how slow it is compared to a modern machine. Budget for your next PC to run until early 2020, when Microsoft will stop supporting Windows 7.I assume your current PC is a desktop, in which case, I&apos;d recommend another desktop. There are three reasons for this. First, you will be able to use a bigger screen, which means you will be more productive. Mainstream laptops like the HP ProBook have 15.6in screens with a resolution of 1366 x 768 pixels. With a desktop PC, you could buy a 21-23in screen with a resolution of 1920 x 1080 pixels. This will show twice as much information. You will be able to see many more rows and columns in Excel, and more lines of text in Word, or use the space to show two programs at once.For movie buffs, it means a leap from standard HD (high definition) or 720p video to Full HD or 1080p video.Of course, you can buy laptops with high-resolution screens, and with bigger screens. However, it&apos;s still better to have more physical screen area.Second, a desktop PC has better ergonomics and is much better for your health than using a laptop. I wrote about this in detail last year inHow can I use laptops and tablets without suffering from physical pains?You can put a laptop on a riser and use it with a separate monitor and a more ergonomic keyboard. However, this increases the cost, and means you won&apos;t recover all the space used by your current desktop.Third, desktop PCs are better value than laptops. They usually have faster processors, they last longer, and they are much easier to upgrade and/or repair.The problem with computing is that faster always means hotter, but laptops are cramped for space and hard to cool. Laptop manufacturers therefore tend to fit processors that don&apos;t use much power, because they generate less heat, and batteries last longer. Desktops can use processors that run much hotter because they&apos;re much easier to cool. Even small tower systems also have more room for expansion – extra memory and hard drives etc – and they are much easier to repair.Hardware choiceAs you have noticed, I&apos;ve answered several questions about choosing Windows hardware recently (and – sorry – left many more emails unanswered), so I won&apos;t go through it again. If you decide to go for a desktop PC, there are plenty of good options from Dell, HP, and Lenovo, who are the main suppliers in the business market. I answered a question about buying a Dell or HP desktop in November (Which PC should I buy to run a small business?).Last week, I suggested theLenovo H530swith a Core i3-4130 processor, 6GB of memory and a 1TB hard drive, which is available from PC World for £349.99. It runs Windows 8 instead of Windows 7, but you can set it to boot straight to the desktop for a more XP-like experience. Also, Microsoft has made numerous changes with Windows 8.1 Update 1 that make it much more amenable to desktop PC users. If you&apos;re open minded, you can easily learn to use Windows 8.1 in a couple of hours.Having said that, it&apos;s a much smaller jump from Windows XP to Windows 7 than it is to Windows 8, and Windows 7 is what I recommend to business users, as distinct from consumers. If you want a Windows 7 machine, then shop in the business sections of the HP and Dell websites, or try a local supplier such asChillblast. Business versions of Windows come with &quot;downgrade rights&quot; so you can buy Windows 8 Pro but have Windows 7 installed. This also means you upgrade to Windows 8 later: you&apos;ve already paid for it.If you decide to go for a laptop then the HP ProBook 450 G1 E9Y55EA is a good choice. Not all the adverts are specific about the processor, so check that it has a 2.5GHz Intel Core i5-4200M. This has the same TDP (Thermal Design Power) rating – 37 Watts – as the Core-i3 in the Lenovo desktop, so in this case, the laptop would be faster than the desktop. Of course, if speed is important, you could buy theLenovo H530s with a faster Core i5-4440 or Core i7-4770instead.Backups and filesIf you don&apos;t have a backup copy of the data on your Windows XP machine, then you should buy an external hard drive as soon as possible. At the moment, 3TB drives are reliable and the best value, and USB 3 is faster than USB 2 for transferring files. A Western DigitalWD Elementsdrive (about £80) should be fine. You could save a bit by buying a smaller drive, but you will run out of space quicker.If you are moving settings and data files to Windows 7 not Windows 8, then the freeWindows Easy Transferwill do the job. Windows Easy Transfer will use your external hard drive as a staging post. You connect the EHD to the XP machine to write the files and then connect it to your new PC to read them back.Which Microsoft Office?The good news about your copy of Office 2003 is that you can uninstall it from your XP machine then use the discs to install it on your new PC. The bad news is that Microsoft discontinued support for Office 2003 along with Windows XP, so it will not get any more security patches. You could continue to use it, but it means taking a risk that is not advisable in a real business setting.Microsoft does provide huge reductions for teachers and students, and teachers have been able to buy Office Pro for home use for £8.95. However, to qualify, you must be a member of staff or a student at a recognised school, college or university. To validate your copy of Office online, you would need either a working academic email address (eg one ending in ac.uk) or a program code provided by your employer. If you work closely with a local school or college, then one of them might give you a code. If not, then you will probably need to buy a retail copy.Microsoft Home and Student is the cheapest version of Office, but it is not valid for business use, and doesn&apos;t include either Outlook or Microsoft Publisher. Microsoft Office Home and Business is next cheapest, and includes Outlook but not Microsoft Publisher, which you could buy separately. The other options are Microsoft Office Professional – seven programs, including Publisher and Access – or an Office 365 subscription.Note that if you buy a Product Key Card (PKC) version of Office, it does not include a DVD, and will only install on one PC. You cannot use it on both a desktop PC and a laptop, and you cannot transfer it to a new PC. In general, I prefer to buy disc-based packages, but there aren&apos;t any for the latest version: Office 2013.Office 365provides all the software you need – Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, OneNote, Publisher, and Access – on multiple devices including PCs, tablets and some smartphones. It includes the ability to run the programs from your own hard drive, or to use fully functional online versions. The catch is that that it&apos;s an annual subscription. You have to make our own calculation as to whether it&apos;s better to pay a lump sum up front or £65 per year.Microsoft also offers free online copies of some Office programs in the OneDrive cloud service that comes with Microsoft Outlook (or Hotmail) email addresses. These are aimed at consumers and do not have all the functionality of the desktop and Office 365 versions, but they are good enough for many users, and better than Google Docs. Again, Microsoft Publisher is not included.If you have time to spare, you could also try a version of the free, open sourceLibreOfficealong withScribusas a replacement for Microsoft Publisher. LibreOffice is semi-compatible with Microsoft Office files, and if you don&apos;t produce complex documents with embedded pictures and footnotes, or use features like Track Changes, it might be good enough. However, I can&apos;t really recommend it in a business setting where you are exchanging files with other Microsoft Office users. Over five years or so, the time wasted dealing with incompatibilities would probably be enough to pay for Office several times over.
Police, paramedics and the fire service in the UK are using voice-recording technology that contains severe weaknesses and could make confidential calls vulnerable to hackers, researchers claim.The allegedly flawed software is made by one of the world’s biggest suppliers of “lawful interception solutions”, Israel’s Nice Systems, and has led to concerns over leaking of valuable evidence.Researchers at Austrian security firm SEC Consult said the bugs in Nice Recording eXpress were easy to exploit and could be used to turn the devices on their owners, allowing a hacker to spy on conversations.Various critical infrastructure and emergency services are thought to be using the allegedly flawed software, including UK organisations, for their telephone recording needs.Online documentation has shown theGreater Manchester Fire and Rescue Service is a user of the tool, and the Guardian has learned that Nice voice recording solutions may be in use at Police Scotland.The software wasreportedly acquired by Russian security for the Sochi Winter Olympicsand by financial institutions for regulatory compliance, such as when traders are required to have conversations recorded. The Nice tools also help in gathering evidence.Hackers could have an easy path to accessing those transactions, said Johannes Greil, a researcher at SEC Consult, who uncovered the alleged software weaknesses.“The vulnerabilities enable state-sponsored or criminal hackers to take administrative control of the system and gain access to voice recordings. Besides other illegal purposes, the vulnerabilities can be used for comprehensive surveillance of the target organisation,” said Greil.Greil recommended anyone using the software should cease doing so immediately, until a thorough security review has been carried out and the flaws are fixed.A total of nine vulnerabilities were claimed by Greil and his team, including the use of a backdoor account, which could easily be compromised, he said.Certain sensitive files on the devices required no password to access, while “low-privileged users” could access voice recordings, making a hacker’s job considerably easier.Greil claims he contacted Nice about the vulnerabilities back in December. In March and April, some of the flaws were fixed in a software update, but Greil believes at least three serious problems remain.Last week, the national Computer Emergency Response Teams in Austria and Germany were notified of the claimed critical weaknesses.A spokesperson for Nice said: &quot;External consulting firms often conduct such tests on our behalf, or on behalf of our customers, and we welcome these activities. If an issue is brought to our attention, we actively address it, as we have done in this instance. In accordance with our regular communications, we are in touch with our customers and partners about all product updates.The spokesman said the company had addresses all the issues raised by SEC Consult.&quot;We have been addressing the issues based on priority, and can confirm that we have already resolved almost all of them, and expect the remaining fixes to be completed shortly. We do not believe any of our customers have been impacted by the items raised in this report, as these systems are deployed in a very secure environment and are not accessible outside of the organisation.&quot;Eric King, head of research at Privacy International, said the findings were “a serious concern”, given the status of Nice as one of the largest surveillance suppliers in the world.“Governments should be thinking twice before mandating such vulnerabilities into the networks we all use every day,” King said.“Lawful interception systems by definition create backdoors to listen into our private conversations. For years privacy advocates and security experts have warned that these ‘features’ result in the technical weakening of our communications infrastructure and could be exploited by attackers.”Greil expressed concern not just about the vulnerabilities being exploited for theft of recordings, but for tampering of potential evidence too. “The affected product… also has checksums for all recordings in order to detect potential manipulation of the recordings. The problem is, with the flaws… an attacker can alter those files and check sums within the database.”He was also worried about the ease of exploiting the weaknesses once a hacker has discovered where the Nice technology is being used.“Exploitation of our identified security deficiencies is easy. For instance, for one flaw you can exploit the backdoor account in order to gain administrative access to the web interface and therefore all recorded calls. In another case you won&apos;t need any authentication at all to compromise the whole database [by sending malicious commands to the database].”•Wifi routers could be exploited for huge internet attacks in the UK - study
The Steam gaming platform is having to cope with frequent and varied attacks, with reams of user data posted online by malicious hackers, security experts have warned.Online cyber criminal forums are littered with Steam credentials harvested by botnets - networks of infected PCs controlled by hackers - selling for small sums.A post seen by The Guardian from one dark web dealer on a Russian forum offered a full log of Steam-related data from their botnet for just $15 (£9), which likely included usernames and passwords. The malicious software sitting on infected machines making up a botnet often has a feature to siphon off login credentials.“We have seen a fair amount of Steam account data floating around on the black market. Because of ease of trafficking and its market value, Steam account data is a high-valued commodity,” said Alex Holden, chief information security officer at Hold Security.“To the best of our knowledge, most of the Steam accounts get stolen via botnets. However, in the past, we have seen exploitation attempts against the platform.”Gamers have been faced with myriad attacks in recent months, including in-game spam and scam titles hitting the Steam Store.Those hungry for game achievements have been caught out by malware disguised as game hacks and survey scams, or have paid hackers to acquire achievements for them, said Chris Boyd, malware intelligence analyst at Malwarebytes.Phishing, where scammers try to trick people into giving over credentials, has become a problem on Steam, due to heavy use of its instant messaging and community tools, added Boyd.“The Steam Marketplace allows Steam account holders to sell rare in-game items for funds which are deposited into their Steam wallet. With this money (non-transferable) they can purchase new games on their account. Steam hold holiday specific sales which add new items and visibility to the Marketplace,” he told the Guardian.“With this in mind, Steam phishing has shifted away from imitating the standard Steam homepage - store.steampowered.com - to focusing on the increasingly popular Community portal, where everything from trading items to selling content on the marketplace occurs.”Attackers are doing their best to get around the extra protections added by Valve, the Steam creator. They’re “constantly” trying to bypass Steam Guard, a form of two-step authentication for verified Steam accounts, where one-time codes are sent via email when users login on a new device, Boyd adds.Steam hackers have also been spied creating sites asking gamers to upload their SSFN file, which is created when Steam Guard approves a device and which is checked when logging in. Getting hold of that file allows the scammer to bypass Steam Guard entirely.Gamers are fretting over Valve’s Early Access model too, which allows for quick and easy upload of games to Steam. One Early Access game, FPS Earth: Year 2066, was recently removed from the market having been lambasted for its poor quality, amidst claims it was a scam.On a community post, Steam said “developers make their own decisions about promotion, features, pricing and publication”, indicating Valve is relinquishing a fair degree of control over its platform. Critics fear scam titles will now flood the marketplace, duping customers out of money for flawed titles.Even when inside a game, hackers can get at users. In April, developers of the popular Steam title Garry’s Mod noted an exploit affecting titles based on Valve’s Source 3D video game engine, used in popular titles like Half-Life 2 and Counter-Strike Source, which made it possible to send files with any extension (such as.exeor.png) to a user’s PC or a game server.The attacks on Garry’s Mod resulted in a variety of spam messages being sent both in-game and in Steam chat.Valve had not responded to a request for comment at the time of publication.•US cybercrime laws being used to target security researchers
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWho's ready to be a cyborg? &gt;&gt; Bloomberg ViewNoah Smith:Barely a day goes by when I don't read about some advance in cyborg tech. For example,a Stanford engineerjust invented a way to safely transfer energy to biomechanical implants.A University of California-San Francisco teamwon a grant to build brain implants to fight depression and PTSD. There'sa man who can hear colours, thanks to a mechanical implant.Brain-controlled flightis now real. Bionic implants areending disabilityas we know it. And these are only a few of the cyborg headlines from the last couple of weeks.This is enormous. It's absolutely history-ending, world-shaking stuff. And by and large, the press is ignoring it.Why is cyborg tech so earth-shattering? Because it represents a qualitatively different kind of technology.He's correct that biomechanical implants can be absolutely transformative. But elective surgery to insert a piece of technology that isn't essential and that might fail in unpredictable ways at an unpredictable time? As any woman who received a breast implant from PIP what she thinks of it now.IDC lowers tablet projections for 2014 as phablet shipments and slower refresh rates impact shipment growth &gt;&gt; IDCBased on a greater decline in demand than predicted in the first quarter and concerns that tablets and 2-in-1s will face additional market challenges the rest of the year, International Data Corporation (IDC) has lowered its 2014 worldwide tablet plus 2-in-1 forecast to 245.4m units, down from the previous forecast of 260.9 million units. The new forecast represents a 12.1% year-over-year growth rate, which is notably lower than the 51.8% year-over-year growth of 2013."Two major issues are causing the tablet market to slow down. First, consumers are keeping their tablets, especially higher-cost models from major vendors, far longer than originally anticipated. And when they do buy a new one they are often passing their existing tablet off to another member of the family," said Tom Mainelli, Program Vice President, Devices &amp; Displays at IDC. "Second, the rise of phablets – smartphones with 5.5in and larger screens – are causing many people to second-guess tablet purchases as the larger screens on these phones are often adequate for tasks once reserved for tablets."In the past year alone, the phablet share of smartphone shipments has more than doubled, from 4.3% in the first quarter of 2013 to 10.5% in the first quarter of this year, representing 30.1m units shipped.China definitely loves phablets - and that's killing the white box vendors. Apple's not thriving in this space any more either - but this might presage a shift to larger screens.My Wish List for WWDC &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsJan Dawson has a list. It's reasonable - achievable, even. Many people will agree with his desire to have "iTunes on the web so I don't have to use [the] iTunes software."To understand Beats you need to understand Lady Gaga &gt;&gt; MediumMike Vakulenko:In essence, Beats aims to become Uber of music by aggregating demand, connecting listeners to artists and empowering the artists to build thriving business on top of the platform.Much like Uber, which promises to end the era of poorly paid cab drivers. Or like Apple App Store, which connects users with app developers allowing them to build businesses on top of the platform.Pandora, Spotify, Play Music and Amazon that are all designed to sell music, will have very hard time to compete against a platform for building businesses on top of music. As Marshall Van Alstyne said in slightly underestimated way (pun intended):"There is a strong argument that platforms beat products every time."Be interesting to see how the much-expected YouTube branded music service competes. It has the scale, and can offer the money through advertising. And of course commenters are known via Google+True goodbye: 'Using TrueCrypt Is Not Secure' &gt;&gt; Krebs on SecurityThe anonymous developers responsible for building and maintaining the free whole-disk encryption suite TrueCrypt apparently threw in the towel this week, shuttering the TrueCrypt site and warning users that the product is no longer secure now that Microsoft has ended support for Windows XP.Sometime in the last 24 hours, truecrypt.org began forwarding visitors to the program's home page on sourceforge.net, a Web-based source code repository. That page includes instructions for helping Windows users transition drives protected by TrueCrypt over to BitlLocker, the proprietary disk encryption program that ships with every Windows version since Vista. The page also includes this ominous warning:"WARNING: Using TrueCrypt is not secure as it may contain unfixed security issues"Great deal of discussion as to whether the abandonment was so the developers wouldn't be obliged to put back doors in. But the warning seems to imply that they're already in there.Google demoes Android Wear notifications &gt;&gt; Android CentralIn aGoogle+ post, Senior Developer Advocate at Google Timothy Jordan highlighted how notifications will be handled on Google's upcoming Android Wear platform.Basically, any app that serves notifications on your Android smartphone or tablet can be extended to show notifications on a wearable device running Android Wear with minimal effort. Jordan mentioned by adding a few lines of code, devs can "deliver even richer experiences on the wearable by using stacks, pages, and voice replies."The notifications are identified by the app icon, which is featured in the top right corner. The notifications themselves seem to take up the lower half of the screen, with Google also demoing a right-to-left swipe gesture that allows you to view longer notifications over multiple screens.3D printed solar powered charger in your pocket &gt;&gt; Inside3DP.comSpor is a start up that wants to put solar power in your pocket. They are now live on Kickstarter trying to raise money to make a packable portable solar charger available to you and the developing world. Their innovative unit let's you connect and daisy chain Spor devices together to charge multiple things.Because the casing of the Spor charger is 3D printed and the team of Drexel students used 3D printing to develop the Spor I asked them some questions on how they used 3D printing to design and manufacture.Looks interesting. (Disclosure: I'm a backer on Kickstarter.)Apple's App Store revenue on track to surpass iTunes Store by the end of this year &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderNew data released on Wednesday by Morgan Stanley obtained by AppleInsider estimates that last quarter the App Store was 41% of Apple's services revenue, while iTunes accounted for the remaining 59%. But that balance of power is expected to shift, and quickly.Analyst Katy Huberty projects that by the fourth quarter of calendar 2014, the App Store will represent 53% of Apple's online services revenue. That would leave the iTunes Store with a 47% share — a number that she expects will continue to shrink as music sales decline.Given those numbers, perhaps Apple would want to acquire a paid-for music streaming service that's available on the three largest smartphone platforms.Army of robots to invade Amazon warehouses &gt;&gt; CNN MoneyAmazon will be using 10,000 robots in its warehouses by the end of the year.CEO Jeff Bezos told investors at a shareholder meeting Wednesday that he expects to significantly increase the number of robots used to fulfill customer orders.There are currently about 1,000 robot workers on Amazon floors. The increase won't change the number of actual people employed, an Amazon spokeswoman said.Done using the robot company Amazon bought for $775m two years ago. One hopes they're not standing over the staff with lasers or anything.The incredible shrinking "power brick" &gt;&gt; MIT News OfficeWhile laptops continue to shrink in size and weight, the "power bricks" that charge them remain heavy and bulky. But now, MIT spinout FINsix has invented an adapter that's roughly one-quarter the size and one-sixth the weight of a conventional brick, and just as efficient.Co-founded by four MIT alumni — Vanessa Green MNG '08, MBA '11; Anthony Sagneri SM '07, PhD '12; George Hwang PhD '10; and Justin Burkhart SM '10 — FINsix has developed the world's smallest laptop adapter, called the Dart. Around 2 1/2 cubic inches in size and weighing around 2 ounces, the adapter is only slightly larger than an ordinary plug.The Dart runs on novel very-high frequency (VHF) power-conversion technology, co-invented by Sagneri, that delivers energy more often and in smaller chunks than traditional adapters, ultimately wasting less energy. It does so by making the adapter's switching frequency — which transfers energy from the adapter to the battery — run 1,000 times faster.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
It takes human senses to appreciate the wonders of Australia’s natural environment. But it is machine intelligence that may prove critical to our ability to manage it.Numerous projects around Australia are now using advanced data analytics techniques (also known as big data) to better understand and manage the complexity of natural systems. Modern analytical techniques – particularly the capability to analyse and compare vast sets of data simultaneously – are delivering new capabilities to understand how natural systems work.The hope is that through better understanding the interplay of different systems through data it may be possible to manage natural resources in a way that is both more efficient and more sustainable.This is the intention ofSense-T, a sensing and data analysis project currently being developed in Tasmania by theCSIRO,University of Tasmaniaand numerous supporting parties including environmental groups and farmers.It is using vast volumes of data already collected by the state to better manage its natural resources, while augmenting this with new sensor-based data sets to provide specific details.The four projects currently underway cover beef and dairy production, viticulture, aquaculture and water management, and have even seen researchers attaching sensors to oysters to collect data for farm management.Sense-T’s director, Ros Harvey, says where possible the projects will re-purpose existing data sources for new purposes, such as using environmental monitoring data to improve farming methods.“And we are looking at repurposing production optimisation data from our agricultural projects and repurposing that for environmental reporting,” Harvey says. “If we repurpose individual farm-level data and aggregate it up, can it become a really important source of environmental monitoring that can be used for public policy purposes?”Sense-T’soyster farming projectfor instance is taking existing data on inflows into water catchments and using this to help farmers determine when environmental pollutants will move in and out of their farming areas, helping them better determine the optimal times for harvesting.In Tasmania’s north-east, a water catchment management program is providing farmers with real-time information on the health of waterways to reduce the number of times a year that farmers are issued with orders to stop drawing water for environmental reasons.“We were working with the community to develop a dashboard that allows that community to actually understand what is happening with the environmental flows in the river that they are drawing irrigation from,” Harvey says.Vital to the success of Sense-T is a partnership withSirca, a not-for-profit organisation focused on financial research and innovation, but whose big data crunching capabilities have proven adaptable to the needs of Sense-T.The concept of using big data for environmental purposes is only just beginning to be understood within the public sector. While the Australian public service big data strategy does make reference to the use of analytics to monitor environmental issues, activity today is being driven by individual departments or research projects.But nationwide examples do exist. One of the biggest users of big data for environmental management is theBureau of Meteorology(BoM), which also makes available large data sets for external analysis. This includes past weather and climate information from its weather stations, with many popular data sets available free of charge.The BoM has also been a key contributor toCRCSI(Cooperative Research Centre for Spatial Information), and specifically to a project that is using archival data from theLandsatsatellites. This includes information on characteristics of the earth’s surface taken at a resolution of 25 metres and refreshed every 16 days stretching back to 1987.According to CRCSI’s business development and research manager, Philip Tickle, this information is vital in helping land managers understand changes in ground cover and water.“A landholder will be able to bring in a boundary of a paddock or farm and get the average ground cover for the last 30 years and how it compares to neighbours,” Tickle says.What makes this possible is use of theNational Computing Infrastructureat the Australian National University, which provides the computational grunt to crunch the petabytes of data that the Landsat archives contain.“Something that might have taken three to five years’ worth of computing two or three years ago can basically be run overnight now,” Tickle says.Sponsored contentThis content has been sponsored by IBM, whose brand it displays. All content is editorially independent.
Google unveiled a brand new self-driving car prototype on Tuesday; the first company to build a car with no a steering wheel, accelerator or brake pedal.The car&apos;s arrival marks the next stage in Google’s self-driving car project, which was born from the Darpa Grand Challenges for robotic vehicles in the early 2000s. Google kickstarted its own self-driving car project in 2008, and it has been rumbling on ever since, first with modified Toyota Prius and then with customised Lexus SUVs, which took the car’s existing sensors, such as the cruise-control cameras, and added a spinning laser scanner on the top.What is it?Google's self-driving car taking a spin around a car park Photograph: GoogleIt is the first truly driverless electric car prototype built by Google to test the next stage of its five-year-old self-driving car project. It looks like a cross between a Smart car and a Nissan Micra, with two seats and room enough for a small amount of luggage.It is the first real physical incarnation of Google’s vision of what a self-driving car of the near future could be.Where is it?It operates in and around California, primarily around the Mountain View area where Google has its headquarters.What does it do?It ferries two people from one place to another without any user interaction. The car is summoned by a smartphone for pick up at the user’s location with the destination set. There is no steering wheel or manual control, simply a start button and a big red emergency stop button. In front of the passengers there is a small screen showing the weather, the current speed and a small countdown animation to launch.Once the journey is done, the small screen displays a message to remind you to take your personal belongings – reinforcing that this is not aiming to be a substitute for your personal car at the moment, but more as a replacement for the taxi without the human driver.What’s it like?The go button right next to the big red emergency stop button, just in case. Photograph: GoogleVery few people outside of Google have been allowed to ride in the new car. Most of the people depicted in Google’s promotional videos for the new car described the experience as “smooth” and “nothing that feels the least bit threatening”.Kara Swisher and Liz Gannes from technology site Recodewere one of the few independent test riders, who described the car as having “ample” room despite being small, likely due to the lack of the normal controls taking up space in the cabin, and &quot;that this felt a lot like a theme park ride&quot;.Who built it?Google has designed the car from scratch, starting with the sensors and a frame to interconnect them, then adding a cabin that does not block any of the sensors or create blind spots and eventually the body shell. The manufacturing of the 100 or so prototype cars will be done by a firm in the Detroit area, but Google declined to comment on which.How does it work?Powered by an electric motor with around a 100 mile range, the car uses a combination of sensors and software to locate itself in the real world combined with highly accurate digital maps. A GPS is used, just like the satellite navigation systems in most cars, to get a rough location of the car, at which point radar, lasers and cameras take over to monitor the world around the car, 360-degrees.The software can recognise objects, people, cars, road marking, signs and traffic lights, obeying the rules of the road and allowing for multiple unpredictable hazards, including cyclists. It can even detect road works and safely navigate around them.Google's self-driving car being built in Detroit. Photograph: GoogleThe new prototype has more sensors fitted to it that can see further (up to 600 feet in all directions) and in greater detail than the ones available on the previous repurposed Lexus and Toyota vehicles.How safe is it?The new car is the next evolution of Google’s self-driving car. While the new frame is untested, the company’s previous versions have clocked up over 700,000 miles of testing on public roads, mainly around California, including over 1,000 miles of driving in the most complex situations and cities like San Francisco’s hills and busy streets.The car itself is limited to 25 mph, which restricts it to certain roads, but also minimises the kinetic energy it could carry into a crash if one should happen. The front of the car is also made to be as kind to pedestrians as possible with a foam bumper and a flexible windscreen that is designed to absorb energy from an impact with a person’s body.Seat belts are also provided – a safety requirement for vehicles on the road – while the car has redundant systems, a “fault-tolerant architecture” as Google calls it, for both steering and braking, should the primary systems fails; plus that emergency stop button that passengers can hit at any time.Google has also taken the data and behaviours it learned from its previous vehicles to create a defensive, considerate driving style that is meant to protect both the passengers and other road users. For instance, the car will wait a second after the traffic lights turn green before it moves off, although this could incur the anger of drivers stuck behind it.Google also says that making it drive in a natural and predictable way has been one of the key goals, so that it behaves in a familiar way on the road for other drivers.A laser sensor on the roof constantly scans the surroundings. Photograph: GoogleWhy now?Google says it has gone as far as it can with the current customised vehicles and that a new platform is needed to take the project and technology to the next step and closer to a product people can actually use.For instance, the previous generation Lexus vehicle had blind spots right up against the car where the sensors couldn’t see, something that needs to be eliminated in any vehicle open to the public.The cars will first be used to test the software driving the car and push its capabilities. Google says at some point, when it deems its software safe, it will start putting real people into the cars beyond Google engineers. It will use the cars in a similar manner to the company’s Google Glass explorer programme, analysing how people use them and what works and what doesn’t.Why do damn cute?The car’s cute looks and friendly “face” were created intentionally to be “very Googley” according to its designers, to put both other road users and passengers at ease with the new technology. The shell is also designed to give the sensors the best view of the surroundings.Why does it still look like a car on the inside?The new car has two traditional car seats, primarily because in this iteration passengers have to be strapped in like they would in any other car to meet safety regulations, which means using standard seat belts. It also provides a more familiar passenger experience, which at this stage is likely important to aid adoption.Is this something I’m going to be able to buy?Google’s vision for this kind of self-driving car isn’t an exact replacement for the one parked outside your home. They are designed to be more like shared vehicles, possibly within a family or more likely as a replacement for taxis.The front of the car is designed to absorb as much of the impact as possible with a pedestrian, if one ever happens. Photograph: GoogleThese cars are still very much in the early prototype stage still, and Google is still trying to figure out how to make a product out of the technology, how much it is likely to cost and when it will be available.Apparently it will not have ads according to Google, although whether it’ll eventually have a small screen like some taxis now that plays video adverts, who knows. That will likely be up to the operator rather than Google.Who will build it for me?Google is proving the technology, but it is unlikely to make the cars for sale once that technology is ready for the mass market. It has said in the past that it is actively seeking car manufacturing partners, which means we could see a Toyota, Ford or Fiat-made Google car in the future, but that is all very much still up in the air.When can I get one?Google says the cars should be road-ready by early next year, but that testing would take more than two years. At that point the technology will be ready for the next stage, which is likely to be greater pilot testing.Current expectations are that these self-driving cars are at least five years away from being mature enough to create a real, non-prototype product, but it may be far longer until you can buy or hire one for personal use.What about legislation?One of the biggest hold-ups to the progression of the technology onto the open road of Britain, the US, Australia and the rest of the world will be legislation.A law was passed in California over a year ago that made the testing and operation of self-driving vehicles on roads possible, as long as they had manual override controls. The Department of Motor Vehicles in California is expected to issue regulations on the operation of self-driving cars soon, after which self-driving cars may become a bit more common place.However, there is still much to work out, primarily revolving around what a passenger in a self-driving car and can’t do – will they have to be able to take control at any moment, for instance – as well as questions around what happens when an accident happens, who is at fault and who pays.•Google&apos;s driverless car: no steering wheel, two seats, 25mph•Analysis: a long and winding road to success for Google&apos;s self-driving car
The UK shoe store Office is advising customers to change their passwords after its website suffered a break-in that compromised customer data.No financial information was stolen in the hack, but customer names, addresses, email addresses, birth dates, birth months (but not year of birth), phone numbers and Office account passwords were stolen.The company has not said whether the information was encrypted or how many customers had been affected.“I can confirm that the Office website has been the subject of a security breach,” said chief executive Brian McCluskey in a statement. “We take such a threat very seriously and have been in communication with our customers to advise them of the matter.”“We can confirm that no credit card, debit card, Paypal or bank details were compromised in any way. In addition we have reported the matter to the relevant authorities,” said McCluskey.‘Protection of customer data is of the utmost importance’The companybecame aware of the attack on 22 May, launching an investigation that discovered the data breach on 26 May. Office has emailed affected customers, reset their passwords and has said that only accounts created prior to August 2013 were affected.Office said that it does not store financial data, including credit cards, PayPal or bank account information.“The protection of customer data is of the utmost importance to us and we are treating this extremely seriously,” said McCluskey .“Our customers remain our number one priority and we are taking all necessary measures to ensure that our website remains secure.”&apos;It&apos;s not a matter of &apos;if&apos;, but &apos;when&apos;&apos;&quot;This breach highlights a need for companies to place tighter controls on how their customers&apos; sensitive information is stored and protected,” said Andy Heather, vice president of Voltage Security. “If data is left unprotected, it&apos;s not a matter of &quot;if&quot; it will be compromised - it&apos;s a matter of “when”.”Preventing access to user data has become an increasingly difficult challenge for companies, while companies like retailers and service providers are storing more and more personal data beyond financial information, explained Heather. Companies must therefore prepare for the worst and ensure that all customer data is encrypted at all times.&quot;If Office had employed format-preserving encryption to protect the data itself, the attackers would have ended up with unusable encrypted data instead of the current outcome where an untold amount of their customers&apos; personal information is now in the hands of cyber criminals,” said Heather.Personal information, like addresses, phone numbers and dates of birth, is extremely valuable to criminals, and can present a greater longterm threat to victims than simply stolen credit card details, which can easily be changed.&quot;The value of this personal data to the cyber criminal has a much greater value, for example where the selling price for a single stolen credit card is around $1, if that card information is sold with a full identify profile that can dramatically increase up to $500,” explained Heather.‘Personal information is not their plaything’The cyberattack on Office follows a spate of hack attacks including that of Tesco, Spotify andeBay, where personal dataincluding dates of birth, addresses and phone numbers were stolen unencrypted from up to 145 million users globally.“This sort of thing is going to go on and on and on until businesses wake up and realise that personal information is not their plaything; it’s our information and it needs to be protected,” said Graham abouteBay’s handling of personal data.Customers are urged to change their password for their Office online account, but also to change the passwords of any other site that uses the same login and password combination.“Watch out for phishing emails appearing to come from Office – log into the Office site directly rather than clicking on a link in an email,” warned Ian Pratt, co-founder of security firm Bromium.Office was founded in 1981 as concession in London’s Kensington indoor market Hyper Hyper. It now operates 153 stores globally with concessions in House of Fraser, Harvey Nichols, Selfridges and Topshop.It was once owned and operated by Scottish entrepreneur Sir Tom Hunter before he sold it to private equity firm Silverfleet Capital.• It&apos;s not &apos;if&apos; but &apos;when&apos; a site you use gets hacked.Here&apos;s how to protect yourselffrom the next eBay or Office hack
Some of the world’s best-known security researchers claim to have been threatened with indictment over their efforts to find vulnerabilities in internet infrastructure, amid fears American computer hacking laws are perversely making the web less safe to surf.Many in the security industry have expressed grave concerns around the application of the US Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA), complaining law enforcement and lawyers have wielded it aggressively at anyone looking for vulnerabilities in the internet, criminalising work that’s largely benign.They have also argued the law carries overly severe punishments, is too vague and does not consider context, only the action.HD Moore, creator of the ethical hacking tool Metasploit and chief research officer of security consultancy Rapid7, told the Guardian he had been warned by US law enforcement last year over ascanning project called Critical.IO, which he started in 2012. The initiative sought to find widespread vulnerabilities using automated computer programs to uncover the weaknesses across the entire internet.&apos;Law enforcement are killing careers&apos;Jeremiah Grossman, CEO of cyber research firm Whitehat Security, believes that the aggressive application of the law will lead to researchers quitting before they’ve found serious problems on the internet, leading to a degradation of its overall security.“Right now they are probably killing careers, because they&apos;re not accounting for intent,” said Grossman.“The chilling effect is on the problems we don&apos;t know about yet. The canaries in the coalmine? They just killed them all. So now we&apos;re going to suffer the consequences.”The project that landed Moore in trouble, Critical.IO, uncovered some serious, widespread vulnerabilities, including one case where between 40 and 50 million network machines could have been compromised due to weaknesses in a network protocol, known as Universal Plug and Play (UPnP).Yet US law enforcement continued to pursue Moore, even though he was transparent with his role and the reasons for his scanning, he claimed, without naming the government body that was responsible.&apos;The law doesn&apos;t encourage experts with the skill to investigate threats&apos;Moore said the actions by law enforcement were partly responsible for him taking a break from the industry, from which he has just returned. But his biggest fears surround the overall effect on internet security.“You need people who can get into the detail with these systems, people who know how to manipulate the technology to their advantage as a criminal would,” he added.“You need these people to help users understand the threats, and to work with vendors to help them fix them. At the moment, the law doesn’t encourage this. It doesn’t make any distinction between bona fide research and criminal activity. It doesn’t help consumers understand their risk.”Many other researchers are believed to have had similar issues. Zach Lanier, senior security researcher at Duo Security, said many of his team had “run into possible CFAA issues before in the course of research over the last decade”.&apos;We warned of a vulnerability - but they claimed we were hacking their systems&apos;Lanier said that after finding severe vulnerabilities in an unnamed “embedded device marketed towards children” and reporting them to the manufacturer, he received calls from lawyers threatening him with action.&quot;We had tried to work with them and sent them all the details,&quot; said Lanier. &quot;When it finally got to the point that we were going to talk [publicly] about this... a lawyer called us. As is often the case with CFAA things when they go to court, the lawyers and even sometimes the technical people or business people don&apos;t understand what it is you actually did. There were claims that we were &apos;hacking into their systems&apos;.&quot;The threat of a CFAA prosecution forced Lanier and his team to walk away from the research.&quot;The looming threat of CFAA as ammunition for anyone to use willy-nilly was enough … and had a chilling effect on our research,&quot; Lanier added.The people running organisations who wield CFAA aggressively when vulnerabilities are reported to them &quot;probably don&apos;t really think about anything other than dollar signs&quot;, he said.Current attempts at CFAA reform appear to be foundering. Researchers had hoped the case of Andrew “weev” Auernheimer would be useful in fighting for reform. Auernheimer was convicted under CFAA for his part in releasing information on an AT&amp;T website flaw that was hacked to reveal data belonging to iPad consumers. But when Auernheimer succeeded in having his conviction overturned, it was because the judge agreed the case should not have been heard in New Jersey, rather than because of any underlying problem with the nature of the CFAA.Many are still hopeful Aaron’s Law, named after the late internet activist Aaron Swartz who killed himself in 2013, will pass. Swartz’s family blamed the attempts to prosecute Swartz under CFAA, after he downloaded documents from online resource Jstor from a server at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology without proper authorisation, were partly to blame for his death. He was potentially facing 50 years in prison for what many considered a minor act.Lawmakers want more severe penalties for hackingThe US Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren had not offered any comment at the time of publication onclaims that Aaron’s Law would not be passingthrough the House or the Senate.The digital rights lawyer Marcia Hoffman says Congress remains divided on the issue. After high-profile breaches, such as the hack of US retailing giant Target and alleged Chinese state-sponsored espionage of various American organisations, many want to see CFAA punishments made more severe.“On one side of things there are members of Congress who say hacking is a big problem and what we ought to be doing is making penalties tougher. Then on the other side there are people saying the CFAA is not written in a way that is very clear, it&apos;s not entirely apparent what behaviour is legal under it and the last thing we should be doing is making penalties tougher.”According to Hoffman, the wording of the CFAA makes it difficult to understand what is illegal. In particular, an internet user who “intentionally accesses a computer without authorisation or exceeds authorised access” is breaking the law, even though it doesn&apos;t actually explain what authorisation actually is, Hoffman added. “Judges have been forced to figure out how one expresses authorisation.”There are also worries that if CFAA were to be weakened in favour of the security industry, criminal hackers would simply claim in their defence they were carrying out research. Moore said there should be better ways to “define or prove what bona fide research is”.“For example, is it the way you disclose the findings? Is it the type of information you access? This isn’t easy to solve, but it’s important and worth doing if we want to protect ourselves.”•Emergency services recording tools vulnerable to hackers, experts say
Self-driving cars could bring improvements in safety, but they also pose new risks on the road, warns KPMG&apos;s cyber security team.With internet access baked in from the off, driverless cars may be vulnerable to hacking techniques recognisable from other areas of computing.Wil Rockall, a director at KPMG, warns that &quot;the industry will need to be very alert to the risk of cyber manipulation and attack&quot;.&quot;Self-drive cars will probably work through internet connectivity and, just as large volumes of electronic traffic can be routed to overwhelm websites, the opportunity for self-drive traffic being routed to create ‘spam jams’ or disruption is a very real prospect.&quot;&apos;Road to nowhere&apos;Rockall suggests that manufacturers could build safety features in to lessen the risk of this happening. &quot;The industry takes safety and security incredibly seriously. Doubtless, overrides could be built in so that drivers could shut down many of the car’s capabilities if hacked. That way, humans will still be able to ensure their cars don’t route them on the road to nowhere.”But Google&apos;s prototype self-driving car, revealed on Tuesday, is largely controlled using an app, and has just two physical buttons: stop, and go. The company has taken a very different approach to firms like Audi and Volvo, who market the driverless features as an addition to, rather than replacement for, a traditional driver.Despite his warnings, Rockall believes that self-driving cars will be a reality, and a largely positive one. &quot;The technology is already available and, with test drives showing early signs of success, an unstoppable journey has started on what will become a well-travelled road.&quot;&apos;Humans are unreliable&apos;“There is an almost perfect combination of good reasons for self-drive technology. Top of the list is safety because humans are unreliable, easily distracted and have vastly slower reaction times than software. With a computer brain at the wheel, driving will also be more efficient, meaning that environmental and economic benefits will quickly be noticed.&quot;Rockall&apos;s comments follow those of Senator John Rockefeller, who worried that self-driving cars would be vulnerable to international hacking ata US senate committee hearing in mid-May.&quot;In other words, can some 14-year old in Indonesia figure out how to do this and just shut your car down … because everything is now wired up?&quot;•Self-driving cars face a long and winding road to success
Apple’s $3bn purchase of Beats wasfinally confirmedon Wednesday after weeks ofspeculation. After a formal statement from Apple, chief executive Tim Cook, its head of internet services Eddy Cue and co-founder of Beats Jimmy Iovine were interviewed on stage at the Code conference in California about the acquisition.Here’s what we learned:‘This is all about music’“This is all about music, and we’ve always viewed that music was key to society and culture,” said Cook “Music’s always been at the heart of Apple. It’s deep in our DNA.“Apple bought the whole of Beats, which includes Beats Electronics – the headphone and speaker brand – but alsoBeats Music, the relatively new streaming music service set up by the dynamic duo of rapper Dr Dre and Iovine.Beats Music claims to have has 250,000 paying subscribers, althougha leaked royalty reportsuggests the true number is actually 111,000 paying accounts, including many subscribers signed up for family accounts that support for up five users.The Beats Music service will be kept as a standalone offering – with its existing Android and Windows Phone apps surviving – and not rolled directly into the iTunes music offering. It will be headed by Cue, with Iovine and Dre reporting to him for music purposes.Cue described Beats Music as “the first music subscription service done right”, specifically talking about its mix of professional curation and playlists.Cook agreed: “We get a subscription music service that we believe is the first subscription service that really got it right. They had the insight early on to know how important human curation is. That technology by itself wasn’t enough — that it was the marriage of the two that would really be great and produce a feeling in people that we want to produce.”Why music streaming?Apple has steadfastly refused to enter the subscription music service arena in the past because Steve Jobs thought no one wanted to rent music tracks – they wanted to own them.But the digital music landscape has changed in recent years. Digital growth in music sales has levelled off, and while Apple’s iTunes music store is still dominant, the growth is now in subscription services.Apple launched its radio-style music streaming service iTunes Radio in June 2013 in the US, available via iPhone, iPad or Mac computer for free. But until now it hasn’t dipped its toe into the music subscription business.Buying Beats Music instantly propels Apple into that space, and with deals already struck with music labels and a service that is already up and running in the US, even if it is relatively small fry compared to the 40-million-user-strong Spotify, which has over 10 million paying subscribers across 56 countries.But why not just build one itself?If music subscription is the next frontier for digital music, and Apple already has the expertise in-house, why did it not just build one itself?“Beats provides us is a head start. They provide us with incredible people that don’t grow on trees. They’re creative souls, kindred spirits,” explained Cook. “And by the way — we do acquire companies. I know we don’t talk about them, but we’ve acquired 27 companies between fiscal year 2013 and this year so far. So we’ve never been of the mindset that we shouldn’t acquire things.”Apple gives Beats Music the resources and audience to accelerate its grow its subscriber number and expand to countries beyond the US. Each one of Apple&apos;s install base of around 800 million iTunes users has a credit card on file - and could be a potential Beats Music subscriber.And the headphones?Apple has produced both headphones and speakers in the past, but has never found great success beyond the basic set bundled with every iPhone. Iovine didn&apos;t spare Apple any blushes by describing those as only good enough &quot;to see if the sound works&quot;.Iovine said that &quot;our dream is that everyone in the world who buys a phone&quot; will also upgrade their headphones. Applesold over 500m iPhones; even if only 10% of those buy into a Beats product, that&apos;s huge growth for Beats.Beats Electronics, which makes and sells headphones and speakers, will be overseen by Phil Schiller, Apple’s head of worldwide marketing. Dre and Iovine will report to Schiller for all things headphones.Apple will take over design duties for new Beats headphones, while the rest of the Beats Electronics team will be absorbed into Apple. Beats Electronics will then be able to leverage Apple’s extensive distribution network and will continue to be sold in Apple stores.‘Jimmy’s on the cutting edge’A key part of Beats draw for Apple has been acqu-hiring Iovine. A powerhouse in the music industry, Iovine has been working with Apple on-and-off for the last 10 years. He was instrumental in the deals that forged the first iTunes music store, and had been talking to Apple about Beats since its inception.“Jimmy has been on the cutting edge of innovation in the music industry for decades, including as a key partner for Apple in the launch of the iTunes Music Store more than ten years ago,” said Cook.Iovine will become a full time employee at Apple, but will not be based out of Apple’s head quarters in Cupertino. Instead he will remain in Los Angeles, attempting to bridge the gap between Silicon Valley technology and the entertainment industry.“What Beats brings to Apple are guys with very rare skills. People like this aren’t born every day. They’re very rare. They really get music deeply. So we get an infusion in Apple of some great talent,” explained Cook.For Apple, Iovine brings influence in the music industry, the same influence that got Beats Music up and running. For Iovine, Apple is apparently a kindred spirit.&quot;These guys get it,&quot; Iovine said. &quot;They respect what we do. They respect copyright. They respect the entire food chain.”“I’ve always known in my heart that Beats belonged with Apple,” continued Iovine, saying that the creation of Beats was inspired by “Apple’s unmatched ability to marry culture and technology&quot;.During the love-in, Iovine attacked rival music service Spotify saying it would “cave” after its venture capital funding had been exhausted. But he did also rubbish Apple’s own headphones saying they sounded “like a mosquito” - and forcing Apple’s Cue to defend them live on stage.&quot;We make the best headphones that come in the box,” said Cue, noting that &quot;when you want to make incredible sound, it costs more money.&quot;Have youforgot about Dre?Little has been spoken about Dre. He will become a full time employee, just like Iovine, and will apparently still work on Beats products. Most of the discussion has been around the Beats team, which Dre is a part of,but his public outbursts caught on camerawill undoubtedly have ruffled some feathers.For now, he is the self-proclaimed “first billionaire in hip-hop” even if that might bea slight exaggeration.Beat’s second mobile phone company in three yearsApple is not the first technology company to attempt to bring Beats into its fold. Apple rival HTC originally bought a 50.1% controlling stake in Beats for $300m in August 2011. The two companies later split in August 2013.According to Iovine, it wasn’t a good fit, and the two company cultures clashed badly: HTC’s strap line had been “quietly brilliant” for years, which clashed with the big, brash image of Beats.Before the HTC deal, Iovine revealed that he had tried to partner with Apple several times over the last decade, saying &quot;Apple makes deals the way they make products&quot; while making a slow turning motion with his fingers.How much is the deal worth in the end?Reports before the announcement yesterday put Apple’s acquisition of Beats at $3.2bn. The reality is the slightly smaller sum of $3bn made up of $2.6bn and $400m in stock over the next years. While this is the biggest deal in Apple’s history – the company usually prefers smaller, lower profile company acquisitions – Apple is sitting on a cash reserve of $150bn, which means there is plenty more capital where that came from.The acquisition is still subject to regulatory approval, but Apple expects it to complete by the end of September this year.What’s next for Apple and Beats?Apple’s Cue said that the company’s 2014 line up is &quot;the best product pipeline that I&apos;ve seen in my 25 years at Apple.” Cook didn’t give much away, other than saying that Iovine, Beats and Apple would be working on projects for products and services that no one had thought about yet.Apple’s World Wide Developer Conference (WWDC) kicks off next week in California. Traditionally Apple releases asneak peek into its new softwarefor both its Mac computers and its iPhone and iPad at WWDC each year.It is possible we will also see some new products, although Beats are unlikely to feature in Apple’s events until the acquisition has completed.•What does Apple stand to gain from Dr Dre’s Beats headphones?•The headphones revolution: bright colours, street styling spark new tribal craze
In hindsight, it was probably a mistake watchingPretty In Pink. But there it was on Netflix, at the end of a hard day, an image of Molly Ringwald and Jon Cryer looking impossibly cool in front of the school lockers.I clicked on it and 20 seconds later there was the old &quot;Paramount presents&quot; ident, and then the sound of Psychadelic Furs blasting out their eponymous track, a great gorgeous power pop hit about a girl used by men, the dark meaning of it all hidden behind those massive 80s chords, and Richard Butler&apos;s rasping voice.And then the movie – like all the great John Hughes movies, a paeon to the ambiguities of youth; the pleasures, the agonies, the clothes, oh sweet Jesus the clothes.And, like a sad old idiot, it got me thinking about the 80s – that most self-contradictory of decades. A time of strikes and dissent and nuclear paranoia and industrial decline. A time when Thatcher told us there was no such thing as society, and then proved it by cutting great swaths through the mining, steel working and shipbuilding communities of the North. A time when Reagan turned foreign policy into a Rambo movie.Spandau Ballet: helped us forget the miserable tyranny of Thatcher's Britain in the 1980's. Photograph: Mike Prior/RedfernsBut the arts rebelled. In the early 80s, pop music emerged like a beautiful camp butterfly from its dour post-punk ennui. Groups like Duran Duran, Spandau Ballet and Wham effectively politicised fun and glamour. They created a parallel universe, a republic of opulence, to counter the boot-to-the-guts monoculture of conservative Britain.Meanwhile in the states, glam rock exploded all over LA – pretty boy metal groups like Poison and Motley Crue, shoved a lipstick-smeared Jack Daniels bottle in the face of AOR music royalty. The message was: screw the earnest pretensions of the Eagles, Crosby, Stills and Nash, whoever, it&apos;s about decadence now.In the Faber Book of Pop, Jon Savage wrote of the era: &quot;In reaction to punk, which had pushed alienation in your face, New Pop liked to pretend that the world outside didn&apos;t exist.&quot;Games were the same. The video games of the 80s were infused with colour and joy. For its great coin-op titles – Space Harrier, Outrun, Hang-On – Sega painted azure blue skies that seemed to light up the whole arcade, bathing sallow faces in an iridescent cobalt glow.In Britain, mainstream development meant bedroom coders directly channeling the spirit of Monty Python, The Young Ones and Blackadder into surreal flights of idiosyncratic fancy. Jet Set Willy, Monty Mole, Gribbly&apos;s Day Out, titles that reveled in both the possibilities and the pixelated absurdity of home computer technology.Fashionwasa statement – and so were game graphics. The statement was; whatever is going on out there, this is the alternative, this is different. Choose life. We&apos;re taught now that the 80s was a decade of surface sheen, we&apos;re expected to dismiss the movies of stylists like Alan Parker and Adrian Lyne; and we have to scoff at the cocaine-fuelled super fantasies brought raging into life by Don Simpson. But they rejected the banal terror of the reality being foisted on us. They rolled up their Armani suit jacket sleeves and they fought back.So really there&apos;s a direct connection between this:And this:Obviously, I&apos;m not saying that video games were better in the 80s – I&apos;m old but I&apos;m not mad. I&apos;m saying that they really understood the joy in rejecting bleakness. While city rich kids and Wall Street yuppies flashed their brick-sized phones, the commodity the rest of us traded in was fantasy – not as escapism, but as statement.The casuals, the New Romantics, the goths, the grebos, the whizz kids, the geeks, they weren&apos;t retreating, they were attacking. No thanks, keep your jobs in the city and your braying Sloanes. Let&apos;s play Bubble Bobble and read Smash Hits. Our heroes are pop stars, hip-hop artists and Japanese game developers. At least that&apos;s how I felt.Smash and Crash: these cultural fanzines spoke about music and games thoughtfully but without artifice. And they were super funWho are games attacking now? The mainstream blockbusters we&apos;re playing are suffused with directionless angst. Everything has to be dark and troubled, every skyline overshot with cloud.Destiny, Watch Dogs, Infamous, dozens of cynical young heroes murdering their way out of cliche-splattered emotional cul-de-sacs. Cool, edgy chararacters brooding beneath their armour and cropped hair about identikit wars and paint-by-numbers betrayels. Oh for a splash of colour, a smile that isn&apos;t a strained grimace, a blast of pop music instead of metal dirge and orchestral pomp.Where are the New Romantics*? Where are the mainstream developers who can embrace fun and life, but still make stuff that says something? Or even doesn&apos;t say anything, but that blasts us with joy and silliness? Could the games industry leaders come to the same conclusion that the pop stars and film makers did 30 years-ago? Choose life!Adam Ant didn&apos;t sell out when he abandoned the punk aesthetic to become a highwayman; he created a new reality. Paul Weller didn&apos;t sell out when he shut The Jam, embraced casual chic and started The Style Council.It&apos;s just that this new reality was glamorous and androgynous. Video games nowadays scrabble for the attention of the mainstream press, falling over themselves to prove their staid validity – George O&apos;Dowd put on lipstick and a wig and sang about love and war and had the tabloids eating out of his perfectly manicured hands.Eighties pop emerged out of darkness. We&apos;re in darkness now. But games don&apos;t have to reflect, they can absorb. Sure, there are sunspots we can point to: Borderlands, Super Mario, Sunset Overdrive... but they are insular and sort of introspective. They are still designed to be true to gamers, true to the pervading sense of the industry as somethingof itself, something defensive. Pop culture is about freedom – even when millions of dollars are involved. Even when built around disparate youth cults.The modern games industry, with its desperate darkness and its obsession with masculine identities, could really learn from Pretty in Pink. Authenticity is not what you think it means. It can mean the brightness of the sky, the crazed angles of Molly Ringwald&apos;s clothes, the seething bitchiness and resentment kept bubbling on low as the music blasts over it all. The platonic love, the rad white suits, the trouble and fun and pain. That was mainstream once, and young. Video games may never be that young again.*Oh of course,here are the video game new romantics!• Why gaming needs its Game of Thrones moment• The identity paradox: why game characters are not us, but should be
London's black-cab drivers are to launch private prosecutions against minicab drivers who use Uber, the booking software that allows smartphone users to hail private-hire cars from any location.The legal action emerged a day after Travis Kalanick, Uber's chief executive, confirmed the Silicon Valley company, which has rolled out its service to 115 cities globally, was set for a "record breaking"private fundraisingthat could see it valued at close to $17bn (£10bn).The Licensed Taxi Drivers Association is issuing summonses to six Uber drivers on Thursdayon the grounds that it is illegal for private-hire vehicles to be fitted with meters.The test cases hinge on whether the app comes within the definition of a meter and could affect hundreds of Uber drivers operating in the capital and Manchester, where it launched this month.The London cabbies' union is so concerned about Uber that it is planning a mass protest on 11 June with drivers parking in Parliament Square, Trafalgar Square and along Whitehall in central London from 2pm.Transport for London, which regulates private-hire vehicles, has said the law is "unclear". On Thursday, it said it would seek a "binding" decision from the high court.Steve McNamara, LTDA's general secretary, , said a decision from the high court would be unlikely before the end of the year and described the move as a stalling tactic designed to prevent his union from calling a judicial review. "It is crystal clear Uber are breaching thePrivate Hire Act," he said.The act defines a meter as "a device for calculating the fare to be charged in respect of any journey by reference to the distance travelled or time elapsed since the start of the journey".Licensed drivers in cities across Europe and America are protesting at the new wave of taxi-hailing services, which licensed drivers argue endanger passengers and threaten cabbies' ability to make a living.Last week, the offices of British startup Hailo, which was set up by three London cab drivers, werevandalisedafter the company extended its smartphone booking service from black cabs to private-hire vehicles.In Paris, major roads have been gridlocked by protests and an Uber car was attacked, while the government is looking at ways to outlaw the new wave of cab booking services. There have been demonstrations and legal action in Brussels, Toronto, Berlin and New York.Despite the opposition, Jo Bertram, UK general manager of Uber, insisted: "I don't think we're wiping out anyone, we're increasing the size of the market."She said the technology could mean lower fares and increase consumer confidence: "It's opening up private hire to people who wouldn't use it before." Bertram said existing regulations did not reflect the change in technology, with minicab offices being "the analogue equivalent" of Uber, and added that Uber would welcome the High Court's scrutiny: "The laws were written prior to smartphones and Google maps, for public safety."However, she said that the technology would make passengers safer than ever, as the app gave passengers details of drivers and stored journey records.Searches for taxis made by users of the Uber app are analysed in the US head offices, while data of journeys has been shared with police in the UK.Bertram would not disclose whether Uber pays taxes on fare earnings in the UK, although she said it paid all taxes it was liable for. Passengers are charged through a third-party payment system based in Holland. "We keep our financials extremely confidential."However, she said drivers' records would be "very traceable" compared to any cash-in-hand earnings in other minicabs.The Uber smartphone app shows the user a map, with the location of nearby cars looking for passengers. The customer can order the car and pay the fare from their phone, and Uber uses GPS tracking of the driver's smartphone (issued by Uber for a £150 deposit) to measure the time and distance travelled by cabs.For London's 65,000 private-hire vehicles, the app saves money by reducing the number of journeys they make in search of passengers – for example by ensuring drivers can drive to and from an airport with a fare either way. In return, Uber takes a cut of the fare, typically 20%. The LTDA says measuring time and distance travelled constitutes metering and that only black cabs are licensed to use meters. Customers of private-hire vehicles have to agree the price before the journey based on standard charges.In a statement, TfL said: "On the issue of taxi meters, the law is unclear and we have taken a provisional view. We will be asking the high court to provide a binding ruling. This is the sensible approach, and we hope that London's taxi drivers and private-hire drivers and operators will work with us to bring clarity on this issue."After his London office wall was graffitied with the word "scabs", Hailo founder Ron Zeghibe published an open letter on the company's website urging drivers to accept the upheavals in their industry. Zeghibe said: "The worst thing the taxi industry could do now is deny that things are changing and hold on to the past. Complaining is not a strategy."
In October 2013, weasked whether you loved or loathed iOS 7, which was then the brand-new look for Apple&apos;s mobile software.Its introduction had caused a huge stir: it was the first time Jonathan Ive, formerly in charge of hardware design at Apple, had given his imprimatur to software. Primary colours, &quot;flat&quot; design, thinner text, gesture-based operation: it was a radical shakeup of the previous seven years&apos; design.Yet uptake was quick: even by last October, two-thirds of compatible devices - iPhones, iPads and iPod Touches - were already running it. Now the figure is 88%,according to Apple&apos;s figures, with 10% on iOS 6, and 2% on older versions. (In the US the figure is 91.75%,according to Mixpanel, with 7.10% running iOS 6, and 1% running older versions.)In a few days, Apple will preview some of the new features of iOS 8 at its Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) in San Francisco. That&apos;s ahead of the software release, expected in autumn.Happy, sad, indifferent?But are people happier now about what they weren&apos;t happy about then? On the other hand, have niggles surfaced from continued use that weren&apos;t obvious before? Have the bright primary colours and lack of skeuomorphism grown on you? Or do they grate even more?It&apos;s time for some stocktaking: what&apos;s the verdict on iOS 7, as it hits its prime?Airdrop in iOS 7: doyou use it? Photograph: AppleWhat about the features added in iOS 7 - such as &quot;Airdrop&quot;, which lets you pass files (such as photos) between devices - do you use it? Or the unlimited number of pages in Safari (andReading List, which lets you view offline)?Or how aboutswiping- between pages in Safari (to go back and forward through pages you&apos;ve visited), messages in Mail (swipe right to get a menu including delete; swipe left in a message to go back to the mailbox), or pages in apps such as Echofon or Train Times (where if you&apos;re reading an individual page, swiping left takes you back to the previous one - no more reaching to the top left for &quot;Back&quot;)?To me, it signals a larger phone screen in the works(so iOS 7 is getting you used to how to use it) - but do you use that action?The 'frosted glass' effect from the Control Center overlay in iOS 7. Like it? Photograph: AppleIs the &quot;frosted glass&quot; in the transparency layers useful or annoying? Do you wish you could change the elements in theControl Center(which you reach by swiping up from the bottom) - so for example it would contain your favourite apps, not just the clock, torch, calculator and camera?Do you use &quot;Frequent places&quot; (which can give you travel time estimates between &quot;Home&quot; and &quot;Work&quot; and other subsidiary locations you frequently visit? IsSiriany better? Or (dare one ask)Maps?Down deeperWhat about the deeper technologies that were introduced, such as theMultipeer Connecitivity Framework, which enables &quot;off grid&quot; chatting through apps such asFirechat? Do you use it? There&apos;s also better multitasking, with the option to let some apps run all the time in the background. Helpful? Or battery vampire?With security on many peoples&apos; minds, have you used theiCloud Keychain, which looks after your website logins, credit card info, Wi-Fi network logins, and account information - essentially, a password manager?Then there&apos;s the &quot;iCloud activation&quot; locking (whereby if the phone is stolen, and someone tries to wipe it and resell it, they won&apos;t be able to activate it without the Apple ID and password originally used to set it up). Has it helped? The &quot;Trusted Devices&quot; setting (which wasn&apos;t much mooted) asks whether to trust a computer if you connect it while the phone is unlocked. (If the phone is locked, then it won&apos;t trust a device by default.)Pass, friend?Passbook(Apple&apos;s method for storing electronic airline tickets and so on) also added a QR scanner. Ever used it? How aboutFacebook Audio, effectively Apple&apos;s VOIP offering?The iPhone 5S includes Touch ID for fingerprint unlocking. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesFinally, there&apos;sTouch ID- not a feature of iOS 7 itself, but of the iPhone 5S. Do you use it to unlock your phone and make iTunes Store purchases? Or is it just an annoyance?Let us know your considered thoughts on your use of iOS 7 in the comments.And one more thing: what&apos;s the single new feature you&apos;d most like to see in iOS 8? Only one - so make it a good one.
The next year in tech will see a rise in &quot;visual&quot; communications on the web, a switch from broadcast to messaging networks, and a continuation of the slow transfer of ad spending from print to mobile, according to influential venture capital analyst Mary Meeker&apos;s annual report on trends in the industry.But the &quot;biggest reimagination of all&quot; for Meeker is the &quot;troves of findable and shareable data&quot; that will be created by the proliferation of mobile devices and sensors over the next year.The number of photos uploaded and shared, over five selected platforms, almost quadrupled between 2012 and 2013, and Meeker sees the number of photos uploaded to rise by 600m per day during 2014, from 1.2bn to 1.6bn.For her, that fits in a trend alongside Fitbit, which has gone from tracking 47bn steps in 2011 to 2.4 trillion in 2013, and Tinder, which receives 800m swipes per day, up 21 times in one year. As well as being uploadable and sharable, the data is findable. That means it can be mined, and &quot;has potential to yield patterns that help solve basic [or] previously unsolvable problems, but create new challenges related to individual rights&quot;.But smaller trends are just as important. Take China&apos;s &quot;epic share gains&quot;: In January 2013, nine of the top 10 global internet properties were &quot;made in the USA&quot;, with four in five of their users outside the US. Tencent was the only exception.But by March this year, Alibaba, Biadu and Sohu had all risen to join the US companies in the top 10, ousting Ask.com, Glam Media and Apple from the list.And the Chinese firms are no longer just following the US. In areas like mobile commerce, Meeker cites Hillhouse Capital&apos;s Liang Wu as saying, they are now leading. WeChat, Tencent&apos;s IM app, is being used to order and deliver takeaway food and groceries, as well as provide tailored fashion suggestions and check bank accounts.Another trend is the rise of messaging apps. WhatsApp and SnapChat may not be eating away at Facebook yet, but their success leads to very different ways of approaching the net: the value of how many contacts you have drops, while the value of how strong your connection is to each of those contacts rises proportionally.Finally, Meeker sees mobile apps getting ever more specialised. First there were &quot;multi-purpose web apps, then multi-purpose mobile apps&quot; like Facebook&apos;s original app. Now, there are single-purpose apps, a trend she illustrates with reference to Facebook&apos;s app portfolio: the main app, but also Messenger, Instagram, WhatsApp, Moves and Paper.Her moves chime with comments made by Foursquare CEO Dennis Crowley, whose company has just brought out its own single-purpose app, Swarm. &quot;What we&apos;re starting to see is that the best apps tend to be the simplest, the easiest to use and the fastest to use,&quot; he told the Guardian. &quot;I think there&apos;s a larger trend towards unbundling apps and making very easy, simple, clean and elegant single purpose use case apps, and I think that&apos;s what we&apos;re doing.&quot;Meeker, a technology analyst for venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers, became famous for &quot;the Internet Report&quot;, a close examination of the industry written while she was at Morgan Stanley in 1995. Four years later, at the height of the dot com boom,Businessweek called it, and its 96 and 97 follow-ups, &quot;virtual bibles for investors and CEOs alike&quot;.•Why Foursquare should be on everyone&apos;s phone
Google has revealed its first prototype self-driving car and plans to build 100 of the vehicles for testing. It the first vehicle with no facility for human control over, other than a start and stop button. Photograph: Google/Rex FeaturesThe Audi Quattro Sport Laserlight Concept stealing the show at the 2014 International CES in Las Vegas on 7 January 2014. Under the hood is Audi's zFAS system, the "brain" of the autonomous vehicle. The small but complex system integrates a radar, video cameras, laser scanner, data from the navigation system, and ultra-sonic data from the front and sides of the car. Photograph: Joe Klamar/AFP/Getty ImagesA Valeo representative swipes his finger across an iPhone to initiate a self parking demonstration at the 2014  CES. The car, a Range Rover Evoque with Valeo self-parking technology, is equipped with 12 ultrasonic sensors, six in the back and six in front, a laser scanner mounted in the grille, and four cameras. Photograph: Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty ImagesA Lexus LS Integrated Safety self-driving car  displayed at the Lexus booth during the 2013  CES. Lexus likens its robocar to a “co-pilot”, rather than a fully driverless car. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesToyota Motor Co displays its prototype driverless car during the preview of 2013 CES. As with the Lexus, the emphasis is on assisting driver safety. The cars are equipped with a 360-degree laser with a range of 70 metres. This means that at 60 mph, it can locate stationary objects 3.2 seconds away. Photograph: The Asahi Shimbun/Getty ImagesBMW's "self-assisted car" at the 2014 CES. Its new i3 electric car with Samsung's Galaxy Gear smartwatch and Bluetooth wireless technology. Photograph: Joe Klamar/AFP/Getty ImagesFord    in conjunction with the University of Michigan and State Farm has revealed its Ford Fusion Hybrid automated research vehicle. Photograph: FordFord's "Blueprint for Mobility" is a plan that describes what the automaker believes transportation will look like in 2025, and the technologies, business models and partnerships needed to get there. Photograph: FordNissan's Autonomous Drive Leaf takes to the open roads in Japan. The drive took place in November 2013 with the modified Leaf entering the Sagami Expressway, southwest of Yokohama, at 25 mph, before driving at speeds of 50 mph. Photograph: NissanIn 2010, the Audi TTS went up the winding 20km Pikes Peak mountain track in the Rocky Mountains, Colorado in  27 minutes, which was only 10 minutes longer than what a professional racing driver could have managed. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs/The Guardian
The lack of diversity among Google&apos;s workforce has been highlighted by the company’s firstdiversity report, which reveals that only 30% of its staff are female.The search company’s US workforce also comprises 61% white people, with Asian staff making up 30%, Hispanic people 3% and black staff just 2% of employees.The data highlights the lack of representation of women and ethnic groups in technology companies, despite a much more diverse customer base for mainstream technology products and services.“Put simply, Google is not where we want to be when it comes to diversity, and it’s hard to address these kinds of challenges if you’re not prepared to discuss them openly, and with the facts,” acknowledged Laszlo Bock, senior vice president of people operations at Google,in a blog post.No progress on diversity in 10 yearsWhen narrowed by job type and seniority, Google&apos;s gender split is more extreme, with only 21% of leadership positions held by women and only 17% of technology-specific jobs held by women.But the problem is not shouldered by Google alone. At Amazon, only 18 out of its 120 senior managers are female, and none of those women report directly to chief executive Jeff Bezos.The number of female chief technology officers has also remained static at 14% for the past 10 years, according to arecent report by research firm Gartner, showing very little progress across the whole industry.In many industries, including the technology sector, companies will recruit identical numbers of men and women, but will lose women within a few years due to company ethos clashes and women perceiving less qualified men being promoted above them.“I don’t believe this bias towards men is conscious. Most people simply don’t say they don’t want to work with a woman, it’s just that on some unconscious level there’s a detrimental lean in the direction of men,” said Tina Nunno, a vice-president and fellow at Gartner.&apos;Women earn roughly 18% of all computer science degrees in US&apos;Google, however, explains that in its computer science dominated workforce recruiting qualified women and ethnic minorities is difficult.“Women earn roughly 18% of all computer science degrees in the United States. Black and Hispanic people make up under 10% of US college grads and collect fewer than 5% of degrees in computer science majors, respectively,” explained Bock.Google has released this, the first of its diversity reports, because the company believes that an open dialogue about diversity issues is the only way to solve them, something others like Nunno agree is the right course.Challenges are not insurmountableGoogle believes that tackling diversity in computer science education is the way forward, and has donated over $40m (£24m) to organisations aiming to help increase the number of women and girls in science education.The company is not alone in its efforts to aid science, technology, engineering and mathematics (Stem) diversity in education. Many groups from both the UK and globally have been set up to actively encourage girls into Stem education, while the government has worked to remove barriers to women in science.The problems facing both gender and ethnic diversity in technology are not insurmountable, but no one organisation can do it alone, according to Nunno, which makes Google’s release of its data a good step forward in tackling the issues as an industry.•#YesAllWomen: how Twitter reacted to the shootings in California
Bitcoin prices were being manipulated in late 2013 by a pair of autonomous computer programs running on bitcoin exchange MtGox, according to an anonymously published report.The programs, named Willy and Markus, allegedly pushed prices up to $1,000 before the bubble burst afterMtGox&apos;s collapse in late February.The report&apos;s author alleges that some of the trades were coming from inside the exchange itself. &quot;In fact,&quot; the report says, &quot;there is a ton of evidence to suggest that all of these accounts were controlled by MtGox themselves.&quot;The so-called Willy Report uses leaked logs of activity on the now closed bitcoin exchangeto analyse the behaviourof the Willy trading algorithm, which users had noticed in December 2013. The robot bought small amounts of bitcoin at regular intervals for months, but until the logs were leaked in March, no-one could work out why.The report&apos;s author tracked down all the &quot;Willy&quot; trades, looking for accounts making 10-20 bitcoin transactions every five minutes, and found that $112m had been spent to buy more than 250,000 bitcoin in the course of November.&quot;So if you were wondering how Bitcoin suddenly appreciated in value by a factor of 10 within the span of one month, well, this may be why,&quot; the writer adds. Bitcoin&apos;s value went from around $200 at the start of November 2013 to a peak of $1,132 by the start of December – at which point the price collapsed. It stood at about $570 on Wednesday.But following the trail further back reveals a second bot, which the author names &quot;Markus&quot;. That bot operated in a less elegant way. &quot;First, its fees paid were always zero (unlike Willy, who paid fees as usual). Second, its fiat [non-bitcoin money] spent when buying coins was all over the place, with seemingly completely random prices paid per bitcoin.&quot;The author suggests that the &quot;Markus&quot; bot, rather than spending random prices per bitcoin, in fact acquired the coins for free, &quot;and the program that generates the trading logs simply takes whatever value was already there before. In other words, Markus is somehow buying tons of BTC without spending a dime.&quot;The total amount of bitcoin that the log shows was bought by Markus and Willy up to the end of November, when the logs end, is 570,000 bitcoin - equivalent to $379m on the average price of bitcoin during the month.But the author also say that Willy was &quot;active for the most part of December until the end of January as well. Although this was at a slower, more consistent pace (around 2,000 BTC per day), it should roughly add up to another 80,000 BTC or so bought.&quot;Add that to the total, and it hits 650,000 bitcoin – the amount MtGox said it had lost to hackers when it closed its doors.Hacked?But the author points to an interesting quirk in the data: The Willy trades continued to be executed even when the MtGox site went down. In January, over the course of half an hour when the site was offline, four trades were executed that bore the hallmark of the bot. &quot;At a time no one else was able to trade, be it via API or otherwise, Willy was somehow able to continue as if nothing ever happened,&quot; says the author.A few days after the report was made public, Wordpress, the blogging platform which hosted the site, took it down, citing a violation of its terms of service. But when Automattic, Wordpress&apos; parent company, was asked by the Guardian what rules were broken, it instead put the site back up.Whether or not MtGox was directly involved, the actions of the trading algorithms seems to have had a strong effect on bitcoin prices. The value of the cryptocurrency peaked around the same time activity on the Willy bot did, in early December – and then fell to less than half that.MtGox&apos;s executors did not respond to a request for comment by the time of publication. Its former chief executive Mark Karpeles could not be contacted.•Ebay denies &apos;stolen database&apos; on sale for 1.45 bitcoin is authentic

A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy Beats is a great buy for Apple &gt;&gt; The InformationJessica Lessin:to really differentiate, Apple needs to get to more than parity in subscription music and likely knows that. The company could give away Spotify's $9.99 a month streaming music service to 27 million customers for free for almost year with the $3 billion it is willing to pay for Beats. The only thing stopping the company from having a subscription service of its own was Mr. Jobs's aversion to it, several former Apple employees say. He believed people should and would own music.What else could could Apple do now? Well, it's exactly the answer to that that Apple is paying for. With Mr. Iovine and Beats, Apple is boosting its odds that it can come up with that next killer music deal that no one else can, at least for a long enough period of exclusivity. Maybe that's free music with a phone. Maybe it's the rights to share music widely with friends. Most likely it is something few have thought of yet.It's worth noting that this deal is happening precisely as Apple is struggling to pull off the same sort of bold deal-making in television.(Subscription required to read full article).How LG's robot lasers produced the world's 'fastest' cameraphone &gt;&gt; The VergeVlad Savov:The moment you enter the camera app, the G3 starts emitting a cone-shaped laser beam from a window just to the side of the camera. The phone then measures how long it takes for the light to bounce back to it and thus gets a reading of how far away the subject of the photo is. It's the same thing that bats do with sonar, only it's done with lasers projected at an infrared wavelength (and therefore invisible to the human eye).Curiously enough, LG didn't develop this technology for its current purpose. The lasers in question were first researched for use in the company's line of Hom-Bot robotic vacuum cleaners, however they were never implemented there. Seeing a synergistic opportunity, LG's mobile team picked them up and made them an integral part of what the company claims is the fastest camera in a smartphone today.…Still, the company claims an autofocus time of just 276 milliseconds, faster than the blink of an eye.Wow!In practice, the G3's camera isn't tangibly faster than the speedy shooters on the iPhone 5S or HTC One. Its headline number of less than a third of a second to capture an image is the best case scenario, and pictures often take longer to complete. Even when comparing cameras at their fastest, the G3's advantage is of mere milliseconds and therefore too moderate to be noticeable. Still, it's a cool innovation, lasers are involved, and it makes LG's best that little better.Oh. But it is definitely cool.Apple to acquire Beats Music &amp; Beats Electronics &gt;&gt; Apple PRApple® today announced it has agreed to acquire the critically acclaimed subscription streaming music service Beats Music, and Beats Electronics, which makes the popular Beats headphones, speakers and audio software. As part of the acquisition, Beats co-founders Jimmy Iovine and Dr. Dre will join Apple. Apple is acquiring the two companies for a total of $3 billion, consisting of a purchase price of approximately $2.6bn and approximately $400m that will vest over time.So does Beats Music become the implementation of iTunes for Android?Meet Cover, the app that's determined to reinvent the restaurant experience &gt;&gt; Washington PostMatt McFarland:I tried Cover earlier this month at a New York restaurant and found it to be incredibly liberating and a pleasure to use. After sitting down I told my server I'd be paying with Cover, and gave my name. The Cover app guessed that I was at the restaurant, which I confirmed on my smartphone. When I was done eating I just left. There was no tedious wait for the check, no need to calculate a tip or make sure I signed the merchant copy of the receipt instead of the customer copy.By the time I'd walked a couple blocks from the restaurant my phone buzzed with an e-mail including a receipt for the transaction. A tip was automatically included based on a percentage I'd set as my default.While it's easy to see the appeal of Cover, you'll likely have to wait to use it. For now, Cover is available in 85 restaurants in New York City and 20 restaurants in San Francisco. Cove told me he wants his 10-person staff to focus on those cities before branching out elsewhere.How does it know you're there? Estimote iBeacon.Microsoft to update Surface Pro 3 to fix battery charging issue before launch &gt;&gt; NeowinThe issue was first revealed by Neowin's own editor-in-chief Brad Sams, who tweeted late on Monday that hisSurface Pro 3 review unit would not turn on, even though the tablet was connected to its battery charger. It emerged that the same issue had apparently been encountered byZDNet's Ed BottandMary Jo Foley.Not a feature.Why Germany dominates the US in innovation &gt;&gt; Harvard Business ReviewDan Breznitz:Germany does a better job on innovation in areas as diverse as sustainable energy systems, molecular biotech, lasers, and experimental software engineering. Indeed, as part of an effort to learn from Germany about effective innovation, U.S. states have encouraged the Fraunhofer Society, a German applied-science think tank, to set up no fewer than seven institutes in America.True, Americans do well at inventing. The U.S. has the world's most sophisticated system of financing radical ideas, and the results have been impressive, from Google to Facebook to Twitter. But the fairy tale that the U.S. is better at radical innovation than other countries has been shown in repeated studies to be untrue. Germany is just as good as the U.S. in the most radical technologies.Cue arguments on the difference between "invention" and "innovation".How L'Oreal knows what you look like &gt;&gt; BusinessweekGumGum doesn't scour Facebook (FB) photos or anything like that. Instead, the company tracks and uses your Web history to create a digital picture of what you probably look like."Let's say you're browsing articles about hair care," [GumGum founder Ophir] Tanz explains. "If you're reading something about curly hair, we can see that." Gumgum can then pair that data nugget with all the other crumbs of personal information you leave around the Internet—where you live, your gender, your income level, and how often you visit the websites GumGum tracks. Then it uses all that information to decide which ads to place in front of you.If you're a young woman with dark hair, you might see the Ombre ads. If you're an older man who keeps searching "how to stop going bald," then—well, L'Oreal will leave you alone.This is an important shift for online advertising, which until now has taken the approach best described as: "Did you recently buy a pair of shoes? Well then, maybe you want ads for more shoes!"Questions for Eddy Cue and Craig Federighi &gt;&gt; AsymcoCue and Federighi are appearing at the Re/Code conference this week, and Horace Dediu has some questions. Such as:Why is there no app store for Apple TV? Even though the product is running essentially the same hardware and software as the iPhone and iPad and iPod touch and even though it connects to the iTunes stores, there is no option for developers to build apps for it or for consumers to use their TVs to run iOS apps. I might add that it's been seven years since the platform launched and that's a long time to wait.andYouTube is becoming the TV of choice for millions. Before it becomes that choice for billions, what are you doing to encourage user-generated video content distribution through your ecosystem?Let's hope these get asked, and answered.Microsoft Surface Pro 3: a tablet that desperately wants to be a laptop &gt;&gt; WSJ.comJoanna Stern:The trackpad has been enlarged, but not enough—it still feels claustrophobic. Two-finger scrolling doesn't consistently work, either, and because the pad is so close to the keyboard, the cursor can easily jump when you're typing. It's so frustrating, you'll want a mouse instead.Not only did Microsoft not do enough to perfect the Type Cover, that very thing that makes the Surface a laptop, but it still isn't included in the box. It's a $130 add-on. That's like buying a car without tires.However, the "lapability"—Microsoft's term to describe the stability of the device when it sits on your lap—is now much improved. The screen can be adjusted to most angles to better position it on your legs. The top-heavy setup still takes more tinkering than a laptop, but I was able to write parts of this review while lying in bed and sitting in a lawn chair with my knees bent.I made up a term, too: Surfprints, the indentations that can be left on your skin by the sharp metal kickstand.Stern was picked out in the Surface Pro 3 presentation to use it there, and she used it exclusively for a week. Result: she's not swayed.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
Apple on Wednesday confirmed itslong-awaited dealto buy headphone-makerBeats Electronicsfor $3bn. With the purchase, the largest acquisition in its history, Apple is also bringing on a hip-hop artist and entrepreneur whorecently bragged about the richeshe hoped to score in the deal.Two Beats co-founders – artist-entrepreneur Dr Dre, who called himself &quot;the first billionaire in hip-hop&quot;, and record industry executive Jimmy Iovine – will join Apple as part of the agreement.For three weeks, since the Financial Times first reported that the two companies were in talks,speculation has ragedamong the tech intelligentsia over the two strange bedfellows: Apple, with its diverse platform of products, and Beats, which is currently known mainly for its headphones and speakers.Curiosity about the strategy sent Wall Street analysts into the realm of gossip in trying to explain the deal. Five days ago, Nomura research analysts quoted a rival maker of audio-visual equipment, AV Concepts, speculating that the real value of Beats was only $1bn when investment firm Carlyle Group bought a stake in it a year ago. AV suggested to Nomura that &quot;Apple’s objective of this deal should be Beats’ new music streaming service, which competes with Spotify and Pandora,&quot; according to a Nomura note to clients dated 23 May.Apple&apos;s iTunes, once the dominant force in paid music downloads, has become more of a window-shopping venue. RBC Capital Markets analyst Amit Daryanani pointed recently to Billboard statistics estimating that only &quot;1-2% of consumers hit ‘download/buy’&quot; when listening to iTunes Radio.Subscription-based music is dominating among consumers, Daryanani told clients on 9 May, pointing to statistics from music-industry group IFPI that showed subscription-based music revenues were $1.1bn in 2013 – up 50% – while downloads fell 2% to $3.9bn, their first decline in history.The size and scale of the deal may reflect Apple&apos;s determination to make a splash. The company has struggled to show investors and the public that it can innovate without Steve Jobs, with no significant new products announced since the iPad several years ago.The company has seen its stock price fall and attracted unwanted attention from activist shareholders including David Einhorn and Carl Icahn, who’ve none-too-gently suggested that Apple should make better use of its approximately $150bn hoard of cash.While Apple has responded to the investor complaintsby returning cash to its shareholders and splitting its stock, the company has struggled to prove it can continue to innovate and, in the words of Steve Jobs, tell the consumer what he wants.The Beats acquisition addresses the issue of innovation, to some extent, as Apple is, in addition to the company itself, buying two executives who know the music industry as well as anyone. As RBC&apos;s Daryanani wrote earlier this month, &quot;another potential from a deal could be that Jimmy Lovine could help run AAPL&apos;s iTunes/ music strategy, which has been challenged in the recent quarters. He was one of the first industry executives to anticipate the download business’s decline and advocate for subscription and streaming services as music’s future.&quot;Inan interview Wednesday with Re/Code, Cook called Iovine and his team “creative souls, kindred spirits”.In a statement about the purchase, Apple, perhaps trying to remind investors and consumers of its once-magical touch, made reference to the birth of iTunes, which transformed the company when it launched.&quot;Music is such an important part of all of our lives and holds a special place within our hearts at Apple,&quot; company CEO Tim Cook said in a statement.
Unveiling a car with a top speed of 25mph, two seats and no pedals or steering wheel might not make much of an impression at a motor show. But Google, late on Tuesday, in the US, sent a minor earthquake through the car and taxi industry as it unveiled the latest version of its driverless car.The electrically-powered vehicle, which Google has begun testing around its headquarters in Mountain View, California, dispenses with all the normal controls, including foot pedals. Instead it has a smartphone app that summons it and tells it the destination, and a single STOP button mounted between the two front-facing seats in case the occupants need to override the computer.The car, in fact, takes over all the tasks of navigation, steering, acceleration and braking.The company is building about 100 prototypes for a two-year test. The company's co-founder, Sergey Brin, told a conference in California that the vehicle was "still in the prototype stage" but that the project was "about changing the world for people who are not well-served by transportation today".He said of the car: "You're just sitting there, no steering wheel, no pedals. For me it was very relaxing. In about 10 seconds after getting in, I forgot I was there. It reminded me of catching a chairlift by yourself, a bit of solitude I found really enjoyable."Google says that the principal aim of the project is to improve safety, and that because the car is constructed with impact-absorbing foam at the front and a plastic windscreen, "it should be far safer than any other car for pedestrians".The cars, which have been built specially by a company (as yet unnamed) in Detroit, will be used to investigate further how best to make driverless vehicles work. Google will run a pilot programme using the cars, which are not yet for sale.One challenge is creating high-definition scans of the roads and surroundings before the cars can drive along them, because they cannot gather and process enough information in real time.So far there are high-detail maps of about 2,000 miles of California's roads, but the state has more than 170,000 miles of public roads.Google says it is interested in licensing the technology to traditional vehicle manufacturers once it has refined it sufficiently. Members of the team had been working on the project even before joining Google, for more than a decade.But the prospect of driverless cars replacing human-driven taxis has been the cause of some alarm."If you get rid of the driver, then they're unemployed," said Dennis Conyon, the south-east director for the UK National Taxi Associations. "It would have a major impact on the labour force."London has about 22,000 licensed black cabs, and Conyon estimates that the total number of people who drive taxis for hire in the UK is about 100,000.However, Steve McNamara, general secretary of the 10,500-strong London Taxi Drivers' Association, said: "You won't get these [driverless cars] in London for 20 or 25 years. Maybe by then they'll have a charge point – because there isn't a single one in London now."Other car makers including Volvo, Ford and Mercedes, are working on driver-assisted vehicles, which, unlike Google's version, do not dispense with the driver controls.But Chris Urmson, director of the self-driving car project at Google, said that the new prototypes dispensed with the steering wheel and brakes because there was no guarantee that a human occupant would be able to take over in an emergency, and that it was simpler just to have an emergency stop button.Urmson said: "The vehicles will be very basic. We want to learn from them and adapt them as quickly as possible. But they will take you where you want to go at the push of a button. And that's an important step towards improving road safety and transforming mobility for millions of people."So far the Google versions of the self-driving cars have covered 700,000 miles without an accident caused by the computer. The company points out that thousands of people die each year on the roads, and that about 80% of crashes can be ascribed to human error.But they could have some way to go to match Conyon at the National Taxi Association. Aged 79, he has been driving a taxi for 50 years, and claims never to have had an accident.
LOL is 25 years old. Since its first recorded use in May 1989, LOL has completely transformed how we live. We text it to each other. We write it on pictures of animals. We say it out loud if we want people to think that we're creepy sociopaths.A world without LOL is a world without laughter, or at least a world without people claiming to laugh when they're really just sitting there silently typing things onto Facebook with a Jaffa Cake hanging out of their mouth. The proper way to commemorate an occasion as momentous as this is with a prestigious awards ceremony. Please don't expect another one of these on the 25th anniversary of "nom". That would be unconscionable.Oldest contemporary LOLThis is generally recognised to have taken place on page 11 of an International FidoNet Association Newsletter dated 8 May 1989, sandwiched between a notice about new software releases – including "Realistic Cake Mixing Simulation" and "Fun Nuclear War Game" – and a brief article about UFOs. LOL, mentioned as a suggested acronym for "laughing out loud", has arguably fared better than H, which was the article's recommended shortening of "HUH???". The piece ends with this unwitting warning from history: "I hope this makes for more colourful communicating. Just remember the quote … 'Anything that can be said in a few words isn't worth saying.'"Most recent LOLAt the time of writing, the most recent use of the term LOL occurred on Twitter 16 seconds ago, when a user by the name of @ThembekaAndiswa expressed her amusement at a statistic claiming thathalf of all giraffes are bisexual.Most commonly misused LOLCameron's mistake will go down in LOL history. Photograph: Nick Ansell/AFP/Getty ImagesMany have made the mistake of thinking that LOL actually stands for "lots of love". One of the most famous examples of this misunderstanding came to prominence three years ago, thanks to a screengrab of this text message sent by a mother to her son:"Your great aunt just passed away. LOL". However, ever since Rebekah Brooks' courtroom revelation about David Cameron concluding his texts with LOL – in the belief that he was wishing her lots of love – he will now forever&nbsp;be the gold standard of all LOL‑based cockups.Most annoying LOL variationThis is a closely fought category. Since its inception, LOL has branched off into an array of ever more niche fronds, each as objectionable as the last. There's LOOOOOOOL, which is meant to denote sustained laughter but actually means "laugh out out out out out out out loud". This can also be written as LOLOLOLOL, which is clearly just "laugh out loud out loud out loud out loud". Then there are ROFL (rolling on floor laughing) and LMAO (laughing my arse off), which are the regrettably needy try-hard cousins&nbsp;of LOL. However, by a nose, the award for most annoying LOL variation goes to the term LOLcano. If you ever see someone use the term LOLcano, even as a joke, you must cut them out of your life instantly. It simply isn't worth the trouble of knowing them.Cutest regional LOL variationMany countries have their own variation of LOL. Amused online Koreans use "ㅋㅋㅋ", a repetition of their alphabet's "K" sound. Some French people use MDR, which stands for "mort de rire (died of laughter)". But the most adorable of all comes from Thailand, which uses "555" as a local LOL-substitute. The Thai number five is pronounced "ha". Ha ha ha. See?Least funny official example of LOL&nbsp;usageLOL has been in the Oxford Dictionaries since 2011. For any curious dictionary owners who want to know how to correctly deploy a LOL, it offersthe following example: "I love how you said 'coffee is not my cup of tea'. LOL!". One: "coffee is not my cup of tea" is barely even worth a "ha", let alone a full LOL. Two: you don't put an exclamation mark after a LOL unless you want to sound like a lonely drifter desperate for friends at a party. Three: Anyone who has ever had this exchange is clearly in a toxic relationship and needs to get out as soon as they can.Worst thing anyone can do with&nbsp;a&nbsp;LOLLOL is meant to be written down. Under no circumstances is it ever supposed to be spoken aloud. Especially not as a response to hearing something funny. And particularly if you aren't actually laughing out loud as you say it. This has always been the case. In 2010, a worried poster by the name of disorder2k8 revealed the following on aDavid Icke messageboard: "I often say "LOL" to myself if I find something amusing." He went on to point out: "It's a very bad habit but I think this is going to be the future," before glumly reaching the obvious conclusion that "technology is frying my brain". Let disorder2k8 be your guide. Don't repeat his mistakes.Best song with the word LOL in&nbsp;the&nbsp;titleAlthough it's now an immovable piece of our culture, LOL hasn't infiltrated the pop charts as well as it could. Therefore, the best song currently to be called LOL is by a band called Rockstah. It isn't very good at all – it can best be described as vaguely miffed dubstep – but is saved by the fact that it's in German, so its horrors are largely veiled to the British ear. And, as the next award proves, it could have been a lot worse.Worst song with the word LOL in&nbsp;the&nbsp;titleIn 2009, rapper Trey Songz released a song calledLOL:-). It would have been bad enough for him to just call it LOL but, no, he had to add :-) to the end of it. :-) is barely even an emoticon. It looks like someone's punched their keyboard out of frustration, possibly after reading Trey Songz's discography. Apparently the title is pronounced "LOL Smiley Face", but this is hard to verify because anyone who has ever said this out loud has been forced by society to become a shivering recluse in a cave somewhere.Best film called LOLIn 2006, mumblecore auteur Joe Swanberg directedLOL, a low‑budget film about the impact of technology on social relations. It is notable for starring Greta Gerwig in her first ever role. Even if you haven't seen it, it's still the best film ever made called LOL because the only other English-language film to be called LOL is …Worst film calledLOLMiley Cyrus plays, like, a teenager who breaks up with her boyfriend. But, like, her new boyfriend totally bangs her enemy in a toilet, and her mom's Demi Moore and she wants to go to Paris but Demi Moore's like "no way" and she's all like "yuh-HUH" and then they cry and cuddle and time folds in on itself and you lose all sensation in your limbs and then it ends. In short: not LOL.Biggest LOL starIf it wasn't for LOL, we wouldn't be blessed with LOLCats – the feline photographs that come accompanied by heavily accented and phonetically spelled captions. "Littl dus she no, iz jus pooped" reads one such caption on a picture of a womanholding a cat. Almost 12,000 people have seen this picture and then clicked the "like" button underneath it. We're all doomed. All of us.Most-watched YouTube LOL&nbsp;videoA video entitled "Lol wtf japanese butt gun??"is currently the most-viewed non-League of Legends LOL video on YouTube. Over 13 million people have watched it since it was uploaded in the summer of 2010. In the video, a Japanese schoolgirl pulls up her skirt, pushes an enormous machine gun barrel out of her backside and then fires it at an astonished-looking older man. The whole thing lasts for 11 seconds, after which viewers are somehow expected to just get on with their lives again.Most confusing Yahoo Answer with LOL in the questionYahoo Answers is potentially the maddest corner of the entire internet. It's also where you can find some of the most avant garde uses of the term LOL ever written. The best is arguably this health question, asked by an anxious – if uncontrollably giggling – user six years ago.It reads: "Whats wronge with my mouth lol? every thing i eat tastes like bananas even things i drink to lol so i wanna know if u know why this is happening lol. Update: the alst time i ate a banana was like 2 months ago lol". The answer to this query, at least according to one expert, is "babe because your mouth is smooth as a banana". I don't know what this means either.Most excruciating use of LOL by anyone anywhere everFor this most ferocious of anti-LOLs, we must return to David Cameron's misunderstanding with Rebekah Brooks. Shortly after she revealed his error, Cameron mentioned the new French president in passing during PMQs. Immediately, Ed Miliband was at his throat: "I'm sure, Mr Speaker, that a text message and LOL will go down very well." Cameron laughed, helpless against Miliband's rapier wit. Miliband looked absurdly pleased with himself, even though he pronounced it"elle-oh-elle". Meanwhile, Nick Clegg simply stared off into the middle distance with a haunted look upon his face. This was to be the last time he'd correctly gauge the mood of the nation. LOL!PLUS! The top 10 lolz that made the internet what it is today …Star Wars BoyThe first two things that anyone watched on the internet were the Pamela Anderson sex tape and this footage of a boy clumsily pretending that a broomstick was a lightsaber. Still funny."All your base are belong to us"The European translation of a Japanese Megadrive game contained this phrase. Took on a life of its own because, on the internet, nothing's funnier than foreign people using English badly.Evolution of DanceA man stands on a stage and performs every single dance he can think of. It is precisely as awful as you think it is.RickrollingSomeone sends you a link. You click it. It's a YouTube video of Rick Astley performing Never Gonna Give You Up. Stops being funny when your dad does it&nbsp;to you.The Batman SlapA comic book still of Batman slapping Robin, accompanied by a topical caption. Robin: "We wish you a merry Chri…" SLAP. Batman: "It's November". And so on.I'm on a BoatAndy Samberg's parody band Lonely Island team up with&nbsp;R&amp;B star T-Pain to sing about being on a boat.Keyboard catImagine You've Been Framed if all the videos ended with real injury and were immediately followed by footage of a cat in a shirt playing a piano with its paws. That's Keyboard Cat.DownfallHitler's last days, subtitled to reflect current events. There were Downfall parodies about iPads, Michael Jackson and, inevitably, about the glut of Downfall parodies flooding the internet.Condescending WonkaWilly Wonka rests his head on his hands and passive-aggressively tells you off. "Ohh, you're in love?" he says. "Tell me more about being 12 years old". Willy Wonka is a dick.DogeA photo of a shiba inu dog, accompanied by text like 'wow' and 'so advertising' and 'such unsure'. See the above entry about bad Englishbeing funny on the internet.
A mysterious benefactor, masked in the twitter handle@HiddenCash, has been tweeting clues to the location of hidden treasure all across San Francisco this week, sparking a city-sized version of the anarchic playground game Scrambling, in which desirable childhood items are tossed into the air and fought over by a baying mob.Because adults don't really like Panini stickers or Wagon Wheels as much as they like cold, hard cash, the hidden envelopes all contain $100, secreted by public spots such as statues, parking meters and bathrooms. Treasure seekers describe racing strangers across beaches, falling over themselves to be the first to the booty, andtweeting photos of their win.Who is the enigmatic philanthropist behind this frenzied giveaway, and what is the game behind the game? Previous tweets reveal that he has amassed a fortune in real estate, and that this is "a social experiment for good", with victorsurged to "pay it forward". Most seem happy to play along, donating some or all of the cash to favoured charities and other deserving causes. The prospect of free money (even if you're not supposed to keep it) has proved massively popular – by Wednesday afternoon the account had amassed 137,000 followers in a week.The mystery millionaire has declared his intention to start a nationwide movement of creative giving. Is this do-gooding, internet-led game of Survivor the way forward? Social media has proved itself an unexpected bedfellow of charitable donation. The democratic opportunities of virality mean awareness campaigns are not limited to large charities with marketing budgets. Innovations such as hashtag donations, which link bank accounts to tweets, make giving easy and impulsive. Gamifying is the obvious step to push everything over the top – making good deeds fun.Harbingers of decline have long got their moany rocks off decrying the internet as a tool of isolation, selfishness and mean-spiritedness. So it's a cheering prospect that the wellspring of our altruistic natures could in fact be unlocked by the web. It's also fitting that touchy-feely San Francisco has witnessed this flowering of human potential, with other cities next. The philanthropist has revealed thatthere will be money drops in LA(when he is there on business), San Jose, New York and beyond, and that the game will continue until he has donated a six figure sum.Redistributive justice, orchestrated by a possibly narcissistic puppetmaster – when it comes to forces for social good, we live in the age of Bruce Wayne, not Batman."I just hope some rich one percenter like me doesn't find it and keep it," @Hiddencashhas said in an interview. And hopefully, unlike most bouts of Scrambling, the game won't end in lost teeth and internal bleeding.
Android users will now have to download a new Spotify app if they wish to continue using the service, as the company reacts to a break-in that led to one user’s data compromised.Spotify reported on Tuesday that the company’s internal systems had been hacked. An investigation into the attack revealed that only one user’s data had been accessed, but that this did not include password or finical information.“As a precautionary measure against any potential ongoing risk, we are going to guide Android app users to upgrade over the next few days. If Spotify prompts you for an upgrade, please follow the instructions,” said Oskar Stål, Spotify’s chief technologyofficer in a blog post.The mandatory update applies to both free and subscription users.Spotify is not requiring changes to another other app versions such as those for Windows, Mac, iPhone, iPad, or Windows Phone - which some have taken as an indication that the Android version was the target of the hack.&apos;Necessary precaution&apos;Spotify is now pushing out an update to the existing Spotify Android app, which disables the app forcing users to download a separate new app called “Spotify Music”.Users then have to open the new app and re-download any music that was previously stored offline on the device. Users are not prompted to re-login to the new app, however.Once the new app is installed and opened it will help users remove the old version of Spotify from their device, which is now listed as &quot;no longer supported&quot;.Spotify now prompts users to delete the old Spotify app after installing the new Spotify Music app.“This is a necessary precaution to safeguard the quality of our service and protect our users,” said Stål while asking for understanding. “We have taken steps to strengthen our security systems in general and help protect you and your data – and we will continue to do so. We will be taking further actions in the coming days to increase security for our users.”Not quite as simple as it seems“Had this been as simple as one user over-sharing their login credentials, it would not warrant an all-user notification,” said Dwayne Melancon, chief technology officer of security firm Tripwire. “Given that Spotify claims that only one user’s data has been compromised, I suspect this was achieved via a re-usable, broadly applicable attack method perhaps affecting older versions of the Spotify app.”Both security experts and Spotify urge users to install the new Android app when prompted.&apos;Personal information is not their plaything&apos;The move comes just days after auction siteeBay revealed that it had been attackedand that hackers had gained entry into its customer database, forcing it to issue password reset requests to its 145 million monthly active users.Hackers stole encrypted passwords as well as customer names, email addresses, physical addresses, phone numbers and dates of birth, which were not encrypted. Many security experts questioned the company’s handling of private user data and brought the storage of user data by companies under the spotlight.“This sort of thing is going to go on and on and on until businesses wake up and realise that personal information is not their plaything; it’s our information and it needs to be protected,” said Christopher Graham the Information Commissioner, whois looking into the eBay hack.•How to protect yourself against the next hack attack like eBay
For Captain Kirk and the crew of the Starship Enterprise, seeking out new life and new civilisations wouldn&apos;t have been much use without a universal translator to deal with new languages too. Fortunately for the denizens of the 23rd century, Microsoft has begun making it a reality, two centuries early.The company unveiled a new service for Skype on Tuesday that can understand spoken words and translate them into another language, and speak them back almost in real time.Skype Translator will be available for Windows 8 before the end of the year, after 15 years of research, but Microsoft intends to make the service available to other platforms. Skype currently has 300 million monthly users spread across TVs, computers, tablets and smartphones.“Skype has always been about breaking down barriers. And the language barrier is huge. It has been a blocker to productivity and human connection,” noted Gurdeep Pall, corporate vice president of Skype and Lync at Microsoftin a blog post. “Skype Translator helps us overcome this barrier. It’s going to make sure you can communicate with anyone without language barriers.”English to German and visa versaPall demonstrated the technology at the Code conference in California on Tuesday, showing real-time translation of a Skype video call with a german colleague.Pall was speaking English, allowing the translation system to then convert his speech into spoken German, while his video caller spoke German allowing Pall and the audience to hear the translation into English in near real-time.The system only madeone minor mistakea few minor mistakes in the three-minute-long conversation, demonstrating the improved word, meaning and order recognition Microsoft has made since the technology was first demonstratedtranslating English to Chinese two years ago.Your browser does not support iframes.Microsoft's Skype Translator being demonstrated at the Code conference in California on Tuesday.‘Star Trek vision for a Universal Translator isn’t a galaxy away’“It is early days for this technology, but the Star Trek vision for a Universal Translator isn’t a galaxy away, and its potential is every bit as exciting as those Star Trek examples,” explained Pall. “Skype Translator opens up so many possibilities to make meaningful connections in ways you never could before in education, diplomacy, multilingual families and in business.”Machine translation research has been ongoing for decades, while Microsoft’s own machine translator research started 15 years ago, first with text-based translation and later with voice recognition and dictation technologies that have been present in Microsoft Office and Windows since 2001.“It’s not just about daisy-chaining speech recognition, machine translation and speech synthesis,” said Microsoft chief executive Satya Nadella. “It’s a deep neural net that you build that synthesises a model to be able to do speech recognition in pretty magical ways.”A neural network is a computer system that can &quot;learn&quot; to recognise inputs and generate outputs rather like a group of nerves in the brain.&apos;It&apos;s brain like and no one knows why&apos;But it is the way that the technology is developing, almost independently of the scientists and programmers working on the neural networks that simulate the human brain, that excited Nadella most.“The most fascinating aspect is something called transfer learning,” Nadella explained. “You teach it English, and it learns English. You teach it Mandarin and it learns Mandarin, but it also becomes better at English. And then you teach it Spanish, and it gets even better at English and Mandarin.&quot;“Quite frankly, no one knows why. It’s brain-like,” Nadella quipped.Microsoft acquired Skype, which is based in London, in May 2011 for $8.5bn –its largest purchase at the time. Skype is the most used voice and video chat service globally, but is facing increasing pressure from other messaging services, including Facebook’s WhatsApp, Google’s Hangouts and Apple’s FaceTime.Skype Translate could be a feature to set Skype apart and maintain its competitive edge, although Microsoft has not said whether the service will be free or a paid addition.(This article was updated to reflect the fact that the German translation included a few mistakes, not one.)• Doctors’ surgeries in England and Walesare to offer out-of-hours appointments over Skype
