Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 is released today but after playing both the PS3 and 360 versions this week I'm - whisper it - pretty disappointed. On the pitch the game is as good - if perhaps a little *too* fast - as ever, but there are some real annoyances that have spoiled it for me so far. For a start the online is a mess. Laggy, lacking in options - still no co-op! - and generally anything but "next-gen". Admittedly I've only been playing against the relatively small number of players who had a pre-release copy but I doubt much will change today when the game officially launches.There are other issues too. Slowdown is an issue when the penalty area gets crowded. This "feature" seemed to affect the PS3 version more than the 360 though. Juddery replays are across the board, mind. There are a pile of intrusive display ads too. Unless, of course, you think the likes of IGN or play.com splattered across your pre-match pages ads to the atmosphere. Oh and the graphics are disappointing too, with a vaguely cartoony look in places. Although the likenesses of the top players, particularly the way they "feel" when playing, remains streets ahead of FIFA. And thankfully so does the on-pitch action. Maybe it's a little too fast - FIFA is too slow, so can we get a happy medium next year? - and maybe the ball pings around the box just a little too excitedly. But PES still plays the better game. Just prepare to be frustrated by the off field activities. Played it yet then?
Sizing up musicI'm interested in ripping my CDs, and would like to know how many minutes of music one would get from using Apple Lossless or MP3 VBR per gigabyte of memory. Would anyone over 35 years old be able to tell the difference?Jerry GoldsteinThe music on an audio CD uses about 10MB a minute. Lossless encoding could almost halve that, but it depends on the complexity of the music. Using a "lossy" compression system such as MP3 at 256kbps will get you a little under 2MB a minute, while 128kbps will produce music files that play at around 1MB a minute, regardless of the type of music. A 1GB music player should therefore hold between 2.5 and 3 hours of lossless music, 8 hours of 256kbps MP3s, or 16 hours of 128kbps MP3s. You get a little extra by using VBR (variable bit-rate) recording. For best results, follow the instructions in The Quintessential Guide to Creating High Quality MP3s by Chris Myden (tinyurl.com/78dbu).MP3 files have the advantage that almost any device will play them. However, if you want to save space, you could encode files using the more efficient AAC codec at 192kbps, instead of MP3 at 256kbps. This should give files of about 1.4MB per minute, so a 1GB player will hold about 12 hours of music. I would expect most people to regard these as having the same sound quality, when played on a portable device, and to be acceptably close to Apple Lossless. (Different compression systems create different artefacts, so you can learn to tell them apart, but this doesn't necessarily mean one "sounds better".) The only way to find out which sounds better to you is to run a double-blind test with different encodings of the same music, played in a random order.You can get better sound quality by buying better headphones (or earbuds) than the ones supplied. You could also compare different MP3 players. Some Cowon iAudio models, the Kenwood HD30GB9 and a few others have a reputation for high sound quality, if that's your main objective, but most people prefer iPods even if they don't sound as good to some audiophiles.Bingly bongly WindowsHow do I stop all the Windows bingly-bingly-bong noises but still keep the ability to play CDs?Henry ChandlerGo to the Control Panel and select Sounds, Speech, and Audio Devices, then click where it says "Change the sound scheme". Each Windows event has a sound assigned; you can change it or remove it. Microsoft has instructions for XP attinyurl.com/2mwqm9.Lost spaceMy laptop has a 20GB hard disk where Windows takes up 2.4GB, programs have 2.8GB, and so on. How do I find the 4GB that's missing?Gren DixTo start with, your 20GB hard drive is actually 18.6GB, because for marketing purposes, drive manufacturers use K to mean 1,000 instead of 1,024. (They should say "billion bytes" not gigabytes.) Also, Windows laptops usually have two hidden files. The swapfile (pagefile.sys) could take around 1GB, and if your laptop ever hibernates, the hiberfil.sys file can take a similar amount. That's roughly 3GB or 4GB so far. The drive may also have a hidden partition where the manufacturer has stowed a copy of the Windows installation files for recovery purposes. Finally, almost all files take up more space than they claim, because they don't exactly fit the disk sectors provided. Right-click on a directory, select Properties, and Windows will tell you both the size of the actual files, and the "size on disk".There are lots of free programs that will graphically show where your space has gone. Examples include VisDir 1.4 (tinyurl.com/2qcq3c), SequoiaView (tinyurl.com/3jrgy), WinDirStat (windirstat.info) and the old SpaceMonger 1.4 (tinyurl.com/ykvhvk).Backchat&#183; Ronald Egginton wanted a cheap upgrade to Photoshop 7. If the interface to The Gimp - which is free software - is too daunting, you can make it look more like Photoshop by using a "deweirdifyer" plug-in called GIMPShop (tinyurl.com/y6kcvu). Thanks to Jonathan Machell for the tip.&#183;  I suggested Angela Carter get her own domain name to avoid having to keep changing her ISP-given email address. Richard Murrell says a flexible and free alternative is to use a Bigfoot.com address and have the mail forwarded to whichever mail service you want to use.&#183; Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor, atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Tech support, Middle Ages style"This - what do you call it? Book? It's been like this all morning - I can't open anything. You know, we never had these problems with the scroll." Dutch humour: not an oxymoron.tinyurl.com/yphm34.30 years of progress. Undo?Law professor James Boyle explains how to use the law to undo all the good things of the technological revolution of the past 30 years. Lasts more than an hour, but bears examinationtinyurl.com/37yfe9Tested for danger on humansTake a six-axis industrial robot, insert human on chair, whirl. Probably not coming to a funfair near you soon.tinyurl.com/32o7dx&#183; Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Closing the digital divideDigital exclusion is indeed a mainstream issue (Computers must abolish bureaucracy, not duplicate it, October 18), and very much the running sore Michael Cross describes. Like any sore, ignoring it risks deeper infection. Currently services are only being "transformed" for the 61% of the population already using computers and the internet.Those left behind risk becoming even more deeply excluded as technology continues to penetrate professional, social and, increasingly, public life. Until digital inclusion moves from peripheral distraction to departmental DNA, there won't be a cure for the digital divide.Making e-government reach and work for the digitally excluded is perhaps the biggest transformational challenge of all, and one that will require the joint input and expertise of public, private and third sector partners to achieve.Helen Milner, managing director, UK online centres, SheffieldReaping the musicInteresting article about GarageBand (Is GarageBand top of the pops, September 20). One Windows alternative that you missed was Reaper, by Cockos (cockos.com). A fully featured software studio to rival Cubase, Sonar and Logic, which can be bought for $50 (&pound;25) for personal use, and which comes with no restrictions in use for an unregistered version. I've been a longtime shameless user of pirate versions of Cubase, reasoning that if I ever made money from it, I'd buy it. I've recently switched to Reaper, and am so impressed I've bought it.Joseph Watkins, via emailKeep it to yourselfSusi Weaser writes of the Samsung F210 Purple: "There's also a passable external speaker, should you want to share your music" (Gadgets, September 20). So, she's the inexcusably annoying teenager on the back of the bus then, is she? For future reference, no external phone speaker is "passable"; they're all tinny and shite. And it is never acceptable to "share your music". And while you're there, tell her to get her feet off the seats.David Scally, via emailUseless manualsLeon Schneidermann (Letters, October 18) struck a chord with me. I was for 13 years a teacher, 10 years an educational publisher and 15 years a senior editor at the Open University.The book accompanying my Nokia mobile phone is the worst piece of instructional material I have ever come across. It was clearly written by someone completely familiar with the instrument, but with no ability to enter the mind of a person who was using it for the first time.Roger Marriott, BedfordshireLess Mac, more LinuxI agree with the proposal to limit Mac correspondence to between 2% and 3% of the letters page (Letters, October 11). However, will a Windows PC stay up long enough to write a letter? I look forward to lots of discussion about Linux and open source.George Tripp, NorthamptonBroadband speeds a jokeWhy do BT offer a broadband service for business of up to 8Mbps when it knows it cannot provide it? I have an office in Clerkenwell, London and the broadband from BT is appalling. An 8Mbps connection when tested today was running at 1.2Mbps; we can barely watch online videos or stream radio to our office.If BT knows it doesn't have enough bandwidth in a given area then how can it get away with advertising a higher speed? I am extremely angry and feel ripped off and very frustrated. Should I be getting a refund for the poor service?Chris Smith, Ecotube Ltd  LondonGetting cattyCharles, tell us plainly - is your copy of Leopard on preorder or are you still underwhelmed? (Why the world says "meh" to Apple's next product, September 20)Barrie, York (via email)&#183; Write to: Letters TechnologyGuardian  119 Farringdon Road London EC1R 3ER.  Telephone:  020 7239 9925. Fax: 020 7239 9933. Email:tech@guardian.co.uk
Last week's Association of Internet Researchers' conference in Vancouver was a fine setting for an age-old debate: what, if anything, do academics offer the games industry, and vice versa? Subtitled Let's Play, the conference featured several strong tracks on gaming. Admittedly, Joe or Jane Gamer would rather shoot their way through Halo 3 than think about the complexity of the rhetoric in the textual fabric of the interactive landscape, but between the close readings, the academics were surprised at their own vehemence when it came to the place of industry at their conference.I usually argue that the games industry and academia should come together. After all, where would researchers be without the sources of their analyses? And while the attention to detail and the experimental outcomes of Ivory Tower residents may not initially appear to affect the bottom line, those who've heeded the suggestions of research have reaped rewards. Will Wright's background in sociology, for example, is credited as laying the foundations for his gazillion-selling Sim-related series.Yet academic critics maintain that the industry repeatedly pooh-poohs their important insights. And indeed, they do. They provide the analytic evidence for what industry does so well (and so badly), but are only called upon in the rare event that industry requires mainstream validation. Academics are even asked to run "experiments" which "find" fodder for PR machines to belch out in press releases to achieve mainstream headlines.In the industry's defence, a lot of what academia does present is irrelevant. While conceptually interesting, close readings of a game series released several years before really don't have any bearing on current practices. But we're now at an impasse: neither camp is right or wrong. Each feels the other owes them something: academics say industry doesn't take them seriously and industry says academics get enough through the use of their properties.There has been a self-defeating trend to try to integrate the two at conferences. Academics are marginalised into their own silos at industry dos while industry types are accused of sales pitching at research forums. Both sides hope for a cautious validation by including the other, but walk a fine line between bridging the gap and committing high treason.Is there any point in encouraging integration? Will we someday see a giant hybrid game-academic monster? In the present climate, this idyllic future seems unlikely, but I live in quiet hope that one day, geeks from all colours of the interactive rainbow will put down their BFGs and just get along.
The South Pacific islands of Tokelau have seen enormous change in the past decade. Climate change has left the three tiny atolls vulnerable to tidal surges and cyclones, while parts of the land have simply disappeared under the sea.Tokelau's islanders have traditionally lived by fishing for marlin and hahave (flying fish). But many species of fish have disappeared during the past generation, perhaps linked to the changing weather patterns. "Right now, our island should be warm and calm, but it's been raining for weeks," says Ionata O'Brien, minister of transport, energy and telecommunications. "Things are changing."It's not only the weather that has changed. Tokelau's young people used to swim and surf in their spare time, or played a Tokelauan version of cricket called Kilikiti. Today, they're just as likely to be downloading music or updating MySpace or Bebo pages. In fact, so many of the island's 100 children are using Bebo.com that the island's minister has set up his own Bebo page to talk to his young parishioners.None of this would have been possible six years ago. Then, most communication on Tokelau happened by radio, although there was a basic phone network and internet access at 9.6kbps.That all changed in 2001, when Dutch entrepreneur Joost Zuurbier visited Tokelau with a proposal: he would pay the islanders for the right to sell internet addresses with the Tokelauan .tk domain. "Hotmail had just been sold for a fortune, based on the idea of providing people with free email," says Zuurbier. "I was convinced there was a similar business to be made from providing free web addresses; I just needed to find a country that wasn't using its own domain."Perfect optionTokelau was the perfect option because it had no existing IT infrastructure, says Zuurbier. The elders agreed, but Zuurbier spent another five years convincing Icann that the deal was legitimate. As the body responsible for monitoring internet domain names, Icann has to approve any transfer or licensing of domains."It was ridiculously hard," says Zuurbier. First, DotTK had to agree to a joint venture with the Tokelauans, giving them a share of profits. Second, Icann insisted on meeting the Tokelauan elders to check that Zuurbier's contract was real. Finally, Icann argued that the domain name servers should be located on the island.That, it turns out, was a problem. At that time, Tokelau had virtually no communications infrastructure, and the power was turned off at midnight. "Fortunately, someone from Icann had worked on Tokelau previously and could verify that there was no way we could run a global internet service from here," says Aukusitino Vitale, general manager of Teletok, Tokelau's telecoms venture.Once the deal was finalised, the Tokelauan elders formed Teletok to manage their new IT systems, and decide how the revenues from the DotTK service should be used. The revenues have grown rapidly, and now account for 10% of the islands' total GDP.That money has been invested in a new communications infrastructure for Tokelau, including a high-speed satellite internet service, which enables residents to stream live radio and TV content, as well as use internet telephony services such as Skype. There is also a computer network that provides web access to 100 laptops in local internet cafes, schools and the island's hospital.The decision to use the revenue to fund communication technology was a popular one. There are 1,600 Tokelauans in Tokelau, but five times as many living overseas. That means lots of Tokelauans with friends and relatives overseas, says Vitale. "Seeing people is very difficult because we are so remote," he says. Tokelau is a 48-hour boat trip from its nearest neighbour, Western Samoa - and the boat only runs once a fortnight. From there, it's another seven-hour flight to New Zealand.For young Tokelauans - or "Tokes" as they call themselves online - the internet is opening up a whole new world. "I can use the internet to research school projects and find out things I can't find in the school library, but most of the time I use Bebo," says 13-year-old Lolo. "It means I can keep in touch with my extended family, even though I haven't met some of them."Lolo's parents are wary of the internet, and at first his mother would sit next to him whenever he used the laptop, but things are gradually changing. "I think she was worried that I would access bad things, but the training I did with Teletok told me about the viruses you can get that way, which destroy important files on your computer."For other teenage Tokes, Bebo provides a platform for dating, flirting and showing off. Nineteen-year-old Luke's Bebo page cites his favourite music as "anythan dat mk da girlz get lo". Still, island culture hasn't completely disappeared - Luke's page also gives a "shout out" to the church and his minister ("he da SHIZZ!").Biggest challengePerhaps the biggest challenge is simply keeping the new technology running in such a challenging environment. "We get occasional hurricanes, so sometimes you'll build something, go back the next day and it's gone," says Vitale. "We've also lost two Cisco routers - one to the heat, and one to the fish."The island is vulnerable to power cuts and already uses solar power for 80% of the new equipment. In future, the island hopes to increase its use of renewable energy. "We are testing the potential to use solar panels to power houses. We're also investigating wind power and whether there is a power source if we use the oil from coconuts, which do grow on the island," Vitale says.Whatever the challenges, O'Brien is convinced that getting online can only benefit the people of Tokelau. "We're no longer isolated from the rest of the world," he says. "Knowing we can get better care for our children when they're ill, or help our students to extend their learning in their home towns - that's a great thing."Licensing island lifeTokelauisn't the first small country to have the idea of selling access to its internet domain: a similar plan was hatched in the late 1990s by the South Pacific island ofTuvalu. Tuvalu partnered with Verisign to license its.tv domain name, but revenues from the deal have failed to make a significant impact on the island, which is facing more immediate problems: a need for economic development and the real risk that it could simply disappear beneathrising sea levels. The neighbouring island ofPalauhas also licensed its domain name, .pw, to a US company that markets .pw addresses as part of an onlineprivacy service. Although Palau kept several sub-domains for its own use, these still have not been fully exploited.
A licensing scheme that lets people put scanned maps online and which can save them up to 99% of the cost of a normal web licence, is being reviewed by Ordnance Survey (OS) - apparently over concerns that its use might be "overlapping" with other, more lucrative licences.A letter from OS to an organisation considering a Paper Map Copying Licence (PMCL) warned that the licence, which costs &pound;50 a year, "was originally created a number of years ago and the intention behind the display and promotion rights was only to permit some very limited uses, such as a business showing their location to customers".But now organisations such as Walk Highland, a startup company that gives details of walks in Scotland, have begun to use the PMCL to put scans of maps of multiple areas online (Paper maps rather than digital ones save site 99% in OS fees, August 30). An example is its map of a walk on Skye called theFairy Glen, which uses a scan of the paper map with the walk marked on.That has disconcerted OS, which derives all its income from licensing its maps. "With time, we understand that these rights [given under the PMCL] could be interpreted more widely than was intended and overlap with other ways in which we license businesses to use our data," says the letter from its licensing department. New PMCLs will be limited in term to 12 months, while OS carries out its review. After that, users might be forced to change to other licences which will cost much more than the present version.Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign suggests a simpler route: by making impersonal data collected by government free for private or commercial reuse, such licensing issues would become irrelevant, and commercial revenues would make up for the extra tax revenues required to make trading funds like OS tax-funded.OS said: "The PMCL was created a number of years ago and for a limited number of applications. With time and changes in technology the terms of the licence are open to interpretation more widely than was intended and this could be confusing. Ordnance Survey does endeavour to achieve consistency in its licensing terms so that comparable uses are licensed on comparable terms. However, the number of uses to which our data are put - which are continually growing - sometimes means that there is unintended and unanticipated overlap between licences."The aim of the review, he said, would "essentially be around removing the ambiguities that have been outlined above".Paul Webster, who runs the Walk Highland site, raised inconsistencies about the review on the Free Our Data blog, pointing out that the OS's site says that those intending to show up to 10 images of maps on their site - such as a business pointing to its location - should use the free Get-A-Map service, and that those looking to publish more should use the PMCL."So the paper map licence was in fact intended specifically for showing larger numbers of maps - illustrating walks, for a specific example," Webster noted. "'Purchasing the mapping required' can be quite expensive, and publishing it this way extremely time-consuming - and frustrating for those who own the digital data as well. There is going to be a lot of upset and anger if, with people having spent the cash and invested large amounts of time, this is then taken away."&#183; Join the debate at theFree Our Data blog
If a conservative is a liberal who has been mugged, and a liberal is a conservative who has been arrested, then an academic who has seen sound public policy lose against monied interests acquires an incentive to study how society's decisions are made in practice. There's a rueful aphorism: sometimes the dragon wins.Professor Lawrence Lessig has devoted many years to theorising about law and technology, advocating against extremist copyright frameworks - and he co-founded Creative Commons, an organisation that helps people to easily make their copyrighted material available under moderate license terms. He recently announced various reasons motivating a change in his academic focus from copyright law to thestudy of corruption. What follows is some advice stemming frommy own experiences.Dear Larry: As someone who goes back more than a decade in terms of internet freedom-fighting, and understands loss from being underpowered and overmatched, I want to implore you with all my heart not to fall prey to the blandishments of those who will seek to exploit your studies for their own enrichment. You risk ending up as an unwitting shill of the manipulators who peddle the illusion of citizen involvement, but offer nothing butdigital sharecropping.As many people have pointed out, the fundamental issues of corruption and improper influence are very well-trodden ground. There are ancient points embodied in cliches from "if I didn't do it, somebody else would" to "I was just following orders". And there are always snake-oil salesman putting forth easy solutions, where if you swallow their prescription, it's good for what ails you. A modern version of such hucksterism is invoking "the internet" as a cheap simplistic remedy for political malaise. It plays to a technocratic dream, going back to the foolish but appealing idea that governments would be rendered obsolete by new technology (note how well that'sworking out).Meaningful political reform never happens without opposition, and if someone says differently, they're either ignorant or trying to con you. One pernicious myth is that the internet can be used to make difficult funding choices disappear, through schemes such as "peer production" (which is a polite way of saying unpaid labour). And web evangelists have notoriously dismissed issues of media gatekeeping with misleading claims about the effects of personal blogs or marketing cruel delusions about individual'sability to be heard.Ultimately, these propagandists are serving power, not subverting it. Popularity data-mining businesses are not a model for civil society. The political promotion around such websites is often the old trick of taking a cream-skimming arrangement or a rare confluence of circumstances and holding it up as a solution for a complex problem. But there's much money and attention to be had by jumping on that bandwagon, so people do it. One might even call the process "corrupt".The sad thing is that nothing I'm writing here is unknown. It's a standard bit of realistic analysis. And self-provingly, just having this article available on the internet would be meaningless, likely only fodder for someone else to make a small amount of money through advertising or data collection. There's an entire social system that determines whether or not it gets read, and by whom.If you really want to do anything significant about corruption besides being sucked into the machinery of converting public disaffection into private profit, stay away from the bubble of privilege where everyone is backscratching everyone else in the service of business deals.There, "community" means audience eventually to be sold to a media conglomerate or rented out for fundraising. Instead, talk to union organisers, or lawyers who represent poor defendants, or academics who've studied social movements. Don't listen to anyone who has a book to hype, a conference speaking career, or most importantly, any involvement with start-up companies trying to get bought. Because what they sell is YOU.sethf.com/infothought/blog/
As reported in the Guardian, last Thursday a 26-year-old Cheltenham man was arrested and the site, tv-links.co.uk, wasclosed. According to the Gloucester police, the arrest was carried out for alleged violations of Section 92 of the Trade Marks Act.The man was not charged and the case remains under investigation, says Eddy Leviten of the Federation Against Copyright Theft. He likened the activity of TV Links to someone who advertises a car that is not theirs. "The main issue is that the original material is stolen," he alleges.  TV Links was collecting links to movies such as the new Nancy Drew film that were allegedly illegally recorded in the cinema and then hosted on Chinese websites, he said. The federation is pursuing the websites that host the material, but it is difficult to pursue sites not under English jurisdiction.The law governing the case is not clear. Section 92 of the Trade Marks Act is frequently used by the federation to pursue illegal CD and DVD copiers, but lawyers said the act relates to goods and has not been applied to audio-visual material that is not on a physical disc or other storage media.Under US law and the MGM v Grokster case in 2005, the US Supreme Court found Grokster liable for "inducement", encouraging others to infringe copyright. However, English law does not recognise inducement. But this case turns on the issue of linking and the Trade Marks Act.Out-law.com, the blog of international law firm Pinsent Mason says: "It is not clear how the provision of links will be prosecuted as a criminal offence."Alex, writing on the Impact blog from UK law firm Freeth Cartwright, agrees. "On the facts that we know so far, it is difficult to see how the providing of links to infringing copies of TV shows gives rise to a civil or criminal liability under UK law," he said.The Trade Marks Act may not fit the alleged crime. "The Trade Marks Act makes the unauthorised use of trade marks in relation to goods an offence; but this is a law that was written to catch counterfeit goods," said Kim Walker, head of intellectual property at Pinsent Masons.  "The provision of links is surely a service, not a sale of goods. It seems an unlikely way to deal with the problem."Alex at Freeth Cartwright says: "Such links might constitute an offence under other parts of copyright law (distributing infringing copies or communicating copies to the public in the course of business), but it is again difficult to see how the facts meet these offences."
Table TennisWii, &pound;24.99, cert 3+, Rockstar Games, 4/5Although Nintendo's Wii has struck a massive chord with both gamers and non-gamers, it has recently suffered from a lack of compelling new games. While we wait for meaty efforts like Metroid Prime: Corruption and Super Mario Galaxy, this immaculate remake of Rockstar's cheap and addictive Xbox 360 game will satisfy those who love Wii Sports Tennis but are getting bored with it. A no-frills table tennis simulator (with the best graphics we have seen on the Wii), it has a bit of a learning curve thanks to three different control systems. The basic one ignores the nunchuk and moves the player for you; sideways swipes launch drop-shots, while more expansive ones send the ball long. Spin, imparted by the D-pad, is crucial, as are Focus shots, which you need to time properly. The other two control systems let you either move your player or direct your shot with the nunchuk joystick. Once you find your control system, Table Tennis will have you hooked, whooping and hollering - and it is sufficiently energetic to raise a bit of a sweat. Essential for any Wii owner.Steve BoxerEnemy Territory: Quake WarsPC, &pound;39.99, cert 15, Splash Damage/Activision, 4/5It's been a long time since Quake 3 showed us how not to do a multiplayer-only game. Quake Wars is a whole different beast, packed with clan-friendly maps, switchable team roles and the underrated Doom 3 engine still at its core. So this time you have five perfectly balanced classes in two races (human and strogg) tasked with achieving multiple objectives in each of the 12 initial maps. Even in skirmish mode (the game's only peace offering to single players) you're constantly alerted to dangers in the field. This is advanced multiplayer mayhem that will build a strong online following.Mike AnderieszZelda: Phantom HourglassDS, &pound;29.99, cert 3+, Nintendo, 4/5Like the Wii, the DS suffers from a lack of lengthy involving titles. The arrival of Zelda goes some way towards rectifying this. Phantom Hourglass is another superb Zelda title and a wonderful example of how the DS can bring new elements to ageing templates. Essentially a sequel to 2003's Wind Waker, Phantom retains that title's cute graphics and seafaring storyline but the controls keep things fresh. Everything is done via the touchscreen, with the main character moved with the stylus. Elsewhere, players need to tap on an item to use it, and draw slashes on the screen to fight. Long standing fans will find the controls initially irksome, but they soon become second nature, leaving you to concentrate on puzzles, combat and exploration. Some repetitive challenges and an overly accommodating difficulty level detract, but Phantom Hourglass continues the fine tradition of Zelda games.Greg Howson
Phone edits videosSamsung has announced theG800, the only 5 megapixel camera phone with a 3x optical zoom. It also offers "professional video editing functions": users can cut, paste, and edit their own films.Gadget madA survey for HSBC'sFirst Directclaims British homes now contain 418m gadgets, mostly mobile phones (69.8m), TV sets (59.6m), DVD players (39.4m), and set-top boxes (29.5m).Welcome to SpaMP3Kaspersky and other security companies have noted a sudden flood ofaudio spam, usually puffing worthless stocks and shares. Catchy name for it? SpaMP3.On the pisteSatskihas launched a mobile GPS touchscreen computer that plots your progress while skiing and lets you compare other skiers. It also plays MP3s. Look to rent rather than buy.WiMax approvedThe ITU has formally addedWiMax wireless broadbandnetworking (IEEE 802.16) to its set of global 3G mobile phone standards (IMT-2000).Wikipedia for AfricaThe non-profit Wikimedia Foundation is having afundraising driveand co-hosting aWikipedia Academy in South Africa to help create more Wikipedias in African languages.XL photobooksFotoinsight is now offeringXL-sized photobooks(12 x 12in/30 x 30cm) printed from your digital snaps.
Who is Vladuz? Since at least the start of this year, eBay has been looking for this hacker from eastern Europe. According to evidence seen by the Guardian, he is able to see the listings of and listen to telephone conference calls within eBay. Sources in the hacking community say that he claims to be listening in on some meetings held by eBay chief executive Meg Whitman.Says eBay: "This  fraudster is known to eBay, Romanian authorities and the US Secret Service who are all working towards securing an arrest and successful prosecution."Concerned to reassure users, it adds: "The central eBay site is and always has been secure." The company says, however, that the "phone system is 'open' because we conduct calls with external parties who need access to it. Confidential calls made through our system require separate security information."Despite the reassurances, this is not the first time Vladuz has embarrassed eBay. And he is extremely good at covering his tracks. "He covers himself very well with Gmail, and uses anonymous proxies [remote computers] to access those accounts too," says David Steiner, editor of online auction news publisher Auctionbytes.Hacker's backgroundWhat is known from the hacking community is that the individual is in his mid to late 20s and has a strong background in programming. He operates from Romania, where he was born, and has years of experience working in a corporate environment.He also has a history of both operating and facilitating eBay-based scams. As early as 2004, someone calling themselves Vladuz was selling a set of PHP files designed to create phishing sites that would collect eBay data. "It is a very basic SDK [software development kit], allowing script kiddies to set up a phishing email scam," says Simon Heron, director of UK security company Network Box. "It sets up a website that uses as much as it can from the genuine eBay site to give it the right look and feel. The logon and password are sent to the scammer." In the readme file that he used to distribute the kit was the message: "Well go there and scam the fucking bastards! For ANY scam email me and I'll do it in max 30 hours."While he has been in operation for several years, the spotlight has only recently fallen on Vladuz. He first came to notice in December, when Rosalinda Baldwin from The Auction Guild, an independent publisher that monitors eBay's activities (auctionguild.com), began seeing large numbers of fake auctions emerging from Chinese scammers using accounts hijacked from their real owners. "Researching that, I came across the name Vladuz in association with someone writing programs that Chinese hackers were using and building on to do these hijacks," she alleges.At the start of the year, he turned up again, this time posting several times on eBay's forums. His posts were coloured pink, indicating that he was posting as an eBay employee. The company said that the pink postings were due to a handful of compromised eBay accounts."The funny thing was that he emailed through eBay, and when he was doing that he emailed me eBay employee passwords and user names," says Josh Shaffer, who founded the site FireMeg.com, which attacks the auction site's management.In February, he attempted to highlight perceived flaws in eBay's security systems by publishing a plugin for the Firefox browser designed automatically to solve eBay's "Captchas". A Captcha is a security challenge displaying distorted text which users must type in to prove that they are real people. They work because the text is supposed to be too difficult for computers to read. Heron confirms that the plugin code (linked to a site registered with a stolen credit card) was clean; it only did what it said, without tricking the user. But others suggest that there was a payload: it directed users to a site with a Romanian domain hosted by Yahoo! (now taken down), which reportedly required users to enter some credentials. That could be a phishing route.The most spectacular hack for which he has claimed responsibility involved the posting of at least 1,200 eBay users' personal information on an eBay discussion board late last month. The postings stayed up for over an hour, in spite of complaints from users, before the whole board was taken down. The company insists that the credit card details posted did not belong to users.What drives Vladuz? "He told me in one email, 'I'm not a good Samaritan. I'm in it for the money'," says Baldwin. "It sounds like he's selling the tools as well as using them." But other incidents on eBay point to different motives. Days after the credit card hack, the "About me" page for eBay lawyer Scott Noyce was altered and his personal details wereposted on the page. At the bottom was the signature "SGI Inc - V". SGI stands for Solutions for Generating Income, and is the name that Vladuz gave to the team of people that helped him to run his scams earlier in his career.He used athreadon the auction watching site Pheebay.com to boast of the Noyce incident and also to claim responsibility for the credit card hack. On that thread, he pointed to a Februaryreport about Noycecontacting German scam monitoring site Falle-Internet.de. The letter threatened them with legal action unless they took down some eBay-related pages. "Revenge time," said Vladuz."I demand an explanation," posted one eBay user on aneBay foruma week later, when his account was mysteriously shut down and reinstated. Another replied that the same had happened to him, accompanied by an email that read: "Stop saying shit stuff about me, asshole. vladuz." eBay posted a response saying that the hacker had found some old administrative functions that had not been turned off after a security change. "We are undergoing an audit to ensure obsolete code that may still exist for other reasons is secure," it said.Security fears"If there's an administrative portal that was visible on an external server, how many other scammers have been using that?" asked Ed 'Doc' Koon, who runs the eBay monitoring siteebaymotorssucks.com. In the past few months, eBay has downplayed Vladuz's significance, but Koon is one of a number of eBay watchers who believes that the company's security is far from watertight.eBay makes the rules of engagement clear for customers, describing the dangers of phishing emails that lure users to enter their details into fake eBay sites. But what about the redirect scams? "You have people actually embedding in auction pages redirects to fake sign-in pages," says Pheebay. Clicking on a valid eBay page would thus take you straight to a phishing site. "I probably get a couple of emails a week from people that fall for these redirect scams," says Koon. Redirect scams have been seen on eBay for more than a year. "I had one last week from a guy who sent $7,200 for a 57 Chevy convertible," Koon says. "Hello? Your money's gone."Others worry about "second chance" scams, in which fraudsters contact auction losers pretending to be from eBay, offering them the chance to bid on an item again. The link takes them to another site where their information is stolen. "How are these scammers getting these peoples' direct email addresses?" asks Koon.Rodger Flemming, who helps run Falle-Internet, speculates that scammers may have access to the eBay database.Screenshots of tools) purported to have been created to manipulate eBay's systems have been posted on eBay watchers' sites, but it is difficult to prove their authenticity. eBay maintains that the website has not been hacked, but such denials are always tainted with the obvious question: how can you be sure? When presented with news of the recent phone system hack, which targets internal corporate systems rather than the website, eBay admitted that it had no knowledge of it.Intimate knowledge of systemsThat hack, revealed to the Guardian by a source close to Vladuz, demonstrates an intimate knowledge of systems central to eBay's day-to-day business operations. It has given the hacker access to a broad range of information. And nobody knows for how long Vladuz may have been eavesdropping.While the community mulls these issues, some have said that Vladuz could be more than one person. Another theory, perhaps both more likely and more frightening, is that there are more like him. "There are thousands of hackers. It doesn't make much sense that he'd be the only one out there," says AuctionBytes' Steiner. "It makes no sense to me that if these things are as wide open as he says, he would be the only one."And there's the worry. For every loose-tongued, forum-happy blackhat, there could be many silent, disciplined ones. This latest revelation will do little to reassure users. Millions of dollars each day are transacted via eBay. The company made a net income of $1.1bn (&pound;543m) last year on almost $6bn of revenues, and people depend on it for their livelihoods and it is a linchpin of the online economy. But just how safe is eBay from the dark side of the web?
It used to be that PlayStation propped up Sony's troubled consumer electronics division - now it's the other way around. The company has just announced that its net profits for the three months ending September 30 were 73.7 billion yen, or £315 million. TheNew York Times saysthat's a 43-fold increase on last year.While digital cameras, flatpanel TVs and other consumer gadgets have contributed to this impressive financial performance, what of PlayStation 3? Losses on the machine have apparently almost doubled from a year ago to 96.7 billion yen, or £413 million. Ouch.Incidentally, Sony's chief exec Howard Stringer has been boosting the performance of the company by shedding non-key businesses and products - one of which is, sniff, Aibo. Yes, the emblematic robot toy has been put down, a possible victim of PlayStation's disappointing year.Ah, Aibo and PS3: one is a pointless mechanical novelty, chasing its tail for a tiny audience of monied posers. The other is a robot dog.
I don't usually bother with this sort of thing, but having travelled out to Montreal twice to see this epic production (four years in the making!), I thought I'd mention that Ubisoft's adventure has 'gone gold' and will be released on November 16. Finally we'll get the chance to see what all this genetic memory stuff is about. We'll also get our hands on the interesting but controversial context-sensitive control system, which is meant to turn all the free-running elements into a pleasure rather than a Prince of Persia-style challenge. Those who played the demo at E3 weren't sure.Whatever, the fact that Ubisoft has pinned its seasonal hopes on a new 'franchise' is something to be commended. Christmas is traditionally a time of witless movie tie-ins and cookie cutter sequels, with various Need for Speed iterations dominating the number one slot for the last five years. But this year we've got Assassin's, Haze, Stranglehold and Kane &amp; Lynch standing up against NFS, FIFA, PES and CoD.It's Ubisoft's Holy War-'em-up that stands the best chance of fighting off the sequel brigade to claim top spot. It's a vitally important release for the company, cripplingly expensive to develop (the team stood at over 170 last time I was there in the spring) and the start point for a potentially lucrative series. It's clear creative director Patrice Desilets has plans for several sequels, and even spin-offs - I'm pretty sure he hinted to me that some sort of co-op based sidestory was planned. It'll all come to nothing if this doesn't shift at least a couple of million copies.In the chaos of Christmas, publishers of original titles are making a dangerous but necessary gamble. They may cancel each other out or drown in a sea of FIFA cases, but they've got to be here, slogging it out with the veterans. Four years work resting on a couple of months in the retail quagmire? This is a pitiless business at times.
DJ /rupture, who runs Soot Records, has commented on theOink attack, where he was both a user and a "victim" ("I searched for 'DJ Rupture' and found every release I'd ever done, from an obscure 7″ on a Swedish label to 320kpbs rips of my first 12″, self-released back in 1999. It was shocking. And reassuring."). He says:Oink was not "extremely lucrative" as the BBC boldfacedly claims. If I remember correctly, a one-time donation of 5 pounds would do something-or-other, but it was a far cry from Soulseek's monthly privilege fees. Nor, for the record, did Oink "lead to early mixes and unfinished versions of artists' recordings circulating on the internet months ahead of the release." -- this is strangely ironic, since Oink would strip user privileges if they were caught circulating unfinished or unofficial album versions. This was a site run by audiophiles and music obsessives!He also comments on the fact that Soulseek hasn't been close down in spite of offering paid subscriptions:One thing I don't understand is how Oink got taken down whileSoulseekcontinues as it has for years... Slsk has always struck me as the least moral of the p2p systems. If you pay Soulseek $5 a month, you get 'privileged download access' to files stored on Slsk users hard drives. Soulseek earns money by controlling access to the files stored on its users' drives, users who never see any of this money.One possible answer is that Soulseek's home page says: "Soulseek(tm) does not endorse nor condone the sharing of copyrighted materials. You should only share and download files which you are legally allowed to or have otherwise received permission to share." It also puts out unsigned bands onSoulseek Records.Also see:Time to clear up the murk about OinkAnother raid, another arrest -- OiNK Torrent tracker closed (updated)
From the beginning of time until about, say, 1989, programmers spent a lot of time on optimisation: making their programs fast and small. They had to - early computers were slow and didn't have much memory.But then some of them started to realise that, thanks to Moore's Law, they didn't have to optimise. They could just build cool stuff and wait for the hardware to catch up. With plummeting memory prices and CPU speeds doubling every year, programmers had a choice: spend six months carefully optimising, or spend six months surfing, and in either case, their program would run faster. And so programmers have, over the past 10 or 20 years, given up on optimisation.Recently, one exception has arisen: the JavaScript code that runs in web browsers and in applications such as Google Gmail. Because the code runs in the browser, often a megabyte or more of code has to be sent over the internet. Then it has to be compiled, which takes a while. And the result is users watching a flashing "Loading" screen and checking their watches.Since the web is where almost all software development is moving, this is a problem.But history, I propose, will repeat itself. Bandwidth is getting cheaper and faster all the time. JavaScript can, and will, be precompiled. The developers who put a lot of effort into optimising things will discover that their effort was a waste of time. Smart developers are skipping the optimisation and just adding cool new features to their applications.New languagesThere's another area where programming history is likely to repeat itself. For the first three decades, programmers wrote code for a specific computer. And if you wanted that code to run on a different make or model, you had to start over.As time went on, new programming languages appeared with the explicit goal of making it easy to move programs from one computer to another. C and Java were successive attempts at allowing a programmer to write their code once and have it run anywhere.But today's developers are writing code for web browsers. And every browser has an ever-so-slightly different implementation of HTML, CSS, JavaScript and DOM. As a result, writing applications that work in all different browsers is a nightmare. Eventually someone is going to do what Bell Labs did in developing the C programming language in 1978. We'll get a programming language that's portable and efficient. It will produce code for every web browser, and it will obsess about performance so programmers don't have to. And they'll never have to think about web browser incompatibilities ever again.Once, the IBM 360 mainframe computer system used a user interface called CICS, which you can still see at the airport if you lean over the check-in counter. There's an ugly green screen: text only. There is only one kind of user interaction: you fill out a form and send it to the mainframe for processing. Then you get another form back to fill out.In the PC era, for the first time, programmers could detect every keystroke from the user as it was typed, so they could write applications that began processing without waiting for a form to be sent. They made word processors that automatically wrapped text, moving words down to the next line when the current line filled up.The trouble with the second stage was that every program did things in different ways, which made it hard, if you knew how to use WordPerfect, to run Lotus 1-2-3. Each had completely different menu systems, keyboard interfaces and command structures. Copying data between them was out of the question.And that's exactly where we are on the web today. Apps are inconsistent, and don't even try to work together. You can't cut and paste anything but plain text.Graphical user interfaces on Macs and Windows solved this problem for personal computing. Standardised windows, menus and a clipboard allowed applications to work together and work in the same way. If you knew how to use one Mac application, you could use them all.If history repeats itself, we can expect a compelling SDK (software development kit) to emerge providing programmers with a standard user interface for their web applications. If you're a web developer and you don't want to support the SDK everybody else is supporting, you'll find that people won't use your app. After all, how many DOS applications are still on the market?Competitive strongholdImagine, for example, that you're Google with Gmail, and you're feeling justifiably pleased with yourself. But then somebody you've never heard of, some bratty Silicon Valley startup, two kids in a garage, is gaining ridiculous traction selling NewSDK, which combines a great portable programming language, and even better, a huge library that includes all kinds of clever interoperability features, from cut-and-paste to synchronisation and single-point identity management.And you laugh at them, for their NewSDK is a honking 232MB ... 232 megabytes! ... of JavaScript, and it takes 76 seconds to load a page.But then, while you're sitting on your Googlechair sipping Googleccinos and feeling smug, new versions of the browsers come out that support cached, compiled JavaScript. And suddenly NewSDK is really fast! Your boss suggests porting Gmail to the NewSDK. And you think, this is a ton of code; we could never port it! We'd have to change every line of code. It'd be a complete rewrite.Meanwhile the NewSDK people ship a pretty decent word processor and a pretty decent email app and a killer Facebook/Twitter event publisher that synchronises with everything, so people start using it.And while you're not paying attention, everybody's writing NewSDK apps, and they're really good, and suddenly people want only NewSDK apps, and old-school apps look pathetic and won't cut and paste and mash and sync and play nicely with one another. And Gmail becomes a legacy. The WordPerfect of Email. And you'll tell your children how excited you were to get 2GB to store email, and they'll laugh at you. Their nail polish has more than 2GB.Whichever SDK wins the most developer mindshare will have the same kind of competitive stronghold as Microsoft had for years with their Windows API.&#183;Joel Spolsky is a founder of Fog Creek Software. A longer version of this piece originally appeared atjoelonsoftware.comHow we got here1969IBM launched its Customer Information Control System (CICS, pronounced kicks) for the S/360 range of mainframes at a price of $600 (&pound;300) a month. The basic modules required a huge 15K of memory, and a typical working system required another 20K or so (CICS 35th Anniversary site.)1983Lotus Development released its 1-2-3 spreadsheet, which immediately became the killer app for the IBM PC. Lotus wrote direct to the IBM PC hardware for extra speed, which meant it didn't run on similar MS DOS machines without adaptation.1985Its Multiplan spreadsheet having been vanquished by Lotus 1-2-3, Microsoft created something graphical and better. Excel first appeared on the Apple Macintosh in 1985, and it became the standard Windows spreadsheet after Windows 3 was released in 1990.1995Netscape launched JavaScript, a simple scripting language running inside its Navigator 2 browser, greatly expanding what designers could do with web pages.2004Google released its Gmail web-based email system in 2004, popularising the use of Ajax (Asynchronous JavaScript And XML) programming. This involved some download time but provided a much better user experience than page-oriented HTML systems such as Microsoft's Hotmail.Jack Schofield
Wired has just run an item comparing the iPhone's security model withWindows 95 (No, That's Not Good).The problem was unearthed back in June byIndependent Security Evaluators, who published a paper about it (PDF). The main complaint is, as Wired says, that "every application on the device -- from the calculator on up -- runs as "root," ie, with full system privileges. As a result, a serious vulnerability in any of these applications would allow hackers to gain complete control of the device." Wired adds:Last week,H.D. Moore, a security researcher who developed the Metasploit Framework security and hacking tool, posted information on his blog about a vulnerability in the iPhone's tiff library that is used by the phone's e-mail , browser and music software. He also supplied detailed instructions on how to write code to exploit the bug and provided an exploit to gain remote control of an iPhone.According to Wired, ISE's Charlie "Miller says Apple will need to redesign the entire firmware to fix the problem -- which would require owners to install a pretty hefty update."Incidentally, Wired's account somewhat glosses over the details of Windows security models. Fact is that Windows 95 didn't have one, and it didn't have file-level permissions: the best you could do was control security via an NT server, and hope users weren't smart enough to boot from a floppy. That wasn't a matter of design, it was inherited from DOS. However, right from the start (1993), Windows NT did have a proper security model, which was much the same as the one in the DEC VAX/VMS minicomputer. (Not coincidentally,Dave Cutlerwas responsible for both operating systems.) The problem was getting companies with a history of writing DOS/Windows software to do a proper job of writing NT/XP software, ie not requiring root/admin access. Sadly, that proved to be beyond many of them. One of the things Vista adds is that it makeseverybodyrun at user level, even if they are logged on as an administrator.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Little more than three years after its birth in a Harvard University dormitory, the social networking website Facebook has become one of the most expensive internet start-ups in history, with a valuation of $15bn (&pound;7.3bn) under a financing deal with the software group Microsoft.In an alliance announced last night, Microsoft bought a minority stake in Facebook for $240m, after shouldering aside a rival investment proposal from Google.The deal turns Facebook's founder, Mark Zuckerberg, into a paper billionaire at the age of 23. He created the site, originally called TheFacebook.com, in February 2004 by uploading photographs from Harvard yearbooks to help his college peers keep in touch with each other. Initially restricted to school and college students, Facebook opened its doors to all comers a year ago and has rapidly become a global phenomenon, with 49 million regular users, including 5 million in Britain, and new registrations at a rate of 250,000 a day.The website's future financial backing has pitted Silicon Valley's top companies against one another. Mr Zuckerberg turned down a takeover offer of more than $1bn from Yahoo! a year ago, but indicated that he wanted investment to expand the venture and fund acquisitions, prompting a furious struggle to win his favour.Google and Microsoft emerged as the front-runners this month. They have been anxious to build a relationship with the site because it is increasingly being chosen as a home page by internet users, coming up automatically when they log on to their computers, something that has traditionally been a strong point for Google's search page and Microsoft's MSN.com.Last night's deal assumed a notional value of $15bn for Facebook. Microsoft will get exclusive rights to sell advertising on Facebook, which currently has little revenue-raising content and is expected to make modest profits of $30m this year.In a statement, Facebook's vice-president of operations, Owen van Natta, said the deal would allow the site to "continue to innovate and grow as a technology leader and major player in social computing".Fans of Facebook praise the ease with which the site allows users to swap photos, video clips and gossip. But Mr Zuckerberg's success has brought controversy. Three former Harvard peers have sued him, claiming he stole the idea from them. Prosecutors in several US states also accuse Facebook of failing to do enough to protect its underage members from pornographic images and predatory advances.Microsoft's valuation of Facebook easily outstrips the price tags on other successful online start-ups. The video sharing website YouTube was priced at $1.65bn when it was bought by Google last year. Facebook's key rival in social networking, MySpace, sold out to Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation for $580m in 2005.News of last night's deal leaked out several hours before a formal announcement when a technology gossip website, Valleywag, noticed that Facebook's head of public relations, Brandee Barker, had suddenly added Microsoft's marketing chief, Adam Sohn, as a "friend" on her Facebook profile.The deal is likely to meet opposition. Last night there were already more than a dozen groups on Facebook with names such as "I will close my account if Microsoft buys Facebook".
I'm interested in ripping my CDs, and would like to know how many minutes of music one would get from using Apple Lossless or MP3 VBR per gigabyte of memory. Would anyone over 35 years old be able to tell the difference?Jerry GoldsteinThe music on an audio CD uses about 10MB a minute. Lossless encoding could almost halve that, but it depends on the complexity of the music. Using a "lossy" compression system such as MP3 at 256kbps will get you a little under 2MB a minute, while 128kbps will produce music files that play at around 1MB a minute, regardless of the type of music. A 1GB music player should therefore hold between 2.5 and 3 hours of lossless music, 8 hours of 256kbps MP3s, or 16 hours of 128kbps MP3s. You get a little extra by using VBR (variable bit-rate) recording. For best results, follow the instructions inThe Quintessential Guide to Creating High Quality MP3s by Chris Myden.MP3 files have the advantage that almost any device will play them. However, if you want to save space, you could encode files using the more efficient AAC codec at 192kbps, instead of MP3 at 256kbps. This should give files of about 1.4MB per minute, so a 1GB player will hold about 12 hours of music. I would expect most people to regard these as having the same sound quality, when played on a portable device, and to be acceptably close to Apple Lossless. (Different compression systems create different artefacts, so you can learn to tell them apart, but this doesn't necessarily mean one "sounds better".) The only way to find out which sounds better to you is to run a double-blind test with different encodings of the same music, played in a random order.You can get better sound quality by buying better headphones (or earbuds) than the ones supplied. You could also compare different MP3 players. Some Cowon iAudio models, the Kenwood HD30GB9 and a few others have a reputation for high sound quality, if that's your main objective, but most people prefer iPods even if they don't sound as good to some audiophiles.
My laptop has a 20GB hard disk where Windows takes up 2.4GB, programs have 2.8GB, and so on. How do I find the 4GB that's missing?Gren DixTo start with, your 20GB hard drive is actually 18.6GB, because for marketing purposes, drive manufacturers use K to mean 1,000 instead of 1,024. (They should say "billion bytes" not gigabytes.) Also, Windows laptops usually have two hidden files. The swapfile (pagefile.sys) could take around 1GB, and if your laptop ever hibernates, the hiberfil.sys file can take a similar amount. That's roughly 3GB or 4GB so far.The drive may also have a hidden partition where the manufacturer has stowed a copy of the Windows installation files for recovery purposes.Finally, almost all files take up more space than they claim, because they don't exactly fit the disk sectors provided. Right-click on a directory, select Properties, and Windows will tell you both the size of the actual files, and the "size on disk".There are lots of free programs that will graphically show where your space has gone. Examples includeVisDir 1.4,SequoiaView,WinDirStatand the oldSpaceMonger 1.4.VisDir Free Disk Space Finder ScreenshotBackchat: Kevin Williams has bought a 320GB drive that's really 300GB and asks: "Has the industry considered regulating the marketing of drive space more honestly?" The problem is they would all have to do it at once, which they won't. Also, as the numbers get bigger, the difference gets bigger. The International Electrotechnical Commission's recommendation is to add a "bi" for binary bytes, and usegibibytesinstead of gigabytes. A 20GB drive would therefore be 18.6GiB. There are also kibibytes (KiB), mebibytes (MiB), tebibytes (TiB) and so on.
How do I stop all the Windows bingly-bingly-bong noises but still keep the ability to play CDs?Henry ChandlerGo to the Control Panel and select Sounds, Speech, and Audio Devices, then click where it says "Change the sound scheme". Each Windows event has a sound assigned; you can change it or remove it. Microsoft has instructions for XP athttp://www.microsoft.com/windowsxp/ using/setup/personalize/sounds.mspx
Buy a copy of today's Guardian and you get a nice paper copy of this week's Technology section. If you can't manage that, the text is onlinehere. As it will be for the next week....
It was with glee that I awaited changes to my local HSBC branch. Improved customer service and more cash machines. Excellent, I thought. That should make the (already not too taxing, if I'm honest) task of paying in cheques easier. Being self-employed, I frequently pay cheques in, I am usually in a rush and I am usually just in time to stop myself from going overdrawn.The changes to my branch comprise a coffee machine, some bright red chairs and a complete removal of personal contact. Well, there is personal contact - three "customer service operatives" are always loitering around the foyer offering their "assistance". This entails guiding a confused elderly woman by the elbow to an automated machine which requires her to enter her full bank details or her card, whichever falls out of her handbag first. She will squint for a while at the machine before carefully entering her details, being told that her account doesn't exist, leaving the queue, finding said customer service rep and being told to struggle up the two flights of stairs to join the queue for the single manned kiosk installed, it seems, for emergencies like this.I go into this branch on a regular basis. I have never been in when all machines are working at once. And on every single occasion I have been in to pay money from a particular client whose cheques are larger than average (in size, not amount), I have had the cheque returned. Why? Presumably because it's bigger than the paying-in slip, and the machine can't handle this. It doesn't actually tell me why.My alternatives therefore are: go back to my client (a large and popular magazine) and say "please can you write me smaller cheques, my bank can't cope with them this size" and ordering all future clients to ensure their cheques fall within acceptable HSBC guidelines; turn up at the HSBC branch with a large hammer and chisel to widen the cheque-accepting slot; or, and on balance most likely, join the queue of the damned upstairs which contains the doubly complaining, out-of-breath, infirm members of the strapped-for-time workforce whose cheques have been spat back at them and those with lost faith and sense who head straight upstairs each time, bypassing the "time-saving" machines. All of whom are queuing to shout, scream and sigh at the overworked teenager behind the sole desk while his colleagues loiter helpfully in the foyer downstairs.There's another possibility: that I turn up and they've modified the machine. On every visit I stride optimistically towards one of the machines with the hope that this time I'll be the chosen one. And each time the error message comes back: "We are unable to process your request at this time." Next time, I think, as I trudge up the stairs. Next time will be different.
Thegames reviewsare in the Technology supplement this week - weekly from now on - and as you'd expect from this time of year all three are big 'uns. Table Tennis (Wii), Enemy Territory: Quake Wars (PC) and Zelda: Phantom Hourglass (DS) all get the four star treatment. But let's face it, Zelda is the most deserving, right? Actually Table Tennis looks fun too, and as good a reason as any to dust off the Wii (though Metroid is out tomorrow...). ButEnemy Territory- as hardcore as PC shooters come, complete with all the sci-fi/space marine cliches you could ever want - is about as appealing to me as watching theSaints injury hit defenceattempting to clear their lines.
Philips have finally released theiramBXgaming peripherals. amBX? Think lighting, fans, speakers and rumble mats, all designed to further immerse you in your PC gaming. I've been playing with the premium pack - lights, fans, speakers, 3 amBXed games - for a few days and still can't make my mind up. The kit is expensive and many games remain unsupported, but when the lights dim and the fans kick in you do get a sense that amBX may be worth bothering with.The kit itself is plug and play idiot-proof to set up, although I had a few niggles with the software. I tested it on a laptop and found moving the wall washer - which also acts as the central control unit - further away from the back of the screen really helped. Too close and the white just shone through too brightly.You can use the kit with any PC game - or music for that matter, with the FX-generator plug-in allowing you to live out those Jean Michel-Jarre fantasies - but to get the full experience you'll need to play one of the properly amBXed games. So TOCA Race Driver 3, for example, flashes proper starting lights and simulates speed with the fans. Similarly effective isDefcon, with the dramatic lighting really adding gravitas to the nuclear playground. Broken Sword: The Angel of Death is the best example with the fans, which kick in while in flight or when the temperature drops, really adding something.But impressive as these titles are you could hardly call them cutting edge. A large number of more modern PC games are amBX compatible but some of the bigger titles, like World of Warcraft, remain unsupported. And this is key really. Even if you have the money there is little point in buying the system if your favourite game doesn't take advantage of your new toy.You'll need deep pockets to get started too, with beginner kits - lights and wall washer only - starting at £149 and rising to £279 for the premium version. The latter offers the full experience - complete with the fans. But the Pro Gamer option, basically everything except the fans, is probably the best value (around £229).But let's face it, hunched up over your PC is one thing. Having the full lights/fan experience while playing Halo 3 or Mass Effect is what we really want. Well, ok, what I want and then only because I have an understanding wife, but you get the point. If amBX is going to be anything more than a niche product is has to come to consoles. Phillips say they are in discussions but not to expect any news until the end of 2008! Whether you'll still care by then is another matter but if amBX ever arrives on console it will mean it has succeeded on PC. At the moment it has a fair chance of doing that, but only if the price comes down and the really big hitters - Blizzard, EA etc - come onboard.Tempted then?
It is interesting why so few of us use one of the breakthroughs of recent years: the ability to search the web from wherever we are with a mobile phone. This ought to be hugely empowering, enabling us to answer any question from wherever we happen to be instead of having to wait until we are within reach of a computer. If mobiles provided a good web experience, we would probably use them at home as well since the phone would already be close to our hands and the computer may need to be activated in another room.There are a number of reasons why this hasn't happened and why it may be about to change. It is partly because the operators have been shamefully greedy in trying to raid our pockets by charging for all the data we download even though we may never have wanted it in the first place. That is now changing as operators belatedly offer "all you can eat" tariffs - but  it still won't be enough to ignite the mobile web.Why? Because the user experience is still not good enough. Mobiles were designed to make telephone calls. No one had any idea at the beginning that they would be as popular as they now are, let alone that they would house around 60 different functions, of which browsing the web is merely one. As screens got bigger to make words, photos and videos easier to view, keyboards shrank, making it more difficult to key in the words you need for a search. On some phones you still have to make several thumb movements to get the cursor into the search box. Crazy. Small wonder mobile browsing is a minority sport, way behind texting, phone conversations and alarm calls in our priorities.Now things are changing. Mobile phones are about to experience a rerun of the web wars of a few years ago which ended with Microsoft winning the browser battle (with Internet Explorer snuffing out Netscape) and Google triumphing in search. Hopefully, the best user experience will win (but don't bet too much on it). Everything is up for grabs in the smartphone market where London-based Symbian is the dominant supplier of operating systems (with 70% of the market), pursued by Microsoft, Apple, Linux and others. Opera from Norway is market leader in browsers but facing fresh competition from Apple's Safari on the iPhone, Nokia's own open-source offering and, soon, Google as well. Yahoo! has greatly improved its search experience. It needed to as Google will soon launch its improved mobile search software to lay claim to the goldmine of advertising-backed search.I have tried Opera before without being over-impressed but I have now had it installed on my Nokia N80 as an alternative to Nokia's pre-installed browser. Opera claims it is the only mobile browser with access to the whole web rather than a Wap-only version. It was impressive, taking between five and seven seconds to access a site and then half that time to move within it: not brilliant by broadband standards but good for a mobile. Opera's founder Jonvon Tetzchner claims that Opera compresses data by enough to save users between 80% and 90% if they are on a pay-as-you go tariff and accounts for more than 50% of mobile data usage. It is the browser of choice for the likes of Motorola, Sony Ericsson and HTC and, if you have a Nintendo Wii, it will enable you to watch sites such as YouTube on your television set (if that's your bag). It gave good interactive access to my Guardian, BBC, Flickr, Facebook and email sites, including photo uploading.Yahoo!'s oneSearch is a significant improvement with speedy search and a "carousel" that enables users to move from news, to instant email or weather reports or (excellent) driving instructions at the click of a thumb. When Google follows Apple with its new product, the mobile web will be bursting with new ideas. Consumers will be in for a treat - as long as one of them doesn't see all the others off and establish a monopoly.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Mike Volpi joined Joost, the online video service, in June after 13 years at Cisco, where he was chief strategy officer. For his final six years he ran the company's $11bn service provider business which included the routing business, cable and wireless products and the Scientific Atlanta set top box business that Cisco acquired in 2005.Volpi, an Italian, has spent most of his life in the US. In 2003 he joined the board of Skype, but left after founders Janus Friis and Niklaus Zennstrom sold it to eBay. An engineer by training, Volpi has both an engineering degree and an MBA from Stanford University. He moved to London last month with his wife and two children.Joost was set up last year by Janus Friis and Niklaus Zennstrom. The video service finally went live at the beginning of this month and to date, 2 million users have downloaded content.Technology Guardian: ebay recently took a $1.2bn writedown on its Skype investment. If Skype can't make the peer-to-peer model work, how can Joost?Mike Volpi:Peer-to-peer is a networking technology. What Joost is doing is innovating in the visual entertainment delivery business. Skype is trying to do something in the telephony business. We think that peer-to-peer gives us a technological advantage, but we operate on a completely different business model that is ad-supported today and potentially could be pay-per-view at some point. What happens at Skype has no impact to us as a business.When it was announced you were joining as chief executive there was some feeling that the company was having technology issues and that it needed an experienced engineer and manager to come in and fix them.The peer-to-peer part is actually working great. In fact, in excess of 70% of our content now is being served off the peer-to-peer network.The user interface has been criticised by some. What is your view of how it looks and works now?The user interface is something we spend an extraordinary amount of time on. What we have discovered is that you can never make everybody happy. I think the longer-term direction is a more customisable model.What is your technological USP over competitors like Babelgum, Vuze, Veoh and the others?The most important thing is that it is not about competition. It is about the creation of the market, and quibbling about how many users we have versus someone else is not really relevant. We are trying to create a market and a lot of the things we are doing are experimental. The ability to dynamically insert advertising in the flow which is targeted is quite unique. Our ability to geo-target our reporting information to content owners and advertisers is unique. Our search mechanisms are quite good and the way we display search returns are quite effective. These are the things we do well right now.Content owners are cautious about platforms like Joost:  they are concerned about piracy, but also about control.The arguments we are getting is more about, "I get an extraordinary amount of money from my cable and satellite and free TV platform customers today so how do I know that when I put my content on your platform that I will get more or as much money?" So, I would say it is more of a "how do I manage my business model" concern as opposed to worry about stealing these days.So the BitTorrent worries about peer-to-peer technology are over?Well, the only injection point into our cloud is through us and also we have made it so that no one person stores an entire piece of content on their PC.The business model is ad-supported. The big studios are willing to do video on demand and pay-per-view deals. Many are also selling to iTunes. For the studios this is an easier business model because they can see the moneyWe don't disagree that pay-per-view is a viable model. The reason we chose to get into ad-supported is because you don't have to worry about PayPal accounts or credit cards, you just go and watch. And you can garner a lot of information about the user, which allows you to make your targeting more effective.Where are you now in terms of content and is it enough?We have a little over 3,000 hours of content, 250 content owners, 15,000 shows and 250 channels and it grows very quickly. We are trying to do a range of shows, such as top series like the CSI franchise, which comes 24 hours after it airs in the US. And we have Major League Baseball, which comes on three or four hours after the game is over. And we also go all the way to the other end of the spectrum to stuff you've never heard of, like the gay Mexican channel and motocross.com. The truth of the matter is we are all in the experimental stage. CSI works and Major League Baseball works; and then we find all sorts of things that somewhat surprisingly works as well.Paramount Pictures gave us a film called Clockstoppers that most people haven't heard of but it has been one of the most highly viewed on Joost.  We are finding that people respond differently depending on where people are, so we see different demand from Latin America and the US, for example.What is the tipping point to make your business work?We need content owners who are willing to take a bit of a risk with us. So Turner, Warner Bros, CBS and Viacom have all been willing to say, "OK, we'll roll the dice and we'll see what happens", and others have been more conservative. Our job is to execute really effectively with the people who are on board and use that to convince others. The CPMs are good and the user base is growing and that's what they care about. We have to get them comfortable that there is a pot of gold at the end of that rainbow.Many content owners seem to be setting up direct-to-consumer offerings such as News Corp and NBC launching hulu.com. Why do they need to create another gatekeeper or aggregator when the internet makes it so easy for them to go direct?The analogy I like to use is Amazon. When a user goes to buy a book they want the whole bookstore. They don't want to have to go to three book sites. I think generally the internet lends itself to those models where users are confident with what they find there and with the user interface and with the trust of that brand. So I do think that aggregation models work.Content companies might find that getting users to their sites is more challenging than they might think. I watch TV shows that I don't know who the broadcaster or the maker is. And also some of the competitors to News Corp may have a hard time joining hulu.com, whereas Joost is a kind of confederation.Joost doesn't have a lot of UK content. What's the problem?Candidly, we haven't been as successful attracting content in the UK as we have been in the US or other parts of Europe. Conversely, we have strong UK viewership. There are two things about UK content that are important. Because UK content is in English, it has international appeal and I think it is underexploited. So with a delivery platform like ours they can reach international audiences. The second thing is we have to let this "do it yourself" approach play out. At some point hopefully [the UK content providers] will put some  content on Joost.There has been a lot of hype about Joost because of Niklaus Zennstrom and Janus Friis. Where are you now?Hype is a wonderful thing, but  you need to build a good underlying business. So we'll take it and maybe it will encourage some content owners to try working with us, but our objective is to build a really good business and once we have the metrics and the numbers it will speak for itself.And profitability?It depends how aggressive we want to be. There are a million initiatives we could take: we could do live, we could do a kids' programme, do pay-per-view, penetrate China and Japan.TG How aggressive do you want to be?Just aggressive enough to make our investors happy.
Apple produced a stunning set of financial results on Monday, with one big surprise. In a quarter that has been dominated by talk of the iPhone and new iPods, the Macintosh computers were the stars of the show. Apple sold 2.16m units, which is more than in any other quarter in its history.Apple used to be number one in the US computer market, but was devastated by the success of PCs running Microsoft Windows 95. Apple's sales peaked at $11.1bn in 1995, and tumbled to $5.9bn in 1998. Both Dell and Compaq tripled their sales over the same period. Even in 2001 and 2002, Apple's sales were less than $6bn a year.Now Apple has managed revenues of $6.2bn (&pound;3bn) in the latest quarter compared to $4.8bn for the same period last year, and $24bn for the full year, so it has quadrupled its sales in five years. The news pushed its share price on the day to $186.21, putting it (in terms of market capitalisation) ahead of IBM, which used to have 70% of the whole computer market and was America's richest corporation.There are reasons. In 2001, Apple introduced both the iPod and the long-awaited Mac OS X, finally giving Macs a stable operating system. It also started opening its own stores. All three turned out to be much more successful than anyone expected.Apple has also benefited from the shift to digital music, the arrival of cheap LCD screen displays, a growing market preference for laptops over desktops and the massive growth in internet use. This has changed the very nature of the market.When computers were bought mostly by businesses and games players, they cared a lot about the availability of software and the upgradeability of hardware. Windows had almost all the serious business programs and almost all the games. Businesses needed to be able to open up their PCs to add memory and bigger hard drives and to replace broken parts, while gamers wanted to add memory, fast graphics cards, specialised cooling systems and neon lights or whatever.Today there's a large market among people who don't much care about software availability and really don't want to tinker with the hardware. They want to send email, do a bit of instant messaging and browse the web, and today almost any device can do those things, including many phones. Rather than choosing whatever system runs the applications they need (always the traditional advice to computer buyers), they just look online for applications that run in a browser.A hardware geek can find plenty of faults with the latest iMacs, such as the limited performance of the built-in graphics cards, a general lack of expandability, inability to change the screen height, the awful keyboard and so on. The average consumer sees a beautifully styled system that doesn't look too complicated, doesn't seem to take up much space and could actually look good in a living room.And while Apple still doesn't do cheap machines, the price difference is smaller than it used to be, in absolute terms. Buying a PC used to be much like buying a car -  now it's more like buying a handbag.Of course, selling 2m Macs is impressive because it's almost twice Apple's historic rate, but it's still only a fraction of the 67m PCs sold in the same quarter. On its own, HP sold 13m Windows machines, while Dell sold 10m.The one thing you can't say about Apple is that it doesn't have room to grow.
The Wall Street Journal is reporting that "Microsoft is to invest up to $250 million (£125m) for a minority stake in Facebook, and will sell advertising on the site outside the US, beating Google in a closely watched contest. The companies have discussed a valuation for Facebook as high as $15 billion."The value of the deal doesn't actually tell you how much Microsoft has bought in Facebook, nor how much the advertising deal is worth. In the long term, the latter might be the more valuable one, as Bobbie and Iexplained in a piece last week:the future of making money from social networks is reckoned to lie in having the best advertising network (or platform): being able to thrust carefully targeted pieces of text, pictures or even video in front of people's eyes. The more adverts you serve across many networks, the better you know which ones work. If Microsoft gets to find out what Facebook's users like - even anonymously - it will gather a body of data that will be unrivalled. In August 2006, Google signed a deal in which it will pay News Corporation $900m in stages until 2010 to be the exclusive provider of ads and search for MySpace and other Fox sites.The danger though is that it could leave the big sites with nothing more than a huge herd of users to look after, while the companies that once positioned the adverts on them become more powerful.What do you think: has Microsoft got its hands on the crown jewels, or is this money it could as well haveburnt on a remote Scottish island?
There is a lot of wailing and gnashing of teeth going on around the web because of the number of prominent sites that Google is currently "re-ranking". The sites hit include The Washington Post, Forbes, Engadget, TUAW and Joystiq.Google was originally based on the idea of PageRank, where the best sites have the best PR rating, and come highest in Google's search results. Google is down-ranking them, apparently manually, so the Washington Post and Engadget have been knocked down from PR 7 to 5, Joystiq has been knocked down fro PR 6 to 4, and so on.So what have these sites done wrong? Well, Google is answerable to no one, but the almost universal guess is that the demotions are affecting sites that sell "paid links" and/or do cross-promotions, which blog networks do. Which means, in effect, that if you want to sell "paid links" you'd better use the "nofollow" tag or do it via Google AdSense.Whether PageRank actually matters a damn is another issue, of course. Today it looks more like giving gold stars for good behaviour. And the search engine marketing people just think they've beenbitch-slapped.SearchEngineLand has a short piece,Google's PageRank Update Goes After Paid Links?, with a list of some of the sites hit so far, and links to 15 sites that have written about the issue.Courtney Tuttleis one who points out the amusing hypocrisy of the don't-be-evil guys, saying:Do they want people to stop using one site they own to advertise another? Apparently they do! What's wrong with that?Does Google not use Google.com to advertise their ad programs? Do they not use Google.com to advertise Gmail? Do they not use it to advertise Google Video? Google Maps? Google News? So Darren can't use his site to advertise his other businesses but you can?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
British police have closed down what they claim is one of the world's largest music piracy websites after a two-year pan-European operation. A series of raids in Middlesbrough and Amsterdam resulted in the arrest of a 24-year-old man and the closure of Oink, a private website that allowed users to locate and download music and other files.The closure has been welcomed by the music industry, which said that leaked copies of pre-release records meant that Oink users were able to access hundreds of albums before they reached the shops.The invitation-only website, which had an estimated 180,000 users, was well known among internet filesharers as one of the most popular and exclusive sources of free downloads.Following raids on a flat and offices on Teesside, Cleveland police confirmed they had arrested the site's administrator on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud and infringement of copyright law. No payment was required, but police said members paid donations via debit or credit cards to ensure continued access. A force spokesman said the scheme was "extremely lucrative".The raids came after an investigation overseen by Interpol. Police also claimed that last week they had seized servers belonging to Oink and based in the Netherlands - although the website remained in operation as late as Monday."Oink was central to the illegal distribution of pre-release music online," said Jeremy Banks, head of anti-piracy at the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI). "This was not a case of friends sharing music for pleasure. This was a worldwide network that got hold of music they did not own the rights to and posted it online." Filesharing services which allow to swap copyright-protected content have been the bete noire of the music industry ever since the rise of Napster in 2000. Although Napster was closed down, and subsequent court cases have shut or hampered the growth of services including Grokster and Kazaa, filesharing remains popular among many  music fans. Oink is just one of hundreds of private tracker websites available online.Although it does not host any illegal material itself, it has been described by downloaders as one of the most exclusive online destinations for getting hold of new music illegally.&#183;This article was amended on Wednesday October 24 2007. We were wrong to say that Oink, a private website that has recently been closed by police, allowed users to locate and download movies. Members could download music files but sharing movies was not allowed. This has been corrected.
Here's one for you: a little easter egg to be found in Google's translation service that has come to my attention.Try to translate "Sarkozy" - the name of the French president, of course - from French to English and you get "Blair".Pop in "Sarkozy Sarkozy Sarkozy" and...-
Following in the wake of TV Links case last week - which Jackwrote about eloquently on this blog- yesterday's news of police raids onOinkwas another blow for filesharers.But,is everything that's being reported about Oink accurate? Certainly the details seem far less clear today than they did yesterday: for a start, the 24-year-old man arrested in Middlesbrough has been released, so far without charge.As I tried to reflect inour report, not everything that has been parroted by the media in relation to the case seems entirely correct: for example, the implication that Oink was a subscription service is not true. Itwasprivate and, like many other sites, accepted donations from users, but - as most web entrepreneurs will tell you - that hardly ever covers your true costs.Nor is the idea that it was primarily used to share pre-release music entirely accurate. Oink users have been in touch to say that there was a proportion of pre-release music around (which, by definition, must often come from peopleinsidethe recording industry) but that it was not the primary aim of those sharing on Oink.Where Oink was different to some services was that it required you to upload a certain ratio of material in order to be able to download. This is great news for the UK record industry, which has been more aggressive towards uploaders of music than those who simply leech. But otherwise, the status of tracker websites seems untested in the courts.A spokesman for the IFPI told me yesterday that Oink was "obviously a standard infringement of UK copyright law" - but it strikes me that the law here isfarfrom obvious; not least because few, if any, filesharing cases ever make it through the legal process.Were you an Oink user? What do you think?
How the raid was doneThe recent raid onTV Linkshas been followed by one on OiNK, asThe Guardianreports.For some reason, the BBC headlines its web storyHuge pirate music site shut down, which is odd. I thought it was just a Torrent site like Pirate Bay, and only offered links, not files. Anyway, the BBC reports that "A flat on Teesside and several properties in Amsterdam were raided as part of an Interpol investigation into the members-only website OiNK."A 24-year-old man from Middlesbrough was arrested on Tuesday morning.The IT worker was led from his home in the town's Grange Road and is being questioned on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud and infringement of copyright law.At the same time his employer -- a large multi-national company -- and his father's home were also raided.Perhaps the police had a bit of free time between raids on a militant extremist bomb factory and busting a gang of crack cocaine distributors. Or perhaps they've just been watching too much television. The fact that they billed this as "Operation Ark Royal" suggests the Cleveland Police have a perception problem.According to a more reliable source,Torrent Freak:Following a2 yearinvestigation (or 3 month investigation, depending on thesource) which involved Interpol, Police are insisting that OiNK was a pay site. Members were given the option to donate but this insistence that OiNK was some sort of criminal network where people paid to be a member is clearly untrue but it's likely that this is the reason the real police (as opposed to the 'copyright police') and FIOD-ECD are involved.Jeremy Banks of the IFPI said: "This was not a case of friends sharing music for pleasure."Yes it was Jeremy.Indeed, theCleveland Police's press releaseclaims: "This is big business, with hundreds of thousands of pounds being made." It will be interesting to see the evidence, because it must be true, mustn't it? Maybe the 180,000 OiNK members were more generous with their donations than I'd have expected.....TorrentFreak coverage:OiNK.cd Servers Raided, Admin ArrestedOiNK Investigation Seeks Identities and Activities of UsersOiNK Admin Released From CustodyWhy Are The IFPI and BPI Allowed To Hijack OiNK?British and Dutch police raids shut down the world's largest pre-release pirate music siteBPI Press releaseIFPI Press release
When copying is rampant, where will the blockbuster movies come from?It's a question I hear a lot, even though it's becoming increasingly clear that we can adapt many industries to a world of copying.The recording companies may be in trouble, but many musicians are coping just fine, using tours instead of CDs to make their money.Publishers, meanwhile, are increasingly discovering that e-books don't often act as a substitute for print, so even pirate text-files adapted from books generate more sales than they cost.But what about movies?Some sorts of film - little documentaries, indie art-house shows - aren't at the top of the download charts. Their small budgets are easier to recoup, they make a substantial portion of their normal income from schools, TV networks, airplanes, festivals and direct arts grants.Many "little" filmmakers are believers in copying as a means of promoting their work, releasing films free online to promote them in all those other, money-making forums.But $300m blockbuster movies don't have this option. Arts grants and the festival circuit don't fund them; rather, blockbusters make their nut back by selling tickets, DVDs and restricting home viewing until the cinematic exhibition run is concluded.They also rely on being able to sell "territorial" rights in each region, on the grounds that each regional audience will not be able to access the film until a local distributor makes it available.But as copying becomes technically easier, frustrated would-be fans don't have to wait for a few prints to wash up on their shores - they can just download it.So let's say that the increasing amount of copying that's taking place means the $300m movie is doomed. How much of a disaster is that?I enjoy watching Bruce Willis beat up fighter jets with his bare hands as much as the next guy, but stopping copying in order to protect the blockbuster is impossible without massive and wildly improbable state intervention in technology.It would require shutting down or remaking the general purpose PC and the internet to spy on every user, and to interdict all "suspicious" behaviour.Not only is this a frightening outcome from the point of view of democratic fundamentals, but it is also bad news for all the artists who are thriving in a copy-native marketplace (disclosure: I count myself among those artists).The videogame market faced a similar challenge some years ago: games could be freely copied, which meant that a certain proportion of the expected sales for any title could not be realised, threatening the existence of very expensive games.However, this shift didn't destroy the videogame market. Instead, game creators adapted their art-form.Game companies began to ship titles where the fun arose from multiplayer experiences, rather than make single-player games that delivered the same experience whether you were playing a pirate version or the real thing.Luckily, these multiplayer games had a natural source of income: subscription fees for access to the game-server.Today, the video game industry is larger than ever, with successively larger investments being made in multiplayer titles that draw enormous audiences running to the millions.Copying is largely irrelevant to the multiplayer business-model, since more copies leads to more potential subscribers to the servers and more recurring monthly revenue. Technology giveth and technology taketh away.A copyright system that costs us the $300m film but gives us a world where any auteur, anywhere, can make and distribute a movie is a success.And if the only way to preserve the blockbuster is to shut down all the systems by which these other creators make their works, find their audiences, and disseminate them, then it's probably curtains for the $300m movie as we know it.The purpose of copyright must to be to promote diversity in cultural endeavour, not to realise profits for this or that company or individual.That doesn't mean that we've reached the end of the blockbuster, however. It means that, like the videogames companies a decade ago, film companies will have to experiment with models where copying and investment can co-exist.Even if we wanted to, we couldn't make copying harder - and even if we could, would we really want to?
Yes, Nintendo's showcase Wii title picked up an impressive six awards at last night's BAFTA awards ceremony, triumphing in the Casual, Gameplay, Innovation, Multiplayer, Sports and Strategy/Simulation categories. Other multiple winners included Crackdown, Okami and God of War 2.Interestingly, while the immense success of Wii Sports would seem to be an acknowledgement of the game's mainstream impact, the only award of the night to be voted on by the people went to Football Manager, an altogether more esoteric and 'hardcore' proposition.I'm not sure about the strategy/simulation gong, though. Sure, it's deeper than just wafting aimlessly at the screen, but it's hardly the Art of War.Anyway, here are all the nominations, with the winners in bold...Action and AdventureCrackdown (Xbox 360)Gears of War (Xbox 360) God of War 2 (PS2) The Orange Box (PS3) Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction (PS3) The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess (Wii)Artistic AchievementBioshock (Xbox 360) Heavenly Sword (PS3)Okami (PS2)Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction (PS3) Skate (PS3) Viva Piñata (Xbox 360)Best GameBioshock (Xbox 360)Crysis (PC) Gears of War (Xbox 360) Guitar Hero II (PS2) Kane &amp; Lynch: Dead Men (Xbox 360) Wii Sports (Wii)CasualBig Brain Academy for Wii (Wii) Cake Mania (DS) Guitar Hero II (PS2) More Brain Training (DS) SingStar (PS3)Wii Sports (Wii)GameplayCrackdown (Xbox 360) Gears of War (Xbox 360) Sega Rally (PS3) The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess (Wii) Warhawk (PS3)Wii Sports (Wii)Innovationfl0w (PSN) Okami (PS2) Super Paper Mario (Wii) The Eye of Judgment (PS3) Trauma Center: Second Opinion (Wii)Wii Sports (Wii)MultiplayerBattlefield 2142 (PC) Crackdown (Xbox 360) Guitar Hero II (PS2)Wii Sports (Wii)World in Conflict (PC) World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade (PC)Original ScoreFinal Fantasy XII (PS2) God of War 2 (PS2) Lair (PS3)Okami (PS2)The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess (Wii) Viva Piñata (Xbox 360)SportsColin McRae: DiRT (Xbox 360) FIFA 08 (PS3) Football Manager 2008 (PC) MotorStorm (PS3) Virtua Tennis 3 (Xbox 360)Wii Sports (Wii)Strategy and SimulationCommand &amp; Conquer: Tiberium Wars (Xbox 360) Forza Motorsport 2 (Xbox 360) Medieval II: Total War Kingdoms (PC) Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas (Xbox 360)Wii Sports (Wii)World in Conflict (PC)Story and CharacterFinal Fantasy XII (PS2)God of War 2 (PS2)Heavenly Sword (PS3) Okami (PS2) The Darkness (Xbox 360) The Simpsons Game (Xbox 360)Technical AchievementCrackdown (Xbox 360) Gears of War (Xbox 360)God of War 2 (PS2)MotorStorm (PS3) Okami (PS2) Uncharted: Drake's Fortune (PS3)Use of AudioCrackdown (Xbox 360)Elite Beat Agents (DS) Gears of War (Xbox 360) God of War 2 (PS2) Guitar Hero II (PS2) Skate (PS3)BAFTA One's To Watch Award in association with Dare to Be DigitalRagnarawkClimbActic Bear Go HomeThe PC World Gamers' Award(The only award to be voted for by the public)Dr Kawashima's Brain Training (DS) FIFA 07 (PS2)Football Manager 2007 (PC)Gears of War (Xbox 360) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories (PSP) Resistance: Fall of Man (PS3) Wii Play (Wii)
MySpace has announced a partnership with casual gaming giantOberon Mediato create a dedciated gaming channel. Due for launch in January, the brilliantly named MySpace Games service will allow users to place free casual titles on their profile pages and then play them against friends. Naturally, the games will include a chat element, allowing competitors to instant message each other while playing. No specific titles have been mentioned yet, but MySpace is also inviting developers to submit ideas for the service.Does this sound familiar? It should do to users of the rival Facebook site, which already features a growing range of gaming applications including the omnipresent (at least in my office) Scrabulous. Until recently, these apps were being produced by small studios and bedroom coders (or interactive marketing companies likeTerraleverlooking to round up customers and data for larger corporations) but of course, some mainstream gaming bigwigs are now getting involved. Mobile publisher,Digital Chocolatehas just launched a Facebook version of its excellent Java title,Tower Bloxx- more are bound to follow.This represents a reversal of the model employed by the big casual gaming sites like RealArcade and Pogo where a community builds around the games service - now a games services is being tacked on to a community. It also hints at a near-future where social networking and casual gaming converge. Don't be surprised to see more deals along the lines of the MySpace/Oberon partnership, and be even less surprised when mobile services are drawn into the equation.One day, the contacts in your phone will be your gaming buddy list, your Facebook friends listandyour email contacts list. You'll play Popcap games on MySpace and meet MySpace friends on Popcap. You'll get text messages from Xbox Live players inviting you to play Tetris on Facebook. You'll be really confused. But your kids will love it.
The creator ofHide &amp; Seek, a mysterious pervasive game designer calledGiddeon Reeling, had his assistants contact the gamesblog a fortnight ago to announce the pre-launch of a mysterious multi-media interactivesomethingcalledThe Soho Project. Dubious but piqued, we popped a link to the static site on ourdel.icio.us. Egads, since my return to the UK from abroad, it's all kicked off, and now there's only a few more days to participate.In short, according tothe site,Fictional Media is creating the first ever Pervasive Multi-Platform User-Generated Digitally-Mediated Multi-Genre Interactive TV Web 3.0 Experience (PMPUGDMMGITW3E) which aims to capture the spirit and essence of the area known as Soho in London's West End. As players, you are all hunting for the essence of Soho, seeking to capture the spirit of the area. Working in teams, you will act as researchers, reporters, videographers, performers and more. Some of you will be all of these at the same time.It's a kind of player-generated treasure hunt, with points for prizes.How do you join in the fun?Sign up as a player in our Facebook Application...Create or join a team...And then as a team, choose a pursuit. Pursuits are your missions and challenges. You can invent your own pursuit, although we will need to approve it. Go forth onto the streets of Soho. Carry out your chosen pursuit, have it filmed, and upload the result onto YouTube, tagging it with thesohoproject....You score points for completing pursuits once video has been approved. You score more points if other teams film your mission and they score points for doing so.It ends on 27 October. Morehere.
To celebrate the re-fitting of its excellent Launch Pad gallery, theScience Museumhas put a new physics-based game on its website.Launch Ballgets you to place a selection of obstacles on a range of increasingly challenging levels in order to direct a ball toward a goal and away from hazards. It's a sort of simplified version of PC and Amiga classic, The Incredible Machine, and very entertaining. Once you've mastered it, you can create your own levels and send them to friends.(ViaAdverblog)
Yes, it's been talked about for ages, but now Microsoft has officially lifted the veil on its Xbox 360 Arcade bundle. Specifically targeted at families, the £199.99 package contains wireless controller, HDMI connection, 256MB of memory and five pre-installed Live Arcade titles: Pac-Man Championship Edition, Uno, Luxor 2, Boom Boom Rocket and Feeding Frenzy. Microsoft also revealed that Activision's Shrek-N-Roll will be coming exclusively to Xbox LIVE Arcade. What a coup."As European families gather together this Christmas, it's the perfect time to launch a family orientated Xbox 360 package that plays games, video and music for everyone to enjoy," chattered Stephen McGill, Head of Gaming and Entertainment for Microsoft UK, drilling home that family-friendly message. He goes on to mention the parental controls built into the console - you know, just in case mum and dadstillhaven't got the message that Xbox 360 is harmless and responsible fun.Over in the States, the family-minded wares are even more copious. American Xbox owners will also be able to download Daffy Duck and Bugs Bunny cartoons as well as episodes of Blue's Clues, The Backyardigans and iCarly from the hugely successful video-on-demand service. They can also look forward to an extra Xbox Live Arcade exclusive in the inviting form of SpongeBob SquarePants Underpants Slam. Morehere.Clearly feeling it already has the hardcore market sewn up with Halo 3, Microsoft is aiming straight for potential Wii-buyers with this package. Nintendo claims it'll have problems meeting demand over the holidays, so here's Microsoft with a cheaper Xbox package loaded with kiddie treats and pushed onto the shelves behind some conscientious marketing.Finally, the company claims it has over 200 family-friendly games available at Christmas, picking out Bee Movie Game, Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock, Naruto: Rise of a Ninja, Scene It? Lights, Camera, Action and Viva Piñata: Party Animals. With PS3's similarly everyman-themed 40GB package already announced, all the cards are on the table. It's going to be an interesting Christmas.
HSBC's First Direct bank says "the UK has built up a gadget mountain of over 400 million pieces of kit which equates to more than 16 gadgets in every household". The most popular device is the mobile phone, but the TV set is still doing OK, with 2.5 per household. The full list is as follows:Mobile phone handsets 69.8 million Televisions 59.6 million DVD players / recorders 39.4 million Sat / free-view boxes / cable TV 29.5 million Analogue radios 28.5 million Stereos with CD player 28.5 million iPods / MP3 players 25.2 million PCs / laptops with broadband 24.5 million Digital cameras 23 million VCRs 22.3 million Personal Computers 19.2 million Games consoles 18.7 million Digital (DAB) radios 13.2 million Video cameras 9.6 million Blackberries and other digital assistants 4.1 million Projectors to watch TV / movie 3.4 millionThe numbers are from ICM, "who surveyed a representative sample over 1000 adults from around the UK", but I can't say I believe all of them. The numbers for DAB versus "analogue" radios, for example, look decidedly dodgy.I'm also gutted about the inclusion of video projectors, because I don't have one. Otherwise I would have had a full house.....
A while ago Icriticisedthe quality of videogame podcasts in my Technology column, focusing on the soporific 1up and Gamespot efforts. At the time, the only one I enjoyed was Achievement Junkie, but I've since discovered several others worth listening to.At the top of the list isOne Life Left, an actual radio show on London'sResonance FMwhich continues its third series tonight at 9pm, but becomes available as a podcast a little later in the evening (you can subscribe via iTunes or download the MP3s via the One Life Left site linked to above). It's helmed by ex-Edge colleague Ste Curran, one third of the Triforce blog, and is quite funny and cheeky. Tonight's episode is especially worth listening to as they have a 'secret correspondent' at theBAFTA Awards ceremonywho'll be sending in live reports. Oh and they're also doing alive broadcastfrom GameCity on Thursday.I like One Life Left, because it has character, it is sometimes rude about games and gaming in general and doesn't feature presenters that indulge in thirty minute monotone diatribes about minor control issues or small areas of disappointing deathmatch level designs. Similarly, Achievement Junkie is fun because the chatter is broad and lively and there's some chemistry between the co-presenters. Okay, so this has recently lurched from unspoken sexual tension to giggly flirtation, but still, who'd expectthatfrom a games 'cast?Others I've subscribed to since my scathing report are theaward-winningCheap Ass Gamer CAGcastandGame Weasel, despite the hideous graffiti font used all over the website, which makes it look like some kind of digital meeting place for Essex Sierra Cosworth drivers.Have you stumbled across a decent podcast? Please tell us about it so I never have to listen to 1up Yours again.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Mary Jo Foley hasstumbled upona somewhat hidden campaign which Microsoft cooked up to sell Vista - and has had on its site since January: "100 Reasons You'll Be Speechless".Basically it's about all the wonderful things lurking inside Vista. Start with thehighlights("it makes using your PC a breeze", "Unchain your mobile PC" - so subtract 1 for desktops? - "Because your PC remembers to back up for you", "Because it's like a digital candy store"), and then move on to the full list, in pages of 10. (10 pages, natch.) As with Apple, you may find that there's a lot of fun to be had working out what things are really "new" and which are double-counting. It's rather like politicians at budget time...Oh, and note thatSome product features are only available in certain editions of Windows Vista and may require advanced or additional hardware.Ed Bott, who has a lot of good things to say about Vista,callsthe campaign "truly lame" and adds: "Whoever approved it should be sentenced to six months of focus groups."Come on, knock yourselves out - which of the 100 do you get with Windows Home Basic, which only exist on Vista Ultimate, and overall does Vista leave you speechless with delight, rage or indifference?
The fine people behind theWomen in Games conference, theLondon Games Festival Fringe, the London Development Agency,Make Your Markand Chinwag are holding a London-based mixer tonight in Central London as part of the London Games Festival Fringe. From theWiG blog:Women in Games, a network of women united in their passion for games, announces its first WIG Mixer as part of the London Games Festival Fringe. The networking event is Tuesday October 23rd from 6:00 to 9:00 pm held at Central St Martins Innovation Centre. Admission is free and requiresan advance RSVP.Emma Westecott for Women in Games is the local host and emcee. Complimentary food and beverages, supplied by Central St Martins, will be provided for all guests. The LDA, Make Your Mark and WIG partners proudly support this unique game industry networking event. Mixer attendees from all across the UK are welcome, and remember although this event is concerned with women and games men are very welcome to attend! The industry needs a meaningful dialogue between the sexes as it moves forward.More from theWiG blogand theofficial site. The WIG Mixer in London will be held atCentral St Martins Innovation Centre, The Innovation Centre, Central Saint Martins, Southampton Row, London, WC1B 4A.RSVPhere.If you'd like to run a mixer elsewhere in the UK, contactWiGat enquiries +at+ womeningames.com or check outthis postwhich offers advice and a Mixer in a Box, courtesy ofWomen in Games International.
It certainly feels that way at the moment. I downloadedPuzzle Quest: Challenge of the Warlordslast week, primarily because I was so let down by Speedball 2, and have been addicted ever since. Essentially a mix of Bejewelled and a Role Playing Game (RPG), Puzzle Quest is cleverly designed to appeal to both a harder core audience and their less committed partners.So all the normal RPG conventions are here - levelling, item lust, meandering plot, exploration - but instead of "fighting" you engage in a Bejewelled style match-the-gems game that starts off simple but soon requires forward thinking and tactics. Depth reveals itself over time, with players asked to build citadels and recruit team members. Don't expect World of Warcraft style complexity - although you can test your character in the online battles - but Puzzle Quest is well worth the tenner or so it costs to download. Anyone else been sucked in?
More than 120,000 office hours were lost on the eve of the football season as fans put the finishing touches to their online fantasy football teams.Visits to fantasy football sites ballooned in the run-up to the first games on the weekend of August 11 and 12, according to figures from the internet measurement group comScore, with fans avidly watching the last movements in the transfer window before finalising their squads.The comScore data shows that nearly half the total amount of time spent on football sites in the week running up to the season's kick-off was during working hours. There have already been crackdowns within some British businesses on the use of social-networking sites during the working day and football sites could soon find themselves similarly targeted.The most popular fantasy football site in August was fantasy.premierleague.com, the official fantasy league of the FA Barclays Premier League, with 1.4 million unique users, up 135% on the previous month. Fantasyleague.com, the online arm of Fantasy League, which set up the original league in 1991, saw traffic grow 90% to 858,000 unique users.During the week of August 6 to 10, the comScore figures show, fans spent more than 655,000 hours on fantasy football sites, culminating in more than 230,000 hours on Friday, over half of which was recorded between nine and five o'clock.
Apple's colourful, multi-functional iPhone has proven itself an instant hit with  American consumers and reawakened demand for its laptops and iPods.Shares in the company jumped 6% in after-hours trading last night as Apple exceeded expectations with a 76% leap in year-end profits to $3.49bn.Customers slept outside Apple stores to buy the iPhone when it launched in the US in June, and 1.12m of the handsets were sold within 74 days, making them the third highest-selling phones in America. "Customers are really loving the product," said Apple's chief financial officer, Peter Oppenheimer, on a conference call with analysts. The iPhone is set for its British launch on November 9.Hype surrounding the phone, which has touch-screen keys rather than buttons, has contributed to a revival in demand for iMac notebook computers. Sales of iMacs took off by 34% in the final quarter to 2.16m, beating the previous quarterly record by 400,000. More than 31m people visited Apple stores in the three months to September - 12,500 per week. Apple revealed that it plans to open 40 more outlets this year including its first store in China, in Beijing, during the summer.In unofficial late trading on the technology stockmarket Nasdaq, shares jumped $13.20 to $187.56, and analysts suggested they look likely to reach $200 by the end of the year - compared to little more than $80 in January. "The number one driver is the fact that more and more people are getting interested in Apple products due to the iPod and iPhone," said Tim Bajarin of the consultancy Creative Strategies. "That overall effect is just driving more and more people into Apple stores."Apple's music operations did similarly well. Sales of iPods jumped by 17% to 10.2m in the three months to September, while the iTunes website accounted for 85% of all music downloads in the US.Mr Oppenheimer said that globally, the share of music sold in digital format rose from 11% to 17% over the last year. "We believe the popularity of iTunes has been instrumental to that growth," he said, pointing out Apple sold more music than Amazon or retail chain Target. The results underlined the reputation of Apple's founder, Steve Jobs, as one of Silicon Valley's most successful entrepreneurs.
