Maybe the death of Fake Steve Jobs has previously been exaggerated, but the satirical blog may finally have ended with a post that saysI'm sailing away:Just FYI, I'll be launching a new site under my own name in the near future. Should be next week. I'll announce it here as soon as it's ready and provide a link. I hope you'll come check it out. Meanwhile I've compiled a "Greatest Hits" book for anyone who'd like a small keepsake of the FSJ blog.Real Dan Lyons, the man behind Fake Steve, has left Forbes for Newsweek, which might seem to have a somewhat cosier relationship with Apple's egocentric and autocratic boss. The BBC'sMaggie Shielscomments: "Apparently Apple complained about their new signing. Dan did reveal that he understood Mr Jobs was not best pleased with the parody that portrayed him as egocentric and autocratic."Silicon Alley Insiderhas a direct quote:"I hear that I've been blacklisted, and that Apple reached out directly to Newsweek to complain about my hiring" Dan tells us. Seriously.Still, according toThe New York Times, there may be a movie in the works:Mr Lyons translated the appeal of his blog into a novel, "Options: The Secret Life of Steve Jobs, a Parody," published in October by Da Capo Press, and he is writing a screenplay based on the book for Hollywood production house, Media Rights Capital. Unlike the book, Mr Lyons said, the screenplay will feature a generic chief executive.
This morning in the print section I've written about theG8's effortsto introduceActa, the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement.Like all trade agreements, it's being negotiated in secret; this is so the horse-trading that goes on, where some clause or other is dropped in return for an easing of (say) a dispute over steel tariffs/dumping doesn't become public (because otherwise people might ask what connection there could possibly be between acting against counterfeits and intellectual property (IP) um, theft, and the price of steel, and might think that principles were being compromised. Which would never do, because of course politicians and diplomats never negotiate from any other position than absolute conviction.)Anyway. My interpretation is that it's really aimed at the big players in IP/counterfeiting - the sort of organised crime that makes fake car parts or capacitors or pharmaceuticals by the tonne, and ships them around the world. The principal sources, at present, of such counterfeits tend to be China and India; and Acta carries the tone of an agreement aiming at them.But it also does contain phrases about border guards, IP content, and ISPs, all of which can certainly be interpreted as meaning that you could, in theory, be stopped as you come through the airport, and since it's still not legal to transfer songs from a CD to your iPod, could get done (ifActa is ratified according to thedraft version from Wikileaks, which we don't know if it has, andifthat's then ratified in national law).New Scientist, which has also been covering this,saysthat Acta could mean that your mobile phone operator could write to youon behalf of sports governing bodies demanding you quit sharing video clips of goals, home runs and slam dunks... It seems it could happen: file sharing on cellphones and the distribution of sports video clips look like becoming the latest forms of digital content to come under the scope of the onerous global copyright clampdown the G8 heads of government discussed in Japan this week.and points to aPDFfrom the G8 Intellectual Property Experts Group released on Tuesday that says that it's investigating the use of mobiles in copyright infringement.To be honest, I can't find that in the announcement. The only reference to sports is in a passage on page 13:Phase II of the Study will focus on digital piracy, which encompasses the infringement of all copyrighted materials including: recorded music, motion pictures, software, books and journals, through such methods as Internet piracy, direct computer to computer transfers, LAN file sharing and mobile phone sharing.Phase II of the Study may also incorporate a case study of digital piracy in the sports broadcasting industry.[Emphasis added - CA] The study will seek to (i) describe the markets where digital piracy takes place, (ii) identify the drivers that underline the behaviour of the main market actors, (iii) present the main industry and government actions that affect the market and (iv) examine institutional regulations across differenteconomies.It's not just that, though. From the announcement:Phase II of the Study will focus on digital piracy, which encompasses the infringement of all copyrighted materials including: recorded music, motion pictures, software, books and journals, through such methods as Internet piracy, direct computer to computer transfers, LAN file sharing and mobile phone sharing. Phase II of the Study may also incorporate a case study of digital piracy in the sports broadcasting industry. The study will seek to (i) describe the markets where digital piracy takes place, (ii) identify the drivers that underline the behaviour of the main market actors, (iii) present the main industry and government actions that affect the market and (iv) examine institutional regulations across different economies.Generally, though, my interpretation - which may less strict than others - is that Acta is really aimed at large-scale players; and, sure, to try to reduce the effect of file-sharing on content generation industries. But do I think it's going to mean us all getting asked to show customs agents what's on our MP3 player? Probably not unless they're seeking something else to arrest you forafterthey find that kilo of cocaine in your suitcase.Or are there examples I've missed where such international agreements filter down to affect us substantially at the individual level?
There's many more than this at the iPhone Apps storeApple's iPhone Apps store has gone live (if you've got iTunes, you'll be able to find it by going to the main page of the iTunes store and searching for "App Store". Or trythis URL(iTunes only). Except that doesn't include all of them...Why is it up now, when the new iPhone (on which some of the products depend) isn't available until tomorrow? Because New Zealand, besidesgiving us Crowded House, also has the time advantage that means that because the 3G iPhone has gone on sale there, the apps have to be available, well, elsewhere.To purchase applications (or perhaps even to download them) you need to upgrade to the latest version of iTunes, which has now reached 7.7.There are other applications such as one whichturns your screen white(URL requires iTunes). Come on, got to be worth 59p of anyone's money. (No?)We'll also note Fraser Speirs's free Exposure app. Well, we would, except the store has suddenly locked up - I think everyone else has discovered it and it's having a bit of an O2 breakdown.More when things become clearer..Update:the only problem is, you need the iPhone 2.0 software torunthe applications, though Apple's happy to take your money. And that's not going to be released until, at a guess, tomorrow when the machine officially goes on sale.Which hasn't left some people pleased. ToquoteJohn Siracusa of Ars Technica, "Store up. Purchases working. Downloads working. iPhone OS 2.0 required to run apps. iPhone OS 2.0 not available. Launch FAIL."
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Visualise a plate of lasagna..The thing with data visualisations is that you should be trying to make lasagna - layered - not spaghetti, explains Noah Ilinsky. Clever, and definitely worth five minutes of anyone's time.A little help from yourFonz?Joe Cocker's famously incoherent Woodstock performance of A Little Help From My Friends, with helpful computer-generated lyric sheet. If only closed captioning had been around in the 60s...Is that you, Philip K Dick?"Scrambled" CCTV footage by Emitall, a Swiss company, turns people and cars into weird blurred objects that shimmer like something out of A Scanner Darkly, Philip K Dick's paranoid novel of drugs. This makes it too much like being inside that world for comfort, we feel.Got a favourite technology or games video? Tell us about it in the comments!
I can remember having to wait for radio valves to warm up. Why do I have to wait even longer after switching on my Windows XP PC?Hugh RobertsWhen correctly set up by the manufacturer, Windows XP boots in about 30 seconds, resumes from Hibernate in 20 seconds, and resumes from Standby in five seconds. The boot time for a well-used PC is generally more like 60 to 90 seconds, depending on how many applications are being loaded in the background. These will usually include a firewall and antivirus software, but most other preloads are unnecessary. Search for [windows startup manager] and you will find lots of programs that allow you to control which things are loaded. I useAnVir Task Manager Freefor this purpose, though Windows Vista has a utility built in. Otherwise, you can go to the Control Panel, click Power Options, and set your PC so that it will hibernate after a specified time. This uses very little power but it will start up quicker.
We have recently changed our computer and we want to put our existing iPod libraries onto the new PC.Jane McNicolApple's website provides instructions for moving your music library either via a CD or DVD or using an iPod (support.apple.com/kb/HT1329). However, this requires the use of iTunes 7 on both machines. One alternative is to use iGadget software ($15), which has replaced iPod Agent by the same developer, but there are many others. The main problem is transferring any protected files bought from the iTunes store. According to Apple, you must authorise the new PC by selecting Authorize Computer on the Store menu in iTunes. You can then attach the iPod, go to the File menu, and select Transfer Purchases from iPod (support.apple.com/kb/HT1727).Of course, you can always copy your files onto CD or other storage medium and add them to iTunes on the new PC. However, this will lose the metadata you had in the old library.
What's the best way to follow up your many TinyURL references?Tom GarrudMy system -- Firefox 3, Zone Alarm Security Suite, Windows XP -- will not let me access any TinyURLs.David GompertzTinyURLreferences work as published if you type them directly into the address bar of your browser or, at worst, stick http:// on the front, eg http://tinyurl.com/owd8n etc. But it's probably easier to follow the links from the Ask Jack blog, where I use the full address of each link instead of the TinyURL.Some websites and security programs may block TinyURL addresses as they can be used to take people to malware sites. The Zone Alarm Suite now does this via its Spy Site Blocking tab, but this is not part of the free firewall program.
I've bought a replacement for my broken down PC, and would like to dispose of it, but it still has my data on the hard drive. I would have to get the PC repaired to erase the data.Barbara EvansSimply remove the hard drive before disposing of the base unit. It's not hard to do if you have a crosshead screwdriver. If the drive is big enough to be worth the effort, you could mount it in an external drive case and use it as a USB drive with your new machine. If it's a small drive and you don't need to rescue any data, you can do enough physical damage to render it inoperable -- eg, wrap it in a tea towel and whack it with a large hammer. The tea towel is to stop bits flying around, but you should also wear appropriate protective equipment such as goggles.
I have installed the BBC iPlayer, but every time I activate it, a program called Kontiki pops up.DenisWhen you download TV programmes using iPlayer -- as distinct from watching streamed versions online -- they are downloaded using Kontiki (kontiki.com). This is a peer-to-peer file sharing program, which is also used by similar services such as Sky by Broadband and Channel 4's 4oD. Kontiki seems to load and use your bandwidth, even if you are not using iPlayer: use the Windows Task Manager to see if Kservice is running.The BBC has a pagethat explains how to stop it running on startup and when you are not using iPlayer. You can remove it altogether using the kclean.exe program fromhttp://www.omn.org/support/. However, if you do, any Kontiki-based programs such as iPlayer may not work.
Another week, another mediocre film tie-in. As you may expect if you, or your kids, have played any game based on a film licence over the past year, this is a button-bashing affair that demands little skill. Most of the play involves simple combat, with the odd puzzle section thrown in. Don't get too excited, though - these conundrums normally involve simple tasks like pulling the right lever. That's not to say this is a terrible game. Shove a Narnia fan in front of the TV and they will probably enjoy playing out some of the film's action-heavy scenes. The graphics are decent enough, though a little too dark in places. Frustratingly the camera is unhelpful, making some sections harder than they need be, while the cutscenes and narrative are fragmented and confusing. Combine these problems with the uninspiring gameplay and you have a Narnia game for fans only.
Based on the new Pixar film, Wall-E has its moments - but they're probably not the ones you'd expect. The basic idea and storyline follow the movie, with your trash-compacting bot charged with cleaning up the planet, scoring extra points for solving bonus objectives. It plays like a 3D platform game, with a roaming but often confusing camera to complicate things further. You can also play as a second robot, Eve, which has different abilities, allowing the two to work together, flicking switches or disabling obstacles. But given Pixar's reputation, it's surprising the graphics aren't better. Wall-E is charming enough for kids, but grown-up gamers deserved more development time.
The flaw exploits the way the internet's address mechanism, known as the domain name system (DNS), works. This service maps the names we associate with particular websites to numerical addresses - just as a mobile phone's address book links names with telephone numbers. DNS allows people to visit websites by typing in words - such as google.com - rather than by entering a string of unmemorable numbers. The new glitch allows hackers to get into the middle of this process, intercepting names entered and sending people off to other websites. This could be problematic if there was a fake website resembling a genuine one - a copy of a bank's site, for example. Criminals could siphon off personal details or payments and use these to commit fraud or identity theft.
Is the XM1063 a stink bomb, a banana skin, or a bad trip? It's hard to know. XM1063 is the code name for the US army's new secret weapon which will "suppress" people without harming them, as well as stopping vehicles in an area 100m square. But is it a violation of chemical weapons treaties, or a welcome move towards less destructive warfare using non-lethal weapons?Exactly how it works is classified, but we have established some details. The first part of the weapon is an artillery round - or as the army puts it, "a non-lethal personal suppression projectile" - fired from a 155mm howitzer, with a range of 28km. It scatters 152 small non-explosive submunitions over a 1-hectare area; as each parachutes down, it sprays a chemical agent. Development was overseen by the US Army's Armament Research, Development and Engineering Centre (Ardec).A presentation by the makers, General Dynamics, says the XM1063 will "suppress, disperse or engage personnel" and "deny personnel access to, use of, or movement through a particular area, point or facility" (=see PDF).Smelling it outExperts suggest three possible payloads: an existing riot-control agent, malodorants or a new chemical agent. Existing agents include CS gas and a form of pepper spray. But these seem unlikely choices, because their effects only last minutes, and could wear off before friendly forces arrive. They could also face a legal challenge:the 1997 Chemical Weapons Conventionprohibits the use of riot control agents in warfare"The matter is further complicated if pepper gas was used as the irritant since this is a plant toxin," says Steve Wright of Leeds Metropolitan University. "Such toxins are explicitly banned."The possibilities seem to boil down to anti-traction agents (which make the whole area impossibly slippery), a malodorant or some novel chemical agents.Anti-traction agents are possible, but seem unlikely because research in this area (such asDarpa's Black Ice program) still seems to be at an early stage. It would be unusual for an agency to still be doing basic research when another is about to field a finished product.A malodorant is a super stinkbomb with a truly intolerable smell. The Pentagon has been working on such chemicals for years, and a recent US army briefing on future artillery concepts specifically mentions artillery-delivered malodorants. (see PDF)This might sidestep the Chemical Weapons Convention with the argument that malodorants are not chemical weapons. However, Ralf Trapp, an independent disarmament consultant formerly with the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, challenges this interpretation."That argument rests on the assumption that there are no other toxic effects of these chemicals, and that one can control the dose so that one never crosses into the dose range for toxic effects," says Trapp. "It also is based a concept of toxicity that is centuries out of date - malodorants do have a physiological effect and toxicity is not limited to lethality."Finally, there is the possibility that the US has decided to ignore the convention and use new non-lethal chemical agents. This approach has supporters in high places. Before the Iraq war in 2003, Donald Rumsfeld pushed for rules of engagement that would allow US forces to use non-lethal chemicals.Until the 1980s, the US maintained stockpiles of a chemical incapacitant known as BZ or Agent Buzz. BZ is a psychoactive chemical causing stupor, confusion and hallucinations lasting for more than 24 hours. It has an evil reputation, but this is based largely on rumour as few facts are available. Most people have only heard of BZ in connection with the film Jacob's Ladder. This depicted soldiers exposed to a secret chemical weapon in Vietnam with terrible results, including permanent psychosis."We are reaping the whirlwind today because of government secrecy in the past," says Jim Ketchum, who ran the BZ testing program in the 1960s. "It has allowed critics to make unsupportable claims about agents such as BZ without rejoinder from the government research community." Although the US is known to have been active in this area since 2000, no comments are available from researchers on non-lethal chemical agents - now termed "calmatives", whatever their chemical action.Ketchum has written a book, Chemical Warfare Secrets Almost Forgotten, about his experiences of testing BZ on hundreds of volunteers. The effects are very different to those portrayed by Hollywood. None suffered physical harm, mental breakdown or any lasting after-effects. Rather than driving subjects berserk, it has a sedative action. But unlike the fentanyl used in 2002 by Russian police when they stormed a Moscow theatre where Chechen rebels were holding hostages, BZ does not rely on sedation for its effects and does not carry the same risk.Clouding the issueKetchum is now retired, and his successors have had decades to develop more effective and safer agents. But strict secrecy is still in place and there is no information about current research. Ketchum argues that the use of incapacitants would save lives, especially in situations where insurgents are mixed with the civilian population. Others believe that such agents are not just illegal but a step towards unlimited chemical weapons."It shouldn't be forgotten that the horrors of gas warfare in the first world war began with teargas, followed up with lethal firepower," says Wright.As a sideline, the XM1063 projectile also has a "vehicle area denial" component composed of nanoparticles. The US army has researched chemicals to interefere with engine combustion in the past, including work with ferrocene (normally used as an anti-knock additive) which prevent engines from working, with the idea is that this would stop any vehicle within the affected area. However, the potential health risks are unknown, especially when nanoparticles are involved.Testing of the XM1063 was completed successfully last year and it is due for low-rate production from 2009. Ardec says that the production decision is on hold awaiting further direction from the program manager. It seems the decision on whether to enter a new age of chemical warfare now rests with the military rather then civilians. Unless put under pressure, the US Army seems unlikely to give any details of what's in the surprise package until it is used. And maybe not even then.
Customers in the UK are more than used to stories of rip-off Britain - and few get hit by high prices as regularly as gadget fans.So it's no surprise that there has been scepticism about the arrival of the iPhone 3G tomorrow. Despite the headline-grabbing price cuts, many customers are concerned that they are actually being fooled into paying more for the new iPhone than they would have done previously.So, what's the real situation?Comparing the terms of a standard 8GB iPhone on a deal costing &pound;35 a month (the most popular combination) it seems that customers could actually be in for a better deal.Largely it's the result of the falling price of the handset itself - which is now &pound;99, or free to higher spenders. It's a dramatic drop from the earlier price of &pound;269, and the contract prices remain steady.This means that the bill for owning an iPhone 3G comes in at &pound;729 over 18 months. It's still a long way from being insubstantial, but does mean customers will save &pound;170 compared with the &pound;899 they would have spent for a first edition iPhone.Not only does the reduced price of the phone itself have an impact, but O2's package has actually improved since the UK launch in November last year. Customers pay less overall, and get more for their money: faster download speeds, free access to BT OpenZone Wi-Fi hotspots (as well as those belonging to The Cloud) and an increased allowance of voice minutes and text messages.So if the total cost of ownership will in fact drop with iPhone 3G, why all the concern?Well, much of the talk of rising prices has come from America, where things have become more expensive.Like O2, AT&amp;T - which is the exclusive provider in the US - has subsidised the cost of the iPhone, with an 8GB model now coming in at $199 (&pound;100). But instead of taking a hit to increase sales, AT&amp;T has decided to compensate its shareholders by raising tariffs instead. That means in order to keep the same package of calls, text and data to which they were entitled with iPhone 1.0, American customers must now spend $15 a month more.This brings the total cost of an equivalent package to $1,975 - spread over the course of a two-year contract, rather than the 18 months of British version. Comparing like for like, that means a UK iPhone costs &pound;939 over two years, while a US model costs &pound;999 ... making this one of the rare occasions where gadget fans in the UK will pay less than those on the other side of the Atlantic.
It's the season for summer blockbusters, and while cinemagoers have countless overhyped and overrated CGI spectaculars at the box office, those of us who prefer our entertainment interactive are awash with cross-media adaptations. We managed to avoid a virtual Sex in the City, but Iron Man, Speed Racer, The Hulk and the excellent Lego Indiana Jones have been doing roaring trade - and expect entries from the Lego Batman, 007 and Harry Potter camps as the season wears on.Each of these movies has enough action sequences to pad out 10 to 20 hours of controller-based fun. I'd be surprised if the scripts weren't developed with the ensuing merchandise in mind, but there are so many incongruous pairings released every year that the path of interactive enlightenment is littered with them. A Dirty Dancing videogame? Oh yes. It has been done.Yet the most bizarre aren't tied to movies. They're usually extensions of TV shows, albums and pop ephemera (someone please kill that Crazy Frog). I am both distressed and compelled by this phenomenon, and bolstered by discovering the 1980s innovation television documentary series Connections with James Burke and its Myst-like game adaptation, I asked Gamesblog readers for their favourites. They came up with several peaches.The award for most unlikely book-to-game goes to Super Noah's Arc 3D, a biblical port of the FPS Wolfenstein 3D for the Sinclair Spectrum, in which the enemy Nazi soldiers are replaced by animals and the gun is swapped for a hand throwing grain. The award for most distressing album-to-game cover goes to Give My Regards to Broad Street, the racing game based on the Paul McCartney album. It was a close contest, with two others hot on Macca's heels: Michael Jackson's Moonwalker, in which Jacko saves kidnapped children from an evil Mr Big; and Frankie Goes to Hollywood's flamboyant digital outing.The award for most bizarre TV show-to-game conversion is tied between adaptations of Neighbours and Eastenders. There was a well-deserved nomination for How To Be A Complete Bastard, a game which stands in its own right as something still worthy of emulation, plus mentions of the Desperate Housewives and Little Britain.There are so many ridiculous pairings out there that there's undoubtedly something new and different in them. It seems an oversight only to play Halo or GTA, so cast them aside and go in search of the truly bizarre. Send your suggestions for my consideration, and may the most obscure one win.
You could be forgiven for thinking that virtual worlds had disappeared. Since the hype around Second Life last year there has been a dearth of mainstream publicity, as if they had all gone from virtual to invisible. In fact a lot is happening. Any moment now Habbo Hotel, a space for teenagers, will overtake the all-conquering World of Warcraft by having 10 million active users a month. It actually has 100 million registered users, bigger than most countries, but the monthly total is a better indicator of activity. These are the two biggest virtual games. The third isRuneScape.com, which has grown from nowhere a few years ago to more than 6 million active players, of which 1 million are paying subscribers. At the weekend there were 138,000 players all on at once (well over twice Second Life's concurrent users). Interestingly, all three companies are "European". RuneScape is British, based in Cambridge; Habbo Hotel is Finnish and World of Warcraft, though a US game, is owned by the French group Vivendi. If the virtual revolution is all it is cracked up to be, will Europe breed the likes of Yahoo, eBay and Amazon? It hasn't made a bad start.There is more to come. Entropia Universe of Sweden has 700,000 players, including entrepreneurs making small fortunes, even though its complex rules are a turn-off for some. Entropia is building the first stage of the awesome Beijing Recreation District which alone will be capable of hosting more than 15m avatars, making it the biggest virtual world on the planet. This is the first stage of a huge Chinese plan to dominate virtual worlds in the way that they have taken over manufacturing. Another European world is Twinity of Germany - not yet public - which mashes virtual worlds with real cities, including New York. My avatar has an apartment in Berlin, though I have not yet figured out how to open the front door. One neat feature is that you can upload a photo of yourself (front and side views) to paste on to your avatar to make it more lifelike.An interesting British start-up I have already written about,  (footballsuperstars), is launching soon. It claims to be the world's first dedicated virtual football game in which players from around the world can play in a field or a stadium or sample the football lifestyle in a local bar. If they get the gaming right, there is clearly global potential and success could propel virtual worlds into the mainstream. It is a symptom of Europe's importance that this year London will host two virtual world conferences,virtualworldsforum.com(at London Bridge, starting October 6), while its US rival is at the Queen Elizabeth II conference centre on October 20 to 21.Second Life has gone ex-growth, judging by the number of avatars online simultaneously (it rarely exceeds 64,000) but it is the place to be for experimentation. Universities and companies are still piling in, especially as SL is adopting open source and allows companies to bolt their own servers on. Nielsen Online figures show that Second Life is the third most popular application in the UK in terms of minutes spent on it (after Facebook and YouTube) with growth of 137% in the past year. The only other virtual world in the top 10 was Disney's Club Penguin, which claims 4 million users. This is one of an exploding number of sites aimed at younger people that which will provide an expanding base of people ready for grown-up virtual worlds later. Others includedizzywood.com,barbiegirls.com,revnjenz.com(a racing game),Webkinzandimvu.com, a kind of 3D chat room which claims 20m registrations, including 600,000 active ones.Sites such asthere.comhave attracted corporations into its walled garden for youngsters and there is a buzz around the launch ofmetaplace.com, which will offer you a virtual world of your own. The virtual revolution is only just beginning.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Landfills and plastics don't mix well. It takes several hundred years for an oil-based plastic bottle to breakdown in a landfill. And plastics can consume as much as 25% of the landfill space, according to the US government's Energy Information Administration.Those two problems are helping drive innovation into new bioplastic packaging material at research institutions including Missouri University Science and Technology. There, researchers are cooking up recipes for super-biodegradable plastics that decompose in a few months.These bioplastics are welcome improvements for US cities running out of landfill capacity over the next two decades. In several states - such as Alaska, Connecticut, Delaware, North Carolina, New Hampshire and Rhode Island - capacity is expected to run out in just five years.Dr KB Lee, professor of chemical engineering at Missouri S&amp;T, and his team are investigating super-biodegradable plastic recipes made up of fillers, such as starch and fibres. Those natural building blocks make it possible for living organisms to break down waste material. Not only do these fillers accelerate the decomposition, but they also reduce the cost in a variety of commercial applications.Wear, tear and weatherLee's team is experimenting with renewable polymers such as glycerol, a byproduct of biodiesel manufacturing, and polyactic acid, a byproduct of ethanol fermentation. By combining and creating blends of polymers, the researchers believe the formulations will be suitable for applications such as agricultural films, bottles, biomedical and drug delivery devices.Researchers agree that bio-based plastics have shortcomings, including being more expensive than petroleum plastics to produce and having limited mechanical strength properties. "It would be hard to expect a plastic product with excellent resistance against wearing, tearing, and weathering during its service life to also have biodegradability after usable service life," says Lee.The challenges of higher prices are not new. Early in the 20th century, American inventors Henry Ford and George Carver tested formulations of plastics derived from foodstuffs in their labs. But they found the material wasn't cost-competitive with cheap oil-based plastics.Today, the rising price of oil, coupled with innovative bio-plastic formulations, has improved the commercial outlook for these products. For example, bioplastics are considered good fits for different types of single-use products, such as low-grade stuffing materials, agricultural product containers and bags and packaging for materials with short expiration dates.US-based market research body Freedonia Group estimates that demand in the $330m (&pound;161m) US market in degradable plastic will grow 13.7% each year as prices and properties become more competitive with conventional polymers.Other research efforts are focused on improving the strength of these bioplastic materials. Dr David Grewell, assistant professor of agriculture and biosystems engineering at Iowa State University and colleagues are tackling the mechanical weakness by reinforcing bioplastics with nanoclays. These tiny pieces of clay are between just 10- and 20-billionths of a metre in thickness.The Iowa State researchers are using zein - natural proteins derived from corn and soy plants - which have stronger mechanical properties. One application for bioplastic formulations, says Grewell, is for garden plant pots. The bioplastic pots can be placed in the ground with the plant, thus supplying nutrients to the plant as it breaks down. Other potential applications for bioplastics made from crop proteins include disposable wraps for hay bales and packaging for the food industry. Another application is making green, biodegradable lubrication sticks from soy grease: Grewell and the Cornell researchers are working with prototypes as part of a 20-month pilot project.Another research effort, 1,000 miles to the east of Iowa State, is based at Dr Emmanuel Giannelis' lab at Cornell University. The researchers there are also using nanotechnology techniques to build composite materials with properties that permit them to decompose faster, yet have mechanical strength and durability. "What we're trying to do is make biodegradable plastics far more attractive," says Giannelis.Giannelis and his team have used a natural polymer called poly 3-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) to make a bin bag. The microbes produce the material as a way to store energy in the same way the human body produces fat to store energy.Mad munching microbesThe Cornell team's composite material behaved as a clear plastic polymer but broke down almost completely in compost at room temperature within seven weeks. The rapid breakdown is enhanced by small spaces between the particles, which make the material more vulnerable to chemical attack and consumption by microbes. What's more, the material can also tolerate higher temperatures, thus making it suitable for a broader range of applications.The outlook for bioplastics research is encouraging. The two most promising areas of research are in the use of polymer-clay nanocomposites (PCNs) and using nanoparticles or nanostructured materials as modifiers, compatibilisers and fillers. With new legislation under consideration across the US for raising landfill prices, plus the increasing cost of oil, the market opportunity for bioplastics may have its day, long after Ford and Carver tinkered with recyclable plastics.
Why has the Sheffield-based British Internet Broadcasting Company (BiBC) been repeatedly insisting it does not have a contract to supply films for Platte International'sgetfilmsnow.comwebsite? The answer is that it has a contract with Platte International but not for getfilmsnow.If BiBC had given that complete answer before, Ashley Bateup, chief executive of Platte International, would not have had to insist to the Guardian last month, and on BBC Radio 4's You And Yours last week, that there is a contract.Platte International has garnered attention for having stills from mainstream films on the front of getfilmsnow, but inside offers thousands of pornographic films and freely available film trailers (Porn billing firm lures customers with promises of Hollywood movies, June 26). Now, through its division Platte Media, the company plans to offer ordinary films and music.BiBC's managing director Paul Hague previously told the Guardian: "BiBC does not have a contract with Platte International to provide film/video content for getfilmsnow.com." We repeatedly asked Hague and his PR company, Buffalo Communications, about any contracts with Platte. However, they repeatedly relied on his earlier response until now.Just minutes after a final "there is nothing further to say" message from Buffalo late on Monday afternoon, Hague emailed a different response to us: "There is a contract with Platte but NOT for GetFilmsNow, the nature of the content to be provided as part of any service is yet to be agreed but may contain some film and some music."Had Hague's confirmation come earlier, Platte International's chief executive Stanly Hiwat would not have needed to write suggesting that the Guardian has been "incorrect on the matter of Platte and BIBC Ltd". (Confusingly, there are two Platte International companies involved: one registered in the UK, the other registered in the British Virgin Islands.) Hiwat had insisted the contract for films and music was signed in April.It now seems that BiBC's Hague has decided to confirm there is a contract. Although the promised content isn't likely to end up on getfilmsnow, the film studios will be watching developments closely.Following a cease and desist letter, getfilmsnow is also no longer showing photographs of popular movies such as X-Men: The Last Stand - which is distributed and co-produced by 20th Century Fox. That may not be the end of it: 20th Century Fox told the Guardian that its legal team is investigating the matter.But what originally looked like Platte and BiBC squaring up for a legal Gunfight at the OK Corral (1957) now seems more like a classic French farce.
Tops by timeBritish computer users spend most time on MSN Messenger, eBay and Facebook, followed by Google Search and Hotmail, reportsNielsen Online(doc).Library surveys digital livesThe British Library would like you to fill ina survey about how you use computers in your digital life. In return, you can register to be in with a chance of winning &pound;200 in gift vouchers.Seeing ErnieErnie,the first Premium Bond computer, is now on display at the Science Museum, London.Lords against e-crimeIna report, the House of Lords Science and Technology Committee has asked the government to do more to protect the public from e-crime.Flying saucers, for realA professor at the University of Florida is developing the world'sfirst flying saucer, reports Scientific American.Brain gamingIn the US, Emotiv is planning to releasean Epoc headsetthat measures electrical activity in the brain and can be used to control games.New music spaceVodafone has launchedthe Vodafone Music Reporteron MySpace for users in Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK.Best baby bump snapParents.comhas launcheda photo competitionfor the Best Baby Bump.
Eye on the futureIt seems that LED computer displays contained within a contact lens are becoming reality. Just one more step in mankind's gradual transformation into cyborgs (Your life will be flashed before your eyes, July 3).michaelsidney.thehoskincentre.comWoe on an Operatic scaleYou did a big disservice to your readers in describing Opera 9.5 (Read me first, July 3). Look atthe Opera forumand read stories about people who lost their email, crashes, broken features that have worked for years, pages that used to work but don't now, missing extensions in file cache, pages that still don't work, and on and on. Even Opera admitted"we have fixed the worst issues after 9.50 and are preparing for a 9.51 update". A general release is not supposed to have "worst issues". I have to question, did Brown actually use Opera or did he write from a press release? Given the problems reported from users, why didn't he have any? Opera 9.5 was not ready for public distribution.M Smith,by emailVista doesn't suckVista really is OK - honestly -it just takes some getting used to (Is this the end of Windows XP as we know it? Well, not quite, July 3). This email ain't useful, but it's better telling you guys than my girlfriend again ...David Luff,Stoke NewingtonBrainy gamersI like this story in the Guardian, not only because it highlights us, but because it presents how much it's not only about "shallow v deep" or "violent v peaceful," but about a real passion to diversify the interactive audience and present new models to think about (Search for the intelligent mainstream gamer, July 3).impactgames.com/blogOyster is safeIn response to Stephen Moffitt (Letters and blogs, July 3) I would reassure all Barclaycard OnePulse customers that in the unlikely event of the Oyster function of a card being manipulated, it would not make the payments part of the card vulnerable. The two applications are entirely separate, both physically on the card's chip and in terms of the software used to operate them. Security is paramount.Richard Mould,head of contactless card development, BarclaycardI write to reassure Don Keller (Letters and blogs, July 3) and all TfL customers that no personal information is stored on an Oyster card, whether you use pay as you go or a season ticket. Personal data is held securely on a remote database. Far from being complacent, TfL has re-examined its security measures and found them to be robust. Londoners can have confidence in the security of their cards and details. This was a manipulation of a single Oyster card, not a hack of the Oyster system.Shashi Verma,director of fares and  ticketing, Transport for LondonReady to throttle VirginA month after Virgin.net became Virgin Media my internet connection became amazingly erratic. I found the solution after some time (We won't cut off users, says Virgin, July 3). I had enabled software on my Mac that would look for American TV shows which in turn would start up a torrent program. The second any torrent software was opened the connection would cut off, and would only restart again after the torrent software had been quit and the router rebooted. They may be saying that they are not threatening to cut users off, but this technique of disabling the connection once one of the torrent ports are activated seems to suggest otherwise. I suspect that there will be a sharp increase in incidents like this from them other ISPs as the pressure from music companies increases.Henry Hobson,by email&#183;Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
Laws are like London buses, which come along in threes. I've therefore suffered a bit of teasing for only having two Laws of Computing. However, I am now thinking about a third law, which will roughly state that "the easier it is for you to access your data, the easier it is for someone else to access your data". If you can come up with a snappy or even witty formulation, I'd be grateful. I'm obviously not Isaac Newton, Johannes Kepler or Isaac Asimov, and I'm not proud.My laws are nothing like real laws in the scientific sense. They are simply intended to help people think about the possible consequences of their actions. We all like computer geegaws, and can be sucked in by their shiny-shiny aspect. But as every teenager soon discovers, short-term attractions can have regrettable long-term effects.And over the long term, data is the only thing that matters. In 50 years, you won't care which computer hardware or software you used, and whether it had fashionably rounded corners. But you will care if you can't read your old notes and diaries, play your favourite songs, or access old family photos. Data is forever.With that in mind,Schofield's First Law of Computingsays: never put data into a program unless you can see exactly how to get it out.This law was born in the early 1980s when I edited a monthly magazine called Practical Computing. We used a lot of incompatible machines with different storage formats including cassette tape, 5.25in and 8in floppies, 3in and 3.5in "stiffies" and Sinclair Microdrives. We used even more incompatible word processors and other software. All of this stuff was doomed, but what isn't?Schofield's Second Law of Computingsays that data doesn't really exist unless you have at least two copies of it.This one was born when we got hard drives that were so big that we didn't back them up. When files were on floppies, you knew you needed a spare. When you could back up a 40MB or 80MB hard drive to a 700MB CD-Rom, backups were a doddle. If you had to back up an 80GB hard drive with a 700MB CD-Rom, it was easier not to bother.But could you remember which files you had backed up, which you'd deleted to make space, and which had simply gone missing? Of course not. You only found out what you had when the hard drive failed, as all of them do, eventually.When I figure it out, Schofield's Third Law of Computing will reflect life in the 2000s. Over the past 50 years, you knew where your data was: it didn't move around. Now you may have data on PC hard drives, laptops, mobile phones, MP3 players and online. This is good, from the point of view of my first two laws, but there's a downside. While it has become much easier for us to access our data, it has also become much easier for other people to access it.Any data that's online is vulnerable either through mistakes, hacking, social engineering or other causes. Maybe you got the permissions wrong, maybe it was cross-site scripting, maybe it was that library or cybercafe you visited, or you used the same weak password everywhere. Any data on a mobile device is vulnerable to loss or theft, and that includes external hard drives and Flash memory cards.Data loss has obviously become a major problem for UK government and major corporations. Protecting data could soon become your problem, too.
When this multiplayer FPS appeared, it was that rarest of things: a PS3 exclusive. Now, though, it has reached the Xbox 360, where it seems to make much more sense - although it does have a single-player mode, it's essentially an extended tutorial, giving you experience in the different game modes and the odd, rather tenuous cutscene. UT3 is all about online play, and it's so much easier to leap straight on to Xbox Live than the PlayStation Network, although if you let it pick the most appropriate online game, you will get battered. Five minutes' work will help you find a server with players at your level, though, and your favourite game mode (Death Match and Capture The Flag are present, along with Warfare, which sees you vie for control of a battlefield node by node). The Xbox 360 version adds the downloadable maps from the PS 3 version plus, crucially for those looking to play offline, split-screen action. Fantastically smooth, quick and polished, and very much the state of the multiplayer FPS art right now.
Burning with passion to build a website or service based on official data? Here's some very good news. In the most exciting sign yet of the wind of change blowing through the government's attitude to taxpayer-funded data, a ministerial taskforce last week opened up new swathes of previously invisible information for re-use on the web - and threw in the offer of a &pound;20,000 for the best idea to exploit it.Meanwhile, the agency responsible for enforcing the crown's copyright opened, on schedule, a promised web channel to handle requests for new data sets that are either unavailable, or for which public bodies set unrealistic prices.Just two years and four months since Technology Guardian launched the Free Our Data campaign - to an official reaction ranging from indifference to hostility - the idea that non-personal electronic data collected by public bodies should be available freely to all to re-use now has support across the top of government.A big force behind the new spirit is Tom Watson, an IT-literate MP who took over the brief of Cabinet Office minister at the beginning of the year. At a Downing Street reception for web entrepreneurs last week, he enthused about the possibilities opened up by a project set up by his new Power of Information taskforce.Showusabetterway.comis inviting ideas for re-uses of public sector information, and offering &pound;20,000 to help the best one become reality.Watson says that the scheme is designed to make "co-creation" happen. "It's about citizens working with public servants to design public services, using existing datasets or datasets that we've just revealed to the world for the first time."The "gigabytes" of data available include such sought-after treasures as the Office for National Statistics' applications programming interface (API) for neighbourhood statistics, a complete list of schools in England and Wales and the national travel database created by the Department for Transport's website, Transport Direct.Ideas are flooding in ...All have previously featured in the campaign. "I'm on the hunt for more," Watson says. He has even hinted on his blog at investigating whether the Royal Mail's Postcode Address File could be made available at "marginal cost" - for the electronic form, zero cost.Early indicators point to a huge amount of interest. In the first 36 hours alone, Showusabetterway had 150,000 visits, and received more than 100 ideas - and more are arriving every day. "Some of them are brilliant," Watson says. His favourite is a proposal to make use of English Heritage's list of blue-plaqued buildings for mashups with Google Earth and Wikipedia biographies of the people commemorated. "I'm going to make it my mission to talk to English Heritage to reveal the dataset in a way that's useful to people," he says. "I think it would be beautiful; imagine the recreational walks around London to bag a blue plaque - like bagging a Munro."Watson also expects "great ideas" to emerge from users of the Department for Children, Schools and Families' Edubase database. Its participation in the scheme is a sign of cross-government enthusiasm. He describes the schools minister, Jim Knight - who was key to making the schools data available for the competition - as a great fan of the taskforce who understands the Free Our Data message."The difficulty we've got is we've only got one prize of &pound;20,000, and we've got some really good ideas, so I think I'm going to find some more prizes so we can work with some of them."In a related development, the Office of Public Sector Information, the rejuvenated arm of the old Stationery Office which is now charged with handling the government's intellectual property, has launched on time its promised "unlocking service" for public-sector information. The web channel's role is to solve problems with "charging, licensing or the data standards that public sector information is provided in" - all issues that have figured in Free Our Data.The page) invites users to describe the asset they want unlocked for re-use and post a request."We'll contact the public-sector information holder and see what can be done to unlock the information for re-use." In the spirit of web 2.0, other people will be able to see the request and support it, either by adding a comment or by voting.By Tuesday, there were three requests, including one for data on the boundaries of electoral wards and constituencies, whose proponent says: "I find it odd that if I want to know the actual boundary of the ward or constituency I am in (co-ordinates, not just an image), I have to pay Ordnance Survey lots of money. I would have thought that, given it's quite important to know which MP or councillors I'm going to have the option of electing, that this information should be freely available as part of a healthy democracy."... but it's not over yetWe shall watch with interest. But in the meantime, we commend ministers - who, in the present political climate must be tempted to cover their ears when they hear the words "government data" - for picking up the idea.So, 27 months after launching Free Our Data, can we put away our campaign boots? Not yet. Some obstacles remain. One, hinted at in the electoral boundaries request, is the activities of information trading funds, required by law to pay their way, and which are vociferously defending their business model.Watson says we shouldn't expect that situation to change overnight. "The difficulty we have sometimes is that the people who have monetised the use of data within the public sector are our entrepreneurs and intrapreneurs, they've got great ideas, they understand that the data itself has a value and they've gone out and made their area of the public sector better by creating an income stream, because of that." Suddenly making such data available free will be "quite difficult", he says."There's a cost to the taxpayer, and you've got to work through that. This great complexity of government needs unravelling." An ongoing Treasury review of trading funds, due to report in September, may come up with some suggestions. In the meantime, "we're making progress".
Visualise a plate of lasagna ...The thing withdata visualisationsis that you should be trying to make lasagna - layered - not spaghetti, explains Noah Ilinsky. Clever, and definitely worth five minutes of anyone's time.A little help from yourFonz?Joe Cocker'sincoherent Woodstock performanceof A Little Help From My Friends, with a helpful computer-generated lyric sheet. If only closed captioning had been around in the 60s ...Is that you, Philip K Dick?"Scrambled" CCTV footageby Emitall, a Swiss company. Too like living inside A Scanner Darkly for comfort, we feel.&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
With the launch of the 3G iPhone, the ante has been upped in the search for a definitive "iPhone killer".The HTC Diamond Touchlooks the part: it's small, sleek, bursting with functions and possessed of a slinky touchscreen interface.But it has a fatal flaw: a third-party graphic user interface (GUI) bolted on top of the operating system (Windows Mobile 6.1). In use, this means there is always more than one way of doing anything: via the standard Windows Start menu, or via the Touch-Flo interface.Up and running, it's mostly good. You've got a choice of text input methods, all on the touchscreen: standard Qwerty, condensed Qwerty, an alphanumeric keypad with either T9 or ABC entry, a handwriting recogniser and a block recogniser. The Qwerty keyboards offer both T9 or ABC text entry. Perhaps, though, fewer choices might have meant no crashes.Yes - crashes. The add-on GUI is a memory hog, and also seems to suffer from a memory leak (where the longer it runs the more memory it uses). I leave my mobiles on all the time; after just under a week, it started crashing, hard. Leading up to the crashes, it seemed to be unable to release RAM, even when I shut all the apps down.The Touch-Flo interface locked up and the phone wouldn't respond to any input. I braced to do a hard reset - ie, wiping it of all my stuff. But here's the catch: the combination of button presses and stylus pokes is physically impossible with only two hands - truly a phone for the future when we grow three hands. Fortunately, after a couple of hours the phone spluttered back into life. But this happened twice on one day.Other than the shiny package and pretty GUI, it has all you'd expect of a top-of-the-range smartphone: GPS, moving and still pictures, music (annoyingly, it has a proprietary jack so you can't replace its average earbuds with something better), lots of storage (4GB, but no expandable memory), threaded texts and a couple of games.Connectivity is good: besides Bluetooth and 3G, it also has HSDPA and Wi-Fi, meaning web browsing either via the mobile network or a hotspot is good.Aside from the inherent instability of the GUI - which is a major failing - I have a couple of minor niggles: the phone gets terribly grubby with fingermarks, and when it rings any touch on the screen answers the phone: not good when you're scrabbling for it in a bag.The camera is good for a mobile, but in practice it's hopeless: there's no button that turns it instantly on, so by the time you've got into camera mode you'll have missed the shot.It will be available on Vodafone, Orange, T Mobile and O2 through the summer; otherwise it costs &pound;434.69 sim-free via expansys.com.Pros:small, neat device; beautiful interface;Cons:memory leaks; hard reset is difficult to do
Moving musicWe want to put our existing iPod libraries on to the new PC.Jane McNicolJS:Apple's website provides instructions for moving your music library either via a CD or DVD or using an iPod (support.apple.com/kb/HT1329). However, this requires the use of iTunes 7 on both machines. One alternative is to use iGadget software ($15), which has replaced iPod Agent by the same developer, but there are many others. The main problem is transferring any protected files bought from the iTunes store. According to Apple, you must authorise the new PC by selecting Authorize Computer on the Store menu in iTunes. You can then attach the iPod, go to the File menu, and select Transfer Purchases from iPod (support.apple.com/kb/HT1727). Of course, you can always copy your files onto CD or other storage medium and add them to iTunes on the new PC. However, this will lose the metadata you had in the old library.TinyURL revisitedWhat's the best way to follow up your many TinyURL references?Tom GarrudMy system - Firefox 3, Zone Alarm Security Suite, Windows XP - will not let me access any TinyURLs.David GompertzJS:TinyURL references work as published if you type them directly into the address bar of your browser or, at worst, stick http:// on the front, eg http://tinyurl.com/owd8n etc. But it's probably easier to follow the links from the Ask Jack blog, where I use the full address of each link instead of the TinyURL. Some websites and security programs may block TinyURL addresses as they can be used to take people to malware sites. The Zone Alarm Suite now does this via its Spy Site Blocking tab, but this is not part of the free firewall program.Saving boot timeI can remember having to wait for radio valves to warm up. Why do I have to wait even longer after switching on my Windows XP PC?Hugh RobertsJS:When correctly set up by the manufacturer, Windows XP boots in about 30 seconds, resumes from Hibernate in 20 seconds, and resumes from Standby in five seconds. The boot time for a well-used PC is generally more like 60 to 90 seconds, depending on how many applications are being loaded in the background. These will usually include a firewall and antivirus software, but most other preloads are unnecessary. Search for [windows startup manager] and you will find lots of programs that allow you to control which things are loaded. I use AnVir Task Manager Free for this purpose, though Windows Vista has a utility built in. Otherwise, you can go to the Control Panel, click Power Options, and set your PC so that it will hibernate after a specified time. This uses very little power but it will start up quicker.Data destructionI've bought a replacement for my broken down PC, and would like to dispose of it, but it still has my data on the hard drive.Barbara EvansJS:Simply remove the hard drive before disposing of the base unit. If the drive is big enough to be worth the effort, you could mount it in an external drive case and use it as a USB drive with your new machine. If it's a small drive and you don't need to rescue any data, you can do enough physical damage to render it inoperable - eg, wrap it in a tea towel and whack it with a hammer. The tea towel is to stop bits flying around, but you should also wear appropriate protective equipment such as goggles.What's Kontiki?I have installed the BBC iPlayer, but every time I activate it, a program called Kontiki pops up.DenisJS:When you download TV programmes using iPlayer - as distinct from watching streamed versions online - they are downloaded using Kontiki (kontiki.com). This is a peer-to-peer file sharing program, which is also used by similar services such as Sky by Broadband and Channel 4's 4oD. Kontiki seems to load and use your bandwidth, even if you are not using iPlayer: use the Windows Task Manager to see if Kservice is running. The BBC has a page that explains how to stop it running on startup and when you are not using iPlayer (tinyurl.com/4h2t26). You can remove it altogether using the kclean.exe program fromtinyurl.com/5msknq. However, if you do, any Kontiki-based programs such as iPlayer may not work.BackchatVista user JH Prentice wanted a photo retouching program to replace Microsoft's Picture It! I suggested the Picnik website and Paint.net. Two readers suggested Picasa (picasa.google.com), which is mainly a photo organiser, while Marcus Fallon proposed XnView (xnview.com), which is mainly a viewer. I'd go for XnView too, if its retouching facilities meet your needs. A great pro solution is Adobe's Lightroom, if you have &pound;200 to spare.
A flaw in the way the internet works has prompted the "largest security update" in the history of the web, and fears of millions of people remaining exposed to criminals and malicious hackers.Microsoft was among net companies yesterday which announced action to close the loophole that has potentially affected every site on the web.The bug was spotted this year by Dan Kaminsky, a director at the American security specialist IOActive, who immediately contacted big technology firms to alert them to the problem.The scam involved hijacking internet addresses and sending surfers to websites other than those they intended to see. By this route criminals stood the chance of tricking victims into handing over personal details or making payments to the wrong people.Details of the bug, which uses a technique known as "cache poisoning", have not been made public. The idea is to let firms find a solution before hackers learn how to exploit the situation further."Computers use the equivalent of address books to figure out where they need to go on the web. This attack could compromise that by attacking the servers that give out the addresses," said Rich Mogull, of the US-based firm Securosis.Although there is no evidence of the bug being exploited by hackers, news of the flaw drew an unprecedented response from the technology industry. Large companies, including Microsoft and Cisco Systems, scrambled to fix the problem."This is the largest synchronised security update in the history of the internet," said Kaminsky. "The severity of this bug is shown by the number of those who are on board with patches."As fixing the problem is largely the duty of those who operate the millions of web servers, which hold all the information on the internet, rather than those who use the web, most computer users will not have to do anything.However, a failure to update software could mean surfers still being at risk. And the fixes may not make things entirely safe. The US Computer Emergency Readiness Team, an American agency which deals with security breaches, said that even the changes put forward by Microsoft and others would not remove all possibilities of a hijack. "It is important to note that without changes to the DNS [domain name system] protocol these mitigations cannot completely prevent cache poisoning," said the agency on its website.Kaminsky said he would reveal more details about the problem at a computer security conference next month.It is not the first time that significant flaws at the heart of the internet have been exposed. Last week servers belonging to Icann, the group which administrates the way names on the net are handed out, were briefly hit by Turkish hackers. A group calling itself NetDevilz broke into the Icann website and replaced the organisation's normal web pages with angry messages.So-called cyberterrorism - including hacking attacks and concerted attempts to bring down government websites - have gained a high profile in recent months, leading to Nato agreeing to fund a cybercrime prevention centre in east Europe.This week a report by the US Senate's armed services committee emphasised the need for greater security. "We assess that nations ... have the technical capabilities to target and disrupt elements of the US information infrastructure."
If you're a big Mutant Storm or Geometry Wars fan, you're probably already in the process of downloading this, but just in case... The mind-melting co-op shooter,Schizoid, was placed on XBLA today. Created by Washington-based studio,Torpex, it's a hallucinogenic melting pot of danmaku madness, with two players working together to destroy merciless swarms of enemy craft. Participants choose either a red or blue craft and can then only destroy baddies of the other colour. Hence, close co-operation is the very essence of survival ('Live together, die alone' as Jack Shephard might put it).Schizoid is, famously, the first XBLA titles to be completed using theXNAGame Studio SDK - a mouthwatering hint at what is to come from this Microsoft initiative, which is supposed to mutate into a community publishing channel (more detailshere).By the way, Torpex technical director, Jamie Fristrom, also writes the illuminatingGamedevblog, which is definitely worth a look if you're interested in indie-flavoured development.
Recreating Doctor Who, reviewing Firefox, the utility (or lack of it) of CCTV: all had responses that we didn't have room for in print. So click through to read them all...PLATTE AND PORN&gt;&gt; Ashley Bateup is quoted as saying: "Over 35% of consumers pay by postal order - this in itself says something about the consumer and their wish to remain anonymous". Mr. Bateup has missed, or chooses to misrepresent, the point here. People pay by postal order because they don't want Platte, MBS, or whoever, having access to their credit card details. I know this because it is precisely for this reason that my husband paid them in this way when he was 'trapped' by them and their pop ups. Platte/MBS is, through its own fault, regarded as untrustworthy by consumers. You only have to look at the postings on the different forums where discussions about them is still very active.Commenter at michaelpollitt.com&gt;&gt; at least there's some kind of scrutiny going on. And my son is now too scared to answer "yes" to any [online] query when he's on the computer - which is no bad thing.cathykeir.co.uk/blog/CCTV&gt;&gt; It seems clear to me that Britain is becoming an increasingly petty, officious, fearful, paranoid and authoritarian societymagnacartaplus.org&gt;&gt; Schneier is not against all uses of CCTVs. He does exhort people to examine where their benefits are worth costs (including non-material ones).jabolins.livejournal.com/&gt;&gt; These CCTV cameras were not about crime anyway. It is about getting the people used to having cameras on them all the time so that the world can become a surveillance society. Is a surveillance society a free society?yankeecowgirl.wordpress.com/&gt;&gt; Governments are just setting up cameras everywhere not to keep the general public safe, but to make people think that they are being watched. They are even developing cameras that will use forms of artificial intelligence. This is all part of the technological enslavement system and enslaving the population of the world is at the very heart of the New World Order's agenda.arnolddegraaf.nl/&gt;&gt; Here's the million dollar question though: Does anyone in government listen to the experts*?brilliantbritain.blogspot.com/IPHONE?I'll admit I have been tempted by the new iPhone, what self respecting Apple user would'nt be. The price drop and the lunch of MobileMe very nearly sealed the deal. Very nearly, but not quite. I found my ideal mobile on eBay, a five year old PalmOne Treo 600 Smartphone. Costing just a quater of the price of an iPhone. It syncs with my iBook and my work Windows PC. It featues a Qwerty, and on screen keyboard, icon based touch screen (take that Nokia 95), oh and the ability to thread text messages into a chat stream just like the iPhone. Plenty of FREE software apps from third party vendors too, like MiniWord, which this has been composed on. Sure, the camera on the Treo 600 is diabolical but then again, hey, snap! Steve Hooker, RotherhamDOCTOR WHOGreat article on the animation of 'lost' episodes from the '60's, any idea from where the DVD can be bought please? Graham Warren, Croydon&gt;&gt; Painstakingly amazing.disassociated.com/&gt;&gt; It's funny how all fanboys think alike! In the 70s before I had a VCR I recorded tons of audio tapes of TV show (anything that was science fiction from Twilight Zone episodes to Space:1999).fanboy.com/&gt;&gt; as stated in the Guardian story, animating is a tremendous amount of work. Fans don't care, though, they want their Who and they're willing to put noses to the grindstone to get it.radiofreeskaro.wordpress.com/&gt;&gt; let's just hope they don't suffer the same problems as the lady who came up with Adipose knitting patterns...downthetubescomics.blogspot.com/&gt;&gt; I've seen this kind of thing before, and typically it's one guy with a copy of 3D Studio Max and delusions of grandeur. However, I recognized some of the backgrounds and fill in shots from the Guardian article as being from different guys with 3D Studio Max and delusions of grandeur. Evidently the Doctor Who 3D fanimation subculture has come together to form their own little sweat shop. How does this relate to YOU, other than the possiblilty of getting to see 108 episodes previously lost? They've put all the tools out, backgrounds, textures, line art for facial expressions... all of it. So if you're wanting to learn some 3D and 2D animation, why not learn by creating a scene or two from "Evil of the Daleks" and be everyone's hero!skmdc.livejournal.com/&gt;&gt; OK, so they allow animations but not knitting?!caskared.livejournal.com/&gt;&gt; The official BBC line is one of hopeful curiosity. One day, the horse will sing.antonia-tiger.livejournal.com/OYSTEROyster cards aren't just for pre-paid fares: monthly and annual season tickets (Travelcards) are all issued on them as well. So does TfL's apparent complacency about loss of revenue on a hacked card also extend much more dangerously to possible loss of the substantial personal information -- such as birth date and payment details -- provided when a passenger first applies for or renews a long-term ticket? Just what data does an Oyster contain inside its shell? Don Keller, LondonWhile I agree with your reporter that the ability to crack the Oyster card, per se, is not going to cause serious problems of fraud, I wonder what this means for the new combo cards, Visa, debit and Oyster card, that Barcley's issues. Does cracking the Oyster card open the possibility to get access to the credit or debit wallets in these combined cards? This would be certainly cause some concern. Stephen Moffitt, London&gt;&gt; One point which the article does not highlight and which is perhaps more concerning from a privacy standpoint, however, is that London Transport collects and can process data on 38 million journeys per week to identify individual instances of fraudulent use (and who knows what else?).rfid.cs.washington.edu/blog/&gt;&gt; I'm all for advances in technology and I'm all for sticking it to the man. But avoiding paying for the tube sucks. It may be prohibitively expensive at times (especially compared to other cities around the world), but the tube and the buses get a lot of unfair criticism. They're the heart of the city, and by skipping out on paying your way, you're only screwing things up further.thelondonparticular.wordpress.com/&gt;&gt; Government and its agencies have a worrying record of data management. If the Oyster system is demonstrably insecure, then it is essential that the data corresponding to these cards is. The more data sharing between TfL and its subsidiaries, the more potential routes for data-loss exist. The Mayor and TfL need to take this issue very seriously.http://londonunlocked.org/FIREFOX REVIEWEDIt seems clear that there are two widely differing experiences of Firefox 3 - those who apparently love it and those, like me (and I'm a long-term user of Firefox), who believe it's an absolute disaster. Both these viewpoints can't be true. If the responses to my Firefox 3 sucks blog post are typical, then extrapolation across the whole user base would suggest that FF3 is seriously defective - certainly, for me, it's utterly unusable, no matter what all those geeks think, and I've reverted to v2.0.0.14, which is where I'll stay until such time as Mozilla produces a version that works for everyone. I think, though, I may have the answer to these widely differing experiences - we're not seeing the same thing. I believe that some mirrors are distributing corrupted versions of FF3 - perhaps a result of the system crash on download day. Unfortunately, there's no way I can test this theory as Mozilla automatically assigns the mirror - one can't choose an alternate mirror for the download and see what happens. Nor can one actually talk to Mozilla about this - or anything else - they go to great lengths to keep users at arm's length. And, when I tried to access their knowledge base about the problem with the Organise Bookmarks function - a problem in that it doesn't actually do anything - it threw up over 4 million entries. Who has the time, or the inclination, to wade through that morass? Certainly not me. Whatever the answer, a canter through Google clearly shows that there are substantial problems with FF3, and a huge amount of user dissatisfaction. Problems which Mozilla seems content to ignore. Kate Bevan (Technophile, June 26), says "Is it better than IE, Safari or Opera? Yes, I think so, and so do many other geeks. We can't all be wrong." Well, sorry Kate, you are wrong. It is not better than any of those for one very good reason - it simply doesn't work for everybody. Had this been a Microsoft product, the problems a great many users are having would not be ignored, as they are being, except in the blogosphere. On the contrary, Microsoft would have been savagely pilloried. I see no reason why Mozilla should be treated any differently. Maybe Kate and her fellow geeks are happy to tinker with FF3 until it performs as it should. I, and many others, are not, and I have no problem with admitting that it's beyond my abilities to do so, because we simply shouldn't have to. The thing should work perfectly, and for every user, straight out of the box - and it doesn't. Ron Graves, Prenton&gt;&gt; I love Firefox but this version isn't stable. Multiple systems all showing crash bugs when the browser is left minimized, remains in memory after closing, forgets clicks (ie: click link, wait, wait, wait, no timeout error nothing, you have to click again or it acts as if nothing has been clicked besides changing the status message) Maybe by 3.0.1 they'll get it fixed.http://p812.com/?p=4&gt;&gt; You know you're going geeky when you read about a new version of browser software over breakfast in the online version of your newspaper, and you just have to go and get it there and then.pigstyave.blogspot.com/MASHEDA cynic writes.is it just a coincidence that all three laptops on display in your large photograph on page 5 were made by Apple? David Beesley, Newton-le-Willows [Yes - Tech.Ed.]&gt;&gt; most people who work with IT are phenomenally bright, and their salaried job only covers a small part of what they can do. Events like Mashed allow them to use their other skills to create fun things - which the BBC where hoping would be 'fun things that have some relation to BBC products'.petehindle.com/&gt;&gt; The Guardian may have called the the [Subterranean Homesick News] mashup "pointless but fun", but they're only things with "future application" eyes. The mashed_prophet sees the deeper subversive point as well as the fun.mashedlit.blogspot.com/ARMY ROBOTS&gt;&gt; The military-industrial complex is slowly being turned into money machine that produces robots that can kill barely armed civilians resisting US occupation forces sent to crush them. Oh, how the Nazis would have loved having this ability! These robots are expensive and are bankrupting America.elainemeinelsupkis.typepad.com/&gt;&gt; Most people are concerned that Grand Theft Auto desensitizes kids to violence in the real world. I don't worry so much about that. What I worry about is the Army taking these twitchy gamers, putting them in front of consoles, and not telling them that on the other end of the game they are playing are real, live human beings that they are killing. Basically, The Ender's Game scenario but not against bugs.fearandloathingingtown.blogspot.com/
TheOfficial Google Bloghas announcedLively, which is one of those 20% projects from Google Labs. It will look familiar to people who rememberWorldsAwayfrom a dozen years ago, Second Life, The Sims Online and similar avatar-based worlds. The difference is that anyone can design a room and add it to their own site.The Lively download requires Windows Vista/XP with either Internet Explorer or Firefox. It also requires either a Google account or a Facebook account, since you can also create Lively rooms on Facebook.At the moment, Lively doesn't support user-generated content, so you're stuck with whatever is available in the Google catalogue (click the "Shop for more" button). However, it if it takes off, it could be a money-spinner with in-room advertising and product placement. And, of course, it's another step in Google's plan to achieve world domination.....There are already a couple of systems like this around, such asPelican Crossing,SceneCaster,Imvu,MeezandRocketOn(still in a closed alpha). But Google, like Microsoft, can use its market power to get Lively in front of a lot more eyeballs.So, is this an important part of Google's mission to "organize the world's information"? Or is it just a cheap knock-off that will be binned by Christmas?
In April we published a piece here -Advertisers have yet to unlock the power of play- which began "There are a few common reasons why advertisers want to use videogames to reach consumers.One is the belief that videogames are a place to recover the waning audiences of television advertising...."This didn't impress Tess Alps, head ofThinkbox(which since you wonder is "the television marketing body for the main UK commercial broadcasters - Channel 4, Five, GMTV, ITV, Sky Media, Turner Media Innovations and Viacom Brand Solutions") and she asked (nicely) to be able to respond.Click through for her piece, and then tell her: are you watching the same amount of TV advertising as ever?By Tess Alps, chief executive, ThinkboxIt's a mark of its enduring power that TV - 'normal' TV broadcast to the screen in the corner or on the wall - is as popular as ever. According to theBroadcasters' Audience Research Board (BARB, the most rigorous media-consumption measurement system in the world, our viewing has been stable for 15 years.If you only look at the commercial channels, the ones with ads funding the programmes, the story is even more impressive. BARB's figures show that we're watching some 11 minutes more commercial TV a day than 15 years ago. More commercial telly, more ads; last year we watched an average 2.25 billion ads a day, anall-time high. Conversations about TV advertising figure large in our on- and offline lives because TV advertising, uniquely in media, can engage audiences as much as the programming it funds.Few people prefer ads to programmes but many are happy to see them again and again. They remember TV ads and act on them, making TV advertising the most effective medium of all. People seek out great TV ads online (though at a fraction of the broadcast totals), forward and honour them withpastiches. Given the choice of paying for TV on-demand or watching ads, free wins almost every time.Yet there's arecurring myth that people are watching less TVand therefore fewer TV ads. TV has its fair share of challenges, no argument there, but fewer people watching it and its ads is not one of them. The facts clearly show otherwise but the myth exists.One root of the myth lies in technology. People assume that, as we're spending lots more time online than before, this extra cyber-time must be taken from somewhere. Fingers point at the major screen in our lives, TV, when in fact our time spent chatting and shopping online is - err- instead of doing those things offline. Other feared technologies are those that let people have more control over their TV viewing - and TV ad viewing - such as digital TV recorders (DTRs).But neither of these has dented our love of watching TV nor the number of ads we see, as BARB's figures show. In fact, as I have pointed out elsewhere, DTRs actually lead to peoplewatching more TV ads[link fixed - thanks AlanMoore] than before because they watch so much more television overall.There's also an Armada of self-serving research trying to show that 'traditional' TV is doomed. This research is always based on the claimed behaviour of an online panel. Claimed behaviour, taken by itself, is a risky research technique at the best of times; asking people about their media habits is as reliable as asking about their sex habits. But doing it online, where the respondents are the kind of people who take part in online surveys, is the research equivalent of asking people in a church what their religion is.There are too many examples to mention of debatable research trying to knock TV, buthere's one. One reason BARB is rigorous is because it measures what people actually watch. It doesn't ask them and so isn't subject to bias, intended or otherwise.TV programmes no longer always get the giant audiences of the pre-digital, four-channel days on their first transmission; but viewers haven't evaporated into virtual air, they're just more spread out. We have the opportunity to watch hundreds of channels now, so TV audiences aren't so concentrated (although event programmes like Britain's Got Talent still draw immense audiences). This is good news for advertisers because specific audiences can now be reached more effectively than before, as they polarise into certain programmes and channels. It means ad campaigns need a bit more thought to make sure they reach the appropriate bits of TV's massive and undiminished audience, but that's no bad thing. But TV's ability to create overnight fame endures; commercial TV's reach remains largely unchanged at 97.9%,BARB's figures are the broadcast top of an expanding iceberg; it doesn't yet include new ways to watch TV - like online or on the move - and doesn't include the viewing of the 1.5 million telly-addict students in the UK. Its figures show the least we're watching now, and that is as much as we were 15 years ago.It's reasonable to expect that, at some point, a percentage of our broadcast viewing will be replaced by the emerging ways to watch but it hasn't happened yet. When it does, it will be a natural part of TV's evolution as the medium uses technology to expand to be wherever people want it to be. We won't see less viewing, just viewing differently. In fact, 2008 to date has seen some of the highest overall broadcast figures for 15 years, despite the huge take-up in TV services online. So it's much more likely that TV viewing will grow. This is not a nil sum game.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
So O2 is saying that it was receiving 13,000 ordersper secondfor the next-generation iPhone (you know, the one that, like the first-generation one, can't forward picture messages and suchlike, though it can tell you you're standing outside a Starbucks).We know this because it said so in the semi-apologetic form letter that it sent out to people who complained about the fact that its site fell over repeatedly on Monday. (Hence the image - crashed, OK?)Let's see - 13,000 per second means 780,000 phonesper minute.Spread it over just 5 minutes and that's 3.9 million.So all that O2 had to do was keep its website up for 15 minutes and it could have sold Apple'sintended quota for the yearof 10m iPhone right there and then. Everyone could have gone home and had a nice cuppa tea.In the words of Hall and Oates, I can't go for that. (Haircut optional.) Let's take a more solid number: O2 issayingthatmore than 200,000 people registered an interest in the 3G iPhone; 35,000 people registered interest in the previous version of the phone before it went on sale.OK, so if those 200,000 people all then went and tried to order, the website was able to offer them for precisely 15.384 seconds. (Hey, why not be precise? We live in a world of approximation. Let's show our calculators' muscles.) Even if you assume a dollop of extra interest - say, let's prod it up to 300,000 people - then that would still be alive for only, um, 23.077 seconds.Sorry, but even though the O2 site does seem to have been a massive FAIL on Monday (possibly understandably, if it got nearly six times more traffic for a transaction-based system than the last time around) I think that there were more than 23 seconds between the first person who said "I got one!" and the last.So what's the real number? I've left messages with O2, but so far no response.
A major flaw in the way the internet works could lead to millions of people being targeted by criminals and has prompted the "largest security update" in web history, according to a leading security researcher.The bug - described as "cache poisoning" - has led to some of the technology industry's largest companies scrambling to come up with a solution before hackers discover how to exploit the flaw.Dan Kaminsky, an American internet security specialist who uncovered the bug, has been working with major technology companies including Microsoft and Cisco to issue software patches to prevent attacks from working."This is the largest synchronised security update in the history of the internet. The severity of this bug is shown by the number of those who are on board with the patches," Kaminsky said.The flaw exploits the internet's address mechanism, known as the Domain Name System (DNS). This maps the names we associate with websites to the true numerical addresses of their internet servers, in the same way that a mobile phone's address book associates names with telephone numbers.DNS allows people to visit websites simply by typing in words - such as  guardian.co.uk or google.com - rather than entering a string of unmemorable numbers.The glitch allows hackers to inject themselves into the process, intercepting the name entered by the user and mapping it to a different internet address than the one intended.This would potentially allow criminals to redirect web users to phishing websites even if they had entered the correct address in the first place."If a bad guy had found this before Dan did, it would have been very bad," said Rich Mogull, a researcher at Securosis.Kaminsky has refused to provide specific details about the flaw, instead offering the internet industry time to address the issue before he explains more.But even though major technology vendors have released security patches, the US Computer Emergency Readiness Team (CERT) - an American agency which deals with major security breaches - said even these would not remove the possibility of hijacking entirely."It is important to note that without changes to the DNS protocol, these mitigations cannot completely prevent cache poisoning," said US-CERTon its website."However, if properly implemented, they reduce the chances of success for an attacker by several orders of magnitude and make attacks impractical."Kaminsky said he would reveal more detail about the vulnerability at a computer security conference next month.
Why are you advocating the study of 'web science'?There are lots of people currently in different disciplines who are looking at the web, and they're realising that it's big and its complex. There are arguably more web pages out there than neurons in the brain. And while the web is growing, the brain is getting smaller.The web is big, it's complex, we don't understand it  but we do depend upon it. Business depends on the web working, democracy depends on the web working  people finding out what sort of flu their kid has gone down with depends on the web working.How is this different to people working in computer science, sociology or other disciplines?The people who are already working those fields often find that they don't have somewhere to publish their papers, they don't have somewhere to meet. When you create it as a field of its own, give it a name, make the web a first class object of study  suddenly you get the interconnection. You need people with all kinds of skills and backgrounds coming together.What questions do you think web science can answer?What are the big challenges the web faces? What could we hope to achieve if we could redesign the web? As we make new versions of all the protocols, what can we aim for? What do we expect people to build on top of the web in the future? We can see what they are building now, but what could they build if we tweaked it?What makes it imperative to do this now?Partly it's opportunity and partly it's duty. The opportunity is that if we study it, we can see ways in which it could be dramatically different. Before the web, people had built a big open system but they hadn't imagined the web. Before the folks who built the internet sent packets over telephone wires, they used a telephone system which had been built by people who didn't imagine the internet. So, as you go back through the history of networking, you find that each generation produces a platform that can go to the next level.We have to realise that we're building a platform that maybe people who are students today  or people who have startups today  are going to be the ones who produce something which we can't imagine. It's going to happen faster. The next change on top of the web is going to happen faster. The opportunity cost of not looking into these technologies is huge.Where do you see web science going? What ideas might people work on?I think the whole point is not that we write down the product we want the research to produce, but rather create an environment where people's minds are seeded with ideas from across all the different disciplines  where they have the luxury of spending the time to sit back and dream, and can talk to each other, and where we haven't given them a strict shopping list of what we want.Another difference between the brain and the web is that we designed the web, and we can change it  and we have a duty to. So here is this system a lot of our society depends on  democracy depends on it, commerce depends on it  we should probably watch it to make sure it's stable.Things can grow so big in nature  trees can grow so big that they get blown over. Systems can grow very big and very complex, like ancient civilisations can grow big and complex and then something goes wrong. Understanding what went wrong when a civilisation crumbles is complicated.If you want to try and measure what went on at the fall of the Roman Empire, you'd probably have to employ a lot of people to look very closely at what was going on. Here we've got humanity connected by a system by a structure which, to a certain extent, we can control. We can control how fast it is, how easy it is to connect things  I think we have a duty to make sure it will develop in a way that is stable and pro-human.You've been working on the Semantic Web. Will this help the idea grow, or will it be superseded?The Semantic Web is one of these things; it's locked into exponential growth. But it's just one area. There are other areas we can spot that at the moment: the effect of the web going onto mobile devices, we can wonder whether that's going to bring the web more into developing countries  will that actually reduce the gap, or will it widen the gap? Will we end up with information providers or consumers being separated even more?There are lots of things you can see from the current trends, but web science is really something that isn't just about current trends  really we should be very careful to keep its sights set out 10 to 15 years. We don't want to spend too much time patting ourselves on the back for what we've done in the last five years.I'm interested that people understand the principles that make the web work. Web science is about looking further on.
Launch audio playerIt's back! The Tech Weekly podcast this week looks at smart materials - doyouknow what an aerogel is made of? - and interviews the head of Facebook in Europe on data sharing and privacy. Plus news of a significant success for the Free Our Data campaign.Get in touch using any of the methods below, and don't forget toSkype usand join our newTwitter feedorFlickr group. Tell us what you think bycalling our Skype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.ukPost a message on the blog about this week's programmeGet our Twitter feed for updates on the programme across the weekJoin our Facebook groupJoin our Flickr groupSubscribe via iTunesDownload mp3Podcast feed URL
Researchers have a "duty" to protect the future of the world wide web, according to its inventor.Speaking at the launch of a new research programme yesterday, Sir Tim Berners-Lee  the British computer scientist who came up with the idea of the web 19 years ago  said it was vital that scientists and engineers worked harder to understand how the web works, in order to keep it evolving."We designed the web, and we can change it: we have a duty to," he said in an interview with the Guardian. "Here is this system a lot of our society depends on  democracy depends on it, commerce depends on it. We should probably watch it to make sure it's stable."With the rapid growth of the web over the past decade, there have been concerns that it could fragment under pressure from corporations and repressive governments. But Sir Tim said it was important to remember the principles of openness on which the web was built, in order to ensure that any attempt to shape the web's future would remain "pro-human"."Systems can grow very big and very complex, like ancient civilisations can grow big and complex and then something goes wrong. Understanding what went wrong when a civilisation crumbles is complicated," he said."Here we've got humanity connected by a structure which, to a certain extent, we can control. I think we have a duty to make sure it will develop in a way that is stable and pro-human."His comments came at an event to promote the new academic discipline of web science  a study of the web and the way it works.The Web Science Research Initiative, which is being championed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the University of Southampton, aims to encourage new technologies and systems on top of the web.Although many of the future directions the web could go in remain unknown,  one idea already approaching fruition is the semantic web  a system to make the web more intelligent  which Sir Tim has been working on for several years.Nigel Shadbolt, a professor at Southampton, said he hoped there would be courses in web science available to undergraduates in Britain as soon as 2010.As well as academic institutions supporting the WSRI, it is also backed by a number of organisations  including the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts (Nesta) and BT."We know that innovation happens when different disciplines interact," said Jonathan Kestenbaum, the chief executive of Nesta. "This partnership will ensure that the UK is well positioned to capitalise on the new networked information economy enabled by the web."
Just read thisinterviewwith David "Elite" Braben. The veteran develop has a dig at University computer games degrees - "as a general rule they don't teach what we need" - and touches on the importance of the games industry to the UK. But it's what he fails to mention that is more interesting to me - namely Elite 4. Understandable I guess, considering the game hasn't been announced yet but still, it's what we all want, right?I was probably about - gulp - 11 when Elite came out for my C64 and remember spending hours flying, trading and - grr - docking. Since then I've been waiting for a "new Elite", a game that takes the free-roaming space template to the next level. Sadly I've never found it.Frontier: Elite 2on the Amiga came close for a while - I never played the sequel,First Encounters- while, the likes of Freespace just didn't have the same atmosphere.More recently I triedX3: Reunionand Eve Online. Both look fantastic but come saddled with a ridiculously steep learning curves, although the latter is probably the closest to the "new Elite" ideal. But honestly, all I want is an accessible Elite-style game - ideally on the 360 or PS3 - which mixes the freedom to roam, fight and ideally team up with others, but also allows rewards trading and diplomacy. If not Frontier: Elite 2 on Live Arcade would be fine. Is this too much to ask for? Is the space sim dead or do I just need to put the hours into Eve and X3?
I'm straying dangerously into Aleks' territory here, but what the heck, she'll be okay with it. Google has been revealing details of its new 3D virtual world today.Livelycomes in the form of a free software download, but once it's on your machine, you can access the world from other places such as websites and social networking services. Naturally, users get a range of customisable avitars to choose from, including both human and cute animal options. It looks like you'll also be able to inhabit your own rooms, which can be decorated to your personal specifications - you can even add a TV which plays YouTube videos - how zeitgeist can you get?Apparently, the game uses Google Talk as its chat engine and is PC-compatible only. Booooo. Also, there's no single seamless, explorable world a la Second Life - it's all structured around rooms and invites.I like the idea of a sort of portable virtual world that crops up when you're just surfing other areas of the web. If it was more MMORPG-esque, there could be a real alternative reality feel about it, hopping from website to website, jumping in and out of the game world. I'm Mac based, though, so any PC owners who've downloaded the app, let us know what Google's latest experiment is like.
In this week's Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoski,Charles ArthurandJemima Kiss...We look at smart materials - do you know what an aerogel is made of?  It's nanotechnology at it's best - 99.8% air, but with amazing insulating properties.Jemima interviews the head of Facebook in Europe - Blake Chandlee - on data sharing and privacy and she also sneaks in a question about future IPO...  and we go on to discuss more data issues as there's news of a significant success for the Free Our Data campaign. (You can hear the uncut interview with Blake Chandlee here)We also look at this week's news, which has details of how Google will have to hand over information on every YouTube video ever watched to Viacom, and how Google are also scouring the country with their street car - we want your pictures of it on ourFlickr group...Don't forget you can:Call our Skype voicemailMail us at tech@guardian.co.ukPost a message on the blogGet our Twitter feed for programme updatesJoin our Facebook groupSee our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
VMware seemed to be doing pretty well in leading the "virtual machine" software market that is becoming increasingly important as businesses try to save money. Certainly I didn't see anything that would have prepared me fortoday's announcementthat "VMware's Board of Directors ... has made a change in the leadership of the company with the departure of Diane Greene as President and CEO. VMware's Board of Directors has appointed Paul Maritz as President and CEO of VMware effective immediately."Maybe the company wasn't growing quite as fast as expected, but this hardly sounds like a crisis:VMware expects to announce earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 as scheduled on July 22, 2008 at 2pm PDT. On that call Paul will make observations about the second half of 2008. While VMware is not updating guidance for Q2, we expect revenues for the full year of 2008 will be modestly below the previous guidance of 50% growth over 2007.Paul Maritz, however, is someone I remember well. He spent 14 years at Microsoft managing the growth of products such as Windows 95 and NT, before retiring in 2000. ("Paul is truly a leader among leaders, and it has been a privilege to work alongside such an intelligent, wise, honest and wonderful human being for so many years." Steve Ballmer, President and CEO, Microsoft.)The VMware announcement says:In 2003, Paul founded Pi Corporation, a startup software company focused on building Cloud-based solutions for new ways of doing personal information management. Pi Corporation was acquired by EMC in February 2008, and Paul became President of the EMC Cloud Division.Having achieved so much as one of Microsoft's top five executive managers, Maritz now has to fight a Microsoft that is arming itself to the teeth with virtualization products such asHyper-V.EMCbought VMwarefor $635 million in December 2003. It sold 10% via anIPOin 2007, after VMware rapidly increased its sales. It raised almost $1 billion in what theSan Francisco Chronicleand other described as "biggest tech stock IPO since Google". At the end of the day, VMware was valued at $19 billion.
Ah, yes. We found this onFlickr(and the person who posted it says he found it somewhere out there..)1) anyone know who the original author is? We'd like to credit him (possibly her, but seems unlikely). 2) if this is Apple vs Microsoft, what would the Linux one look like?
I watched Michael Moore's Sicko, a film about the 50 million US citizens without health insurance, on DVD the other day. It's pretty good; Moore puts together an engaging case for the kind of universal healthcare we have in the UK, and his presentation style is as witty as ever.For maximum humour value, however, I recommend doing as I did: watching the film while on hold to Barnet Primary Care Trust, waiting almost half an hour to make a routine appointment.Of course, Moore would emphasise that the appointment was free at the point of service. Fair enough. But surely the technology exists to make this easier? If I can pick my airplane seat online, why can't I make an NHS appointment the same way?I had a similar thought recently when trying to get the results of a tonsillitis swab. I called the lab. Yes, they had the result, but no, they couldn't tell me what it was; for that honour, I'd have to make an appointment with my GP. I called my GP: the first available appointment was almost three weeks away.In a world where bank accounts are accessible online 24 hours a day I could hardly believe it was even legal for an organisation to withhold personal information about my health for three weeks.But calling the NHS "an organisation" implies that its information systems are internally unified. No such luck.When I had to use Barnet's out-of-hours service for the same bout of tonsillitis, they had no access to my GP's records. Back at my GP's surgery, they had no record of what the out-of-hours service had given me. No harm was done, because I knew what medication I'd been prescribed and could tell them. But is that always the case? Again, I'm forced to wonder: if BP, Sainsbury's and Gala Bingo can get it together to put points onto my Nectar card, why can't the NHS put all my health information in one place? Perhaps even a place I can access?Things could be changing.The NHS recently announced a new pilot scheme that might address these issues.HealthSpacewill give patients access to their medical records online; a very sensible idea. That is, if it actually materialises.The NHS has a disturbing track record in large IT projects. After five years of work, the Lorenzo patient administration system is nowfour years' behind scheduleand has lost bothmajor contractor Fujitsuand consultants Accenture. Millennium, a similar system for London and the south has been labelled "not fit for purpose". And government IT projects don't have the best record for data security; something that's even more worrying when it concerns sensitive health information.Why is this so hard to get right?It is, of course, a massive project to centrally store complex records for 60 million people. And, in conversation with doctor friends, it seems that this idea of central storage might be the problem. Patient-held records, stored on a pin-protected card, would put the power back into the hands of the patients  and the complex infrastructure problems of getting diverse systems all over the country to communicate would no longer exist.But perhaps, for the paternalistic NHS, the idea of trusting the patients  who, after all, pay for the service  still seems ridiculous.Naomi Alderman is a novelist and games writer
The first thing David Braben does is point out how lucky he feels."It was a case of right place, right time," he says, surrounded by more than 160 game developers who work at his Frontier studio on the outskirts of Cambridge.Luck was something in short supply in 1982, when Braben wrote Elite with his then-colleague Ian Bell. The pair were trying to create something different: a game without an end. The result, the spacefaring trading game Elite, was hard for some people to get their heads around  including the publishers they needed to sell the game."Elite broke virtually all the rules," he says. "Publishers at the time weren't interested  they wanted something where you had three lives, that took 10 minutes to complete."That was until a meeting with AcornSoft, which decided to take the title on. It was an inspired decision: the game went on to sell a million copies, becoming one of the most influential games of all time  even the producers of Grand Theft Auto have likened their bestseller to a hi-tech, urban equivalent of Elite.Since then things have moved on a little. Braben now runsFrontier, an independent developer who recently launched Lost Winds, a Wii title, to critical acclaim. The studio has another game under development calledThe Outsider an immersive, open-ended thriller about someone accused of assassinating the US president.Braben is proud of his achievements, and of how important and mature the British games industry has become in the past 25 years."A lot of people from around then have managed to create a very big industry out of nothing. For a small country, that's impressive," he says. "We've now got a company full of people who like games; not businessmen from other industries with no love for them."Despite being optimistic about the future, he also sees threats on the horizon  including a lack of graduates with the right training."One of the problems at the moment is that we're the most expensive country to set up in and we've got a real skill shortage," he says. "There are fewer maths, computer science and physics graduates coming through, while in parallel there's been a rise in computer games courses."Braben admits that such courses offer some value, but he says they do not produce the intimate knowledge of programming and that he requires."The thing is that most kids these days know a huge amount about games anyway; you pick it up just by playing. But the skills you need to make games are different to what they teach. There are exceptions, of course, but as a general rule they don't teach what we need."Still, he remains positive about games in general. He's a fan of the GTA franchise, and mentions others working at the forefront of expansive, intelligent games."Bioware does some interesting things, and Peter Molyneux is pushing the boundaries," he says. "And I'm very interested in Spore."So, 25 years ago, did he ever think the games industry would get where it is today?"In terms of machine performance, we're around where I thought we'd be  things like the PlayStation 3, these are cutting edge machines. But in terms of the software to use on them? I think we're lagging behind.""We're still at the beginnings of the industry, though. The changes are all gradual  look at a game from two to three years ago, and it's so much less sophisticated," he says."The way you interact with characters, the depth of stories; these are all moving quickly. The point of the old days was that people could experiment, and now it's coming full circle: developers like us can try things out, but you've got so much more in terms of resources."
TheWikigamecontinues along its happy path towards development enlightenment, aiming to be complete - or at least playable - by the end of this month. There have been a few minor stumbles (our own CT Miller has had to concede that his imminent move to the West Coast of America must take priority for the next few weeks and will be sorely missed), but we've come this far thanks to the kind assistance of the gamesblog massive and we're going to prevail.TheUpper Deckof the Spaceship has been completely signed off, and the coders are grappling withInform7, the language they've chosen to use to realise the designers' crazy dreams. According to Perrin, our in-house game designer who's being cajoled into a potential coding leadership position by the others, "I like inform7 it's strange but pleasant to work with. Inform7 is very transparent code. It's all written in natural language".We expect to have a playablesomething- even if it is just a couple of rooms - by the end of next week, so get your interactive fiction player hats on. We're excited to hear your feedback - and there'll be more ways you can help out after then! And if you fancy learning a new language, forget Spanish or Chinese, Inform7 could be in your future! Check out the coding pagehere.
Google is starting to roll out a new feature that will help make Gmail more secure for people who use Firefox and Internet Explorer 7. TheOfficial Gmail blogsays: "At the bottom of your inbox, you'll see information about the time of the last activity on your account and whether it's still open in another location."Clicking the link will also show "Recent activity": when and how you logged on (eg POP3, Mobile), and your IP address. It will also let you sign out of all sessions remotely.This is just the sort of thing that should be readily available onallonline services.....
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Friend of the (games)Blog and founder of theVirtual Policy Networkthink tank, Ren Reynolds has announced a virtual worlds-oriented conference happening in two weeks time, just before the busy Develop Conference takes off in Brighton. It's calledVirtual Policy 08and is co-sponsored by BERR, theDepartment for Business Enterprise and Regulatory Reform(former DTI). Taking as its starting pointsfour key legal and regulatory issues, this event aims to bring together practitioners, policy makers and public servants for two days to grapple with Intellectual Property Rights, Financial Transaction, Children Online and Governance Frameworks.From Ren's post onTerra Nova,What interests me about this event is that much of the debate about virtual worlds that one sees in academia, at least, has been driven by the US. This means that North American issues, rhetoric and sensibilities have been given primacy. Hosting an event in the UK should help to flush out those areas where Europeans either don't think an issue is important or have a very different framing of it.Virtual Policy 08 takes place in London on 22nd &amp; 23rd July. More information ishere.
I was away yesterday so you may have alreadyseen thisbut really, I couldn't let it pass. Microsoft's Aaron Greenberg has suggested that the Wii is a novelty and users will eventually want to "graduate" to the 360. Talking about the Wii he said:"You see they're not buying games on it, right? They're buying it, it's like something they break out when people come over, and it's maybe a fun thing, but it's almost like the same people that buy a karaoke machine, you know? They're not really buying it for games, they're just buying it as a novelty."Ouch. Though obviously he does have a point. Sure the likes of Okami and Mario Galaxy are worthy of any gamer. But if that was all the Wii had to offer it would be bumping along in third place Gamecube style. Clearly Wii Sports, innovative controls and that "break out when people come over" factor are the main reasons the Wii has been such a hit. But where Greenberg goes wrong is assuming that all Wii owners are pre-teens who will eventually want to play on the 360."I think that there's a difference in the type of customer that is buying the Wii. When you think about it, there's a difference between trying to be the number one console with nine year old gamers, and being the console that offers the most experiences from 13 to 33."What about older Wii owners perfectly happy with more casual stuff? Or those Wii owners potentially tempted by online play but who don't fancy grief from 15 year old sharpshooters? And of course, he doesn't mention Wii gamers "graduating" to the PS3. Anyway, what do you think then? Is the Wii merely a novelty training platform for young gamers? Or is this just fighting/desperate talk from a Microsoft desperate to expand the 360's market away from the hardcore?
