CNN's website hasa misty-eyed featurecelebrating the 25th anniversary of the Commodore 64, perhaps the key home computer gaming platform of the early eighties. The piece talks about the enduring appeal of the machine among wistful thirty-somethings, namecheckingC64.com, the hub of Commodore fandom on the web. It also gets in lots of quotes from programmers, who loved the hardware for its simplicity and the fact that you could write directly to the processor (how many games featured the tantalisingly obscure legend '100% machine code' on the cover?), but recognised that its BASIC implementation was clunky and that its diskdrive made more noise than a choir of Xbox 360s performing in the midst of a hurricane.I'm certain a lot of the lasting appeal is down to the brilliant SID sound chip, which produced - through the talent of musicians such as Rob Hubbard and Martin Galway - the best audio of any platform at the time. Those memorable C64 soundtracks coincided with - and complimented - the rise of computerised music in popular culture, which saw the arrival (or at least mainstream success) of synth pop bands like Ultravox, Human League and Depeche Mode as well as electro pioneers like Africa Bambaataa, Man Parrish and Egyptian Lover. Unlike the Spectrum, which existed in its own nerdy ghetto, C64 felt like it connected with something larger in the 'contemporary zeitgeist' - many years before PlayStation came along and claimed to legitimise gaming. Music, like smell, is a powerful nostalgic trigger and perhaps it's the one element of the eighties home computer experience that hasn't been degraded by time. That's why people are still playing Commodore music now, mashing it up for club nights or turning it into orchestral symphonies.Oh yes, and the games were good. If you were there you'll have your favourites - so share them with us. I loved Paradroid and still hope for a DS or mobile conversion. I also loved Dropzone, Elite, Forbidden Forest, Impossible Mission, Way of the Exploding Fist, Revenge of the Mutant Camels and California Games. And many - ohso many- more.
There's hope for the quirky games industry yet; last week,MCVreported that the unusual cooking simulation, Cooking Mama for the Nintendo DS, has sold over one million units in Europe alone. What a lovely surprise! The game has been so well-received that the developers intend to release a sequel, with even more recipes.Cooking Mama's the latest example of non-traditional computer games gone good. Most titles of this ilk come out of Japan and generally get a very limited release in Europe. Other imports that have done well include gamesblog favourite Katamari Damacy, personal fave Parappa the Rapper, musical puzzler Vib Ribbon, legal interactive story Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney, medical adventure Trauma Center and melody simulation Electroplankton. Perhaps it's not a surprise that most of these are on the Nintendo system, although the PlayStation too has its fair share. The Xbox's record for alternative titles isn't as great, but its outlet for off-the-beaten path games is Xbox Live, which should produce a library of unusual releases.
Our lead story this morning is that British prime minister Gordon Brown is appealing to hi-tech companies to try and encourage growth in developing countries and help fight poverty.As my colleagues Larry Elliott and Sarah Boseleyreported:Gordon Brown plans to harness at least 20 of the world's biggest multinational companies, including Google and Vodafone, to tackle a "development emergency" in the world's poorest countries[...]The prime minister has been holding talks with the internet and telecoms giants as well as other international companies including Goldman Sachs and Wal-Mart in an attempt to find ways of increasing growth in poor countries.It's not the first time that politicians have courted tech companies - although perhapsGoogle has better links with David Cameron's Toriesthan Brown's Labour - and it's unlikely to be the last.But what could Google really do? Of course, like most big companies, Google and Vodafone both have some form of corporate social responsibility effort. Indeed, the internet company has afoundationled by the excellently namedDr Larry Brilliant. And we've seen Bill Gates getting increasingly involved in aid and development as he moves away from Microsoft.The details of Brown's approach seem sketchy - I'm not sure whether he's going to be promoting private investment in public services, or simply encouraging huge corporates to start setting up business in developing nations and investing in their communities.But is it the business of technology companies to do this? Or is this a politician's attempt to bring in fresh blood when other forms of aid have failed?
Wii consoles bundled with games are selling on eBay for up to £1,000 following a shortage of supplies.The consoles are the most searched-for items on the ebay.co.uk auction website. Manufacturer Nintendo last month warned it could struggle to get enough stock into stores due to high global demand. eBay last week logged nearly 30,000 searches for the words Wii and Nintendo Wii on its UK website.That compares with 11,054 for the rival Xbox 360 console and 10,855 for the PlayStation 3. Nintendo said it was working at maximum production levels to boost supplies during the Christmas period.
MySpace is seeking to cement its reputation as the essential website for new bands by launching a music video channel called Earwig TV.The section aggregates videos and tracks from new bands in one place on the MySpace site and aims to help them find larger audiences and attract attention from record companies.Earwig TV will combine live gig footage with interviews and profiles of the bands.Fulham indie band The Clik Click and Cheltenham soul-punk outfit The Duke Spirit are two of the 11 bands featured for today's launch of Earwig TV.Palladium, The Raid, Milburn and Alphabeat are also being promoted, and feature in videos where they explain their influences and their mentors.Dom Cook, the marketing and content director at MySpace UK, said the News Corporation-owned social networking website is already "the home of music", adding that Earwig TV is a natural development for the site."Earwig TV is a place where music fans can discover new talent and be the first to hear about the acts of tomorrow," he said."We've picked the first set of bands because they're all creating a buzz at the moment as well as being prolific on the live scene in the last year."MySpace will invite new, unsigned bands to contact their talent hunters for a chance to appear on the channel and reach the 10 million people who use the site each month.The launch follows the announcement that MySpace is to start offering free music downloads on the site, starting with an album by Southern Californian punk band Pennywise in March.MySpace is also expected to announce a wide-ranging music downloads service in partnership with a string of major labels.The website has stated that it is aiming to become people's "home on the web", but its core user base of music fans and musicians is a key factor in setting it apart from rival social networking services Bebo and Facebook.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
The academic world has been sceptical of Wikipedia since its launch in 2001. Now the controversial website is suspicious of academics, following a scandal in which a world-renowned computer scientist has been banned from editing the online collaborative encyclopaedia.Carl Hewitt, associate professor emeritus in electrical engineering and computer science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is alleged to have disrupted Wikipedia for more than two years by using it for self-promotion, tampering with his own biography and manipulating computer science articles to inflate the importance of his own research. Senior academics in his field say the changes he made have rendered some entries in effect useless.Administrators have claimed that his 'disruptive' activities were 'hurting Wikipedia'. Hewitt was found to be citing his own work in articles where it was not relevant, obscuring points of view at odds with his own theories, and editing his biography to promote his forthcoming public appearances.Even though Hewitt has more than four decades of academic work and numerous plaudits behind him, his contribution to Wikipedia was seen as so damaging that one administrator involved in an arbitration concluded: 'I do not believe Wikipedia would be improved by allowing Carl to edit articles on computer science, physics and mathematics.'In his defence, Hewitt claims on a Wikipedia talk page he is being 'censored' and 'harassed' by Wikipedia administrators and users. He has requested that his biography be deleted from the encyclopaedia, blaming 'repeated vandalism' for making it 'continually inaccurate' so that it 'significantly misrepresents both me and my work.' An arbitration committee has rejected his request, and his biography stands with Hewitt powerless to change it.The banning of Hewitt shows that the academic community is in fact actively involved in editing Wikipedia, but may be no more reliable and trustworthy than any other group of users.  As users prepare to redraft the computer science articles without Hewitt's input, no one is sure why a world-class expert would go to such extremes to promote himself. 'Hewitt may have a legitimate complaint about the lack of recognition that his work has received,' said Kowalski. 'It's a pity he couldn't find a better way to achieve it.'
When the history of our digital times comes to be written, one of the questions that will puzzle historians is why the record companies missed the significance of the internet.Just think about it. Throughout the post-war period, theirs was a big and powerful industry making shedloads of money, and controlling just about everything - recording artists, publishers, distributors and retailers. By 1982, music had gone digital. (The first CDs went on sale that year.) So recording studios converted the sounds made by musicians into bitstreams - long sequences of ones and zeroes - while, at the consumer end, CD players converted those bits back into high-fidelity sound.The problem was: how to get the bitstreams from the recording studio to the consumer? The solution was to 'burn' the bits onto plastic disks which were labelled, packed in (fragile) plastic cases, boxed and shipped to distributors' warehouses. From there they were ferried to retailers, who removed the disks from their cases and filed them in shelves behind the counter while leaving the case and its associated sleeve artwork out for browsing by customers.Customers would take the empty case to the counter and hand over their money, after which the disk was fetched from its hiding place and replaced in the box. Once home, the customer inserted the disk in his or her CD player, and the sound of music filled the room.This palaver of 'shipping atoms to ship bits' (as IT guru Nicholas Negroponte dubbed it) was probably the only way to do it at the beginning. But it was expensive, inefficient, inelegant and uneconomic: nearly 50 per cent of the retail price of a CD was taken up by the costs of manufacture and distribution.The internet as we know it today was switched on in January 1983, and at that point a light ought to have gone on in the heads of senior management of recording companies. For the net was effectively a vast machine for shipping bits from one place to another - efficiently, quickly and at virtually zero cost. As far as the record industry was concerned, it was a technology made in heaven; it held out the prospect of halving their costs and quadrupling their profits.So did the music companies fall upon the internet like ravening wolves? Like hell they did. First, they ignored it. Then, when Shawn Fanning launched Napster - the original file-sharing service - they called their lawyers. Then they started suing file-sharers and companies which operated peer-to-peer networks. Then the bands themselves, notably rockers Metallica, joined in the legal action. And finally they all started prosecuting teenagers and intimidating their parents. And while all this was going on, CD sales went into freefall, revenues collapsed and profits eroded.As Ted Cohen, a former executive at EMI and Warner Brothers put it: 'The record labels had an opportunity to create a digital ecosystem and infrastructure to sell music online, but they kept looking at the small picture instead of the big one. They wouldn't let go of CDs.' It was one of the greatest examples in history of collective corporate stupidity.So the 64-billion-dollar question is: how did it happen? The obvious hypothesis - that the senior executives of all the record companies were idiots - has always seemed implausible to me. Or it did until I read the recent interview in Wired magazine with Doug Morris, chairman and CEO of Universal Music Group. Morris's ascent to the top of Universal in the 1990s coincided with the rise of CDs - the biggest boom the music business has ever known. The colossal profits blinded Morris &amp; Co to the threat/potential of the net.Pressed by the interviewer, Morris went into rant mode, insisting that there wasn't a thing he or anyone else could have done differently. 'There's no one in the record company that's a technologist,' he said. 'That's a misconception writers make all the time, that the record industry missed this. They didn't. They just didn't know what to do. It's like if you were suddenly asked to operate on your dog to remove his kidney. What would you do?'Why didn't they hire people who understood the stuff? 'We didn't know who to hire,' he responded. 'I wouldn't be able to recognise a good technology person - anyone with a good bullshit story would have gotten past me.' It beggars belief but maybe the reason the record industry screwed up can be summed up in two words: wilful cluelessness.
"RoboPhilo is a compact personal robot that offers a level of sophistication you usually don't find in robots for under $1,000, let alone in one that costs less than 500 clams," saysTechnabob.It's on sale at the theRoboBrothersweb site.Sorry, you'll have to wait a while for one that can do the washing up.....
"Western Digital is disabling sharing of any avi, divx, mp3, mpeg, and many other files on its network connected devices; due to unverifiable media license authentication'," saysBoing Boing. This is aMy Book World Edition1 Terabyte network-connected hard drive, and there's an answer toWhat files cannot be shared by WD Anywhere Access?The simple solution, according toWired, is: "Don't install the 'required' client software!" Another alternative is toinstall Linux.The limitations do seem to undercut the sales pitch for the drive, which is: "Share and access your data anywhere, anytime, even when your local computer is off."Do you think Western Digital knows how to spell "commercial suicide"?
In print, space is limited foryour letters and blog pingbacks. Here, it ain't. Click through to see what people thought of government data, organic solar cells, and Apple's icons for Leopard, inter alia.GOVERNMENT DATAI have been reading Michael Cross' article about gov IT prompted by the loss of child benefit records. I can't help wondering - why the government secure intranet wasnt used to send this data, and - surely such a massive database would have fairly sophistacated querying capability, why was so much data sent - why established information governance procedures arent in place This smacks a lot of internal fraud- are the police investigating this incident? Anna Harvey, EastbourneYour articles really miss what for me is the fundamental point in this. The office which sent the data apparently was unable to strip out the sensitive information from the file on its own. Much of the rest of the story is bizarre but understandable. It is very odd that it was possible to extract a database of 25 million people unencrypted, and copy it to a file, but maybe it will turn out this could only be done under strict safeguards. Unlikely but possible. That they were then unable to encrypt it before sending also seems very odd indeed. However, that they were unable to use Perl or Awk to strip out the data boggles belief. It says that they do not have on site even one competent systems administrator with half an hour to spare. This sort of file manipulation is something you learn very early on. Without the ability to do modest amounts of shell scripting, you simply have no business working in IT support. And to extract from a file, even a file with 25 million records, four or five columns only, requires quite literally a one-line shell command. It is as simple as typing in just one line of code as a command. One imagines a world in which the only thing they and their admins have learned is how to run Windows as if it were a washing machine, but heaven help them if it needs any servicing. This is what has to be remedied. Its nothing to do with IT and democracy. Its to do with competence and training in how to use the tools supplied. Peter Berrie, LondonThe most sensible thing I've read on the data loss fiasco. Exactly the same is happening in Local Govt. IT slowly being privatised, in house skills lost and suppliers charging what they like as management are not capable of understanding or implementing the contracts. If only people realised how their Council Tax was being wasted. [name and address withheld by request]&gt;&gt; Things are rather different in Greece. Not that there is less bureaucracy- God forbid- but there is no such thing as "sensitive personal information". If for example someone managed to steal all your personal details, they would have nothing to gain from them! In Greece it is impossible to access a bank account just by knowing the number or names and addresses. You would need a "deposit's book" and you ID card! And although the Greek authorities are perfectly capable of losing a couple of CDs with sensitive information, no one would bother with the fact.http://mariapin.blogspot.com/&gt;&gt; I asked... what would happen in Sweden if Skatteverket (the equivalent of HMRC) had lost personal data CDs, and whether a Minister would be put under pressure in the same way as Alistair Darling was. Her answer was a resounding 'no' - it's an administrative matter, and the head of Skatteverket would have to face the press.http://blog.jonworth.eu/&gt;&gt; This is what decent journalism is all about. Understanding your subject, not trying for the cheap 'gotcha', offering an insight into the subject for the layman, making a case coherently, doing it consistently without any ulterior motive. And being right.http://nevertrustahippy.blogspot.com/OLPC'S CHALLENGE&gt;&gt; The laptops are cool and might be worth buying in their own right -- but the greatest technology in the world will not turn the continent around. Here's why. Prosperity is not built on technology -- it is built on a platform of fundamental human rights. Prosperity can only be created in a society that respects property, the rule of law and free markets (not something the left is yet adept at defending or understanding). One Laptop Per Child succumbs to the Jeffrey Sachs fallacy - the "Poverty Trap" lie.http://disaffiliates.blogspot.com/SIMPLER SCIENCE&gt;&gt; If nature is full of tiny calculating machines - and twentieth-century science has been ignoring the study of ultra-simple computers in order to do lots of complicated differential calculus, then to a large extent science has been missing the point of... well, of science. And the proof mentioned in Tom's article - if it holds up - demonstrates that it's possible to create a fully functional computer, one that could in principle run Excel and Tomb Raider, from a design that's much simpler than any computer anyone else has ever conceived of.http://www.snowbooks.com/weblog/ORGANIC SOLAR CELLSInteresting article. However, you conclude in the "Powering up the numbers" section: "40%: The amount of light energy converted to electricity using silicon solar cells" But the article states "Greenham says the world record for silicon solar cell efficiency - the conversion of light energy to electricity - is more than 40%, but standard cells are between 10% and 15%". You should include "can be" or change the "40%" between "10% and 15% from standard cells". Robin Murray, AEA Energy &amp; Environment, BeijingGood article on the cheap solar energy but thought the very last section powering up the numbers was slightly misleading when it says "40%: the amount of light energy converted to electricity using silicon solar cells" when in your article you say that is the world record but the average is around 10-15%, this makes out that the average efficacy is 40%. At least how I read it. But otherwise enjoyed reading it, always think the Gaurdian do a good job covering science and tech better than most. Phil Bentley, BG Energy Holdings Limited, ReadingThe report on organic solar cells by Michael Pollitt (Thursday 29th Nov) was a lot more accurate than most on the subject but the record 40% efficiency was not with silicon solar cells. It was a triple-junction gallium indium phosphide, gallium indium arsenide, germanium structure (seehttp://compoundsemiconductor.net/cws/article/news/26606). Although very expensive per unit area, these cells operate at concentration ratios of several hundred so that only a fraction of a percent of the collecting area needs to be covered by the semiconductor. Tiny cells a few millimetres across sit spaced out behind an array of plastic lenses. Thin film cells cannot work at high concentration ratios. Concentrator schemes only work well in low cloud areas where most of the sunlight is direct and they must be used with a moving tracker system. In the UK much of the available light is diffuse. Any single junction solar cell is limited to about 28% efficiency and silicon is limited to 27% 23% efficiency at cell level and 18% at module level has been achieved in silicon by Sunpower Corp and Hitachi. Although organic solar cells are very exciting, I worry about their durability. Organic chemical bonds are easily broken by ultra-violet light. Silicon in contrast, as a pure element, is almost immune. I have not seen this crucial factor discussed anywhere. Nick Rouse, Plumpton GreenCOPYRIGHT TERMSFor Victor Keegan to equate using a published source for inspiration with a direct breach of copyright is disingenuous. I imagine that he is commenting from the perspective of a salaried staff writer. His constant wage replaces future royalties and the copyright is assigned to the publisher - The Guardian. For an author earning a living book to book, copyright lasting just 15 years will cut them off from small but significant sums that help to keep a roof over their head. Authors who sell in large numbers are rare indeed. 15 years and a day from the publication of a popular book, the publishing and film industries will descend on the work in order to exploit it for free. Any success will generate profits for them alone. Given that there is zero chance that authors would be paid more at the outset in order to balance the division of spoils, why exactly does Mr Keegan that this is a just solution? Rodney Sims, Hundon&gt;&gt; At a bare minimum, any item of Hollywood's in copyright would be locked down for 140 years!?!? :O WTF??? Copyright should be slashed down to 15 years. Period IMHO.http://devastator.wordpress.com/MAP PRICINGOrdnance Survey mapping prices (for paper maps) seem to defy logic. They are good value at 50k (Landranger) and 25k (Explorer) scales, at around £7-£8 for an accurately printed colour map about a square metre in area. But at larger scales its much worse. At 10k it works out at £240 per square metre of paper map! At even larger scales of 2.5k and 1.25k its £375 per square metre. This defies commercial logic, as the general public just walks away, so OS loses sales. At these prices you would take pride in finding odd planning maps in libraries etc or on lamp-posts, and photocopying these. Planning departments, solicitors etc have to have these maps but pass the cost onto the public anyway via fees and council tax. The OS are well rehearsed in this criticism, and say there are so many of these map sheets (10,000 for the whole of GB at 10k scale, a lot more at the larger scales) that costs are high. The maps are small, 40 or 50cm across, so why not print bigger areas as the OS did when the 25k Pathfinder series was replaced with the Explorer? As your "Free our data" campaign often says, the digital data doesnt incur paper costs, yet the latter is also very expensive at these larger scales. Finally, the Spanish province of Catalunya should join the list of free mapping sources, and they are more advanced by offering GPS-ready data. At 10k and 25k map scales you can download maps in the sdw format which makes them suitable for use in those satnavs, PCs or PDAs which run applications supporting the sdw format. See http://www.icc.cat/portal/index_c.jsp?lang=en_UK&amp;profile=pro Other Spanish provinces have free downloads, but just the map images without the calibration data, but its quite easy to calibrate the images yourself. Richard Gosnell, Wootton BassettAPPLE VS PC AGAINOn MAC OSX 10.5 ( Leopard) the icon view for a PC has a bulgy-screen PC CRT monitor indicating yet another PC bluescreen crash. ( see attached file). Should the MAC have a similar one with the old beachball of death icon? When will Apple grow up and stop this infantile sniping? John Wright, Wiltshire
The TechCrunch blog has launched theCrunchies 2007, a new awards scheme intended to recognise the best start-ups in 2007. Visitors to the site will be able to vote on a shortlist from Thursday, December 13. The winners will be announced on January 18 at a ceremony at the Herbst Theater in San Francisco.It's not just a TechCrunch project, but is said to have the backing of GigaOm, Read/WriteWeb and VentureBeat.So far there have been 18,186 nominations. However, I'd bet that the majority are for start-ups that were launched in 2006 or earlier.Sites that want to be nominated canwear a badge.The net already has award schemes that few people care about, but could the Crunchies develop into something more useful than a TechCrunch promotional device.
CompUSA's remaining 103 stores will run closing down sales before shutting up shop, in a rare defeat for Mexico's Carlos Slim Helu, who is challenging Bill Gates as the richest man in the world. The company has been sold to "an affiliate of Gordon Brothers Group, a restructuring firm," reportsAP. It says:Dallas-based CompUSA has struggled for nearly a decade with falling prices on personal computers, its most important product, and competition from big-box retailers such as Best Buy.Helu took the company private in 2000. The chain went through several CEOs and tried different turnaround strategies, such as a move this year to focus on core customers such as gadget users and small-business owners.BusinessWeekreported at the time of Helu's purchase, in 2000:Slim, who has built up an empire with annual sales of $16 billion by snapping up distressed companies at discount prices, sees CompUSA as another undervalued asset. He acquired 14.8% of the company's shares last year, and now he wants full control. Together with his son, Grupo Sanborns CEO Carlos Slim Domit, 32, he not only intends to turn CompUSA around but to make the chain the cornerstone of a major US expansion into retail and e-commerce. ''CompUSA is just one part of a larger, long-term project,'' says Slim. Eventually, he wants to sell US customers not only computers, but the technology to run sophisticated systems in their homes, cars, and offices.At that time, CompUSA had a network of 217 superstores.Clearly a lot of people didn't like what CompUSA offered. However, in many areas they seem to have been the only stores stocking a significant range of PC components.
Dean Hachamovitch hasn't been spending all his time decidingwhat's in Internet Explorer 8. He's posted some "possible" names for it on theIE Blog:IE 7+1 IE VIII IE 1000 (think binary) IE Eight! iIE IE for Web 2.0 (Service Pack 2) IE Desktop Online Web Browser Live Professional Ultimate Edition for the Internet (the marketing team really pushed for this one ;-) Ie2.079 (we might still use this for the Math Major Edition)Any other offers?Hachamovitch's post currently has 363 comments, a large proportion of them from people who either have no sense of humour or don't think IE8 is a joking matter...
Dear RockersMany of us own music that we didn't pay for. In some cases, that music resides on a TDK C90 cassette tape we can no longer play rather than a Creative Zen, but the crime's just the same. While we feel little guilt for shafting the evil record companies, we do occasionally feel a pang of regret at the cash we may have denied our favourite artists. This blog has hit on a solution to ease your guilt: send your spare change along with a letter directly to a rock star you have wronged. Some of the letters are simple and to the point - "Dear OMD, Thanks for summing it all up, buy a pint on me" - others go into scrawled epiphanies about guitar solos, while one Wolf Parade fan has sent his favourite band advance payment of &pound;5 for the new stuff he'll shortly be illegally downloading because he's too excited to wait.dearrockers.orgBee MovieJerry Seinfeld's animated adventure about our little yellow and black, nectar-loving friends has received mixed reviews in the US, but there's no denying that it looks great and, if the trailers are anything to go by, features the same jokes about life's minutiae (except with more honey) as he brought to his eponymous sitcom. The website is a blast, with clips and videos galore - if you want cast interviews, there are hours of the stuff. Best of all are three very high quality games that, unlike the usual fare you'd expect from sites such as this are complex, difficult to master, detailed and excellent fun (especially if you're under 10). OK, one of them's a Spelling Bee, but it's a good one.beemovie.comWhat we learned on the web this week&middot;How to getsacked from the London Undergroundtinyurl.com/3b3qqw&middot;Michelangelo's Davidhas put on a bit of weighttinyurl.com/2s78tr&middot;What it was liketo be a second world war airmanlearningcurve.gov.uk&middot;There's a freaky fakeLondon in Shanghaithamestown.com&middot;Where to watch150 Monty Python sketchestinyurl.com/3bfrzk&middot;Will Ferrellhas a lovely head of hair, and even lovelier chest hairsemipromovie.com&middot;Zac Efron'sMan-nytail is cuter than Heath Ledger'stinyurl.com/2o9q44&middot;A day in the lifeof a Canadian car park (tinyurl.com/2pxgfb) is marginally more interesting than a day in the life of a Japanese vending machine (jihan.sblo.jp)&middot;Where to get freeand legal Cold War Kids tracksrcrdlbl.com&middot;Fat Harry Whitelives ontinyurl.com/35luuc&middot;The home ofthe grooviest groovesgroovygrooves.comBlog Roll TVAndrew Collinswherediditallgoright.com/BLOGInsider opinions from the sitcom writer and broadcaster, including much love for Simon Pegg's Spaced.TV Scooptvscoop.tvApparently enjoying I'm A Celebrity was like eating KFC for breakfast. Or a crocodile's penis. Possibly the same thing.Low Culturelowculture.co.ukLovingly bitchy message board plus a blog that is watching Love Trap so we don't have to.Available For Pantoavailableforpanto.comKeeping you abreast of former Big Brother contestants releasing exercise videos and turning on the Christmas lights in Ilford.Off The Tellyoffthetelly.co.ukCelebrating football commentators, Curb Your Enthusiasm and Jack Dee's Lead Balloon.TV Newsroomtvnewsroom.co.ukNews from a website obsessed with the news and nothing but the news.
Dork Talk will devote itself over the next two weeks to those of you who regularly browse the web but don't consider yourselves in any way expert at techy, dweeby, geeky things. I want to show you how to enhance your browsing experience with a few simple alterations to your set-up. They don't involve any kind of specialist knowledge and they are all reversible.Technical types can look away and snort gently: this is aimed at - well, I have many friends who can, so to speak, drive around the web, but who have never thought much about the software vehicle taking them through the traffic.The conveyance in question, the application you use for visiting websites, is called a browser. Internet Explorer (IE) and Safari are the browsers that come bundled with Windows and the Mac Operating System respectively. I'm going to suggest you say goodbye to them and try running around with Firefox for a while. IE is pants, pure and simple. Safari is clean, elegant and fast (and now comes in a superb Windows implementation), but Firefox has one advantage: customisability. It is an Open Source application, which means anyone can programme for it, producing free, publicly accessible enhancements and add-ons that improve power, flexibility, function, speed and appearance.Download the latest version of Firefox frommozilla.comand fire it up. Don't delete your old browser, especially if you're a Windows user: Microsoft, with signature bullying arrogance and clumsiness, insists on IE's use for certain plodding system update procedures, bleugh! Those aside, you are going to be using nothing but Firefox for two weeks in an I-guarantee-you'll-change-your-margarine-for-good type test, so the first thing you should do is click Tools-Options (Firefox-Preferences on a Mac) and select the option in the Main tab that allows the app to check to see if it is the "default browser": this is important because it means whenever you click a weblink in an email or document, that page will now automatically open in Firefox.The next thing I would recommend is to use Tabs to create a home page of four or five favourite sites. From a blank single page you enter "news.bbc.co.uk" (or your chosen equivalent), then click "Control-Tab" and in the new page enter, say, "pro.imdb.com", repeating this procedure until all the sites are entered, each in a new tab. Next go to Tools-Options and select Use Current Pages from the Startup section of the Main tab. Note the plural. This is now something all major browsers allow you to do - have multiple sites tabbed inside your opening home page.You may notice that the tools menu also contains the option Add-ons, identified by a jigsaw puzzle piece. There are thousands of add-ons for Firefox: if you want to see how insanely you can personalise, go tohttp://www.librarian.net/talks/cil2007/FF_fullscreen_large.png.Don't be afraid to be just as silly when you get started with modifying your workspace - you can always rein back your excesses, but the experience of throwing in everything is the best way to find out a great deal about the process without it seeming like a learning curve. The heuristic approach, innit?Add-ons are divided into two types, Extensions, which we'll look at next week, and Themes. Themes are essentially "skins" or cosmetic makeovers that present the browser and its main features in new colourways, fonts and stylings. It may seem superficial to spend time on the appearance of your browser, but bear with me, I think you'll enjoy yourself.So select Tools-Add-ons and click on the Themes artist's palette icon: you will see that Firefox Default is your only installed theme, but that there is a Get Themes link in the bottom right-hand corner. Click it and you find yourself directed to a gallery where hundreds and hundreds of different designs await you. Personally I like Frank Lion's "Aluminium Kai" and "Mostly Crystal" by CatThief, but you'll soon find your own favourites. All you have to do is click, install and restart Firefox to admire the effect. Play with as many themes as you like; you'll see how easy it is to uninstall them. Next week we go beneath the skin...&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
MondayPS3 outsells WiiActivision BlizzardTuesday360 movie service launches on the 11th DecXbox 360 updatedIndie game award finalists announcedWednesdayMTV starts virtual world10 games your children shouldn't playThursdayGamespot updateShocking teen trendsCruel Dreamcast 2 rumours and moreLatest Eve Online patch does bad things to WindowsFridayPS3 big hitter dayGame characters you must closely identify with
It is important to remember how important scepticism is. The woman who exposed John Darwin and his wife was fuelled by a suitable dose of I-don't-believe-it. She found the picture of Darwin and his wife Anne in Panamasimply by entering the words"John Anne Panama" into Google. John Darwin was certainly not dead, even if his life insurance had been claimed.I'd like to think I'm following the same pole star in this story, which is about credulous bloggers and subtle uses of the web for making money.It starts like this. Let's say you're a site offering cash advances - better known as loans. You want to be on the top of Google's results when someone searches for "cash advance". How do you do it? Easy. Get bloggers to point to your site. For free. Bloggers have too much self-esteem, you cry - they'd never push aloanssite up the rankings. They're too canny, too cynical.Wrong. Bloggers today offer a great resource for the clever to exploit.  If you're a loans site looking to boost your ranking, you can probably do it for about the cost of drawing up a few graphics in an afternoon and seeding a suitably influential blog. Pretty soon you'll have hundreds of people copying it.Being pointed at by influential peopleIf the graphics have a sneaky connection to your "cash advance" site - say, the "ALT" tag and text (which is displayed if the image isn't, and is always read by search engines) - then if lots of bloggers use your images, and your HTML with the ALT tag, you'll be pointed to by influential people, and Google and probably other search engines will rank you number one. Result!And what's better, if your original graphics vanish, all that's left is the ALT tag and the link to your site, and by then most of the bloggers will have forgotten about it anyway. Long-term result!And so we come to the story of the Blog Readability Test, which appeared - apparently out of the blue - one day on a page within thecriticsrantsite. Criticsrantcalls itselfa "multi-author blog" dedicated to offering opinions about films and TV.There's no link I can find from the main pages of the site to the "Blog Readability" test (a search on the phrase turns up zero results; Google concurs, finding only the page itself).Yet on November 2, Wired's Underwire blog had a posttriumphantly notinghow New Scientist and the Huffington Post - and the Underwire blog itself - were "not as smart as we thought". That post is the first citation I canfind via Technoratilinking to the "Blog Readability Test" URL -http://www.criticsrant.com/bb/reading_level.aspx. And of course, Wired is a pretty high-influence blog. Post something there and quite a few people will pick it up.Sonia Zjawinski, who wrote the post, tells me that while she usually aims to credit the sources of her posts, "I actually have no clue where I found this. It was just one of those dumb things you come across when skimming blogs and websites."The chart (above) shows Technorati's count of posts in English that contain "blog readability" per day for the last 60 days up to December 6. See how the phrase abruptly leaps around the start of November, just after that Wired post? Presently, there are 685 results. Remember that number. We'll use it later.Obscure directory nameOdd thing about that URL for the test: the directory. "bb" is such a... well, out of the way name for a directory. It's the sort of thing you'd use if you, I dunno, hadhackeda site and were adding directories almost at random. Looking at the source of the page, it uses its own CSS file - not the main site's. (The Google Analytics tracking account used - UA-1932440-1 - matches the main site's, though it's quite easy to copy that text from any page.)Anyway, once you've input your blog's URL, you'll quickly get a graphic showing your blog's "readability" by school age - elementary school, high school, undergraduate, postgraduate, genius and so on. It seems to happen really fast, given the sort of linguistic analysis that must be needed, but computersarefast these days, aren't they?Then you have an image, which you can - if you've got the time and energy - copy, upload to your blog, and display; or a bit of HTML, which is much simpler, to paste in your page or profile. No muss, no fuss.I was looking at this when I started wondering about the HTML. It has an image link - img style="border: none;" src="http://www.criticsrant.com/bb/readinglevel/img/junior_high.jpg". All well and good. But then there's the ALT tag - remember, the stuff that search engines actually index: alt="cash advance" Get a Cash  Advance".And that phrase "cash advance" has a link to an entirely different site, called cashadvance1500.com.Now, what happens when happy bloggers - or MySpacers, or Facebookers, or whatever, laughing over their blog's or profile's readability or lack of it, paste the code on their site? Search engines index their site and find a link from them pointing to "cash advance" and that site. Well, that sounds like a recommendation for the site, the search engines decide.Top of the rankingsThe result? When you do aGoogle search for "cash advance", lo and behold, there at the top of the "natural" results is cashadvance1500.com.Since it's a site which only has 77 "normal" sitespointing towards it, coming top of that search seems quite a result. Until, of course, you remember the 685-odd blogs linking to it via their ALT tags.There are some questions I'd still like to know the answer to:- How was the Underwire blog told about the Blog Readability test? I've asked the writer and editor. They haven't replied to my email early Thursday.- Do the people who run Critics Rant have any connection with the Blog Readability test? Do they even know it's there? I emailed them on Wednesday; they haven't replied.- Does cashadvance1500 have a commercial or other connection with the people who devised the Blog Readability test? They haven't replied to my email.- Is Critics Rant getting paid for the bandwidth that the Readability test is using? Again, no reply.The thing is, I can only come up with a couple of scenarios for how this has happened. One: the cashadvance1500 people have paid Critics Rant to put the page up. Two: someone acting for cashadvance1500 hacked the Critics Rant site and put the page up. Or, just possibly, to allow for complete scepticism about everyone's motives, someone hacked the Critics Rant site and put up the links in the hope it would reflect badly on the loan people. (Didn't really succeed, did it?) Or, finally, Critics Rant put the page up spontaneously with the links, intentionally not linking to it themselves, to promote the loan people. (Not so impossible: traceroute suggests both sites have the same host.)It's a twisted world, the net. Perhaps John Darwin did get to London and lost his memory - which is why he walked into the police station. But when you're trying to figure out motives, it's usually a good idea to follow the money. Even if it's only the promise of loaning you some in the future.
Seemed like a good idea: if you can't get the kids to read Shakespeare's works, get them to play them. As virtual worlds.And so in October 2006 Edward Castronova was given a $240,000 grant by the MacArthur Foundation to build a virtual world with Shakespeare's works. The first,he said, would be built around Richard III:It's a story that has lots and lots of secret conniving and deal-making and battles and political intrigue. And it's historical, so that means it's really easy for us to take all the (usual) fantasy (game) stuff like knights in shining armor and peasants and woodworkers and they just fit right into "Richard III" right away. The way we envision it is once you get this thing going, I'll have another crop of students come in and say, "OK, what play are we doing this year?" And we'll say, "Well, let's do a post-apocalyptic 'Macbeth.'"There was even going to be an in-world currency:It's going to be the Old English currency, which will be kind of cumbersome to learn. But you'll learn something about what it was like, so when you see a Shakespeare play and they talk about money, you'll have a clue what they're talking about. But we're going to start with a crafting economy: resources and harvesting and things like that.(Thinks: hmm, I'm sure people would love a virtual world where they're counting in groats, and you have to multiply by 12 and 20 to make up units.)So Castronova and the team got to work and built the virtual world, called Arden.Unfortunately, while you might think that where there's a Will there's a play, it hasn't worked out. Technology Reviewexplains:Players can enter the game and explore a town called Ilminster, where they encounter characters from Shakespeare, along with many plots and quotations. They can answer trivia questions to improve their characters and play card games with other players. Coming from Castronova, a pioneer in the field, the game was expected by many to show the power of virtual-world-based research.But Castronova says that there's a problem with the game: "It's no fun." While focusing on including references to the bard, he says, his team ended up sidelining some of the fundamental features of a game. "You need puzzles and monsters," he says, "or people won't want to play ... Since what I really need is a world with lots of players in it for me to run experiments on, I decided I needed a completely different approach."Puzzles? Monsters? Come on, there's the Tempest, isn't there, which has a monster (of sorts. Well..) Puzzles? Er, Twelfth Night involves trying to work out what gender other characters are, which is a pretty common problem in virtual worlds, surely? And there's murders aplenty, with loads of slitting from knave to chops - good grief, you'd think he'd get an 18 for Hitman:Macbeth.Come on - how should he have done it? Was the mistake in letting people know they were in Shakespearean plots? And could games companies um,borrowa few plots for some new games? (You could be the dithering hero in Hamlet..)
I'm suffering from "net deprivation" at the moment, staying in a Marriott hotel in the centre of Moscow. The price for using the Wi-Fifor one houris 320 roubles plus VAT, which comes to £7.57 or $15.45. That's even more expensive than London (Docklands), assuming you can't pick up a free connection, or get one free with a coffee and cake. Here, you can't.I was even more amused to find I couldn'tjust get an access code over the phone. No, I have to see the lovely Lyudmila (from Moscow.net) in person, because there are papers to sign. I have agreed that "any actual or attempted use of this account for sending SPAM/USE mailings or virus related activity will result in service suspension." Since I never check into expensive foreign hotels to send spam, this is not a problem....As an aside, to get to the lobby, and back, I have to use my room key in the lift, or it won't recognise my floor.All this is in aid of Kaspersky Lab's annual international conference about malware. It's exactly like any other conference in an American hotel chain, and with many of the same people. But most conferences nowadays include free Wi-Fi....
Maybe we should have a new category on the blog for "data breaches", since they're becoming thetopic des jours. Recently the hosting company Fasthosts owned up to the fact that hackers managed to get access to its systems and compromised passwords - possibly including accounts for FTP and databases. The company emailed customers on October 18 telling them to change their email, FTP and login details:We have reason to believe that the intruder has gained access to our internal systems, and that this may have in turn given them access to your username and some service passwords.(Disclosure: I have a Fasthosts account, which has credit card and address details. So I've got, as they say, some skin in this.)"Some service passwords"? Seems, perhaps, mild enough. (Although Fasthosts has reset the passwords for every account that hasn't already been reset by its customers.) But now the claims are that the breakin also compromised customers' personal details, including addresses and credit or debit card details used to pay for accounts.That's theclaim made in The Times, which saysThe hackers managed to access the "master database" of Fasthosts for information, including addresses, bank details, e-mails and passwords.This is of course potentially much more serious. Fasthosts says it hosts 1m domains, which implies thousands of customers (since many run multiple domains).Security companies were quick to leap on this: McAfee approved a press release yesterday which saidHundreds of websites have been shut down temporarily by one of the largest web hosting companies in Britain after the personal details of customers were stolen by computer hackers. The hackers managed to access the "master database" of Fasthosts for information, including addresses, bank details, e-mails and passwords.So is Fasthosts denying that customers' details were accessed? After all, if they were, that would have serious implications for those customers. I asked their PR person to clarify - pointing out that if McAfee is making untrue assertions then it's putting Fasthosts' business at risk, so it's important to get it right.The reply - at least the part relating to customer details:we are currently working with the police and other relevant industry bodies, and we regret that we are unable to comment on any specific details that might prejudice the ongoing investigation. Due to the precautions and improvements made, the security vulnerability has since been removed.This, you'll notice, doesn't answer the question. So I put it again. The reply from its representative:[Fasthosts is] unable to provide any more specific detail on the network intrusion communicated in October, as I'm told specific details might prejudice the ongoing investigation. I can say that the precautions and improvements made since have removed the security vulnerability.There's a fair old roasting of Fasthosts going onover at The Register, and meanwhile thousands of people (yes, including yours truly) are left wondering if their credit cards going to be buying Christmas presents for people they've never heard of - or if actually it's all perfectly fine. One feels that if therehadn'tbeen an intrusion into the address/cc database, Fasthosts would have said so.All of which leads us to some questions: 1) have we reached the point where companies which mislay data or find it has been accessed wrongly should have to own up, by law? 2) is online commerce broken? The problem is that whereas we keep passwords for FTP space in one-hopes uncrackable form (see this week's "How safe are your online passwords?" piece for advice on writing good ones), credit cards and addresses often aren't, because companies need those to bill us. (Feel free to contradict me if I'm wrong.) What we need is a way of hashing our credit card and address details so they're still useful to companies we have a relation with, but not hackers. Possible? Impossible? Tell me how.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
In one very important respect games are not like movies or music: you are very rarely required to share any emotional traits with the protagonists. Film critics will often lambast a picture for providing no sympathetic characters - I've yet to read one review of Call of Duty 4 which makes a similar point. Teenagers don't play games wistfully saying to themselves, "yes, this is how I feel, you are speaking directly to me" - yet for most of us, this is how we experienced music when we were growing up (and often still do).Of all forms of mass entertainment, games are the most truly escapist, for you are not just getting away from everyday life, but also from the human condition, the need to relate to, understand and interpret other people. And no, getting annoyed with mouthy idiots on the Halo 3 servers doesn't count.But once in a while, a character comes along, that you can - in some small, semi-fabricated way - actually relate to. I, for example, loved Guybrush from the Monkey Island games because he was a confused interloper in an arcane world of passive-aggressive specialists, often speaking in a language he couldn't hope to understand. Which pretty much sums up my early experiences of the games industry.How about you? Has there ever been a spark of recognition between you and someone you were controlling onscreen? Obviously, if you're an Italian plumber or an aristocratic female archaeologist this must happen to you all the time.
The last big titles of the year are released today and the PS3 takes centre stage. Yup, Sony's console has the pick of today's releases with Singstar Next Gen andUncharted: Drakes Fortunebringing some much needed identity to the PS3 lineup. I haven't tried Singstar yet so have no idea how smoothly the transactional stuff works. Whether this ability to buy new songs online from the PS3 Store - likely to be dangerously expensive when you've had a few drinks - is enough to persuade PS2 users to upgrade remains to be seen.But any doubts over the potential of the PS3 will be expunged with Uncharted: Drakes Fortune, a gorgeous looking adventure that is easily the finest PS3 title to date. Ok, not the greatest of praise - Ratchet &amp; Clank is pretty much the only other PS3 game worth bothering with - but Uncharted is a genuine delight. Think Tomb Raider exploration combined with Gears of War style combat and the prettiest tropical setting you've ever seen on a games console. There's nothing really original here - in some ways the platforming elements feel oddly retro - but it's carried off with such panache that the 9 or so hours it takes to finish fly by. I still stand by what I saidearlier in the year- the PS3 comes third choice behind the 360 (quality and quantity of games/Live) or Wii (not that you can get one of these, mind) this Christmas. But the beautiful Uncharted shows that the PS3 is just beginning to purr into action.
Coming up to its second Christmas, the Nintendo Wii is still in short supply in some markets, including the US and the UK. And while electronics products are supposed to fall in price - like Apple's iPhone and Sony's PlayStation 3 - the Wii has got more expensive."According to website and online retailer I4U, the best price for a Wii last December was US $476.11 (&pound;230). This year it's $538.80 ," reports the games blog, Kotaku. "Third-party Amazon sellers are asking $548, and it's possible to get a Wii on eBay for around $400. Of course, if you can find one in stores, the machine costs $249."In hardware terms, the Wii is little more than a souped-up GameCube, plus its revolutionary motion-sensitive controller. It could be sold for about &pound;150 in the UK, but Nintendo charges &pound;180. Go toAmazon.co.ukfor a deal, however, and you'll find that new prices from resellers are between &pound;285 and &pound;300. Worse, there are used consoles at &pound;388.50 to &pound;399.99.In fact, you can pay as much or more for a Wii, with its humble 729MHz PowerPC-based processor and low-end graphics, than for a rival console with an advanced 3.2GHz multi-processor chip and high-definition movie player.Shigeru Miyamoto, Nintendo's top game designer, clearly got it right when he said that "power isn't everything". The main problem with the Wii is that Nintendo has never been able to keep up with demand. It has increased manufacturing twice, from 800,000 per month to 1.2m and then 1.8m, which is more than 20m a year. Worldwide, the Wii has already shifted roughly as many units as the Xbox 360, in spite of giving Microsoft a year's start.The Wii had plenty of doubters, including me. We looked at the failure of the GameCube, and thought a similar design might not do much better. We pointed to the lack of games. We wondered how long it would be before the novelty wore off. We're still wondering how long it will be before Sony and Microsoft bring out games packaged with motion-detection technologies.Wrong, wrong, wrong and wrong. It's true that the Wii hasn't made much headway in the hardcore market, where the PC and Xbox 360 tend to dominate. But it has been a huge success in Nintendo's traditional market - children - while also appealing to family members who would never call themselves gamers. With the Wii, mothers, uncles, aunts and grandparents all join in the fun. Nintendo has triumphed in parts of the market other consoles cannot reach.And Wii games don't require single-pixel precision. It won't leave new users as frustrated as I was by my inability to get through the mine cart sequence in Donkey Kong Country on the SNES. (After 13 years, I have not forgotten.)Some of the publishers that devoted most of their development money to the PlayStation 3 are now getting behind the Wii, and more games are on the way. Whether many will be as "serious" as Metroid Prime 3: Corruption remains to be seen, but at least there's more to life than Wii Sports and Mario.Finally, knocking off the Wii Remote controller is harder than it looks. Doing the hardware isn't a problem, but you can't simply swap a controller for a wand. Nintendo seems to be the only company that thinks of games for the Wiimote, rather than thinking of the Wiimote for games. That gives Nintendo a lead that Sony and Microsoft seem unlikely to dent. One day the wheels will come off the Wii bandwagon, but I wouldn't bet on that happening soon.
Trend spottingPremiumisation, brand butlers, snack culture, crowd mining ... Trendwatching  identifies next year's megatrends.&#183;trendwatching.com/briefingDig these picturesDigg has finally added an image  channel so people can digg (recommend) individual images.&#183;blog.digg.com?p=100"Q numbers availableGarlik has calculated the digital status of 45 million UK adults. Scores are  based around popularity, impact,  activity and individuality.&#183;qdos.comE-petition on e-crimeA petition urges the prime minister to fund a police central e-crime unit, to help handle the consequences of the HMRC data losses.&#183;petitions.pm.gov.uk/ecrimeThe wireless, wirelesslyNokia has released a beta version of Nokia Internet Radio, a free download for compatible N-series phones.&#183;nokia.com/internetradioSing it!High School Musical is no longer just a TV movie/iceshow/novel/T-shirt/cult, it's also a karaoke game (PS2, Wii, DS).&#183;tinyurl.com/2e7wdhHalf the world mobile?Informa Telecoms &amp; Media reckons that mobile phone subscriptions have hit 3.3bn - equivalent to half the global population - in just over 26 years.&#183;tinyurl.com/2azwrsVideo addicts?ComScore says online viewers watched more than three hours of online video last month in the US. The average video lasted 2.7 minutes.&#183;tinyurl.com/2dv9n7
The "Windows Genuine Advantage" scheme used by Microsoft to verify its Vista products will stop disabling systems it regards as counterfeit in Service Pack 1, an update to be delivered next year.Presently in Vista, the WGA verification scheme - its so-called "Software Protection Program" - must be activated within 30 days of first use of the machine, or it will shut down and only in future allow browser use until the licence key for the operating system is validated. (For pirate versions, that should be never.)The new version will be more gentle: if not activated after 30 days, it will turn off the enhanced graphics system (although as our report on page 2 shows, that might actually yield a performance benefit) and on startup will ask if you want to activate Vista now or later. Choosing the latter leads to a stripped-down Windows with hourly reminders about activation.The change has come following pressure from businesses that have started to move to Vista, but are worried about the problems they could face if for some reason their valid Windows installations were identified wrongly as having counterfeit versions of Windows.There is a precedent: in August, problems with the WGA authentication servers, which check the licence keys on copies of Windows match those registered to the machine, meant that WGA failed for 19 hours - so thousands of people with genuine copies of Windows were warned that they might be using pirated software.The change won approval from observers. "It's a kind of zen-like compromise," Roger Kay, president of Endpoint Technologies Associates, told ZDNet. Chris Swenson at the researchers NPD Group, said it was a "softer" approach.With SP1, Microsoft also aims to close loopholes that pirates have exploited. Microsoft says that WGA is beginning to pay off: it attributes 5% of its growth in Windows client sales in the last fiscal quarter to the system. Kay said: "Microsoft's theory is that if piracy is 35% overall, but only 10% of pirates are hardcore, then it can increase its revenue by, say, 40% just by herding in the errant, but not evil, users."Microsoft also claims that the piracy rate for Vista is just half that for XP, which introduced activation.
Social networks typically put you in touch with friends or friends of friends. Dating sites let you meet strangers anywhere on earth with whom you might share a passion. Never before has it been possible to trawl so many people to discover the person of your destiny. Whether this leads to more stable relationships or whether it undermines the concept of stable relationships because of the opportunities for covert contact with previous friends is a moot point.Online dating is a huge business, awash with sites such asDatingdirect.com,Pocado.com,Meetic.com,Match.comand the amazingPlentyoffish.com, a bog-standard service that claims to be the biggest in the world. It is still run by one person, founder Markus Frind, from a room in Vancouver, Canada. According to comScore's rankings, Plentyoffish.com received 7.2m visits in October, more than the combined traffic of rivals Meetic and Match.com. It is refreshing to know that the proverbial backroom programmer can still beat them all and make a good profit by a word of mouth without spending millions on site development.Online dating could change soon as webcams start to be employed in earnest. They have been around for ages but haven't taken off. A few years ago, three young Americans started a webcam dating site so prospective partners could size each other up. It bombed, so they allowed punters to upload their own videos instead. They called it YouTube. Two new but very different services now being launched could take dating in new directions. George Berkowski, a Polish-born entrepreneur with UK roots, has just launchedWoome.com, an online speed-dating site (free at present) enabling people to join sessions or start one of their own on subjects such as "bored at work" or "Hillary Clinton, love or hate her". Participants have up to two minutes to impress one of the other people on the screen and if they want to take it further they click on the "woo me" button which, if reciprocated, can lead to the relationship continuing by email. Unlike the time-lagged static experience of other dating or social sites, this gives a live experience that Berkowski hopes will help him crack the lucrative speed-dating market ($1bn in the US alone) - though nearly 25% of sessions have been not about dating but functional things such as finding an apartment or talking politics.Romi Parmar, after two failed attempts, is hoping it will be third time lucky with 3G Dating Agency, a Clerkenwell-based company using the neglected video camera on 3G phones to launch a secure global dating service. He believes that the increasing availability of 3G phones and the belated arrival of "all-you-can-eat" data tariffs - meaning you no longer need to take out a mortgage to make a 3G call - have boosted the chances of success.Parmar says: "We offer the ability to view a picture profile and text first, before proceeding to the video [and] before ultimately meeting in person." His selling point, to nervous handset manufacturers, is that the service is secure and moderated. Someone rings back with a video call to check out users and they consult electoral rolls as well. A centre in India monitors and records all calls so there is a paper trail if something untoward happens. He says he is the first in the world with a validated service and claims it will work on "every 3G handset on the planet".Future plans include turning it into a mobile social networking service, with GPS enabling users to contact people nearby. He claims an advantage over social networks such as MySpace because of the difficulty they have in porting a web experience to the varying features of mobiles. Whether he succeeds remains to be seen. I have yet to see anyone using a 3G phone for a video call. If Parmar can change that he will deserve an Order of Merit from grateful handset manufacturers and network operators.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Programming revisitedAs a young man, when mainframes were still king, I became acquainted with Prolog. Now that I am old and have more time I would like to see if it still holds the same fascination, so I need a version to run on Windows XP. To make the question more general, if someone wants to do some programming on their PC, how do they decide which language compiler/interpreter to buy?Richard BrownJS:Programming languages are tools, so generally people choose the language that seems best suited to what they want to do. Prolog became famous in the 1980s when it was adopted by the Japanese for artificial intelligence (AI) programming, and fell back into obscurity when Japan's Fifth Generation project failed. However, the more-or-less standard on PCs today is SWI-Prolog (swi-prolog.org), which is free and open source. An alternative from Bulgaria is Strawberry Prolog (dobrev.com), which is aimed at education. You could probably use either with the online course, Learn Prolog Now! (tinyurl.com/239n2e). Still, if you want an AI-style language, I think you'd be better off learning Lisp.There is also Visual Prolog (visual-prolog.com), from the Prolog Development Centre in Denmark. This has its roots in PDC-Prolog and the Turbo Prolog once sold by Borland alongside Turbo Pascal. This is non-standard, but has a built-in graphical environment and looks a good bet if you actually want to get something done. There's a free Personal Edition.However, the daddy in the home and emerging programmer field is Microsoft Visual Basic 2008 Express Edition (tinyurl.com/27b5gc). This is a graphical system that bears little relation to old-style Basic. It uses a drag-and-drop program construction with Microsoft Office-style AutoCorrect and IntelliSense features that fix common programming errors. There's an introductory video, a beginner's learning centre, forums, a Coding4Fun (C4F) developer toolkit, and a Facebook Developer Kit.If you're against Basic, there are Visual Express versions of C#, C++ and Visual Web Developer. They are all free, in exchange for registration, as part of the strategy for generating profitable sales of Microsoft Visual Studio.I know there's a nostalgia market for people who loved the old BBC Basic (bbcbasic.co.uk), and there's now a BBC Basic for Windows. But visual-style programming with pre-built components makes it much easier to do more.The security lotteryI subscribed to the Postcode Lottery, paid for by a direct debit, and had to enter my bank details on the site. I then got an unencrypted email in confirmation, with my bank details (account name, account number and sort code) to check for correctness. Should I ask my bank to give me a new account number?David GibbJS:I can't see any point in confirming your details - either the debit works or it doesn't - so there's no reason why they should ever be repeated in an email. (For example, I don't recall Amazon doing this.)If Postcode Lottery feels it must, then it would be better to encrypt it, but this creates all sorts of support problems. However, you already give your account name, account number and sort code to people whenever you write a cheque, - it's how the system works - so I don't think it's not worth getting too upset about one email.Updating .NetI received Microsoft .NetFramework 1.1 Service Pack 1 as an automatic update. Whenever I try to install it, it keeps telling me "The update could not be installed". The icon in the taskbar keeps reappearing.Wolfgang HarlesJS:Sometimes updates won't install because of problems with the version you already have installed. The simplest approach is probably to use Add/Remove Programs to uninstall .Net 1.1 and reinstall it from a fresh download (tinyurl.com/6nkqy).However, version 1.1 came out in 2003 and is out of date. It would be better to install .Net version 3, which includes new technologies shipped with Windows Vista. If you go to Windows Update (windowsupdate.microsoft.com) and click Custom, this will check your PC and it should appear as a recommended update.There is a minor update for .Net 3 (see KB932471), which you can ignore, but version 3.5 is now being beta-tested.Emulating 95I am running Windows XP Pro. I'd like to be able to use an old Windows 95 program, but it won't run.David LeahJS:Most Windows 95 programs will work providing you set them to run in XP's compatibility mode: have a look at Microsoft Knowledge Base article 292533 for details.  If not, you can download a free "virtual machine" (VM) system and run a separate copy of Windows 95 as a "guest" on your current PC. VMware's Player 2.0 (vmware.com/products/player) is a good free example, but seetinyurl.com/yqo6gsfor "known issues" with Windows 95. Microsoft also has a free VM and a helpful Virtual PC Guy blog for tips (blogs.msdn.com/virtual_pc_guy). Unfortunately, Microsoft has now dropped Windows 95 support due to diminishing usage. It might work, but you're on your own.Wireless and stone wallsI am helping my mother to get broadband installed. A wireless connection would be useful, but her house has thick stone walls.Alastair DuncanJS:You're right in thinking that thick stone walls will reduce the working range of a Wi-Fi. Large metal objects, mirrors and fish-tanks can also create problems. I don't know of any tests that show which routers work best, but at least you can try to position the Wi-Fi in the part of the house she frequents most. You can pipe Wi-Fi to another room by buying a couple of three-pin HomePlug adaptors of the sort sold by Solwise, Devolo and many others. These send signals over the house's mains wiring, so you can fit a Wi-Fi HomePlug in a distant room.Outlook problem?Whenever I use the address book in Microsoft Outlook, a note comes up about an Eyecall error. How can I get rid of this?Jenny BiggsJS:BT's website says: "This is a known error and will be fixed within the next release of Softphone."BackchatAnthony Durhamcomplains: "You could have been firmer in saying that MAC address filtering isn't secure. It actually has zero power to keep out bad guys and only stops innocent wrong connections, ie is generally more trouble than it is worth and gives a false sense of security." He suggests reading Steve Gibson on Bad Wi-Fi Security (grc.com/sn/SN-011.pdf).
Not so gr8: email's are seen as outdated by today's texting teens. Photograph: Martin GodwinThe art of correspondence faces another rude shove towards oblivion: even email is getting the big E for being "too formal".Outside of work, SMS and instant messaging are fast becoming the writing tools of choice. Indeed, South Korea - that crystal ball of all our digital tomorrows - has even seen a report that many teenagers have stopped using it altogether. "It's for old people," they say.The poll, taken recently in Seoul of more than 2,000 middle, high school and college students, revealed that over two-thirds rarely or don't use email at all.Korea's digital generation is way ahead of even the Japanese in new technology uptake: 50% of South Koreans are signed up to their version of Facebook, called Cyworld, which took off almost a decade before other social networking sites. For most South Koreans, email is fit only for addressing the old, or for business and formal missives.Even those in their 30s like Dr Youngmi Kim, a professor at the University of Edinburgh, says she doesn't use it much when communicating with fellow Koreans. "I use my Cyworld mini homepage to communicate among Korean close friends. [Cyworld] is faster and it can be used both for private and public use," she says.It's a global trend, but more pronounced in South Korea, says Tomi Ahonen, communications consultant and co-author of a new book, Digital Korea. "Korean young adults put it so well. Email is simply outdated and not used between friends and colleagues. The only people you would use mobile email with are the older generation at work. Email? It's so 90s."Too lazy to emailAccording to the poll, mobile texting, instant messaging and the perception that email is "a lot of bother" are all contributing to the end of the email era. Other factors, say the report, are the difficulty of ascertaining if an email has arrived and the lack of immediate response. One young Korean also described how texting felt like a ping-pong game and how email was more "like doing homework".Similar bugbears are driving email use down elsewhere as the twin gods of ease and instant gratification become more dominant globally, says Ahonen. "This phenomenon is not limited to South Korea. We are even seeing the first signs of it in America - a country that is a leader in email and wireless email, and the laggard in mobile. It started with the young abandoning email in favour of texting, and since then the youth preference has spread and is now hitting the mainstream age groups."Texting's immediacy, privacy and personalisation, combined with the increasing trend to see the mobile as talismanic - a personal touchstone requiring immediate attention at every trill - means SMS is proving the most potent email slayer. A typical email is read within 24 hours and responded to within 48 hours. A typical SMS is read within a minute and responded to within five, says Ahonen.We're also becoming more reliant on it. According to Ofcom, UK citizens now send on average 40 texts a week- that's up a third from a year ago. The number of phone calls made per week is also down."The privacy aspect of SMS versus email is also important," says Ahonen. "Email is very open: you might have others walking by the computer screen at an open office or in an internet cafe. The PC you use may be shared, such as those at a university or at the office, or the home family PC. And the email service itself is often monitored at work for example."In contrast, text messages are totally private, he argues. Kids don't let parents snoop around their phones, and two-thirds of married adults do not share their phones with their spouses.The ebb of email is also confirmed by a diminishing trend in page views, a tabulation of frequency in service used by email users. Hitwise, a research company which monitors page views, noted in November for the first time that visits in the UK to social networks overtook visits to web-based email services.Booming businessBusiness use of email, however, remains unaffected. In fact, the bad news for those already facing groaning inboxes is that business-related email volume is forecast to grow to 28MB per day per typical corporate email account by 2011. At the moment such accounts typically receive about 18MB of data daily, according to market researchers Radicati."There still are many areas where email will prevail for a long time, even in South Korea - to send attachments in business, for example," says Ahonen. "But for simple person-to-person communications, the traffic and messaging is shifting clearly away from email to SMS, instant messaging and social networking services such as blogs and digital communities."In terms of communication speed and privacy, SMS text messaging totally trumps email. It's past its peak."
Clive Barker's Jericho&#183;Xbox 360/PS3/PC, &pound;39.99, cert 18, Codemasterstwo starsJericho is "a thrilling squad-based horror" - which is odd, because it plays like a standard, depressingly linear, first-person shoot-em-up. The Firstborn - God's earliest failed experiment - is the big evil intent on destroying the world, unless Jericho Squad can stop it. They're the military faction with the weapons, psychic powers and goth wardrobe to send the Firstborn back whence it came in the name of gory entertainment.The twist is that your character dies within minutes. Only he doesn't. His spirit can possess the rest of his squad using their abilities - astral projection, freezing time, etc - at glaringly signposted moments. It can also, apparently, control squad tactics, but doesn't: all too often they'll ignore instructions and trundle headlong into another highly repetitive pull-trigger-and-hope Satanic creature ambush.The graphics are initially impressive, but you'll soon realise it's an endless cycle of dingy spaces, dark corridors, frantic beasties and rivers of blood. Pale 15-year-olds will lap it up, but the scrappy Jericho can't hold a torch to Halo 3, BioShock or even last year's Gears of War.Neil DaveyUncharted: Drake's&#183;PS3, &pound;49.99, cert 12+, Naughty Dog/Sonyfour starsAfter a torrid launch, the PS3 is finally starting to shine. Ratchet &amp; Clank highlighted the console's graphical oomph, and Uncharted: Drake's Revenge takes it a step further. A videogame jungle has never looked so lush, and there are plenty of times when you'll simply want to stand and stare. The animation is splendid too; Drake is a joy to control. The action is reminiscent of Tomb Raider - the jumping and puzzle solving are fairly forgiving - and Gears of War. But unlike the rather joyless combat of the latter, Drake's takes a lighter-hearted approach. You'll still need to take cover, but shooting bad guys in a sun-dappled forest feels a world away from post-apocalyptic space marines - which is handy as the combat can get tricky and is ultimately less enjoyable than the Tomb Raider-style exploration. Nevertheless, Uncharted is a joy to play - and watch - and points to a brighter future for the PS3.Greg HowsonUnreal Tournament 3&#183;PC/platform, &pound;39.99, cert 18 Epic/Midwayfour starsThe PC seems on a Christmas mission to prove it's still the games Daddy. This is another corking FPS from the makers of Gears of War, brim-full of graphical treats. It's still mainly a team-based affair, with the usual Deathmatch and Capture the Flag joined by four other modes, plus impressive vehicles like the arachnid Darkwalker and a unique new Teleporter weapon to mix things up.You could argue the recent Quake: Enemy Territories took more risks with an ageing formula, but this is still advanced shooting that FPS fans should grow to love as soon as the servers get busy.Mike Andereiz
A year after the competition watchdog called for fundamental change in the way the government trades in information - the issue at the heart of the Free Our Data campaign - ministers are still dithering. However, the government's hands may be forced by a looming series of deadlines.Tomorrow is the first anniversary of the Office of Fair Trading's report on the business of re-using public sector information (PSI), the data collected and stored at public expense. The study (tinyurl.com/2hto4q) concluded that the government is failing to exploit this information to the full, largely because public bodies are bad at publicising what data they have and at making it easy for businesses to re-use.The OFT said that public bodies should separate "unrefined" data, such as statistics and readings, from "refined" products such as maps and other publications. Unrefined data should be available to re-users at no more than the cost of distributing it (plus any rate of return required for the body concerned). For web data, distribution costs would be close to zero.The idea is to allow business to compete on equal terms in creating and marketing products based on public sector information. One year on, the OFT still does not know if the government will enforce this. "We're waiting on the government to decide whether to act on this key recommendation," says Antoinette Graves, the study's author.So far, the main government response has been to ask for more information. It commissioned the Power of Information investigation (tinyurl.com/3ylbhx), which recommended that the government do more to encourage the re-use of public sector information. It, in turn, called for studies on the effect that changes in pricing would have on trading funds such as the Ordnance Survey and the UK Hydrographic Office. In response, the government commissioned a study of the trading fund model. That is due to be submitted by the end of the year. This month, the MoD is due to decide on whether the UK Hydrographic Office will continue as a trading fund or become a private company.Related decisions lie with the department for Communities and Local Government. It has been charged with the task of implementing a geographic information strategy, which covers the most commercially valuable category of public sector information. The strategy was due to be published by last July. However, the communities department could not say when the document would be published.Amid such pressures, the government may find it difficult to dither much more.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blogfreeourdata.org.uk/blog
"The 'Wow' starts now," said Microsoft when Windows Vista was launched. For some users it was, "Wow, how can this computer be so slow?" But is Vista really slower than Windows XP? It seems so. We did informal tests, booting both Vista and XP on the same hardware, and Vista was between 15% and 25% slower than XP in benchmarks. Then again, users moving to Vista on a new PC should in theory find that fast new hardware more than compensates. In practice, that is not always the case.Digging deeper into the results is revealing. First, Vista is simply bigger than Windows XP, and runs background services which index your documents, maintain the hard drive, look for malware, perform backups and the like. Vista grabbed more than three times as much memory as XP, even before running any applications. When memory runs low, Windows uses the hard drive more intensively, resulting in dramatically worse performance. Microsoft specifies 1GB RAM for most versions of Vista, but 2GB is the sweet spot.Second, we noticed large variations in the performance results for different types of test. Pure number-crunching speed is similar on the two systems. Complex 3D graphics were close, and in some cases slightly better on Vista. However, basic operations like scrolling text in a window or drawing simple lines and shapes came out far worse. In some cases, XP was four times faster.The reason is that Vista makes major changes to the way Windows draws on the screen. Vista handles graphics more in the manner of video games, using a software library called DirectX designed to exploit hardware-accelerated graphics. DirectX is also used in Windows XP, but Vista uses it throughout, not just for games. Unfortunately there is a performance cost for traditional Windows applications like Microsoft Office. These generally use an older graphics library called GDI (Graphics Device Interface). In Windows XP this was hardware accelerated, but in Vista this is no longer true. Instead, they are mapped through DirectX. The new system also holds GDI windows in memory twice over, contributing to Vista's memory bloat.Microsoft did this to enable fancy graphic effects, and because it is betting on new applications using DirectX rather than GDI. Yet as Microsoft Architect Greg Schechter observes on his blog (tinyurl.com/2y3x3c), "Today and for the near future, most applications use and will continue to use GDI to render their content."Vista is therefore suboptimal for the applications that most business users run. This looks bad in tests, but it only affects screen operations, and as long as they are fast enough it should not matter much. Nevertheless, it is further proof of the old computing industry maxim about processor speed improvements versus software features: what Intel giveth, Microsoft taketh away.
Three months ago I put a challenge out to the Gamesblog community: we spend so much time thinking about and playing games, let's see what goes into actually creating one. And so, The Guardian Gamesblog's Text Adventure Wikigame - that's the working title - was born. Since then, a group of dedicated and talented Joe and Jane Gamers have come together across the oceans and timezones to pull out our opus of quality and distinction.The project was inspired by Penguin publishing's One Million Penguins (amillionpenguins.com), a DIY novel developed using wiki tools. The Wikigame is a proof of concept, probing issues of independent gamemaking, collaborative development and the challenges of wrangling a distributed workforce.It's set in a dystopic near future, after a deadly virus has devastated the UK. Amid the panic and breakdown of public services, our hapless hero must determine whether it was spread by a foreign enemy hell-bent on terror, a madman with a chip on his shoulder or our own government hoping to destabilise the culture of Asbo-ridden cities.Alex is an amnesiac who wakes up starkers on a disused bus shelter bench in an unknown city with a throbbing headache. In the first chapter (the only one completed to date), he works his way through a village talking to timid villagers, looking through their rubbish, engaging a drunk, outfoxing an irritable landlady and uncovering a corpse which shares a secret from beyond the grave.We expected that the Wikigame would bring Gamesblog readers together in an unprecedented orchestra of collusion. In fact, after a storming start, the development process settled into a familiar pattern of collaborative endeavours: nothing much was decided until leaders emerged and put into practice what the community had started.Now, a handful of talented and dedicated drivers are supported by the creative input of the rest of the rabble, who take up the mantle in response to weekly blog-based tasks. The community is responsible for the descriptions of characters and objects, five designers put them into context and three programmers cement them in the code.It's been an exciting process to play with the intricacies of game development, and we are humbled by the work that goes into even such a simple genre. Unsurprisingly, developing a computer game takes more than just having a few good ideas. Coverage of the Wikigame continues on the Gamesblog, and in the spirit of user-generated content, you too can join in the fun. Why play (tinyurl.com/274wby) when you can produce (textadventure.org.uk)?
It's about competenceYour articles really miss what for me is the fundamental point in this (Who lost our data expertise, November 29). That they were unable to use Perl or Awk to strip out the data boggles belief. It says that they do not have even one competent systems administrator with half an hour to spare. This sort of file manipulation is something you learn very early on. Without the ability to do modest amounts of shell scripting, you simply have no business working in IT support. And to extract from a file, even a file with 25m records, four or five columns only, requires a one-line shell command. It is as simple as typing in just one line of code as a command. It's nothing to do with IT and democracy. It's to do with competence and training in how to use the tools supplied.Peter Berrie,LondonThe most sensible thing I've read on the data loss fiasco. Exactly the same is happening in local government. IT slowly being privatised, in-house skills lost and suppliers charging what they like as management are not capable of understanding or implementing the contracts. If only people realised how their council tax was being wasted.Name and address withheld by requestThis is what decent journalism is all about. Understanding your subject, not trying for the cheap "gotcha", offering an insight into the subject for the layman, making a case coherently, doing it consistently without any ulterior motive. And being right.nevertrustahippy.blogspot.comKeep it simple, stupidIf nature is full of tiny calculating machines - and 20th-century science has been ignoring the study of ultra-simple computers in order to do lots of complicated differential calculus - then to a large extent science has been missing the point of ... well, of science (Complex proof of a very simple computer, November 29). And if the proof mentioned in Tom's article holds up, it demonstrates that it's possible to create a fully functional computer, one that could in principle run Excel and Tomb Raider, from a design that's much simpler than any computer anyone else has ever conceived of.snowbooks.com/weblogDurable solar cellsAlthough organic solar cells are very exciting, I worry about their durability (Solar power, November 29). Organic chemical bonds are easily broken by ultraviolet light. Silicon as a pure element is almost immune. I have not seen this crucial factor discussed.Nick Rouse,Plumpton GreenInteresting article. However, you conclude in the "Powering up the numbers" section: "40%: the amount of light energy converted to electricity using silicon solar cells". But the article states "Greenham says the world record for silicon solar cell efficiency - the conversion of light energy to electricity - is more than 40%, but standard cells are between 10% and 15%". You should include "can be" or change the "40%" between "10% and 15% from standard cells".Robin Murray,AEA Energy &amp; Environment, BeijingCopyright should lastFor an author, copyright lasting just 15 years will cut them off from small but significant sums that help to keep a roof over their head (Victor Keegan, November 29). Authors who sell in large numbers are rare. 15 years and a day from the publication of a book, the publishing and film industries will descend on the work in order to exploit it for free.Rodney Sims,HundonGrow up, AppleIn Leopard the icon view for a PC has a bulgy-screen PC CRT monitor indicating yet another PC bluescreen. Should the icon for the Mac have a similar one with the beachball of death icon? When will Apple grow up?John Wright,WiltshireRead all this week's letters and blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
While laser and magnetic fusion both use the same principle of squashing two isotopes of hydrogen together, research into magnetic is far more established.  The most advanced magnetic fusion reactor in the world is Jet, the Joint European Torus, in Oxfordshire. In 1991 Jet became the first experimental reactor to achieve fusion with the hydrogen isotopes deuterium and tritium. The mixture was enclosed in a magnetic jacket, and reached temperatures 10 times hotter than the sun. But the huge energy demand of the electromagnets meant it only released around 70% of the energy needed to start the reaction.Funds are now being ploughed into the huge international collaboration between the EU, Japan, China, South Korea, India and the US to build a fusion reactor called Iter. It will be located in southern France, and is projected to take a decade to build at a cost of &pound;7bn. Once running, Iter aims to show that magnetic fusion can release more energy than is put in. With a volume 10 times greater than Jet's, it should be able to produce 10 times the energy required for a self-sustaining reaction. All that's needed then is to build working versions around the world and a carbon-neutral electricity supply is guaranteed - in theory.
According to theEve Online forums, the latest patch to the game - the Trinity patch - is disabling Windows on some machines. Not to get too technical, the problem appears to be a duplication of an essential boot-file called boot.ini, used by both Eve's setup and Windows, and its deletion at the end of the install.We anticipate that the Eve makers will resolve this issue asap with another patch, but in the meantime, gohereandherefor solutions. Worst case scenario: you'll have to re-install Windows or do a system restore.
Don't get excited - really - but rumours have been zipping around the internet that Sega is considering dipping its unwisest toe back into the world of home console manufacturing. This all stems from the company's decision back in August, and only recently come to light, to update its trademark on the Dreamcast name. An application lodged with the US patent office looks to register:Home video game machines; player-operated electronic controllers for electronic video game machines; video game interactive controller, namely, hand held pads, and floor pads or mats; joysticks for video games; computer cursor control devices, namely, computer mouse; flash memory cards; video game software, computer game programs.Two entries on that list have got impressionable chins wagging: the floor pads and flash memory cards - neither of which were available on the original machine. If Sega has new peripherals in mind, then surely this is more than an effort to protect an obsolete brand? Surely, they have a follow-up in mind?Well, no. As the spoilsports at Kotakupoint out, Sega is almost certainly just protecting the name for another few years from chancers who fancy nicking it for their own dance mat-sporting games machines. Eventhatis a quite unlikely scenario.Meanwhile, Sony is set to release a new PS3 update which includes support for 'Profile 1.1' the improved Blu-ray player firmware. This will allow a whole new range of features including picture-in-picture display and downloadable content. Despite this modest but compelling new feature-set, the analysts are still seeing Wii as this generation's winner. The Financial Times has apieceon the current state of the market, referring in the final section to Nikko Citigroup analyst Soichiro Fukuda, who reckons Wii will capture a 46 percent global market share by 2012, compared to 33 percent for Xbox 360 and a lowly 22 percent for PS3. It's all very different from some of the forecasts we were getting this time last year - research firm Strategy Analytics had the PS3 with a 60 percent market share by 2012 (morehere).I'd be surprised if things panned out the way Fukuda-san reckons. I can't see PS3 staying in third place at a point in its lifespan where developers will be really pushing the hardware. Xbox 360 in comparison will be looking rather creaky. As for Wii? Earlier this year, Insomniac's Brian Hastingscompared the consoleto a mainstream consumer fad like Furbies or Cabbage Patch Dolls - something everyone must have for one maybe two Christmas seasons, but then forgets. He may well be secretly regretting that. Nintendo has, after all, justreleased its reasonably promising line-up for early 2008, featuring Mario Kart, NiGHTS: Journey of Dreams and Harvest Moon: Magical Melody.That's the difference. Wii has all the hallmarks of a mainstream craze - short supply, frenzied parents, lots of bewildered media coverage - but while Tickle Me Elmo soon got tiresome and Cabbage Patch Kids offered nothing but dimpled faces, Wii just keeps giving. It's no one trick My Little pony.
Today's presentation: comedyEveryone keeps telling you not to use PowerPoint, but you ignore them. So now listen to the comedian Don McMillan as he explains why — with examples of fonts, colours, motion and the rest.They'll never catch on, surelyA 1969 film showing how "computers" can sort cheques, book airlines and cut steel. It's like describing the internet by how it feels. And weren't there hairdressers in the 60s?Starry, starry virtual nightThere's some corner of Second Life that is forever Vincent van Gogh's. (Thanks to Clare Atkins for the link.)What technology videos have you've found to share? Give us a link..
It's a clean source of energy using fuel that can easily be extracted from sea water, and it isn't owned by Saudi Arabia. We're talking about fusion - and a multinational project led by British researchers that aims to use high-powered lasers to produce nuclear fusion, the same physical reaction powering the sun. If they succeed, they could solve the approaching world energy crisis without destroying the environment.Although the team admits a commercial fusion reactor is still decades away, it believes using lasers to spark fusion shows great promise. The EU has agreed to fund the setup costs for a seven-year research project called HiPER (High Powered laser Energy Research) to build a working demonstration reactor. But preparing for that stage - requiring the collaboration of 11 nations including Germany, France, Canada and Russia - is expected to cost more than &euro;50m (&pound;35m). Building the reactor itself will cost more than &euro;500m.Money machineWhy such investment? Because if we can control a fusion generator, it will be self-powering, offering abundant excess energy (to convert in turn to electricity) from virtually unlimited fuel. On top of this, its waste products won't contribute to climate change or pose the long-term waste storage problem that fission - our present nuclear generation system - poses. And we desperately need new electricity sources.But fusion is infamous for its grand claims, massive grant proposals and, so far, limited success. Physicists joke that they've been saying fusion power is 40 years away for the past 40 years. So far it's only been used in the H-bombs exploded in tests, but that was uncontrolled.Up to now, most attention has been on so-called magnetic fusion (see panel), in which a powerful magnetic jacket brings two different isotopes of hydrogen at enormously high temperatures close enough to fuse. That releases huge amounts of energy. It's been done - but no reactor has been built large enough to generate more energy than is put in via the magnets.From the lab to realityThe HiPER team knows its approach can work. US experiments with underground nuclear explosions in the 1980s showed if you deliver enough energy to a pellet of hydrogen, fusion will occur. Laser fusion just needs to replicate that in the lab, using a high-powered laser, not a bomb.A huge US military experiment at Livermore in California called the National Ignition Facility aims to do this in the next two years. Once done, the HiPER team wants to leapfrog the American effort. "This is how to take it from a scientific demonstration to a commercial reality," says Professor Mike Dunne, director of the UK's Central Laser Facility (CLF) in Oxfordshire and an instigator of the HiPER project.Laser fusion involves some mind-numbing science. CLF's laser, called Vulcan, is the most powerful laser in the world: it can focus 500 joules of energy (about the same required to lift 50 apples by 10m) into a laser burst just 40 femtoseconds (40 x 10-15) long - equivalent to one second in a million years. During that period, it's applying 10,000 times more energy than the National Grid generates.HiPER would use an even more powerful laser to set off a fusion reaction. The idea is to fire the laser at pellets of hydrogen that contain a mixture of the isotopes tritium and deuterium (which have two and one neutrons respectively). The intense power creates huge pressure - equivalent to 10 aircraft carriers resting on your thumb, claims Dunne - making the pellet implode until it has 20 times the density of lead, and the hydrogen nuclei fuse to form helium and release energy. Harder still, the laser must be fired five times per second, aimed at pellets being released at precisely the same rate. The engineering challenge is immense.In principle, fusion is much safer than its cousin nuclear fission. Unlike fission, which tears apart atomic nuclei, only low-level radioactive material is left over - no more dangerous than hospital waste. And best of all, a runaway chain reaction like the one that caused the Chernobyl meltdown is simply impossible. "At any given point in time there is not much energy in a pellet of fuel; the worst that can happen is it doesn't work," Dunne says.The other plus is that the raw materials for fusion are cheap and easily obtainable. There is an almost limitless supply of deuterium in sea water, and tritium is a by-product of the fusion reactor itself.Crossing the finishing lineSo will magnetic or laser get there first? That depends on who you talk to. Dunne is convinced that the ability to solve problems in parallel gives laser fusion a distinct edge; unlike magnetic fusion, progress does not depend on the whole machine being up and running.Others are sceptical. "Laser fusion could achieve ignition before magnetic confinement fusion, but there's a big difference between [that and] achieving ignition in a magnetic machine because it is a continuous operation," said Duarte Borba who works at Jet, an experimental magnetic fusion reactor on the same Oxfordshire site. "You can implode one pellet, but then you need to achieve the repetition rate."At the moment high-powered lasers need a few minutes to recharge between firing; in a laser fusion reactor they'll need to fire five times a second. What's more, they're typically 2% efficient, so this will need to improve by a factor of 10 if fusion is to be a realistic possibility.But Dunne is sure of one thing: laser fusion is out of the realm of "whacky physics", and firmly in the engineering domain. And though the results of his vision are decades away, he's adamant the world must invest in fusion power now to secure energy for generations to come. In Dunne's words, "No other would meet the long-term needs of our civilisation."&#183;This article was amended on Monday December 10 2007. Tritium and deuterium have two and one neutrons respectively, rather than three and two, as we said in the article above. This has been corrected.
There's lots for those who haven't bought the physical paper (or downloaded the PDF). You can look atthe page with the content, or just browse the list by clicking through..Lasers point way to clean energyLaser fusion Magnetic fusion has long been heralded as the future of renewable energy, but could it be lasers that hold the key? James Randerson looks into science's latest power saviourMagnetic fusion: seaching for the sparkWhile laser and magnetic fusion both use the same principle of squashing two isotopes of hydrogen together, research into magnetic is far more establishedIs Windows Vista slower than Windows XP?"The 'Wow' starts now," said Microsoft when Windows Vista was launched. For some users it was, "Wow, how can this computer be so slow?" But is Vista really slower than Windows XP? It seems soInside, Wikipedia is more like a sweatshop than Santa's workshopSeth Finkelstein: Wikipedia is frequently touted as a marvel of collaboration, a model of peer production. But it may be more instructive as a laboratory of pathologies of social interactionNewsbytesTrend spotting | Dig these pictures | Q numbers available | E-petition on e-crime | The wireless, wirelessly | Sing it! | Half the world mobile? | Video addicts?GamesClive Barker's Jericho | Uncharted: Drake's | Unreal Tournament 3Government continues to dither as a series of deadlines loomA year after the competition watchdog called for fundamental change in the way the government trades in information - the issue at the heart of the Free Our Data campaign - ministers are still dithering. However, the government's hands may be forced by a looming series of deadlines.Game on for our wiki community of developersAleks Krotoski: Three months ago I put a challenge out to the Gamesblog community: we spend so much time thinking about and playing games, let's see what goes into actually creating one. And so, The Guardian Gamesblog's Text Adventure Wikigame - that's the working title - was born.How secure are your online passwords?Just as you hit the button to pay for your online purchase it happens: "First, create a username and password."Dating moves from the PC to the mobileVictor Keegan: Social networks typically put you in touch with friends or friends of friends. Dating sites let you meet strangers anywhere on earth with whom you might share a passion. Never before has it been possible to trawl so many people to discover the person of your destinyLetters and blogsIt's about competence | Keep it simple, stupid | Durable solar cells | Copyright should last | Grow up, AppleTechnophileThe Asus Eee PC has brought computing within reach of most pockets, and for the price, we can't complainAsk JackProgramming revisited | The security lottery | Updating .Net | Emulating 95 | Wireless and stone walls | Outlook problem? | BackchatHow the low-powered Wii moved aside the big boysComing up to its second Christmas, the Nintendo Wii is still in short supply in some markets, including the US and the UK. And while electronics products are supposed to fall in price - like Apple's iPhone and Sony's PlayStation 3 - the Wii has got more expensive.Microsoft to ease draconian activation procedureThe "Windows Genuine Advantage" scheme used by Microsoft to verify its Vista products will stop disabling systems it regards as counterfeit in Service Pack 1, an update to be delivered next year.Digital generation dismisses email as 'for old people'The art of correspondence faces another rude shove towards oblivion: even email is getting the big E for being "too formal"
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Online shopping accounts with weak passwords are at the mercy of hackers. Photograph: Meredith Parmelee/GettyJust as you hit the button to pay for your online purchase it happens: "First, create a username and password."The temptation is to pick something easy: your name, your spouse's name, or a standard password you use everywhere. But if the site will store your credit card details, or is one you use for banking or trading shares, think more carefully.Passwords are a perennial problem. They're hard to think up, to remember and protect. Worse, they're not in themselves secure - your data depends on the carefulness of many strangers. The security of the HMRC discs with the Child Benefit database lost some weeks ago - Zip-encrypted with a password - depends on the strength of that password.Since Zip encryption uses the AES method, which the US deems good enough for officially secret documents, the HMRC files should be safe from a "brute force" attack. But other password encryption is threatened in quite a different way.Google's password crackerLast month, the security group at the University of Cambridge's Computer Lab had its group blog, Light Blue Touchpaper (lightbluetouchpaper.org), hacked via a previously unknown vulnerability in the popular blogging software Wordpress. While cleaning up, researcher Steven Murdoch discovered a new problem: Google makes a fine password cracker.The hacker gained access via an unused default administrator-level account. Once in, he created another admin account for himself. Murdoch disabled that, but got curious: what was its password?Basic security principles prohibit storing a list of valid usernames and passwords in clear text. Instead, they are stored in a encrypted ("hashed") form, so the list is unreadable to anyone who does gain access. To check a password, you encrypt it and compare the result against what is stored. Your password never resurfaces in the clear.Wordpress encrypts passwords using a popular algorithm called MD5, a one-way function that had turned the hacker's password into "20f1aeb7819d7858684c898d1e98c1bb". Murdoch tried cracking it, then tried a Google search on the string. It spat back a few pages showing that the original word - the hacker's password - was "Anthony". (You can try your favourite password atpajhome.org.uk/crypt/md5/and then search Google for the result.)The risk to the average user is that if hackers break into a database-dependent site they could be able to read off the hashes of your password, and then work back to your original password.Murdoch points out that "salting", which protects against this type of problem by adding random characters to each password before it's hashed, has been known since 1978. Since every password can have many hashes, it's harder to build a lookup table. It also makes cracking passwords by brute force much slower.However, all sorts of password-cracking assistance is readily available online to help system administrators as well as hackers. Plus, says Robert Schifreen, author of Defeating the Hacker, given two random letters of a nine-letter password (like banking site picklists) you can get the rest from a crossword-solving program.Fighting future hackersBut even well-established advice isn't always infallible. Security consultant Eugene Spafford pointed out that the common company rule requiring users to change their passwords once a month is outdated. That 30-year-old policy, he said, was derived when the contractors in charge of non-networked mainframes calculated it would take several months to crack system passwords by brute force.Several initiatives are trying to create single sign-on systems that present different passwords to each site, but require the user to know only one. OpenID is intended for blogs and is easy to implement, while Liberty Alliance is an industry consortium working on creating strong authentication hardware and software. Microsoft's Cardspace, installed by default in Vista, also enables secure authentication that's intended to be two-way. But what happens when you're away from your computer?In the longer term, authentication will move on to a second device like those banks are beginning to send out. Murdoch works with Cronto (cronto.com), which uses mobiles and other devices to generate one-time passwords. You register your phone with your bank and enter a Pin to get a single-transaction password. Nothing is stored, and it would foil phishing attacks - but the system is still vulnerable to real-time attacks. Nothing's perfect.What makes a good password?The ideal password is hard to guess and easy to remember - a tough combination. In general, don't use a word that can be found in a dictionary: hackers use dictionary lists to generate password attacks. Avoid well-known personal facts, such as your name, address, birthday, user ID and so on.A couple of strategies can help. The first is to pick a sentence that's meaningful to you and use the first letter of each word, including punctuation. For example: IlrtGTs (for "I love reading the Guardian's Technology section"). Add a number - 04 (for Thursday, the fourth day of the week, when it's published): IlrtGTs04. Who'll guess that?A second is to take two unrelated words and link them with one or more non-alphabetic characters - for example: quirky!fun. To make it more secure, capitalise one of the letters.Most standard password protection advice was designed for use in companies: don't write your password down, don't disclose it to anyone and don't use the same password for more than one application. But in a domestic setting, writing down your password may be sensible, as may disclosing it to a family member in case you happen to be incapacitated.Even some security experts reuse the same memorable, lightweight password for unimportant applications such as media sites, but unique, more secure ones for sensitive apps like online banking, brokerage sites and so on. One solution here is to store all your passwords in a simple text file and to encrypt that file, protecting it with a password that is then the only one you have to manage: Apple's Keychain system works like this for system-wide passwords including Wi-Fi networks and websites.If you must use computers in public areas, pick passwords you can type quickly and accurately (to make them harder to pick up by shoulder-surfing), and change them often to avoid them being copied.&#183;The following clarification was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday December 11 2007. We quoted a researcher, Steven Murdoch, as saying that the Cronto security system was vulnerable to real-time attacks. In fact he was referring to other systems and not to Cronto, which is designed specifically to defend online transactions against real-time attacks.
Small, cute laptops ought to sell, but they have generally been much more expensive than big, ugly ones. That could change with the introduction of the Asus Eee PC 701. It was announced by its Taiwanese manufacturer with prices starting at $199, and has been launched into the UK education market by RM as the MiniBook at &pound;169 plus VAT.This is thanks mainly to Intel. It got annoyed at being a kicking post for the MIT-based One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) project, which planned to ship millions of $100 notebook PCs to children in the developing world. Intel responded with a rival Classmate PC demo design, from which the Asus Eee ultimately derives.Trying an Eee PC has changed my view. I thought it was a mini-notebook, like a FlyBook or the old Toshiba Libretto. In use, it's more like a bigger version of a Psion handheld, though the interface is nothing like as elegant. Still, everything is in a 4GB memory chip (there's no hard drive), and the software is operated by clicking big icons on a tabbed display. The operating system is based on Linux, but most users probably won't know that. Even fewer will care.Pre-installed software includes Firefox and Thunderbird, the Open Office suite, KDE's Kontact (a Microsoft Outlook-style personal information manager), Skype and seven games. There's also a media player (SMPlayer) and apps to manage your music, photos and videos.The programs could certainly do with more fit and finish to customise them to the device. However, so much has been cloned from Windows that XP users should have no problems using them. (A Windows version is on the way.)The hardware seems well made and includes an SD card slot, three USB ports, a webcam and mic, a socket for an external monitor, Wi-Fi, plus modem and Ethernet ports. I plugged the Eee into my router and was on the net instantly.There are, naturally, drawbacks. The 900MHz Celeron-M means it's on the slow side, while the weight of the screen gives it a tendency to tip over on your lap. The keys are small and hard for an adult touch-typing, and the mouse button is awful. And if you do get 4GB of storage, 2.3GB (62%) is consumed by pre-installed software; I can't see a simple way to uninstall the rubbish, either.Still, there's a lot to like about the Eee PC, and you can forgive its shortcomings at the price. It looks like a good choice for commuting, communications or writing on the go.Pros:Easy to set up and use; lots  of features; small and light; cheapCons:Slow; limited storage; could do without some of the softwareeeepc.asus.com
Wikipedia is frequently touted as a marvel of collaboration, a model of peer production. But it may be more instructive as a laboratory of pathologies of social interaction. While perhaps - like sausages- it's better not to see the product being made, any familiarity with how Wikipedia operates should give rise to enormous scepticism about its alleged example of harmonious collective action.Wikipedia's success has led to many sites focused on its foibles. One such site, the "Wikipedia Review", was the locus of much investigation into the "EssJay" scandal in which a highly ranked administrator falsified academic degrees and lied to the New Yorker (tinyurl.com/22an3d). It also mocks Jimmy Wales's repeated denial of co-founder status to former employee and Wikipedia creator Larry Sanger (larrysanger.org/roleinwp.html) - now running rival sitecitizendium.org- by dubbing Wales the "Sole Flounder".The combination of feuds and relentless focus on negatives associated with Wikipedia creates an obsession by some devoted Wikipedians about the evils visited upon them. Tensions can also be intensified by the fact that since Wikipedia supports accounts with no identity verification, nobody can ever be sure if a pseudonymous user's opinion is sincere or a sham. You could in theory have several such accounts (called "sock puppets"), and operate them to give the impression of having several supporters for one viewpoint. Abusing this facility is against policy, though preventing it is difficult.This toxic mix of paranoia, fear of infiltrators and a social system where status can be acquired by fighting off threats (real or imagined) exploded recently into a governance scandal familiar to any observer of bureaucratic politics. A prominent Wikipedia administrator unilaterally revoked the account of a highly regarded contributor. When questioned, the response claimed the evidence was too sensitive to be released to the public, but had been vetted at the highest levels. Shortly after, the administrator reversed the action, apologising and citing new information. The end of the matter? No. It had barely begun.The secret dossier was leaked, and turned out to be a deeply flawed quasi-profiling purportedly establishing the suspected contributor as, paraphrased, a sleeper agent for an enemy cell (that is, from Wikipedia Review) bent on disruption. Yet official actions were taken to stop the leak from being posted in Wikipedia discussion under the pretext of "policy and violating copyright" (tinyurl.com/ytj9qo).Of course, the material was immediately available on Wikipedia Review (tinyurl.com/2sjrmj) and another site,Wikitruth.info, thus giving those sites redeeming value, whatever their flaws.Jimmy Wales himself was none too pleased. Although he preaches that Wikipedia is built on trust and love, he can be notably unloving to those untrusting of his pronouncements. One long-time editor who posted the leaked evidence was said by Wales to be trolling (being deliberately disruptive): "He knew he was trolling, and I doubt if he will last much longer at Wikipedia because of it" (tinyurl.com/2q9jdg). A formal attempt was made to virtually ban that editor, which narrowly failed. The administrator stepped down, and quasi-judicial proceedings ended with several admonishments.It's not that Wikipedia participants are expected to transcend humanity. Rather, it's that looking beyond the rosy marketing picture reveals little but bureaucracy implemented poorly - including fiefdoms, cliques and sycophancy to the charismatic leader.For all Jimmy Wales's self-promotion regarding his supposed ability to build good communities, it's apparent his skill is instead in knowing how to sell a dysfunctional community effectively. One subtext of the Wikipedia hype is that businesses can harvest an eager pool of free labour, disposable volunteers who will donate effort for the sheer joy of it. The fantasy is somewhat akin to Santa's workshop, where little elves work happily away for wages of a glass of milk and a cookie. Whereas the reality is closer to an exploitative cult running on sweatshop labour.&#183;sethf.com/infothought/blog
For those blissfully ignorant of the phenomenon ofDr. Philin the US, the psychologist-turned-media-property has a show in which he helps people with problems to overcome them using pop psychology keywords ("Get Real" is his catchphrase, exactly what people in trouble need to hear) and public humiliation. Think Jerry Springer with a degree.Anyway, it seems that virtual worlds have caught the attention of Dr. Phil and on one of his recent programmes, he identified hanging out in them as a "shocking teen trend". Why? I'll let his website spill the dirt:Lezlie says her 13-year-old daughter, Lexie, spends more time in a virtual online world than in the real one. She recently caught Lexie's scantily clad online persona kissing her "boyfriend," and fears the teen has gone too far.As a friend argued, change the words "virtual online world" to "mall" and you'd recognise the trauma many parents experienced when my generation was growing up.Anyway, if you're interested in how Dr. Phil attempts to "fix" Lexie, head to theShocking Teen Trendssite. The virtual world item is after illegal street racing and before auto-erotic asphyxiation.
More movement in the Gamespot Kane &amp; Lynch "scandal" with the site's management finallyposting a response. Denying Eidos had any influence in the dismissal of reviewer Jeff Gerstmann, Gamespot say the writer was dismissed due to issues, "unrelated to any publisher or advertiser". The infamous video review was apparently taken down due to audio issues caused by a faulty microphone. Oh, and, "concerns about the limited amount of footage, which was unrepresentative of the game in the review." Clearly an attempt to wipe the slate clean the statement declared, "we stand behind the editorial content that our teams produce on a daily basis". The real story behind this episode is likely to remain shrouded in a legal cloud so this explanation may be has good as it gets. Convinced by it? Or has your trust in games media gone for good?
The billionaire founder of Facebook has apologised to the website's 57 million devotees for its handling of a controversial advertising feature which has sparked furious protests about privacy.Mark Zuckerberg admitted last night that the social networking site had made "lots of mistakes" in introducing Beacon - a feature which tracks members' activities elsewhere on the internet.The ad program prompted 69,000 people to sign up to an online petition entitled "Facebook, stop invading my privacy!". Many accused the site of adopting Big Brother tactics to make money.In a blog entry posted yesterday,  Zuckerberg said: "We've made a lot of mistakes building this feature, but we've made even more with how we've handled them. We simply did a bad job with this release, and I apologise for it."Beacon works by gathering information from other websites about members' online spending habits. Facebook has justified it as an initiative to share people's tastes - for example, by recommending recently purchased DVDs or books to members' friends. But to the anger of users, the feature was initially set up to work automatically unless they opted out of it. Facebook has now changed it to an "opt in" program.The controversy has been one of the worst in the short life of Facebook, which was established in February 2004 and has rapidly become a global phenomenon. Microsoft recently bought a minority stake in the website, through a deal valuing the venture at $15bn (&pound;7.3bn) which gave Zuckerberg, 23, an estimated paper fortune of $3bn.Not everybody was impressed with  Zuckerberg's apology.One American member, Andrew Chandler, wrote: "This blog seems to be just another crap piece of PR trying to save face at Facebook."
As a young man, when mainframes were still king, I became acquainted with Prolog. Now that I am old and have more time I would like to see if it still holds the same fascination, so I need a version to run on Windows XP. To make the question more general, if someone wants to do some programming on their PC, how do they decide which language compiler/interpreter to buy?Richard BrownProgramming languages are tools, so generally people choose the language that seems best suited to what they want to do. Prolog became famous in the 1980s when it was adopted by the Japanese for artificial intelligence (AI) programming, and fell back into obscurity when Japan's Fifth Generation project failed. However, the more-or-less standard on PCs today is SWI-Prolog (swi-prolog.org), which is free and open source. An alternative from Bulgaria is Strawberry Prolog (dobrev.com), which is aimed at education. You could probably use either with the online course, Learn Prolog Now! (tinyurl.com/239n2e). Still, if you want an AI-style language, I think you'd be better off learning Lisp.There is also Visual Prolog (visual-prolog.com), from the Prolog Development Centre in Denmark. This has its roots in PDC-Prolog and the Turbo Prolog once sold by Borland alongside Turbo Pascal. This is non-standard, but has a built-in graphical environment and looks a good bet if you actually want to get something done. There's a free Personal Edition.However, the daddy in the home and emerging programmer field isMicrosoft Visual Basic 2008 Express Edition. This is a graphical system that bears little relation to old-style Basic. It uses a drag-and-drop program construction with Microsoft Office-style AutoCorrect and IntelliSense features that fix common programming errors. There's an introductory video, a beginner's learning centre, forums, a Coding4Fun (C4F) developer toolkit, and a Facebook Developer Kit.If you're against Basic, there are Visual Express versions of C#, C++ and Visual Web Developer. They are all free, in exchange for registration, as part of the strategy for generating profitable sales of Microsoft Visual Studio.I know there's a nostalgia market for people who loved the old BBC Basic (bbcbasic.co.uk), and there's now a BBC Basic for Windows. But visual-style programming with pre-built components makes it much easier to do more.
I subscribed to the Postcode Lottery, paid for by a direct debit, and had to enter my bank details on the site. I then got an unencrypted email in confirmation, with my bank details (account name, account number and sort code) to check for correctness. Should I ask my bank to give me a new account number?David GibbI can't see any point in confirming your details - either the debit works or it doesn't - so there's no reason why they should ever be repeated in an email. (For example, I don't recall Amazon doing this.)If Postcode Lottery feels it must, then it would be better to encrypt it, but this creates all sorts of support problems. However, you already give your account name, account number and sort code to people whenever you write a cheque, - it's how the system works - so I don't think it's not worth getting too upset about one email.
