XIIIPS2, Xbox, GC, PC, &#163;39.99 Ubi Soft, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;As the first of this Christmas's putative blockbusters to break cover, XIII bodes well. Its unique proposition - comic book-style cel-animated graphics - may initially seem a bit gimmicky, but turns out to owe more to Roy Lichtenstein than Marvel. Essentially, XIII is a first-person shoot- em-up with a convoluted conspiracy-theory plot involving an American president apparently murdered by the amnesiac character you play. That plot would translate into a more than usually intelligent Hollywood action movie, but it is XIII's gameplay that sucks you into its stylised but oddly believable world. Mixing shooting, stealth and basic puzzle-solving, XIII tests your co-ordination, mettle and intelligence.Imaginative touches abound: for example, the only way to break out of a bank populated with armed security guards, which you are not allowed to shoot, is to take a hostage and keep her pointed towards those guards. Later on, you must shoot enemy soldiers with your sniperscoped crossbow (one of the finest in-game weapons ever) and then drag them out of the way to avoid disrupting a secret meeting of the cabal who assassinated the president. If you like to think that you are too old for comic books, fear not, XIII has merely appropriated their visual metaphors for its own ends. Inset frames show you enemies around the corner, or add extra satisfaction to those long-range headshots. There is nothing juvenile about this game.Steve BoxerBilly Hatcher and the Giant EggGameCube, &#163;34.99 Sega, &#42;&#42;&#42;With day-glo visuals, whimsical plot and Sega involvement, it's no surprise that Billy Hatcher and the Giant Egg was developed by the team behind Sonic the Hedgehog. But while colourful cartoon animals may have thrilled gamers in 1991, today's breed are more demanding.It's unlikely that rolling eggs - essentially what Billy does - will appeal, compared to shooting and scoring. But play without prejudice and there's fun to be had. By using different eggs, Billy can traverse his environment and save the world. And he can do more than roll. Much like Pokemon, different creatures that help progress can be hatched. So, releasing the watery beast will douse the fire. But positioning is frustratingly haphazard and the anachronistic inclusion of "lives" makes for some exasperating moments.Kiddies, surely the target audience, will enjoy the visual feast, if not the tougher sections. But in these days of licensed blockbusters and gaming conservatism, Billy and his ilk are   welcome - if only as a reminder of how things have changed.Greg HowsonVega$ - Make it BigPC, &#163;29.99	 Deep Red/Empire Interactive, &#42;&#42;&#42;Serious gamers tend to be wary of the words Sim or Tycoon, which doubtless explains the curious title. It may be smart thinking, too, as Vega$ is considerably better than most recent examples of the tycoon genre.Although you can practise your entrepreneurial skills without commercial pressure in the Sandbox, the single-player campaign takes you on a gentle learning curve, with each level starting as an empty lot on an imaginary Vegas strip. Fill it with attractions, balance the budget and try to stay ahead of rival tycoons.Vega$ boasts an impressive 3D engine, allowing you to pan around your complex or zoom in on a croupier. This is hardcore management wrapped in a crisp, candy shell - although the sheer level of detail will wear you down and a sense of humour is also notable by its absence.Mike Anderiesz
Paul Bettison, Conservative leader of Bracknell Forest Borough Council in Berkshire, has a solution to the council tax issue. Abolish it. He reckons that the council could make up the shortfall by selling mailing lists drawn from its databases of residents.Companies such as Land-Rover, says Bettison, would be prepared to pay for lists of families with two children, living in homes in tax band G and above, whose choice of library books suggests an interest in country sports.Bettison stresses that the scheme would be voluntary - but people who opted out would have to pay council tax instead. He doesn't expect many objectors.Although Bettison says that he has been bending ministers' ears   with the idea, there is little chance of it becoming reality. For a start, it would need primary legislation. Ministers are already walking on hot coals to assure the public that we have nothing to fear from the National Identity Register, which David Blunkett announced on Tuesday. Any suggestion that government registers may be sold to junk mail firms will not be seen as helpful.On the other hand, according to research published last week, a fair section of the population seems to think this goes on anyway. A Mori poll of public perception of privacy and data sharing, sponsored by the Department for Constitutional Affairs, found that nearly one respondent in 10 thinks that the reason public services share data is "to sell off the information for marketing purposes".The survey is interesting because its findings seem to undermine an assumption in government that the public, apart from a few pointy-headed cypherpunks, is relaxed about official sharing of personal data. The survey found that only 12% were "not at all concerned" about public services sharing personal information.When faced with nine specific scenarios, however, people did see the point. Most were happy with the idea of the Inland Revenue passing on details to the Benefits Agency and the NHS giving medical records to social services.However, of the nine scenarios, the one that caused the greatest concern was the idea of a local authority putting personal details "into a central database for use by all its services to speed up response to your enquiries". Only   32% of respondents described themselves as "not at all concerned". This compared with 49% "not at all concerned" about NHS records being passed to social care.This is awkward, because one of the most pressing issues in e-government is the need to clarify the law to allow local authorities to share information between departments. The Department for Constitutional Affairs is due to publish a clarification of the position shortly.The poll confirms predecessors in indicating that, of all the arms of government, the least trusted are local authorities. At Bracknell Forest, Paul Bettison says that one way to rebuild trust is to "convince people that we know what we're doing". Whether or not selling databases falls into that category is an interesting question.
Better than GoogleIn response to my Second Sight piece, Rob Minto (Feedback, October 30) argues that "Google is so popular because it doesn't alienate people with gimmicks". Google is popular because it is the best thing we have got, not the best thing we could have.While his equation of design and gimmickry is rather crass, he does usefully note that innovation also takes place "under the bonnet", not just at the level of interface.Although there is an important distinction between innovations in technology and design, in reality they are not discrete. Users will always try to create a mental model of the workings of a technology, so they can evaluate and use it, and figure out what is wrong if it doesn't work as expected. This mental model is communicated through design.Minto goes on to argue that an "innovation is worthless if it can't be used". In fact, many valuable innovations are less immediately usable or useful than their predecessors, but are worth learning or being trained to use. Would he have defended DOS over Mac OS because people could use the incremental changes in the former, while the latter was gimmicky and would require too much learning?He concludes that the "key to the web is information". But information is not some pure commodity to be distributed. Rather, it is data that people interpret and organise using their knowledge and judgment. Design is a key facilitator in this activity, and this is what the Google interface attempts to facilitate - it just doesn't do it very well. If the current instantiation of   Google is considered to be the acme of information retrieval, then we really need to set our sights higher.Nico MacdonaldLondonA taste for musicThere has been a lot of talk about RealPlayer, but may I draw people's attention to Apple's latest software release? iTunes, now available for Mac and PC, is by far the best music jukebox available for any platform. One feature that is often overlooked is the updated internet radio playlist, which contains something I am sure will suit everyone's taste, from Virgin Radio UK, India Pop, Jazz, 50s, 60s and 70s stations and one called Highlander Radio - Scottish, Irish &amp; Celtic music featuring bagpipes and fiddles.Roland J YoungGood for imagesYour reader who wants a way of storing digital photos (Ask Jack, November 6) might save her baggage allowance, if she is going to the parts of South America I have visited. All over Cusco there were shops offering to save images from virtually any make of digital camera storage (including CompactFlash) on to CDs; email them, print them etc.I was quite impressed by the penetration of high-tech support across Peru, and have no reason to believe it would be otherwise in Brazil, Chile, Argentina etc - given that even our guide in the Cordillera Blanca had his own email address!And the less high tech, expensive kit you have to carry, the safer.Mark R D JohnsonCoventryInelegant insultAshley Norris' article on the iPod (Online on the web, November 1) says: "Central to the iPod's appeal to Windows PC rather than Mac buyers (who, let's face it, would buy the product if it was a huge brick with limited storage just because it sports   the Apple logo) has been that, in terms of design, there has been nothing to touch the cool elegant lines and contemporary white finish of the player."Excuse me, but Mac buyers buy Apple products precisely because of their elegant designs. Even when Macs are unpopular; even when they were not quite as fast or when they cost a little more. For them creativity, design and functionality are the criteria they demand.&#91;His claim&#93; is especially offensive coming from someone who evidently thinks that bland beige box PCs are pleasant designs and Windows - insipid at best, though usually sterile and ugly - is elegant.Wayne FoltaNon-militaryToday's News section (November 6) describes the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory in Illinois as "a US nuclear weapons laboratory". In fact, Fermilab is a civilian facility that carries out non-military, academic research into the fundamental interactions of particle physics. Much of this work is carried out in collaboration with other countries and the results are freely accessible.It's essentially a US equivalent of Europe's Cern, the birthplace of the world wide web.David BarclayPatently accessibleIn his column about software patents (Online, November 6), Jack Schofield says: "there is no simple or affordable way to find out what software patents have been applied for or granted.Not so. Look at, for US patents,www.uspto.gov/patft, and for theUK and Europe- not perfect or easy to use, but accessible to all.Ian WinshipLearning ResourcesNorthumbria University
Motorola's second foray into the 3G market promises the convenience of a touch-screen PDA with the high-speed access of the 3 network. Or so I had hoped. The A920 is fast - but only when you have a strong WCDMA signal. From my London home this was a few precious minutes every day.The A920 is not a bad phone. Sure, it's heavy and a little bulky, but it is one of the most feature-rich handsets ever released (despite the conspicuous absence of Bluetooth). It comes with the Symbian-based operating system found on Sony Ericsson's P800 and with Motorola's excellent QuickPrint handwriting recognition software. Battery life isn't bad; I had to recharge once a day, but then again, I was rarely able to make video calls or download from the net. The phone does support GPRS but you cannot use it to send email or browse the internet when you fall out of the 3 network. The A920 could be a great experience, but only with a reliable network behind it
For the past few years, councils have been scrambling to achieve the government's 2005 e-government targets. But concerns have surfaced that local authorities are not delivering services in the most effective way.The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister has announced it intends to ensure that money is being well spent on the introduction of new online channels. There are mounting concerns that councils are not marketing their electronic services effectively and are not researching demand for them. A national project is being drawn up, which could have far-reaching consequences for councils who have rushed to put services online without considering if they are easy to use or actually deliver value for money.The news of the project has been warmly received by private e-government software suppliers, who believe that councils need to become more business-like in their approach to web-based strategies. "Putting a service on the web is all well and good if it's easily found and usable. But that involves thinking about the process from the consumers' point of view," says Paul Simpson, managing director of Civica Systems. "Councils have introduced online services without necessarily thinking if they were services people needed or wanted."Simpson argues that putting council tax payments online is not essential, as most people pay by direct debit. Another complaint is that councils have tended to publish an A-Z list of their services without checking if the headings are understandable to the public."We all did rush out and transpose telephone directories on to our web sites," admits Karen Lewis, senior e-government project manager for Liverpool City Council, but she insists that the customer is at the heart of the council's e-government services. "If the customer doesn't want to use our online services, we've wasted taxpayers' money. We have to make them user-friendly."Lewis points out that Liverpool has created a secure web site for children, designed with their help. In January, a citizen and business portal will be launched, designed to offer personalised information such as news on a local ward, councillor or recycling in the area. "We monitor the types of calls we get and we target the online services to fit those calls," she explains. Liverpool is also using focus groups to ensure its electronic services are relevant.Not all councils can boast Liverpool's record, however. Shirley Brown, a consultant for Ovum, says the national picture is mixed. "Some councils are more forward-looking than others." Councils need to investigate which access channels are most applicable to their audiences. "It's no good if services are provided through PCs if people are using mobiles and TVs more."She believes the government's 2005 target for getting all local council services online is optimistic, and points out that technology often takes longer to adopt than people imagine. Marketing could help, especially to build trust in e-government services, and she says this is an area councils are neglecting.Essex County Council has recently overhauled its web site. "The new web site is much more focused on the information the customer might want," says Councillor Stephen Castle. It offers clearly labelled sections on health and caring, learning and business. The council has also invested in a new content management system to ensure there are regular updates, and user testing sessions involving disabled groups have provided feedback.An issue for councils is how far e-government is going to develop. "E-government is not going to be the same in 18 months' time," says Castle. "Technology changes. In five years' time we will not be using desktop PCs, we will be using PDAs. What we want from e-government will change."John Thornton, director of e-government for the Improvement and Development Agency (IDeA), says: "E-government is not just an add-on. It's about fundamentally restructuring how we deliver services and engage with the community. I think we are going to see increasing use of technology by councils. This is about how we modernise and improve our services - and we must do it."
Linux turnoverNovell, the networking company from Utah, is taking over SuSE, the German Linux distributor, for &#163;126m. The deal should increase SuSE's sales in the US, where Red Hat is focusing on the corporate server market. Novell is losing money and needs to enter areas where it can reverse its declining sales. It has already taken over Ximian, which offers a Linux desktop, and more acquisitions may follow. Meanwhile Red Hat has dropped Red Hat Linux and abandoned its attempt to sell boxed copies of Linux with instruction manuals and support. It is replacing it with the more expensive Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), for business users, and the free Fedora, for hobbyists. RHEL will be updated every 12-18 months, and will be supported for five years. Red Hat is not guaranteeing to provide any bug-fixes for Fedora, which will be "built exclusively from open source software", but plans to release three updates per year.www.novell.com/news/press/archive/2003/11/pr03069.htmlwww.redhat.com/about/presscenterPC boomCommercial PC sales rose by more than 17% in Britain in the latest financial quarter, with notebook purchases leaping by 25.8%, according to market analysts at IDC. Desktop PCs only saw a 5.9% increase, but server shipments rose by 19.2%. Dell has seen strong growth and has retaken the overall market leadership from Hewlett Packard, whose sales dropped slightly.www.idc.comSpam uncannedThe idea that EU anti-spam legislation, Directive 58, will succeed has taken a knock in a survey by Sybari Software, a messaging specialist. In a poll of European businesses, only half thought that local legislation could be enforced. Eight out of 10 firms are concerned that unsolicited emails will cause employee productivity to fall, and many would like to see higher fines for spammers rather than prison sentences. Almost all the companies are in favour of having anti-spam technology.www.sybari.com/homeE-vote vote"Computerised voting is inherently subject to programming error, human error, equipment malfunction and malicious tampering," according to a petition that calls for improved security in electronic voting. The petition, which says that   voters should be able to check their e-vote before submission, had been signed by 350 people earlier this week, including LibDem MP Richard Allan. The website suggests voters could check a printed copy of their e-vote, which would be retained by polling stations to allow checks or recounts. "It's about trust, for the voters and the candidates," says co-organiser Jason Kitcat.&lt;A HREF="http://www.free-project.org/resolution"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.free-project.org/resolutionCloseted PCsHP is previewing its Consolidated Client Infrastructure (CCI) at Comdex this month, showing how PCs can be split between the desk and the wiring closet. CCI applies blade server principles to desktop PCs by moving all the motherboards to a rack-mounted chassis. A dumb terminal or notebook PC provides desktop access and should improve remote management and allow local disk and application sharing. The new CCI blades could also include a stand-by motherboard in case of a malfunction. Blades are expected to cost &#163;1,200 with a Pentium M 1GHz processor or &#163;600 with a 1.8GHz Transmeta Effice chip.&lt;A HREF="http://www.comdex.com/lasvegas2003"" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.comdex.com/lasvegas2003UK e-topsThe UK is the best country for allowing citizens to interact with government through the internet, says a UN study, E-Government at the Crossroads. The UK is one of only 15 countries that allow citizens to comment on policies online. The report says the US is the best for overall e-government readiness, followed by Sweden, Australia, Denmark and the UK, which also came fifth in quality of websites.But, one kind of interaction - with other countries' law enforcers - is less welcome to privacy campaigners, who are complaining that British citizens' personal data can be transferred to 37 European countries without evidence of a crime under UK law, under a Council of Europe treaty.Think!IBM says it has just produced its 20 millionth ThinkPad notebook computer. The brand was launched in 1992, three years after the popular Compaq LT range. The ThinkPad's combination of American business design and Japanese technology (from IBM's Yamoto lab) was a winner, making the distinctive black machines one of the longest-surviving ranges in the PC industry, albeit never the cheapest.www.pc.ibm.com/ca/thinkpad/anniversary
Too often the office PCs seem to quickly fill up with software. It's never quite what you want your users to be using, mixing applications they've brought from home with tools and toys downloaded from the internet. What's become a sizeable problem for a small business with tens of desktop PCs can be a large chunk of the IT budget for a company with tens of thousands of users.Controlling the desktop is a big problem for businesses. Support is expensive, and it's a lot easier to manage identical PCs than it is to debug problems on customised machines. Users may not overclock their work PCs, but they can install the strangest combinations of software - and cause the most infuriating and complex problems. The solution is simple - a common desktop environment, with known applications and file structures, all set up so that users are unable to make changes. However, the controlled common desktop is hard to create and to manage.Perhaps the easiest way to manage standard software installations is to take a hands-off approach. Desktop PCs and laptops are provided with a standard set of applications, using tools such as Norton's Ghost or PowerQuest's Drive Image. These tools can be used to make a standard disk image, which is then installed on to a fresh hard drive when new machines are delivered. If a user's downloads corrupt essential tools, it's easy enough to wipe the hard drive and install a fresh image - trusting that the user has backed up data!Disk image-based tools have one problem: operating systems have hardware dependencies. It's essential   to have a separate image for each hardware platform, as Windows 2000 or XP will crash if the incorrect hardware profile is used. They also take time to create, and can be difficult to deploy - especially if you have to set up a whole batch of PCs.A new version of Microsoft's Systems Management Server is just around the corner. A tool for managing the configuration of desktop PCs and servers, SMS 2003 can build a distributed deployment network that can manage PCs across different sites, with different software requirements. Using Windows' user policy tools, SMS can control the software users have access to, deploying new versions and patches when required.Application configuration management tools have to be powerful and flexible to deal with the demands of business. Marimba began life as a content distribution tool for the web but has since become a set of tools for distributing and controlling software, as well as handling operating system migrations. Marimba can be used to audit PCs, giving up-to-date reports on the security patches deployed across a network.Open source-based solutions are starting to offer attractive alternatives. Sun's Java Desktop System will offer a basic productivity suite on top of a Linux distribution. Intended for early adopters and evaluators, the first version is missing planned deployment and management tools that will make it easier to manage and control Linux desktop PCs.Sun's vision of a self-configuring, centrally provisioned Java Desktop System is very similar to a pilot system at Newham Borough Council deployed by open source consultancy NetProject. This uses Linux-based desktop computers to provide secure   network computing. Management tools enable the Linux PCs to self configure when initially connected to the network, and then automatically self update as new software is released.A recent survey by IT consultancy Teksys showed that while many businesses believed they knew what software they were running, only 20% were certain, and most didn't have effective tools for managing their software assets. Asset management software is an important tool, helping organisations keep track of just what is being used and when. Businesses often over-license, and effective licence monitoring can lead to substantial savings. System management tools now often include asset control tools alongside configuration management, and BMC Software has made it a cornerstone of its Business Service Management model.An alternate approach to desktop configuration management is to use tools such as Citrix's Metaframe to run applications from a server. Terminal clients on a desktop PC can deliver entire desktops or critical applications. This approach means that application versions can be tightly controlled, and user licenses monitored. Sun's SunRay terminals use a similar approach to deliver Unix applications, with a smart card authenticating users and allowing the system to move sessions between terminals - without losing any work.IT budgets remain tight, and management and deployment tools need to show a quick return on investment. Application deployment tools must effectively manage software assets, and control licence costs, while keeping desktop chaos under control. It's a tough challenge but one that the current generation of configuration management tools look ready to take on.
Few people live without email, and increasingly PC users are now also complementing email with a form of real-time email known as instant messaging, or IM for short. It's the online equivalent of CB radio, with users typing into a small display box on their screens to carry out quick, text-based conversations.Furthermore, as soon as you log onto your machine, IM shows other users that you are present, making IM a unique way of indicating who is available. Although consumers pioneered such services in the early days, IM has now been repackaged for business by leading vendors such as Microsoft, AOL, IBM and Yahoo.But just like the beginning of email with proprietary services, IM suffers from the lock-in effect. Each vendor is pushing their own service and in the main doesn't facilitate linkage to others. For the development of IM and the use of IM in business this is clearly a barrier. It's a bit like BT phone users not being able to call anyone with a cable telephone.Now, thankfully, the walls between services are showing signs of coming down, notably with the recent announcement that information provider Reuters and Microsoft are linking their IM networks. This means that the 50,000 Reuters IM users in the finance industry will soon be able to chat with the 100 million Microsoft instant messaging subscribers. The announcement comes on the heels of similar deals to link Reuters with AOL and IBM's IM services with 60 million and nine million users respectively.Among IM enthusiasts, it is hoped that connections like the deals with Reuters will become a trend leading   to more interoperability between all the services. But Reuters IM user Colin Tennant, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, suggests it may only happen where there is money to be made: "We are pleased that we will be able to link with other IM services and I believe it shows that Microsoft is interested in linkage where there is a clear commercial advantage.""Linking IM services is another step towards more widespread use of IM," says Michael Osterman, president of Osterman Research, a firm that tracks messaging services. "But most people are waiting to see what Microsoft will do, and to what extent it will take IM beyond text into internet phone calls and video conferencing."Later this year Microsoft plans to launch Live Communications Server, which will allow companies to set up IM services with security and archiving built in. Osterman believes that Microsoft will be closely watched by phone companies who stand to lose a lot if IM takes on the broad role being put forward by the firm. Microsoft is also encouraging users of its chat rooms, which it is closing, to switch to its IM service. Some have seen this as a bid to boost IM usage prior to the creation of some paid-for IM services.But despite its potential, most companies tolerate IM, rather than encourage its use. The BBC is typical in this respect: "It is available on every desktop but it is not positively encouraged. The main use is for remotely based staff because it indicates when they are online and you can switch from email to online chat very easily," says Nigel Paine, BBC head of training.Similarly Gerard Neiditsch, executive director online services at law   firm Mallesons Stephen Jaques, says that IM is less trusted than email: "I think most organisations are even less prepared to deal with IM than email. The conversational nature of IM chats is an even greater temptation to disregard the boundaries of ethical standards."But much will depend on whether companies can adapt IM to their own needs. Reuters hopes to develop standard forms within IM chat so that a broker can be talking to a customer on the phone and taking personal details in real-time through a template within the chat window. Other developments include the ability to send out group messages safe in the knowledge that it will only go to those that are present at their PCs. Some believe that this will enable users to cut down on the high volumes of time sensitive emails that are sent needlessly to everyone on a particular list.Reuters also claims that IM is starting to reduce the number of unnecessary calls made between colleagues and business associates: "There is no real need to face the wastage of telephone tag when you have large numbers of people on IM - it tends to streamline phone conversations," says Karl Arteaga, Reuters spokesman.However, security experts see IM as yet another means by which hackers and virus writers can access corporate networks. Denis Zenkin, of security firm Kaspersky Labs, says he does not advise companies to use IM unless it is absolutely necessary: "IM poses a potential threat to security as it is yet another port that represents yet another door into your network. Using yet another online service makes you more open to the threat of viruses, hackers and spam."
You've just launched a website complaining about the state of public tennis facilities?Yes. There's this huge anomaly. We're the second richest nation for spending money on tennis, yet public courts are bashed up and knackered.Tennisforfree.comis designed to put pressure on councils to improve facilities. The net is a really good way of getting a campaign going for very little money. Before, I would have had to have mailed a newsletter, which would have been very expensive.Broadband?I had it fitted about three months ago. It's amazing. No more dialling up and listening to that awful noise and being engaged the whole time. I used to forget to turn off my connection and got a big bill!Do you have wireless, too?I've just got it - someone installed an Airport on my wall for my Apple Macs. It's great to be on the net anywhere in the house. I was having a dinner party and there was an argument about Crowded House's first hit. I got the laptop from upstairs and brought it to the dinner table. It was like having a massive encyclopaedia with me.Downloading music from the net -right or wrong?The jury's out for me. If everyone downloads music free, there won't be any money to develop new artists, but I also think it's an excuse used by record companies. I was   talking to a lawyer who workedwith Peter Gabriel's world music artists in Africa. They had no idea you could earn royalties from your tunes. Record companies have done very well to come up with a magnificent set of rules that make musicians and writers so rich.Do you research your books on the net?I'm using the web more and more. What's great is that you don't have to plan a visit to the library. I might be writing something on an old Irish aristocrat called Buck Whaley who took on stupid bets like me. So I've been online to find out more about him. For One Hit Wonderland I did a bit of research on the Albanian pop charts, but I find that if you do too much, you can end up spoiling the raw material for the book.Gadgets?I love my Apple PowerBook G4 and I also have a Panasonic MiniDV video camera. I used it recently to film a   couple of comedy ideas which I thought were better shown than written down. I'm also planning to use it to study my tennis technique.Favourite websites?I like to compare flight prices on sites such aswww.aerlingus.comandwww.ryanair.com. I'm always looking out for daft offers, but have never been able to get them.www.sing365.comis very handy for song lyrics. I'm trying to build up a repertoire of songs I can perform live with a friend in a pub. I also usewww.guitaretab.com, which lists chords for thousands of songs - though they're not always right! I spend time updatingmy website. The section where I answer emails sent to me instead of American skateboarder Tony Hawk seems particularly popular.
Silicon.comhas a round-up of views from the anti-virus industry.
"The world's largest mobile phone maker Nokia said on Wednesday hackers have cracked the copy-protection codes for its newly launched N-Gage gaming device, allowing copied games to be downloaded over the Web," reportsReuters.
The US Patent Office has responded quickly to Tim Berners-Lee's request for the Eolas patent (906) on browser plug-ins to be re-examined.CNetreports:"A substantial outcry from a widespread segment of the affected industry has essentially raised a question of patentability with respect to the 906 patent claims," Stephen Kunin, the USPTO's deputy commissioner for patent examination policy, wrote in his order for re-examination. "This creates an extraordinary situation for which a director-ordered examination is an appropriate remedy."Kunin specifically cited the technologies that the W3C had raised in its request for re-examination.
"Virtual PC 2004 is built on Virtual PC for Windows, one of three virtualisation products Microsoft bought from Connectix in February. The $129 estimated retail price for the Virtual PC 2004 is a drop from the $229 Connectix price. The competing product from VMWare, VMware Workstation, is priced at $299 (£179) when delivered online, or $329 in a box." SeeComputer Weekly.Comment: The price isn't too surprising since Microsoft has already released a version ofVirtual PC for Mac usersfor $129. However, it is a rather small price cut by Microsoft Windows standards -- not even halved! On past form, it should have been more like $79.99,ifMicrosoft was targeting the consumer market.
E-commerce minister Stephen Timms has called on broadband internet providers to hasten its introduction across the country. His plea coincided with an industry demand for lighter regulation.Yesterday BT submitted evidence to a Commons trade and industry select committee   hearing on broadband, asking for less red tape. "Too many broadband experts in BT are spending too much time dealing with detailed regulatory inquiries instead of making broadband available to more customers and creating and delivering innovative new services," the company said in a memorandum.Mr Timms, in an interview with the Guardian, said he wanted broadband internet access across the whole of the UK by the end of 2005. At present, about 80% of the country has access. Mr Timms is not proposing new government funding to reach this target."My postbag is full of people saying 'when am I going to get broadband in my area'," the minister said. "Our broadband market is now the fastest growing in the G7 &#91;group of industrialised nations&#93; in the past year, but I think we can do more."Today he is addressing the Cambridge-MIT third annual competitiveness summit in Newcastle, where he will issue the challenge to broadband providers. He did not condemn BT or cable companies NTL and Telewest over their efforts. "I wouldn't be critical of the companies," he said, "but nobody has yet said when they will get broadband to everybody... we want the industry to respond to that challenge."A spokesman for BT said that the company was on course to make broadband available to 90% of the population by the end of 2004.
Singapore has enacted draconian legislation allowing the government to give unspecified authorities power to take unlimited pre-emptive action against suspected cyber-terrorists and computer hackers.Free speech activists yesterday strongly condemned the amendment to the Computer Misuse Act, claiming the government was using the excuse of fighting terror to further erode civil rights in the island republic. One MP likened it to an internet version of the state's Internal Security Act, which allows for indefinite detention without charge.Under the amended law, the home affairs minister can authorise "any person or organisation... to take such measures as may be necessary to prevent or counter any threat to a computer or computer service" to defend "national security, essential services, defence or foreign relations". Essential services are defined as those relating to communications, infrastructure, banking and finance, public utilities, public transport, and the emergency services.Ho Peng Kee, the minister who introduced the final reading on Monday, said the powers would be used "sparingly" but admitted the only checks and balances were "the professionalism and objectivity of our security agencies".He claimed it was necessary to be vague, and to permit action before any crime had been committed, because computer crime and cyber-terrorism were evolving so rapidly."Instead of a backpack of explosives, a terrorist can create just as much devastation by sending a carefully engineered packet of data into the computer systems which control the network for essential services, for example the power stations," Mr Ho said.Penalties under the law are not specified, but anyone who hacks into or defaces a website faces three years in jail or a S$10,000 (&#163;3,500) fine.One MP, Ho Geok Choo, said the amendment was ambiguous. "How does the police cyber-crime unit intend to differentiate between a real intent to compromise our national computer networks and those that are merely wild talk?" she said. "Indeed, it sounds very much like the cyberspace equivalent of the Internal Security Act."Singapore has detained more than 30 people under this act since September 11, alleging they are members of the al-Qaida-linked Islamist terrorist organisation Jemaah Islamiyah. None has been tried.James Gomez, a free speech campaigner and editor of a forthcoming book on Asian cyber-activism, said the law was the latest and harshest example of an emerging trend in the region. "The excuse of terrorism has not only speeded up but also deepened the reach of legislation," he said, highlighting the absence of civil rights safeguards as the greatest concern."Who decides what's a sound and reliable source?" he asked. "It's arbitrary and open to abuse."The minister said cybercrime was increasing every year in Singapore: the number of successful hacking attacks rose from 19 in 2001 to 41 last year. One network had faced more than 6,000 unsuccessful attempts in a three-month period this year, he said.
Apple has been told it cannot continue to claim its new G5 Mac is the "world's fastest, most powerful personal computer" on British TV screens. The British television regulator, the ITC, hasruled against Appletoday after eight viewers complained Apple could not stand up its claim, made in a recent campaign to promote its top-end range of computers.An unnamed British Advertising Clearance Centre (BACC) expert "found that the claim was not supported by independent reviews and that at best 'the G5 was generally as fast as the best Intel-based workstations currently available'."The ruling revealed the BACC had already raised concerns about the ad, before it was shown on British screens. Apple had provided information to allay those concerns, and the campaign went ahead. But further testing showed there was insufficient evidence for Apple's speed and power boast.The judgement concluded: "The ITC considered that there was insufficient evidence to support the claim 'world's fastest, most powerful personal computer'. Furthermore, it shared one viewer's doubt that the claim could be substantiated at all because, as evidence for and against the claim had shown, computers were constantly being updated and had many different applications and benchmarks. It reminded the BACC of the importance to obtain solid evidence for such absolute claims. It judged that the advertising was misleading and required that it should not be re-shown in its current form."Apple said tonight it was waiting to study the full report before commenting.
Sony is launching copy protected CDs that also include "a compressed digital copy of the music that can be quickly copied onto any computer. From the computer, users can copy that music onto Sony portable digital music players," saysReuters. "The CD's also allow users to connect to Web sites with exclusive features such as bonus songs and concert tickets." Sony will try the system in Germany before deciding whether to launch it in other countries.Comment: no mention of ATRAC, Sony's proprietary music format, but I'd be surprised if it wasn't involved.....
According toCNet: "With Xbox Next, Microsoft is licensing graphics technology from ATI Technologies, processor technology from IBM and chipset technology from Silicon Integrated Systems (SIS). Microsoft will then work with these companies to fashion customized chips, sources said. The arrangement will likely mirror Sony's relationship with IBM and Toshiba to create the Cell processor slated for use in the next big release of the PlayStation game console, said analysts and sources close to the companies. Microsoft will likely ink deals with one or more semiconductor foundries to manufacture the chips for the new Xbox design."
Nick Denton's new weblog on porn,Fleshbot, has launched (warning: not worksafe. Really. Not. Worksafe). As Nick says himself, in an email fired out earlier, "The thumbnails are cropped to be suggestive, rather than explicit. But Fleshbot does showcase porn, and the links go to adult sites. The site is not safe for corporate work environments. It's probably fine in front of a significant other." Until you get home, you can watch the site'svisit counterwhirr round - dull, but probably the only link off the site that won't get you fired.
I wouldn't have linked to Andrew Orlowski's Register piece on iTunes Music Store (IMS). He has a fine line in invective, but it wears thin very quickly. His comments on IMS don't display much understanding of how the business model is intended to work, or might be panning out (Danny O'Brienexplains far better than I'll ever be able to the magical way the Reg's man on the west coast goes about his job).At least he used to be reasonably quick on the draw. But this time he's months late with the "news" hook on which he's hung his anti-digital rights management (DRM) rant. "So now we have it on record: the music store is a loss leader," he trumpets, but I'm afraid he's a bit late to this party -News.comreported last month that Apple wasn't making a profit from iTunes. Apple's CFO Fred Anderson said as far back as July that IMS was a "Trojan Horse" for iPod sales, although he added then that the business - only a few months old then - was close to breaking even. Nobody knows the exact figures, but the RIAA is clearly not taking 99c a download.Whatever Apple's cut, it is certainly not big. But does it need to be? The margin on iPods is big enough, and Apple's clearly pushing hard to turn this part of its portfolio into a mass market business. If it succeeds, razor-thin margins will still be enough to turn a very tidy profit. This kind of low-margin tactic is well known in the computer business - it's long been employed by everyone's favourite monopolist, Microsoft, for years, as it has entered new markets in which it wants to build market share and deter rivals.And on the subject of monopolies, the term "monopoly" usually describes an industry dominated by one player - not five major players, and a host of (vibrant) indies...
"Running counter to several thousand years of basic human observation, Apple decided it could afford to control those points where we share music. It developed an opportunistic business with such compromises built in: a plan is to infect as many computers it could with restrictive DRM technology to allow us to rights [sic] we once took for granted. But why, you ask, is Apple helping an extinct, and unworthy industry back on its feet? Precisely why does this strike you as greedy, desperate and gasping?" The Register's Andrew Orlowski tries to put the boot inhere.
"Wallop enables users to build online social networks in a more realistic manner than Friendster, the popular social-networking website. Friendster membership works by invitation only. [cut] Wallop, however, would be open to anyone with Microsoft Instant Messenger. Cheng says building an online network starting with your buddy list makes the networking process more natural. And instead of becoming immersed in a network the size of a city, Wallop would maintain its intimacy by automatically moving friends to the forefront and background of your network based on how often you interact with them."Wiredhas the story.
"This new version of our player opens the world of Windows Media 9 content to Macintosh users, enabling them to access the best audio and video on the Web," Microsoft said on its Web site. SeeCNet.
There will be no chess board and no pieces when world No. 1 Garry Kasparov plays the latest so-called man vs machine contest next week, just a computer monitor and a chessboard image as seen through 3D glasses. Former world champion Kasparov, 40, pits his genius against "X3D Fritz," a combination of Fritz, the most dominant chess software, with X3D Technologies company software that specializes in virtual reality," reportsReuters
EasyCar, the car hire firm run by headline-grabbing entrepreneur Stelios Haji-Ioannou, must be one of the worst-run companies in Britain.Last Saturday we exposed the plight of readers who had fallen foul of the firm's bargain-basement business practices. Within 24 hours of publication, we were deluged with emails and letters from other angry customers.It also prompted people to send us similar complaints about no-frills airline easyJet. As the extracts from some of the letters show, customers encountered a wide variety of problems. Today the business plan of buying cars in bulk and renting them dirt cheap looks flawed, despite reassurances from Mr Haji-Ioannou that things are improving.Some readers have told us they believe they have been given cars that are unfit to drive. Mr Haji-Ioannou this week flatly denied any accusations that unroadworthy cars were being given to customers and said that part of the reason for so many customers not being given a car at all was because safety was his "main priority".There are plenty of other criticisms. Week after week, people are turning up to find the easyCar depot with their car is shut or unmanned.Where a member of staff can be found, all too often customers say they are being told there is no car available. As we have discovered, this is usually because the company's policy of over-booking means the same car is booked out to multiple customers at the same time. Then there is the claim that cars brought back in an un-roadworthy state are left sitting in car parks because skeletal resources mean there is no one to fix them.Customer experiences suggest that any staff on site - usually in the portable white van that substitutes for a permanent office - are so overwhelmed by complaints they resort to rudeness or lock their van (which doubles as an office) and make themselves scarce.Latest complaints are from people who found inexplicable charges levied out of the blue on their credit card - months after their last car.Daring to complain, seek a refund or attempt to muster some compensation brings its own problems. The premium 60p-a-minute phone line is either jammed or you are put on hold for lengthy periods while all the time paying for the privilege. The email complaints system is woefully ill-equipped to cope with the volume.Mr Haji-Ioannou has assured Jobs &amp; Money that he is on top of the problems. More staff will be hired, he insists. The call centre is being moved to India and site inspections stepped up.Case study: Grateful that the truth is out nowWill Hyatt was one of the many frustrated easyCar customers who contacted Jobs &amp; Money. A general manager at a large retailer in Wood Green, north London, Mr Hyatt has fallen foul of the company twice. Now he is "so grateful" that problems with the firm were "finally being exposed."He says: "Thank you. I thought it was only me that received bad service. Twice I had no car. And when I complained about the telephone number being 60p per minute I was told that the European number was a normal rate so to use that. The guy also said that morale amongst staff was so low that all they did all day was deal with complaints."Mr Hyatt says he "feels sorry" for the people employed by the firm who end up having to deal with disgruntled customers and who are left to try to sort out the problems if the customer service number fails."I've gone back to Hertz now. It's just not worth the hassle," he says."I think the surcharges are just a scandal," he adds. "They've introduced this &#163;50 deposit and then you don't get it back for a month. It's a disgrace. They told me it's for people who don't pay the congestion charge but I pointed out that they ask for the deposit outside London as well. It's scandalous."Your verdict on easyCar: Appalling, a joke, rude"I really think this company is acting fraudulently by deliberately not meeting their contractual obligations. I wrote to Trading Standards and, similarly to the person featured in your article, they suggested writing to easyCar threatening to take them to the small claims court."William Pringle, by email"I have experienced first hand easyCar's appalling customer service. They are impossible to communicate with and when you manage to make contact with them, they are rude and unhelpful."Jeff Hurst, by email"We too have had the misfortune to find that there was no member of staff at an easyCar site ... we spent &#163;8 calling &#91;a premium rate line&#93;. Since &#91;it happened&#93; there has been no meaningful response from easyCar. This is a deeply frustrating and unsatisfactory experience. As with many of your other correspondents on this subject, we found the company to be uninterested in resolving such complaints, and to be seemingly untroubled by their own incompetence ... we are not going to be using them again."Peter Dukes and Rachel Bracha, by email"I had booked a car more than a month in advance &#91;at the Euston branch&#93; but when I arrived I was informed that there were none available. Staff told me this frequently happens at the weekend when demand is at its highest ... I was left to find alternative transportation ... somebody needs to tell Stelios he should not be running his business like an airline and stop the policy of over-booking his cars. The customer services he provides are a joke."Lawrence Schneck, by email"I was caught in an appalling situation where the easyCar "office" (being a small van) at Euston was closed at the time I was due to pick up my car. Needless to say their "help" line was flooded with calls so it was impossible to get through, although I spent a small fortune being kept on hold at 60p a minute. The easyCar "office" remained closed the following morning, and so I had to spend &#163;300 to get a car from Avis in order not to ruin my holiday to Cornwall any further. I wrote to easyCar (on August 8) but to this day I have not received a refund. I think easyCar's treatment of its customers is utterly appalling. I cannot believe Stelios has the cheek to suggest, in effect, that because his prices are low, customers should expect to be shafted occasionally!!!"Leonard Ng, London"I would appeal to you to also look at easyJet as the same principles around customer service and obtaining refunds apply. Stelios Haji-Ioannou heads up despicable operations. I am at my wits' end trying to get a refund from easyJet."Jane Saunders, Sheffield"You might like to highlight that easyCar is not really that good value for money! If you do a high mileage the additional charges make the hire charge much higher than, say Europcar or Hertz."Keith Overton, by email"Not only can I not get my deposit back but also I don't know how to claim it. The only contact number is on a premium rate and by the time they answer you, you will end up paying the money you are trying to trace to your phone company. After more than a month easyCar have not refunded my money.Morad Abushanab, by email"I waited for two hours but a member of staff never arrived. &#91;The office was closed for the next 24 hours.&#93; So I never got a car. I have phoned, emailed and written to them but I have only received the automated response. Still no refund or compensation."Andrew Mellor, London"I had a similar experience to people in your article. The problem is that there is no system for you to actually speak to someone without being on hold for 10 minutes, which costs you money. Seems like a real scam to me."Ross Stephenson, by emailWe will forward complaints about the firm to its owner. But, rather than adopt a "watch this space" policy, tell him what you think yourself. Email Mr Haji-Ioannou at:stelios@easygroup.co.ukOr email us at:jobs.and.money@guardian.co.uk
While Santa Claus is usually spot on in the underpants and aftershave department, he's less noted for keeping up to date with the latest gadgets. So while I know it is early, and, yes, the weather feels more like September than November, I am still going to take the opportunity to highlight 10 of the latest relatively cheap gizmos that the white-bearded fellow would do well to take note of.1. Fujifilm Q1(£100) - Fuji's latest budget snapper is a digital version of its popular Q1 film-based camera. It is amazing value, too, for unlike many sub-£100 cameras it takes two mega-pixel images and has a reasonable quality LCD screen. Available at the end of the month.www.fujifilm.co.uk2. Dual Sports(£200) - Ideal for those whose New Year's resolutions involve shedding a few pounds, the Dual Sports is the first ever MP3 player to also feature a built-in heart rate monitor. It's ideal for seeing just how much impact The Darkness has on your old ticker. It packs 250MB of storage - enough for around four hours worth of MP3 tunes.www.mp3-plus.net3. Disgo Pro(£300) - The latest USB keychain storage system to hit the stores. You use it to carry round all your files and transfer them between any PC running Windows XP. The model's best features are that it boasts 1 gigabyte of storage, more than almost all its rivals, and that you can add modules such as an MP3 player and voice recorder.www.mydisgo.com4. Humax 8000(£200) - An inexpensive Freeview (digital terrestrial) receiver with a secret weapon - it also includes an integrated hard disk video recorder with enough storage for around 20 hours of viewing. It might not be quite as sophisticated as the Sky Plus box, but at least there's no monthly TV subscription to pay.www.humaxdigital.com5. Wireless Speakers(£100) - Delivering the cable-free home on the cheap, these wireless speakers allow you to pipe music from your CD player/PC anywhere in your home provided you lug the speakers round with you. Music is transmitted via FM through a base station connected to your system. It apparently has a range of around 100 metres.www.iwantoneofthose.com6. Xitel Inport(£53) - Clever little device that allows you to save music from record decks and cassette recorders as digital quality WAV files on your PC. Comes with really neat software that automatically sets levels, divides tracks and so on.www.nifty-gadgets.net7. Bush DABCR2003(£80) -Radio Five Live fans fed up with hearing presenters who sound as though they are in a studio with eggs frying in the background will love this clock radio. It takes the snap, crackle and pop out of breakfast broadcasts by receiving DAB digital radio transmissions. At just £80 it is also one of the cheapest DAB radios on sale.www.qed-uk.com8. Logitech QuickCam Sphere(£100) - One of the coolest webcams on sale, the Sphere's trump card is that it offers a basic form of head tracking. This ensures that you stay in focus on video calls no matter how much you move around on your chair.www.logitech.com9. Vestax Handy Trax(£85) - A record collector's dream, the Handy Trax is a battery-powered portable record player complete with integrated amp and speakers. This is the perfect gift for a person whose idea of nirvana is rummaging through vinyl at boot and record fairs.www.vestax.co.uk10. Shocking Roulette(£14.95) - A take on the classic casino game, except that instead of winning a pile of chips the person whose trap the ball falls into receives an electrical shock. Of course, 3xAAA batteries don't deliver too much of a jolt, but that doesn't prevent the wait for the ball to drop being one of the most agonising moments of your life.www.firebox.com
The argument over newspapers charging for their online content has been rumbling on pretty much since the first newspapers hit the web in the mid 1990s. It seems we're no nearer a resolution in what can a near-religious debate, something highighted by two interesting pieces which appeared online in the last few days.In theOnline Journalism ReviewDonn Friedman, of the Albuquerque Journal, explains why he took his site to a subscription model. He says it's been a great success - 35,000 print subscribers have signed up to use the site, and 2,000 people are paying $8 a month, or $60 a year, for online access only (the print paper has a Sunday circulation of 156,000). That is, he says, more than $100,000 created in new revenues.Over atDigital Deliverance, online news consultant Vin Crosbie - as near to a veteran this young industry has - gets stuck in to Friedman's claims in a pretty strong point by point dissection. He suggests the Journal could be earning $1.4m if it wasfreeto view, and also highlights the plight of the Irish Times' Ireland.com site, which went subscription-only to disastrous effect. "Avoid the latest online publishing vice," advises Crosbie. "There are many things for which newspapers can charge online, but access isn't one. The problem is the newspaper's content, not the newspaper giving it away for free." [viaTechDirt]
"Apache has a significant percentage gain this month as register.com, a leading domain registrar with a domain parking system serving responses for over one million domains eliminated its Windows front end, and reverted to Linux and Apache which it ran previously. Barely weeks ago its largest rival, Network Solutions made a similar switch from Microsoft-IIS back to SunOne, nee Netscape-Enterprise, for its own domain parking system. During 2001 and the first half of 2002 several companies hosting very large numbers of hostnames including Webjump, Namezero, Homestead, register.com and Network Solutions migrated to Microsoft-IIS. Subsequently these businesses have either failed, significantly changed their business model, or reverted to their previous platform, and Microsoft-IIS share is now in line with its long term pre-summer 2001 level of around 20%." There's an interesting graphhere.
"The downloadable software for users of Microsoft's Windows operating system puts a Google search box in the desktop taskbar. Using the free tool, people can search for information on the Web while in a Word document or e-mail application. But instead of launching a browser, the Deskbar will display results in a small window in the lower right of the screen," reportsCNet.
IDG Newsreports: The company targeted by the FTC, San Diego-based D Squared Solutions, used [Windows] Messenger Service to flash ads touting its pop-up blocking software, which it sold for $25 to $30, according to the FTC's complaint. Because D Squared created a problem specifically so that it could sell a solution to the problem, its business model boiled down to "'I'll beat you and I'll stop beating you if you pay,'" said FTC Bureau of Consumer Protection Director Howard Beales during a press conference on Thursday. "We call that extortion, and it's not any different in the high-tech world," Beales said.
Web surfers in search of spiritual fulfilment are to be offered the chance to receive an online "blessing", it was announced today.An art project launched by Tate Online today will guide visitors through a three-step ritual, which includes placing the forehead to the computer screen on a spot marked X.Visitors who go through the ritual will be able to print out a certificate to mark the occasion.The artwork, entitled Blessed-bandwidth.net, will also offer visitors a means of recording their sins and accepting punishments, as well as a library where they are encouraged to upload and share their own beliefs.The project, which suggests the users dress up as their favourite god or priest, and even exclaims "Feed me, thrill me, love me. I am your god", was the work of 26-year-old artist Shilva Gupta from Mumbai, India.It is intended to act as a space for visitors to reflect on religion and its role in the world.Visitors at the launch will be able to choose to log on to the Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Sikh and Buddhist faiths.They will also be able to view footage and photographs of Ms Gupta, who is from a Hindu background, visiting the most important places of worship in Mumbai, with a network cable.In each shrine, she asks for the cable connecting the server to be "blessed" by a priest or authority.The project is sponsored by BT.The project can be accessed onBlessed Bandwidth.
&gt;connecting to server . . .Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:Yesterday's much-anticipated quarter-per cent interest rates rise was aimed at cooling the housing market and curbing consumer debt, but what does it mean for your family? Our online financial expert DrMoney is here to answer all your questions.LadeezMan:wot u meanDrMoney:your budget. Your monthly outgoings.LadeezMan:dont follow uDrMoney:how much do you spend every monthLadeezMan:on wotDrMoney:rent? TV licence? electricity? gas?LadeezMan:is he talkin to me stillHost_Chris2:you asked the questionPashmina has entered the NewsRoomPashmina:hi room hi DrMoneyLadeezMan:I know! Just tell me what morgadge to get!Host_Chris2:hello Pashmina. Any questions for DrMoney now interest rates have risen?DrMoney:what sort of property are you looking for?Pashmina:no taLadeezMan:wotDrMoney:what's the mortgage for, a house or a flat?Pashmina:my intrest rate is droppinLadeezMan:gambling debtsDrMoney:Right. OK if I go out for a fagHost_Chris2:Perhaps you could hold onDrMoney:There are only 15 minutes left &amp; we've had 1 question so farLadeezMan:mineDrMoney:great, thanks. brbDrMoney has left the NewsRoomLadeezMan:actully I tell a lie its drug debtsPashmina:whats up with DrMoneyHost_Chris2:I think he's having marriage problems. Be nice to him when he comes back.Pashmina:I'm allways niceHost_Chris2:Perhaps you could ask him a question about the economyPashmina:OKLadeezMan:just dont expect an answer anytime soonBronco has entered the NewsRoomBronco:yo DrMoney! Question! ME!Pashmina:hi broncoHost_Chris2:DrMoney just stepped out for a moment. Can I answer your question?Bronco:I got a cheque in the post that was meant for next door. How do I cash it quickHost_Chris2:I'm afraid I can't help you with thatPashmina:you need DrMoneyBronco:were is heDrMoney has entered the NewsRoomDrMoney:how much longer does this go onPashmina:do u think intrest rates will rise againHost_Chris2:very good questionDrMoney:who cares we're all gonna die aloneconnection to server has been terminated...
Too late for today'sOnline cover story, "the first-ever beauty contest for computer-generated women is being held in Italy next month. Artists and graphic designers have been invited to create their perfect woman, and enter her into theMiss Digital Worldcompetition," saysInternet Magzine.
Red Hat is executing stage two of its market-splitting, money-making strategy with the launch of a version of Red Hat Linux for hobbyists, which for some reason is called Fedora rather thanpropeller beanie. It won't do bug fixes -- you can fix it yourself -- but it will "update Fedora with the latest technology three times a year", Red Hat's John Young toldCNet. Busines users are catered for by the supported and certified Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL). Something like Red Hat Advanced Server apparently costs around $2,500 per year.To quote CNet: "Young made it clear where Red Hat's priorities lie. 'Maybe some number of customers are wanting full support and not willing to pay for it, and that's going to be challenge that we face,' he said. 'We've got to build a sustainable business.'"
Forbes magazineHalloween mask.
Japanese mobile phone giant NTT DoCoMo has come up with a wearable mobile phone that gives a whole new meaning to the term "handset".The Finger Whisper phone, currently being developed by the company's media computing laboratory, would convert voice sound into vibrations that travel through the bones of the user's hand.According to a report in New Scientist magazine, the phone would be based in a wristband. A vibration would serve in place of a ringtone, then a simple touch of finger to thumb would answer the call. Sound would travel from the wristband, through the hand and into a finger placed in the ear. Users would speak into a microphone on the wristband.Another touch of finger to thumb would end the call. To make a call, users would simply speak the number into the wristband, which would function using voice recognition technology.The company has not given a date for when the device might go on sale, but an earlier report in Wired suggested 2005 was the target.
The FBI and Microsoft combined forces yesterday against the shadowy teenage world of the computer hacker by offering $500,000 (&#163;300,000) bounties for information on the creators of MSBlast and SoBig viruses.Microsoft executives said the bounties, part of a $5m fund earmarked for rewards, would be paid on conviction of those responsible for the spread of MsBlast and SoBig, the two most devastating computer attacks.The two programs, which targeted Microsoft's operating system, caused millions of dollars of damage earlier this year. They shut down systems at hospitals, airlines and on personal computers.In Washington, Microsoft and the FBI said that cyber crime posed a far more serious threat than suggested by the juvenile and geeky image of its perpetrators."These are not just internet crimes, cyber crime or virtual crimes. These are real crimes that hurt a lot of people," Microsoft's general counsel, Brad Smith, said in a statement"The malicious distribution of worms and viruses... are far from victimless crimes," said Keith Lourdeau, acting deputy assistant director of the FBI's cyber division.The reward offer coincides with growing public pressure on Microsoft and law enforcement agencies to devise a formula to protect the world's computer networks, after this year's devastating strikes by the MSBlast worm and the SoBig virus.The Blaster virus caused an estimated $3.5bn worth of damage to North American computers, unleashing a flood of data and jamming networks.In August, the FBI arrested a Minnesota high school student accused of writing a variation of the Blaster worm.However, there has been no breakthrough in the hunt for the creator of the SoBig virus, and investigators fear the malicious program may signal a more threatening trend of virus writing, once dominated by young amateurs.Unlike the majority of computer attacks security experts suspect SoBig, which infected hundreds of thousands of computers allowing them to be hijacked by outsiders sending spam emails, was designed to make a profit.Security experts familiar with the cyber dragnet said the reward could generate new leads in the hunt for its creator."Apparently they haven't had too much luck, which is why they are resorting to offering money, which could work for Blaster," said Mikko Hypponen of Finnish anti-virus firm F-Secure.It was uncertain how the bounty would be viewed in the hacking community. "It is not going to change the culture of virus writers, and it is not going to deter the writing of viruses," said George Smith of internet analysts Global Security in California.He described the bounties as too little, too late, and accused Microsoft of avoiding improvements to software security.The world's first computer virus, the Morris worm, released by a Cornell university graduate, infected about 10% of the computers on the internet in 1988."This is as much about public theatre as bettering security," Mr Smith said."We are stuck with the regime that we have in which software has to be serially patched. We can't go back now and fix it."
PCsWall unitDesigned for a role in connected homes and office receptions, the Howie hang-on-the-wall PC from Redten goes on sale this month. Based around a 15in LCD screen, the Howie is a fully specified, 8.3cm-thick PC, controlled via a touch screen and a cordless keyboard. Buyers can choose from a basic 1.8GHz Intel Celeron, 20 gigabyte hard drive model to a 2.66 GHz Pentium 4, 30GB hard drive top-end PC. All the units sport Ethernet connections so they can be incorporated into a wired/wireless network. The PCs are available in a variety of different coloured cases. Prices range from &#163;1,000 to 1,500.www.redten.comCard sharpSony Ericsson has become the first company to offer mobile professionals a PC card that features both Wi-Fi (802.11b) and GPRS (general packet radio service) compatibility. After placing the GC79 card in their laptop, Sony Ericsson claims users can access the internet at speeds of up to 11Mbps at Wi-Fi hot spots and at up to 53.6Kbps using GPRS networks. The card is triple band, enables users to send and receive text messages and manage the contacts on their SIM card via its own software. It is compatible with all GPRS networks and is on sale now for &#163;250 from the company's website.www.freeofficeworkers.comAudio playersPersonal playerSamsung's Napster hard disk personal audio player, the YP-910GS, which recently went on sale in the US, is coming to the UK in March. The player has been designed to integrate seamlessly with the legitimate music download version of Napster (2.0) and its secure Windows Media Audio (WMA) audio files. The   YP-910GS plays MP3s, features an FM radio, transfers music through a USB 2.0 connection and has a battery life of 10 hours. The US version also features an FM transmitter for wirelessly connecting the unit to a car radio - although for legal reasons this might not appear on the UK unit. It features 20 gigabytes of storage (5,000 WMA songs) and is expected to retail for between &#163;300-400.www.samsungelectronics.co.ukRio returnsUS personal audio manufacturer Rio will return to the UK market next year with a range of MP3 players including the Rio Karma - its challenger to the Apple iPod. The Karma is a cigarette packet-sized player that features a 20 gigabyte hard disk and plays MP3, Windows Media Audio (WMA) and Ogg Vorbis (an open source-based format) audio files. Its most innovative facility is a docking cradle that features an Ethernet connection, enabling the device to be integrated into a home network. Other Rio players include the tiny 1 gigabyte hard disk unit the Rio Nitrus and a 256MB model the Chiba, which, unusually for MP3 players, is compatible with Apple Macs running OS X.www.rioaudio.comLegal changeElectronic journalsElectronic publications, including selected web-based content and material on CD-ROM, will now be preserved systematically following a change in the law. Legal Deposit legislation - which requires UK publishers to deposit copies of all printed items with the British Library - is being extended to cover e-publications for the first time. The move was prompted by the spectacular growth in non-print publications - 52,000 electronic journal issues were published in the UK last year. That figure is expected to grow almost fourfold by 2005. Lynne Brindley, chief executive of the British Library said: "This is an   historic piece of legislation and puts the UK among the first countries which will be collecting, by law, their electronic published output."CamcorderPocket videoLogitech has become the latest company to deliver inexpensive tapeless camcorders that record using MPeg 4 rather than the traditional higher quality DV (Digital Video) format. The Pocket Video 550 (&#163;150) and 750 (&#163;200) are both small devices capable of archiving images at a resolution of 320x480 pixels at up to 20 frames per second.Both feature 16MB of internal storage supplemented by a 32MB removable secure digital card. Apart from in the styling, the main difference between the two is that the more expensive 750 comes with rechargeable batteries and features a 1.5inch LCD monitor and a 2x digital zoom. Compatible with Windows, Macs and Linux based PCs,   the pair are on sale now via Logitech's website.www.logitech.comEmailSpam attackWebmail providers are increasing protection against spam - at least for Americans. Microsoft will this month introduce "white-listing" for US users of Hotmail, under which email which has been sent only from people in a user's contact book will appear on the initial Today page. Other email will be shown only when clicking on Mail. The firm was unable to say if or when this service might be extended to the UK.Meanwhile, paying US customers of Yahoo's webmail service will be able to set up a secondary address for their account, for insecure use, such as on websites. If this address is captured by spammers, users can delete it without blocking the rest of their email. Unfortunately, Yahoo has no current plans to offer this service in the UK.Stat of the weekLook who's talkingEnglish is the most-used language on the net, according to stats from Global Reach (glreach.com). But most net users (64.4%) speak a non-English language, with 34.9% speaking a European language other than English.
When you re-enter this country after travelling abroad, you don't bat an eyelid at the idea of being checked over by passport control. You breathe a sigh of relief on being waved through, safe in the knowledge that a stony-faced official has decided that you are who your documents say you are.In some ways, good anti-spam software attempts to be like passport control, only letting in desirable mail by weeding out the spam. But you don't expect your anti-spam system to go into overdrive and reject email if it's from an unknown sender in the way a customs official rejects those without a passport.But that kind of authentication is exactly what many anti-spam software vendors are beginning to offer by either challenging unknown senders or by adding authentication to sent messages. Experts believe that although challenging each email in this way is extreme, it does offer the highest security against spam because it forces senders to identify themselves - something automated spammers can't do easily.Tumbleweed, one of the leading corporate anti-spam suppliers, is one of the latest vendors to strengthen authentication in outgoing emails. The latest version of its MMS firewall features the ability to place digital signatures on outbound email and use a "secure redirect" option so that messages can be sent and received through a secure separate web site. For example, a bank can email a customer who is then directed to a web site to read the confidential email.Digital signatures and secure redirect are designed to help reduce the risk of the more recent email fraud of "phishing" - the email scam whereby criminals target hapless bank customers enticing them to visit a fake version of their online bank in the hope of getting them to enter their security passwords.So could authentication make anti-spam software more effective? Or is it too cumbersome to be worthwhile? Technology that checks the identity of the sender is known as challenge-response (CR) and is rapidly gaining ground as a near bullet-proof anti-spam solution.In essence, it allows users to create a "whitelist" of known senders from their address books. When an email arrives, the sender's address is checked against this whitelist. If it is not on the list, it is held at the server or ISP and an email is sent to the sender asking them to verify who they are or go to a web page to prove they are human by copying text that   cannot be read automatically. Once verified in this way, the email is sent on. The result is that spam is automatically weeded out because spammers are unable to complete this manual response process. Challenge-response can stop spam almost completely. But there are downsides:&#183;The process makes the sender do extra work (albeit once), which might be enough to stop a potential customer emailing again;&#183;If challenge-response becomes the norm, email traffic will grow considerably as challenge systems challenge each other;&#183;Automated email confirmations such as those from an online shopping vendor could be challenged unwittingly.California-based Mailblocks is the first company to have patents for challenge-response technology. In March, it launched the Mailblocks   CR Service and has made headlines as much for its battle to defend its patents, going to court against many vendors using CR, notably Earthlink and MailFrontier. But critics say CR technology was developed independently in 1996, before Mailblocks' patents. Mailblocks chief executive Phil Goldman (former co-founder of WebTV) says he intends to licence the technology to any firm using it.But CR is an option that seems to be growing fast. Mailblocks estimates   that while there were only four companies offering the system at the beginning of last year, there are now more than 50, and that versions are getting increasingly sophisticated.For example, many now offer "tracker" email addresses that are not challenged so that users can sign up for newsletters or online banking without fear of emails being blocked. Mailblocks also intends to improve whitelisting so that when you email a new user, that address is automatically added to your whitelist.Brad Templeton, chairman of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (a digital rights organisation), who developed a CR system called Viking-12 in 1997, says most CR systems need improvements. "I am against the system of simply blocking unknown email - it will have an impact on free speech. There are also proposals to put IDs in all emails (backed recently   by the chairman of the All Party Internet Group, Derek Wyatt) but the EFF is opposed to this." He is also concerned that CR systems will lead to an increase in bona fide email disappearing ("false positives").Templeton advises firms considering CR to look for systems that: avoid challenging mail that is a reply to a private message; avoid challenging replies to public messages such as mailing lists and newsgroups; provide multiple email addresses so you can filter as appropriate; never challenge an email list; never challenge a challenge or challenge error message; and make the challenge as easy as possible."Challenge-response is a blunt tool," says David Dobson, chief operating officer at Mailkey, one of the first UK email security firms to promote CR as part of its offering. "But each organisation will work out the level of CR they want to incorporate. That's why we offer it as one of a mix of filtering techniques. You don't want to challenge new customers, so you need to think about more basic filters for that. A lot will depend on the kind of business you are in."There is also the chance that CR systems will be eclipsed by the growing popularity of "collaborative filtering" - an anti-spam technique involving gathering data on spam from users into a shared database. Cloudmark's Spamnet, which works with Outlook and Outlook Express, is the first service to build its database using peer-to-peer techniques resembling those used by Napster to share music files. All users gain access to a collective database of known spam which is continually evolving.Cloudmark's chief executive, Karl Jacob, says using challenge response is "like breaking email to fix it. Why not use collaborative filtering because it checks against a database in real time and is self-correcting. Having installed Spamnet, I can vouch that it is highly effective. My 40% spam level has gone down to about 2-5%.Just like controlling national borders, protecting against spam appears to need a mixture of techniques to be reasonably effective. Challenge-response and collaborative filtering look likely to battle it out for some time.
Not everyone thinks the state of IT in the criminal justice system is a disgrace. Criminals, for a start. Every year, wrongdoers get off because of failures in information handling. The Audit Commission last year reported that "out of date and non-integrated information technology" is one of the main reasons the justice system wastes &#163;80m a year through delayed court hearings and bungled prosecutions.On the 24th floor of a government office block overlooking Victoria station, Jo Wright, a former IBM executive, is trying to do something about it. Her organisation, Criminal Justice IT, is overseeing a budget of &#163;1.16m over three years. This will pay for upgraded systems that will allow police, courts, prisons, solicitors and others to exchange electronic information securely.Wright was hired two years ago as one of the first of a cadre of high-powered IT executives taken on from the private sector to oversee difficult government projects. "I'm basically a salesman," she says. The word is deliberate. IBM and the civil service are relatively enlightened employers, but criminal justice IT is a man's world. Wright, 42, with a young family, does not come across as superwoman so much as one of the lads.Her selling skills come in handy. She has to liaise with seven criminal justice agencies spread across three departments - the Home Office (police and prisons), the Department for Constitutional Affairs (courts) and the Office of the Attorney General (Crown Prosecution Service).Most have a dismal track record implementing IT. Libra, a scheme to computerise magistrates courts, was abandoned after over-running its   budget by 100%. The National Probation Service Information Systems Strategy is a case study in bad project management: it had seven project managers in seven years. Last year, the new Criminal Records Bureau was overwhelmed by workload. The police service's first attempt to to set up a national fingerprint-recognition system was another notorious fiasco.If Wright has a generic answer to these woes, it's not in technology per se. "I'm not a techie,, but I care passionately about making a difference with technology." The first task of her 170-strong team was to map the information flows that hold the system together, for example the sequence of messages that ensure the accused, prosecutor, witnesses, evidence and a jury turn up in court at the appointed time. The team then suggests ways of automating those flows.The first step is to make available a secure email system, which will carry more than 100 "business flows" of information. Secure email creates an encrypted channel into secure government networks for criminal justice practitioners not eligible to use them - solicitors and victim support organisations, for example. Criminal justice areas will be responsible for accrediting such local communities, who will be able to send and receive information up to the government classification "restricted".Wright says the service, supplied by Cable and Wireless, is due to be running in each of England and Wales's 42 criminal justice areas (roughly equivalent to counties) by the end of March.An electronic case management system will be a much more complex undertaking. For a start, each of the seven criminal justice agencies is developing its own system, based on a   different idea of what a case is. For example, police forces deal with recorded crimes; courts with individuals. "We realised that if we tried to set up a single case managementsystem for the whole of criminal justice, we were doomed."The answer, says Wright, is an indexing engine that assembles information from agencies' case management systems in the format needed by its user - "Like a really intelligent road sign." Permission to access data must be highly specific - defence solicitors, for example, must be able to view only the files of their clients, and not those who may be in the same dock. The buzzword is "high granularity".Wright has no direct mandate to tell these agencies what to do. She has to work by persuasion and spreading good practice. "We have a mandate to coordinate, but it's ultimately for them. But people are in no doubt of the importance of working together. They're working at a pleasing speed, though starting from different places."One sign of progress is the portalCJS Online, a consolidated criminal justice presence on the internet, which has information for witnesses and even virtual tours of courts and prisons. (You'll need the latest Shockwave software and preferably broadband for a sanitised, though still unappealing, photo album of prison life.)And when will joined-up criminal justice IT be a reality for the rest of us? "I suspect the prime minister would like it by about 3pm yesterday. But is a big journey of change. I hope by the end of 2005 there will be a noticeable difference. Within the next 12 months, we'll have done the hard bit, but's there's a lot of hard work ahead."
Directory scam?I got an email from John Kennedy asking me to check my website's listing atwww.top--sites.net. I want to increase traffic to my site, but am not sure if this is genuine.Peter HamptonJack Schofield replies:You can read about Kennedy and Top-Sites atDynamooandZincweb Internet. Kennedy responded to the Dynamoo attack, saying that his company was selling listings on the "TopSites Auto Search tool" for $5 per month. Free listings can be very valuable on the right site, such as Yahoo, but may not be worth much on other sites. Paid placements are a different matter. You should always be careful not to click anything that agrees to making any payments, and never give a credit card number, unless you are happy to be charged.Photo storeI am planning a four-month trip to South America, and will be taking a digital camera. Can anyone recommend a storage solution to which I can transfer photos from a CompactFlash card?Kathryn HampsonJS:The Archos Jukebox Multimedia 20 is a handheld video (MPeg 4) and MP3 music player with a built-in 20GB hard drive - enough to store up to 200,000 photos. Archos also sells a &euro;40 CompactFlash reader that will enable you to transfer photos from the camera to the jukebox. Seewww.archos.com/products/prw_500561.html.RSS easyWe are looking at the potential of setting up RSS feeds for our members and the wider engineering community. I know about free RSS readers but I also want to cater for those who may not be allowed to download files on to their PC, and I understand it's possible to receive RSS feeds via Microsoft Outlook.Martin PrattInstitution of Mechanical EngineersJS:NewsGatoris a "news aggregator" that lets you subscribe to syndicated news feeds and have the results delivered to Microsoft Outlook folders. It requires Outlook 2000 or later (not Outlook Express), and Windows 98 or later. However, it costs $29. Microsoft is building a news aggregator into the Longhorn version of Windows to deliver RSS feeds to the desktop.Unwanted dialFor some unknown reason my desktop PC has begun throwing up a dial-up connection screen about every 10 minutes.David FranceJS:You can try running Internet Explorer, going to Tools|Internet Options, selecting the Connections tab, and ticking Never Dial a Connection. However, it is probably not Internet Explorer that is trying to dial out, so this will not help. The problem is finding the program that is doing it. It could be one you installed, which wants to look online for updates - a virus checker or messaging program, perhaps. It could be a program you did not install - a dialler or Trojan or similar parasite. (Diallers often phone premium rate phone lines and run up large bills, with a proportion going to the scammer.) It could be a virus that is trying to propagate itself, or send spam emails, and so on. Start by installing a free firewall such asZone Alarm.This should tell you which program is trying to dial out, so you can find it and stop it. If that doesn't work, restart your PC, press Ctrl-Alt-Del and make sure you know the identity of all the programs running in the background.Pac's Portalwill help. Next, download and runSpyBot Search &amp; Destroyto find and delete any unwanted parasites. Finally, run an online check atTrend Micro's Housecall, which may involve a long download. If these approaches fail, you may have to go through all your programs one by one to find the culprit.Backchat&#183;Last week, Margaret White (whose name I omitted by mistake) asked about synchronising her PC with a reliable clock. Frank Shackleton says he usesTClock, "which, as well as keeping the clock adjusted correctly, allows you to modify the time display and several other functions".&#183;Several people wrote about keystroke shortcuts, and Bev Pease says: "Yoji Hagiya's little packageCtrlPlusimplements in Windows a stripped down version of WordStar's famous 'diamond cursor' commands. The Caps Lock and Ctrl keys are swapped over.". Others mentioned commands using the special Windows key. Generally, I am against shortcuts that don't work on any keyboard, particularly the IBM 101-key keyboard.&#183;On the topic of sending video files, Ian Davies says he doesn't have to re-encode video: "My Panasonic camcorder - an NVGS50 - has the capacity to record direct to Windows Media Video". Iain Fraser says I "overlookedDivX". I support the use of the open sourceXviDinstead.
Call Of DutyPC, &#163;29.99 Infinity Ward/Activision, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Here is a cute example of the rivalry between Electronic Arts, the biggest games publisher, and Activision, the number two. In typical EA fashion, the Medal Of Honour licence rumbles on, but the company kept quiet about the fact that the original development team has long since jumped ship - to its implacable rival, no less.Call Of Duty is made by that team, and it shows: boot it up and you drop into a terrifyingly authentic battle arena, in which you must listen to your artificial intelligence mates, dodge bullets coming from all angles, make use of whatever weaponry you can find and, above all, use initiative.You play missions as British, Russian and American soldiers, and this time around, the missions are gloriously varied. You begin the game in a glider, heading for D-Day France. By the time you negotiate the ensuing confusion and danger, you will have engaged hundreds of Nazis, blown up all sorts of things, and tested skills as various as sniping and shooting from a moving vehicle.You perform missions harking back to films such as the Dirty Dozen and Dambusters and will discover what it must have been like as a Russian conscript during the siege of Stalingrad. Only half-way into the mission do you acquire that most luxurious of items in a war - a weapon.With Half-Life 2, Doom III and Halo 2 unlikely to arrive until next year, only Ubi Soft's XIII will challenge Call Of Duty for the title of the year's best first-person shooter.Steve BoxerMax Payne 2PC, &#163;29.99 Rockstar, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;His name may conjure up images of dodgy wrestlers, but Max Payne is the smoothest star to grace a PC game. Think film noir crossed with the Matrix - Bogart meets Keanu.As before, the main action involves guiding your gravelly-voiced protagonist around a gloomy urban environment, stylishly dispatching all who block the way. The slo-mo bullet-time feature gives graceful beauty to the most violent of shotgun attacks. Diving through a doorway dodging bullets and dispensing baddies didn't get boring in the original and nor does it here, mainly due to the exceptional production values.The sound effects are impressive, but it is in the visuals that Max 2 really shines. The backdrops are verging on photo-realism. And the interaction with even the most innocuous objects is realistic. The comic book storyboards and cliched settings are an acquired taste, but Max 2 never outstays its welcome.MP2 packs its action into seven or eight blissful hours, without fillers. Combine this with an adult storyline - love and stuff! - and you have a stylish thriller that will blow you away.Greg HowsonThe Temple of Elemental EvilPC, &#163;29.99 Troika Games/Atari  &#42;&#42;&#42;The world of pen-and-paper Advanced Dungeons and Dragons (AD&amp;D) found its spiritual home on the PC with the Baldur's Gate series. Bioware's hit Neverwinter Nights tried to move things on and make the world of statistics more accessible to a wider audience. Troika's The Temple of Elemental Evil, however, has its feet firmly back on hardcore soil.The basics of this role-playing game are solid, if unremarkable. You assemble the adventuring party from a mixture of self-designed or pre-created characters. Along the way you can pick up others, as long as you're prepared to pay them handsomely. There are quests to solve and villages to explore before a long dungeon crawl through the titular temple.The combat aspect is one of the best examples of a traditional turn-based fighting system, encouraging you to think strategically about moves rather than just wading in.Unfortunately, further enjoyment is marred by bugs and a general lack of information. It's a shame, because the engine looks nice and is full of life. However, it feels rather inhospitable to those who aren't AD&amp;D purists.Rhianna Pratchett
We tend to think of the software business as high tech and ascribe a certain mysticism to the wizards in the industry. As with any growing sector, we expect the companies in it to return us fast growth and high margins.But an announcement last month that Siebel Systems, the biggest software firm you won't have heard of, was launching a web-based version of its sales management tools is the latest evidence that the software business is consolidating and getting more competitive and less profitable. Siebel is only 10 years old but posted sales of $1.7bn (&#163;1bn) last year and, historically, has enjoyed net profit margins of 15%.Siebel installations typically cost   between $1m to $5m and take anything from six months to a couple of years to get running. Its products have helped firms keep track of prospective customers, which salesperson was dealing with which customer and how well they were selling.Siebel's new offering, known in industry jargon as an application service provider (ASP), will be available from just $70 (&#163;41) per person per month. What's going on?Siebel is responding to its most dangerous rival, Salesforce.com, a three-year-old start-up, which has offered sales management software over the web from only $50 (&#163;30) per month. Siebel had derided Salesforce.com, claiming that there was little demand from big firms for applications on tap, that instead they preferred large IT departments to run these complex   applications in house.But in the past couple of years, firms of all sizes have looked hard at their IT spending and how well their technology performs. The results were mixed and, unsurprisingly, even large firms have wondered if they can do better.Companies have been voting with their chequebooks. They prefer to rent software and do away with the upfront costs and management headaches of running their own applications in house.This isn't the first time firms have moved from running their own technology to piping it in from outside. Until the early part of the 20th century, most firms produced their own electricity in house, from their own generators. Today, except for a handful of very specialist businesses, we all take our power from a   commoditised electrical grid.This is all part of a wider trend. Firms, who spend more on software than anyone else, have been paying through the nose for technologies that are increasingly stable and undifferentiated.The growing appeal of applications rented over the web demonstrates that the enterprise software business that we knew but rarely loved is coming to an end. The business is no spring chicken: it's 30 years old. It is becoming mature and more widely understood. This means commoditisation and falling prices. Siebel's decision to follow the lead of Salesforce.com and rent its applications demonstrates that the sea change is well underway.
Not many members of the House of Commons public accounts committee are obvious computer freaks. In fact, after years of poking into the blocked U-bends of government fiascos, they could be forgiven for developing IT phobia.Last week, however, several MPs showed an unexpected enthusiasm for open source software. They were quizzing the man in charge of Whitehall's shopping trolley, Peter Gershon, about the &#163;610 million the government spends each year on software. The suggestion was that Gershon's Office of Government Commerce is dragging its feet on promoting open source to government.Gershon, a seasoned performer, was careful to disagree without offending the honourable members.   But he was not prepared to adopt the wholehearted enthusiasm that some MPs, such as Labour's Brian Jenkins, showed for Linux. Free software is not free to implement, Gershon said. There are migration costs, support costs, training costs. These apply especially as open source moves out of the back office server and on to desktop systems.His colleague, Hugh Barrett, told a cautionary tale of an attempt to install open source on his home PC. "After three hours of struggling to retrain myself, I abandoned it."And Gershon said that support for open source would depend on the outcome of nine "proof of concept" trials being carried out by his office (and paid for by IBM, a promoter of the technology). The MPs wanted to know when these results were likely to emerge, and seemed disappointed by   Gershon's reply of "about a year".All this may give the impression that Bill Gates has somehow planted a chip in Gershon's head. If he has, it isn't working. Overall, Gershon's evidence was the clearest statement yet of a government taking open source seriously. "There is no doubt that the viability of open source is increasing all the time," he said.But Gershon is playing a subtle game. He also told the committee that he plans to re-open negotiations with Microsoft about the price the government pays for its software.Gershon has already had one public run-in with Microsoft, over new licensing terms for Windows that would have cost up to &#163;60m a year. Instead, the firm and Gershon's office last year hammered out a bulk purchasing   deal, known as a memorandum of understanding, supposed to save &#163;100m over three years.If the memorandum was such a good deal for the government, the MPs wanted to know, how was a dominant firm like Microsoft persuaded to sign? Gershon wasn't keen to reveal his negotiating technique, saying he planned to use it again, with Microsoft and other suppliers. But he did say: "We are about to re-open negotiations with Microsoft to obtain improvements in the memorandum of understanding."The committee went into private session to discover the secret weapon. But it isn't hard to guess the most powerful in Gershon's armoury. A threat that, from now on the Treasury will spend that &#163;600m only on open source. That should rattle Seattle.
Due in stores next week is the Nokia 6600, the company's attempt to produce a phone for the corporate market.Essentially, it feels like the 3650 (the company's rather large handset with its unusual keypad) shoehorned into a wide, though not very deep, casing. It certainly fits comfortably in the palm. The 6600 uses the same Symbian 7 operating system as the 3650/7650 but with a slightly different interface.It is simple to use, too, with prominent, yet responsive, keys and a small protruding menu control button - which is a clear advance on the 3650's four-  way rocker switch. Like the 3650, it has a formidable array of features, including a 640x480 still camera and a video camera, both of which feature a 2x digital zoom.Also on board are Java, a RealOne audio/video player, an XHTML web browser and POP3 email support. The key difference is the screen, which boasts a resolution of 176x208 pixels (with 65k colours) and is much higher quality than the 3650 and rivals such as the Handspring Treo 600.To underline its corporate credentials, the 6600 has a superb connectivity suite, with Bluetooth and infrared alongside support for mobile Virtual Private Networks. It also claims to have four days' battery life.This is clearly Nokia's best smartphone so far. How successful it will be could largely be down to whether users prefer the Windows/Palm-based operating system and applications of rival devices to the Symbian system here.
Favouring floppysIn discussing the demise of the floppy disk, Jack Schofield writes, "Today, the simplest way to carry files around is to use a USB Flash drive" (Start here, October 30). Simple for carrying, yes, but not always simple to use. A colleague's Windows 2000 computer refuses to work properly with USB Flash memory, despite expert ministrations. My own Windows XP machine is only intermittently co-operative: some days a re-boot is needed for it to recognise the USB Flash memory.Schofield goes on to say, "Most PCs nowadays have CD writers, and with blank CDs available for 30p or less, you can usually send one of those instead." Quite so, but I know of several users whose CD writers have never functioned properly with their computers, and even when they do work, it can be a tricky business to burn CDs successfully. Don't throw away those floppies yet.Allan JonesNorthamptonshireDisconnectedMay I propose a new column entitled Bug of the Week? A contender for the inaugral prize must be today's posting on NTL's server status page that states: "New customers registering for the Ntlworld Internet Service may be unable to connect to the service immediately after registration due to a technical fault. This also applies to anyone who has made changes to their username and password. This is due to a technical problem. Our engineers are aware, and are working towards a resolution as soon as possi ble. Please accept our apologies for any inconvenience this may cause."But how would you know? Money back, please.John ThompsonWelwyn Garden CityThreat to GoogleFor several years, Google has been a very effective, though not perfect, search engine. In contrast, Microsoft has produced glamorous but mediocre software that has too many entries for viruses. One way to mediocratise Google is to have it become another pawn in Microsoft's empire.Teresa BinstockEstes Park, ColoradoReal irritationA quick response to Pat Martindale (Feedback, October 30). RealPlayer is indeed free and easy to download. However, it just will not leave you alone until you have registered. Couple this with it checking for updates and just generally getting in the way and, to me, the definition "free" no longer applies.Iain FraserReal takeoverSeveral recent correspondents have mentioned RealPlayer but nobody has explained what a pernicious piece of software this is. When installing the free version, it is wise to avoid the quick install and go for "custom install". This gives you the opportunity to prevent it from making itself the default media player for all types of files, putting shortcuts on the desktop and icons in your taskbar etc. It is also a good idea to remove an unnecessary program called TkBellexe from startup. What else it is trying to do, I do not know, but Norton Personal Firewall complains about some of its actions although it still works when they are blocked.John IllingworthBradford
Picture postcardsPsst, wanna buy an artistic postcard? Only &#163;35 to you, guv. Later this month, the Royal College of Art will be holding its 10th annual Secret Postcard exhibition to raise money for its fine art students. The cards are secret because you don't find out who did them until after you buy them. This year's contributors include Damien Hirst, Terry Gilliam, George Melly, Nick Park and Milton Glaser. You can only buy the cards in person at the college in Kensington Gore, London SW7. But you should be able to view them online at the Bowieart site from November 22, and take part in a "guess the artist" competition.www.rca.ac.ukwww.rca.ac.ukwww.bowieart.comLaunch padIf you want to follow the US presidential elections, E-democracy.org has provided a launch pad for each potential candidate and all the major parties. The non-profit organisation provides links to the "official candidate sites, unofficial sites (blogs, e-lists, satire, hometown news, etc.), and pre-set searches for today's news, text, audio, video, images, even content maps".www.e-democracy.org/us/2004/presidentMugshotsMugshots make fascinating photographs partly because they don't try to be clever, and the Mugshots website has assembled a fantastic collection. They range from ones you might expect - Al Capone, Jane Fonda, Hugh Grant etc - to the ones you perhaps wouldn't, such as Martin Luther King Jr, Anna Nicole Smith and Larry King. (Having a police mugshot doesn't necessarily mean you're guilty of any thing.) The celebrities section will attract most attention, but the criminal one offers some sad subcategories including killers, sex offenders, and hit and run drivers. Unfortunately, the site lacks a search engine and it is often hard to guess under which name someone might be filed. William (Bill) Gates, for example, appears under B in the historical section. Gates was caught speeding in 1977.www.mugshots.comGoogle wordsGoogle will now define a word if you use the search syntax define: (with a colon). For example, define: nice returns 14 references, with some repetitions. The hits include "noting distinctions with nicety", a city in France, and the National Institute for Clinical Excellence. Define: supplements but does not replace the dictionary feature, where the words you search for appears underlined in the blue results bar. Clicking on an underlined word takes you to its definition in multiple dictionaries at Dictionary.com, which delivers a much better result.www.google.comMoot it"Please be gentle with our beta server - who'd have thought a brand new search engine that did what it said would be so popular?" That's your welcome to Mooter, an Australian site offering clustered search results. Given the multiple meanings of many English words and phrases, this should be very useful. Search for Thatcher, for example, and it should separate out the results for Margaret, country craftsmen, the town named for the Mormon apostle Moses Thatcher, and so on. Mooter has a go, and it might deliver better results when it has a bigger database to work on. However, at this very early stage, it is not a threat to Vivisimo, let alone Google. Clustered Hits is another take on the same idea, and searches the Open Directory (DMoz) database.http://mooter.comhttp://vivisimo.comwww.clusteredhits.comBrainstormHappy birthday to Brainstorm, the British "mind assistant" software, which will be 20 years old at the end of the month. The latest version, launched last month, now has a "magic paste" function to paste text in from other programs, such as a web browser. The &#163;40 program also offers a free trial version for download.www.brainstormsw.comNew &amp; notedTrouser Semaphorewww.thechapmagazine.com/TrousersHow not to get sued by the RIAAwww.eff.org/IP/P2P/howto-notgetsued.phpHello! redesign in progresswww.hellomagazine.comSix of the best48 days to ChristmasChristmas Shoppingwww.christmasshoppinguk.comAmazonwww.amazon.co.ukBootswww.boots.comJohn Lewiswww.johnlewis.comFor the ladswww.firebox.comYahoo UK directoryhttp://uk.dir.yahoo.com
Live from courtPrisoners are unlikely to escape on their way to preliminary court hearings, when these are conducted over new video links between prisons and 30 crown courts. These include the Old Bailey in London, where video links went live this week. The &#163;2.3m programme has been piloted in Manchester's crown court, where it has saved money on transporting defendants and on court delays caused by traffic jams. It has already been implemented in 156 magistrates' courts. The system includes a facility for defendants to confer secretly with their legal representatives. It also allows witnesses to give evidence remotely, when there is a risk of intimidation.Health on the cardsEuropeans should get easier access to state health care across the EU, with a health insurance smart card. Six countries will issue 167m smart cards by 2010, replacing existing health entitlement cards. France and Germany will provide smart cards to all citizens from 2006. Countries without card schemes, including the UK, will introduce cards to replace the voluntary E111 form for healthcare abroad. The scheme will allow efficient cost-reclamation from a traveller's home nation, according to No&#235;l Nader, a consultant speaking at last week's ID Smart conference in London. The cards will be piloted in Athens, during next summer's Olympic Games.Hands free PDAToshiba Europe has launched the Pocket PC e800 handheld computer, aimed at corporate users. It offers Wi-Fi or Bluetooth wireless connectivity, voice over IP (VoIP) phone capabilities, and the audio playback of text documents. It can be controlled using voice commands for hands-free operation. The e800 PDA has a 4in screen to provide a larger viewing area, and supports VGA graphics to drive an external monitor. An optional USB port accessory allows users to connect a full-size PC keyboard. The "value based" Pocket PC e400 offers many of the same features (but not VoIP) in a cheaper package with a 3.5in screen.Nuke boxAn Exeter University student has pleaded guilty to hacking into a US nuclear weapons laboratory's IT system. A hearing at Bow Street magistrates court   was told that first-year undergraduate Joseph James McElroy, 18, gained access to 17 computer systems at the Fermi National Accelerator laboratory. Although no data appears to have been compromised, a large quantity of digitised movies and music files were downloaded to Fermi's storage systems. McElroy claims he thought Fermi was a university and admitted he belonged to a group that regularly hacks into university systems to store and distribute files. The case has been adjourned pending pre-sentencing reports.Palladium showMicrosoft is making the code for its Next Generation Secure Computing Base (NGSCB) security technology available to developers. The NGSCB, formerly called Palladium, provides a secure vault inside the PC to protect sensitive data. The move follows Intel's release of its Trusted Platform Module (TPM) motherboard. This is based on standards from the Trusted Computing Group, an industry body backed by Intel, AMD, Microsoft, IBM and others. Both systems provide an encrypted environment in the computer where documents, passwords, encryption keys and more can be protected from other users and hackers. Intel is already marketing TPM motherboards, but Microsoft says NGSCB will not appear until the Longhorn of Windows in about 2006.www.microsoft.com/resources/ngscbwww.trustedcomputinggroup.org/homeWeb jungleRSA Security's chief executive Art Coviello fears the internet has become less secure over the past year despite efforts to secure it. Speaking at RSA's European conference in Amsterdam, he blamed the increased use of wireless networks without securing inter-application links, and the fact that hackers are becoming more sophisticated.www.rsaconference.com/rsa2003/europe/FSC swivelsFujitsu Siemens is breaking with its past by offering a convertible Lifebook T series Tablet PC, the company announced at its user conference in Augsburg, Germany. Siemens, a backer of the clipboard-like slate format, is adding the swivel-screen convertible to encourage traditional laptop users to try the new format. Adrian von Hammerstein, chief executive of Fujitsu Siemens, denies the move is a response to disappointing sales of pure Tablet PCs, but says technical problems had to be overcome to produce a less bulky but resilient hinge for the screen.www.fujitsu-siemens.com
Until now they've just been codenames: Longhorn, Avalon, Indigo and WinFS. But at last, at its 2003 Professional Developers Conference in Los Angeles, Microsoft has revealed the technologies at the heart of the next generation of its operating system.Longhornis a bar on a pass between two Canadian ski resorts. It's also the codename for the next major release of Windows, due between 2005 and 2006. A next generation desktop operating system that's at least two years away may not be the stuff of today's news, but the combination of technologies that Microsoft is putting together in Longhorn will mean significant changes to the way businesses build Windows applications. Not only will Longhorn bring a whole new way of developing application user interfaces, but Microsoft will use it to introduce a new file system, and a new set of web service technologies for linking applications.Way back, in its initial announcement of its .Net strategy, Microsoft referred to "the Universal Canvas". It was intended to be a tool for creating application user interfaces that would work equally well in standard windows, browsers and documents.   Then everything went quiet, and even the concept of a canvas vanished from Microsoft's documents.Three years later, Longhorn brings the universal canvas back. CodenamedAvalon, and built to take advantage of the latest graphics hardware, it promises to be the key to the Longhorn user interface. An XML-based page description language, XAML, will separate design from code, and allow application designers to specify the layout of applications - including graphic effects you'd find in high-end games. Avalon will give Windows developers a unified presentation model, built around a vector-based composition engine. There will also be support for advanced input devices, so there's unlikely to be a separate version of Longhorn for Tablet PCs.Avalon's XAML is an important tool, and one that will do a lot for user interface designers. It will also force web developers who want to take advantage of its features to deliver pages only to Longhorn's built-in web browser, especially as Avalon does not use existing web standards such as HTML and CSS. While we can expect XAML support to eventually spread to other browsers and operating systems, the whole Avalon user interface is unlikely to follow, as   Avalon XAML pages can take advantage of components built into Longhorn's Aero user interface.Web services are critical to Microsoft's enterprise strategy. Instead of monolithic applications communicating over tight communications links, Microsoft architects such as Don Box are working on service-oriented architectures: loosely coupled cooperating software components that closely link to existing business processes. Another Longhorn component,Indigo, is designed   to help build these service-oriented applications, using web services to pass messages between components, inside and outside firewalls.One of the more complex components of Longhorn, Indigo is as much a philosophy of application development as it is a technology. While it delivers messages and transactions, Indigo also means that developers need to think of their applications as autonomous service providers. As well as being a key Longhorn component, Indigo will also be made avail able for other versions of Windows as part of future updates to the .Net framework. Based on web service standards, Indigo services will be able to communicate with non- Microsoft web services.WinFSis intended to be the next generation of the Windows file system. Throwing away all of Windows' many ways of storing information, from the registry to contact databases to the familiar collections of files, WinFS will be a single technology for storing all types of information, with just one way of accessing it all. Built around database technologies, it will store items and metadata. WinFS uses a single extensible schema to store information about an item, and SQL queries can extract this information and display it in different ways.Microsoft also demonstrated a prototype file explorer that allowed users to browse complex document stores in many different ways, sorting file information on the fly.But WinFS won't be the be all and end all of Windows storage. Initially, it will only be used to manage the information currently held in Windows' Documents and Settings folders. All other folders will be accessed using current technologies, and you can still work with most WinFS objects as if they were traditional files, so your older applications will be able to work with Longhorn files without any changes.All these technologies will come at a price. Microsoft is betting on new generations of hardware that will run complex software at speeds comparable or faster than today. It also starts to move Windows developers away from web user interfaces to rich internet applications based on Avalon, linked to servers using Indigo.Microsoft has started to put its cards on the table, but there's a lot still to be learnt. Nothing is fixed in stone, and we can expect things to change between now and Longhorn's launch. Even so, it's going to be useful for anyone working with Microsoft technologies to use sites such as MSDN to begin learning what they will be using in the near future.Microsoft's Longhorn Developers Centerhttp://msdn.microsoft.com/longhorn/
What was your criterion for picking the websites featured in the book?There are so many reasons why a web site can be good or bad. As an art publisher, we ended up choosing a lot of web sites that were beautiful aesthetically. I divided the book into chapters covering the various areas we publish. Because of that we have art, advertising, architecture, film etc. So some web sites were chosen because they're very useful in these areas. With fashion, for instance, you have sites such asJean Paul Gaultier's, which is important but also beautiful.How long did the book take to research?I was surfing a lot, visiting various portals and getting recommendations to sites for around six months. One criteria was for sites that were useful or functional. If you're doing a book for people who want to take something from the web, the beauty of the site may not be their first priority.Do you agree with Jakob Nielsen's drive for better usability on the web?I have to agree withNielsen, as his points for better usability are so clear. One problem, though, is that the web is already so big that you have a lot of people designing sites deliberately not to be linear. If you move in the creative circles, then you'll find that their site designs have less to do with logic - they tend to be more experimental. The usability is important if you want people to learn very quickly what your site's about   and how to use the tools, but there's also room for sites that are more experimental. It's like having big major studio movie productions and also more experimental art-house movies.Flash, Shockwave et al?I think all technologies that allow you to show something you couldn't do before are helpful. Of course, all these tools are much more useful when you're connecting to the web via broadband. It's difficult to give an opinion on a site using Flash if you have to wait five minutes for everything to load! All the new software, resources and languages that you can aggregate to the internet are very useful.So you think broadband's helping to realise more of the net's potential?I have a great example of that. I'm originally from Brazil and I still keep in touch with the news from home. NowGlobo, the biggest Brazilian TV channel, is putting most of its programmes online shortly after they're broadcast. They wouldn't be possible to watch with a 56k modem! Because I have a DSL connection at home and the office, I can subscribe to the service and see great quality programmes from Brazil - not TV quality yet but we're getting close.Will digital publishing ever replace traditional publishing?Take a look at the new prototype Sigma Book fromToshiba, which is an advanced version of the eBook. Their first version didn't succeed but they're using this one to displayMangacomics.Visit:Taschen.com
