A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoodbye &gt;&gt; EditoriallyEditorially is closing its doors. The application will remain available until May 30, at which point the site will go offline. We encourage all users toexport their data.ICYUI.Ten months through Google Glass: Exploring our wearable future &gt;&gt; Geek.comRussell Holly has been using it pretty much from the start. Besides UI issues and having too many photos and videos in his G+ account, he comments:Google needs to take a huge step forward with their own apps and own this platform, as well as make the tools available for others to do so. I should be able to issue a voice search for my Gmail, or interact in real time with a ToDo list on Google Keep that is synced to my phone. Ultimately it comes down to how well the device syncs with my phone. Google does a great job working through their cloud to make a lot of this work, but since I have a local connection to my phone it just seems to make sense that I'd be able to use it. My phone should be able to push content to Glass, like launching navigation from the Google Maps app. Glass floats in between being an amazing companion device for my phone and existing as its own standalone piece of hardware. Unfortunately as long as it continues to straddle that line I don't think it will truly excel at being either.(Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Google Glass enthusiast: It's not worth the headaches &gt;&gt; CNET NewsChris Barrett was an early user but started getting headaches, and found other Explorers were too:Others, Barrett says, acknowledged discomfort when having to look toward the right corner of Glass. One Explorer found that only his left eye experienced difficulties.There are also some Explorers on Twitterwho admit to discomfort.Google is confident Glass doesn't carry with it potential health hazards.A company spokesperson told me: "Of course health and safety are extremely important to the Glass team, and we've been working with eye care professionals from the very beginning to ensure that the device is safe for use. In our help center, we do encourage new Explorers to ease into Glass, just as they would a new pair of glasses."Google also suggests that concerned Explorers contact its Glass team to see whether the glasses are fitting correctly.It will be harder, however, for Google to address Barrett's other concern with Glass. Having severely limited his usage, he's finding that he neither misses the device, nor sees a compelling continued use for it.He told me: "I have it on my desk every day, but I just don't have a good enough reason to wear it. It's not worth the headache. I get my e-mails on my laptop or iPhone if I'm on the go."There's also a comment about the US Army's experience with head-up displays in Apache helicopters which casts further light. (Thanks @timacheson for the link.)Dropbox hires Google's Woodside as operating chief &gt;&gt; WSJ.comMr. Woodside is departing the search giant in the wake of Motorola's sale to Lenovo Group for close to $3bn, less than two years after Google acquired the hardware maker and put the executive in charge of it. Mr. Woodside wasn't able to return Motorola to profitability, even as he slashed prices of phones to better compete for value-conscious buyers.The appointment gives Dropbox a seasoned manager who was previously running Google's advertising sales in the Americas after replacing Tim Armstrong, who became chief executive of AOL. Mr. Woodside, who started at Google in 2003, helped manage the search giant's relationships with partners and advertisers internationally.Smartphone subsidies 'out of hand' &gt;&gt; Korea HeraldDespite government efforts to prevent undercutting, local telecom operators have resumed their cutthroat battle to attract new smartphone subscribers with more subsides, even giving phones away practically for free.The latest subsidy war kicked off on Saturday when the companies announced subsidies of up to 1.2 million won ($1,100) for a Samsung Galaxy S4 smartphone. Since the phones cost 954,000 won each, those who bought the S4 made off with a profit of 246,000 won.The "bargain sale" went on for four days, and during that time, up to 112,000 subscribers switched telecom operators to get new smartphones, according to the Korea Telecommunications Operators Association.The situation peaked on Tuesday ― dubbed by Korean media as a day of "smartphone chaos" ― when an online community announced that transferring to SK Telecom would yield discounts on purchases of the iPhone S5 and Galaxy Note 3.Somehow hilarious. (Via@tabdump.)Live Earthquakes Map &gt;&gt; Global Incident mapThose who aren't geologists may be surprised to learn that there are lots of little earthquakes all the time. (Is there a time series map pulling this data together by location and size? That would be great.)An update on Android &gt;&gt; PebbleKean Wong is in charge of the software engineering group at Pebble (the smartwatch people), and is explaining why the iOS version of the 2.0 software is already released, and the Android one isn't:The Pebble Android app uses Bluetooth heavily, includes a Javascript runtime environment, accesses the internet and talks to the Pebble without interrupting the user experience, integrates with the Pebble appstore, works on a myriad of (over 1,000) different Android devices, runs on 27 different versions and flavours of Android 4.x, and must continue to run in the background even if other apps in the system use up all the memory, or the Android device powers down or resets. All of this has to work elegantly and reliably for many thousands of Pebble Android users.The reason why the Android version of the 2.0 Pebble app has lagged the iOS version is fundamentally pretty simple – it has purely been a matter of resources.A thousand devices and 27 different flavours of Android 4.x. The latter reaches the same proportion of Android users as iOS 7 (78%) - which haseighttenversions at most (iOS 7.0.0 - 7.0.4, phone and tablet) and perhaps 12 devices (iPhone 4, 4S, 5, 5C, 5S, iPad 2, 3, 4, Air, mini, retina mini). (Thanks @Anvesh Junnthula for pointing out the zero-indexing counting error on iOS 7 versions.)How to survive the next wave of technology extinction &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comFarhad Manjoo:Today, five behemoths — Amazon, Apple, Google, Facebook and Microsoft — plus a dizzying array of start-ups are competing to win every dollar and minute you spend in tech. While each of these companies offers differing sets of technologies sold under widely varying business models, they all share a common feature — trying to hook you deeply into an ecosystem of interconnected technologies.The trouble arises when you are sold on a tech ecosystem that doesn't prosper. It's likely that at least one, if not several, of today's tech behemoths won't be around a decade from now. Thus the pervasive worry of choosing tech in these uncertain days: How do you avoid betting on the wrong horse?He has recommendations. Do they carry any implication about which of those behemoths won't be around in a decade? Microsoft PR chiefresponded at Business Insider with some zingers(Manjoo didn't recommend using Microsoft stuff).The biggest bullshit job titles in tech &gt;&gt; GawkerLast week, the chilling visage of David Shing was thrust upon the world. Equally horrific was his job title—"Digital Prophet." That's something you can be for a living? Yes, and there are plenty of other make-believe jobs out there, too.The people with these jobs, these exercises in techno-lust imagination, are likely overpaid, doing very little, or both."Innovation Sherpa"? "Chief Happiness Officer"?How hot are LED light bulbs? &gt;&gt; Inside LIFXHot! Hot to the touch, but not nearly as hot as Incandescent, Halogen and CFL bulbs are.LED light bulbs are one of the latest and most efficient lighting technologies.High powered lighting LEDs generate light at a much lower running temperatures than the hot filament used in previous generation bulbs. The hottest outside surface of an LED light bulb is often half the temperature of an equivalent brightness Incandescent or Halogen bulb, and around 20% cooler than CFL bulbs.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The federal government is examining how to overcome the high court decision which found internet service providers (ISPs) aren’t liable when their customers download pirated movies.One possible measure would require ISPs to issue graduated warnings to consumers using websites to facilitate piracy.Attorney general George Brandis said illegal downloading of films or any other protected content was a form of theft and he was keen to implement new measures to cut the rate of online piracy.Brandis said it was once thought the Copyright Act was sufficient when it stipulated that an entity such as an ISP which authorised infringement of copyright was liable.But in 2012 the high court ruled that ISP iiNet wasn’t liable for piracy committed by their customers.In the case, a group of 34 international and Australian companies, including Warner Bros, Disney and the Seven Network, alleged iiNet authorised infringement of their copyright when its customers downloaded movies and television programs.“The government will be considering possible mechanisms to provide a legal incentive for an internet service provider to cooperate with copyright owners in preventing infringement on their systems and networks,” Brandis told the Australian Digital Alliance forum on copyright reform.Brandis said this was complex reform and the government didn’t want to burden ISPs beyond what was reasonably necessary to comply with domestic and international obligations.His preference would be to facilitate industry self-regulation, as opposed to active and continuing government regulation, he said.
A Kickstarter project to recreate the ZX Spectrum is in disarray after it was revealed that many of the original developers of the included Spectrum games had never been paid for the inclusion their work.Elite Systems raised £63,194to make a Bluetooth version of the classic British ZX Spectrum computeron Kickstarter, offering rewards including the Bluetooth Spectrum itself, printed artwork from spectrum games like Jet Set Willy and Manic Miner and the ZX Spectrum: Elite Collection app for iOS and Android. As well as being used to play Spectrum games, Elite Systems plans to ensure that the Bluetooth ZX Spectrum will “optionally” work as a standard bluetooth keyboard for Windows and Mac computers.But it is the app, required to use the device to play Spectrum games, which has led to disgruntled developers coming forward.The ZX Spectrum: Elite Collection app was first released on Apple’s App Store in September 2010, boasting of “100% original and ‘officially licensed’ ZX Spectrum games”. Through in-app purchases, a further 25 collections of Spectrum games were added over the next three years.But despite the licensing agreements being signed, it seems very few developers were actually paid the royalties they were owed for the inclusion of their old games in the Elite Collection app.Steve Wetherill, who currently works forKixeyein San Francisco, is one of those developers. In December 2010, Elite Systems licensed a number of his games for inclusion in the app. As the lead programmer on titles such as 1985’s Nodes of Yesod and Robin of the Wood for Odin Computer Graphics, Wetherill was entitled to royalty payments from Elite.“We received (initially voluntarily, but later upon my prompting) royalty statements from Elite showing sales of the Odin titles,”Wetherill wrote in a statement on his site. “Eventually [they] dried up completely… Over time, it became clear that royalties due under the agreement (which were to be paid within 30 days of the end of each calendar quarter) were not being paid. It is now over three years since this agreement was signed and to date no royalties have been paid.”“This Kickstarter campaign has raised over $100,000 (£65,000) on the back of “officially licensed” software,” Wetherill continued. “However, I understand that in the cases of at least 6 individual developers, as communicated both publicly here and through private correspondance with each individual, the fees due under those ‘official licenses’ have in fact not been paid… To put a finer point on this, if you don’t pay the license fees, you’re not an official licensee.”Despite the years of unpaid bills, it was only once the Kickstarter achieved a modicum of success that developers spoke out. Many of them had assumed that they were the only one not being paid, and were wary of making their stories public – until they heard how many others were similarly affected. One developer, Steve Crow, the author of Starquake, Firelord and Wizards Lair,even claims that no contract was ever signed with Elite.Following the wave of complaints, Steve Wilcox, the head of Elite Sytems, removed the app from sale and posteda public statementon his site.Calling the various developers’ claims “far too wide wide-ranging to be addressed in this single response”, Wilcox did acknowledge that as director, he “may have failed in my duty to ensure that some of the reports and some of the payments - due to the ZX Spectrum game developers, with whom Elite has contractual relationships - were made in accordance with the agreed terms.“I am working toward that unacceptable position being remedied within the next 28 days, sooner if possible. I believe that all of the ZX Spectrum games included or included as in-app purchases within the above referenced apps were included with written consent, where such consent is available but I will need to review the written records relating to some 200 games before making a more fully informed comment.”Wilcox, who directed the Guardian back to his online statement when asked to elaborate on the situation, is currently telling developers to write to gopher a hotmail address, eightbitgamers@hotmail.com, to “set out any and all issues which they wish to be addressed in writing”.AbandonwareWhile many gamers may think that software as old as that shipped by Elite Systems is somehow in the public domain, the truth is that games are covered by copyright in just the same way – and for just the same time – as other creative works.“Older games are sometimes treated as ‘abandonware’”, says Wetherill, “which is an invented term used to justify the copying of games.“I think people sometimes have the sense of, ‘I bought that game in 1985, why should I pay for it again’, but in that respect I think games are not really much different to other media - you can’t play your old vinyl records on a CD player, you have to buy the CD. On the whole though, in this case most feedback seems sympathetic.”Cronosoft’s Simon Ullyatt takes a softer view. His company handles the rights to games by developers Bob Smith and Jonathan Cauldwell, and he has also accused Elite Systems of failing to keep up with royalty payments. “Some games (in fact quite a lot) are already in the public domain, and the game creators have given their blessing. Terms like ‘abandonware’ spring to mind.“I would imagine many games creators don’t mind too much that their games are freely downloadable regardless of copyright in theory, for individual use… However, when a third party profits financially from selling other people’s work without permission or payment, it is a completely different matter.“As with all markets, such as music and movies, there is always going to be a proportion of the population that will get the items for free, and those that choose to pay for them,” Ullyatt continues. “There’s little we can do about that, but commercial piracy is different. I’m sure we’ve all downloaded a new movie from the internet, but that’s a world away from copying that movie on an industrial scale, and then selling it.”Wilcox has promised to sort out the issues with all the concerned developers before the end of February. In the meantime, the creation of the first prototype bluetooth spectrum continues, and the final version should be with backers by September 2014. Whether they will have any games to play with it by then remains an open question.
Windows XP goes out of support in April, so I’m looking for guidance on how best to go about replacing it with Windows 7. The Microsoft site has a tutorial, but is still somewhat baffling, and it seems fairly time-consuming. Would I be wasting my time pressing on? I am not keen on replacing an otherwise satisfactory netbook with a tablet.Dave HorneMicrosoft will soon stop releasing security patches for Windows XP, though it will continue to provide updates for its anti-virus program, Microsoft Security Essentials. XP will keep on working, but it will be more dangerous to use it, because malware writers will be able to find security holes in XP by examining the patches for later versions of Windows. Someone with safe surfing habits and good backups could keep using XP, though I wouldn’t recommend it. Less knowledgeable and less vigilant users should change.Some netbooks and laptops already include a solution in the form of a separate Linux-based operating system called Splashtop. This is installed under a variety of names: Asus ExpressGate, HP QuickWeb, and so on. It’s not very nice, but you could use Splashtop online and Windows XP offline.Picking WindowsThe first step with a Windows upgrade is always the same: download and run theWindows 7 Upgrade Advisor, or theWindows 8.1 Upgrade Assistant. These will check your current system for compatibility. Most PCs that run XP should run Windows 7 or 8, but if you only have 1GB of memory, it would be worth expanding this to 2GB, if you can.I’d consider Windows 8 because it is a better operating system than Windows 7. It’s more economical in its use of resources, smoother in operation, has improved security features, and will be upgradeable to the next version of Windows. Yes, the Start screen works better with touch, but you can set 8.1 to boot straight to the desktop, and/or install utilities that make it work more like Windows 7. Examples includeStart8andClassic Shell.You don’t have to worry about Windows Modern (aka Metro) apps because they will not run on a netbook’s limited 1024 x 600 pixel screen display. They need at least 1024 x 768 pixels, unless you use “downscaling” as explained athowtogeek.com.However, you missed the launch upgrade offers, so Windows 8 could cost you more. Checking Amazon.co.uk, the best offers at the moment are32-bit Windows 7 Ultimate on DVD (OEM edition)for £49.99 and theWindows 8 Pro Upgrade Edition-- which includes both 32-bit and 64-bit versions -- for £99.99. OEM editions are provided for system builders or Original Equipment Manufacturers so the price does not include any support.Note that you will need the 32-bit version if your netbook has the usual Intel Atom processor, though a 64-bit processor and operating system would obviously be better.Doing the upgradeThere are two main problems with upgrading to Windows 7. First, Microsoft only supports one-step upgrades and (because of Vista) Windows 7 is two steps from XP. So, you can’t do an “in place” upgrade, only a “clean installation” that replaces XP completely. You will therefore need to back up all your data beforehand and re-install all your programs afterwards. Microsoft provides theWindows Easy Transfer for Windows XPprogram to help, but it will still take some time.Second, your netbook does not have a built-in DVD drive, so you will have to find another way to install Windows 7. The simplest is to add an external DVD drive via a USB port, but if you don’t already own one, this would be another extra cost. The usual solution is to create a bootable 4GB or larger USB thumb drive, and use a second PC to copy all the files from the Windows DVD to that.It’s a bit tricky to create a bootable USB thumb drive formatted with the Windows NTFS file system. TheTechSpotwebsite has a comprehensive guide, but it’s probably simpler to use one of the utilities designed for the purpose.WiNToBooticis fast and versatile because you can use a DVD, a hard drive folder, or an ISO disc image as the source. Alternatives includeRufus,WinToFlash, andWindows Bootable Image (WBI) Creator.Microsoft also offers a free utility: theWindows 7 USB/DVD download tool. This assumes you only have one PC, and that you will download an ISO disc image of Windows 7. If you can access your Windows DVD on a second PC, you can create an ISO image with CD/DVD burning software, such asImgBurn.Once you have the Windows 7 files on your USB thumbdrive, change the boot order in your netbook’s BIOS chip to boot from USB, then install Windows in the normal way. Bear in mind that if it all goes wrong, you will need to restore a back-up image of XP from an external hard drive.Is it worth it? Not really…Is it worth all the time and effort on top of the financial outlay? It depends whether messing about with PCs is a hobby or, if not, how much you value your time. If you have to restore a lot of data, re-install software and re-download a dozen or more utilities (Firefox, SlimClean, FreeFileSync, Dropbox, Kindle etc) then it’s going to take at least a day.Either way, the upgrade is not a good financial investment. Second hand netbooks usually fetch from £25 to £100 on eBay.co.uk, and even an immaculate, year-oldAsus Eee PC X101CHonly fetched £102 this week. There are thousands of netbooks sloshing around, and many of them go by without attracting any bids.If you want to continue using a netbook, I think you have two rational options: either run a free Linux such as Lubuntu -- which will still take time to install and learn, and won’t run your old software -- or sell it and buy a second hand netbook running Windows 7 or Windows 7 Starter. This is not the full version, but it does the job.Unfortunately, netbooks provide a very limited computing experience compared to light Windows 7 laptops and Windows 8 hybrids. For example, you could get a brand new “netbook” such as theAsus X102BA for £276.18. Admittedly it has a very slow 1.0GHz AMD A4-1200 processor, but compared with your current machine, it has more memory (4GB), a bigger hard drive (500GB), faster comms (USB3), better graphics (Radeon HD8180), better screen resolution (1366 x 768 pixels), a touch-screen, 64-bit Windows 8, and a free copy of Microsoft Office 2013 Home and Student worth £115. It will also save you a lot of time by booting, hibernating, and shutting down faster, and it should load web pages noticeably faster. There are many similar machines around, including hybrids with detachable tablet screens.It’s good to make things last, up to a point, but sometimes they become obsolete. A new mini-laptop like the Asus X102BA is cheaper than many tablets and smartphones, and should last much longer, so it will provide better value in the long run.
Porn filters being introduced by UK internet service providers at the government’s behest are blocking innocent sites and failing to block adult ones, according to representatives of the UK’s adult content industry.Representatives of the porn industry have expressed concern that the use of default-on filtering could lead to mis-blocking – and asked the government to get involved.The group has launched its own website,xxxaware.co.uk, to tell parents about the range of tools available to block access to unwanted sites and enable parental tools on specific devices ranging from PCs to smartphones, tablets, games consoles, TVs and apps.“The site will give parents the choice, control and confidence to judge what is right for their children,” says the group, which is supported by Portland TV - the adult content channel of Richard Desmond’s Northern &amp; Shell company – along with Studio 66 TV, Paul Raymond Publications, WMIT and two companies which carry out age verification, Veridu and Intelligent Identity.But Chris Ratcliff, managing director of Portland TV, who has worked in the adult sector since 1995,told Recombuthat “Since we launched we’ve had no contact from policymakers or anybody in government. We have to open a dialog with everybody.”Concerns about “overblocking” - preventing access to sites which children might need to access, for example for sex education - or “underblocking”, in which sites with inappropriate material are accessible - have led to intense debate about the benefits and drawbacks of filtering and whether parents should be able to choose for themselves what sites are allowed or blocked. In January,Sky mistakenly blocked a code plugin called jQuery, essential for the operation of many top websites, through its parental control filters, removing huge amounts of functionality from many sites.Ratcliff argues that imposing filtering on a household’s internet feed would cut adults off from legitimate pornography while having mixed results in blocking it from children.The biggest ISPs – Sky, BT and TalkTalk – have said that new customers will have to make a choice between having filters enabled or not.But the group behind xxxaware says that it will serve as a resource for parents to tell them about tools available to provide parental controls on a device-by-device basis - rather than the blunt method of wholesale ISP filtering. “As an industry-wide initiative, it is hoped that xxxaware can help encourage the uptake of parental controls so that adults can continue to access the content they want, without risk to children and without heavy-handed government intervention,” the group said in a statement.Ratcliff, who has two young children, said that he wants them to grow up with internet access but “the problem is there’s so much inappropriate content for them to stumble across. To restrict this you need the right tools for the job, particularly if you want to continue to access adult sites yourself.”•UK porn filter blocks game update that contained ‘sex’
Steve Jobs’ lost time capsule was found in Colorado, 13 years after it was meant to have been dug up, containing a his personal computer mouse from an Apple Lisa.The time capsule was put in the ground at the Aspen International Design Conference in 1983, and contained dozens of other items from the era.It became known as Steve Jobs Time Capsule afterhe gave a speechforeshadowing the development of wireless technology, the iPad and the App Store at the conference and put his own mouse in the historic pod.Lost for 30 yearsThe historic vessel was meant to have been dug up in 2000, but a major landscaping project in the Aspen area caused the organisers to lose the position of the time capsule until last year.A National Geographic television programmecalled Diggerswas able to locate the capsule last September, only now releasing a video of the discovery and what was inside ahead of the show’s debut on 25 February.Diggers find Steve Jobs’ time capsule, lost for 30 years.Sealed in a protective plastic bag, the simple one-button mouse from Apple’s Lisa computer, which was a commercial failure. The Lisa eventually evolved into the first Macintosh computer released in 1984.A Rubik’s Cube, an eight-track of the Moody Blues and some beer were also included in the time capsule.• From past technology to future technology, whichfeatures are on our wishlist for the Apple iWatch?
BlackBerry’s new chief executive, John Chen, says apps don’t really matter and that his company could be the Porsche of smartphones.Chen sees BlackBerry as serving a particular segment of the market – the Porsche of the phone market – where volume is not as important as serving the right sector.“Take the automotive industry; it’s not all about volume. What do you call Porsche? What do you call Lamborghini?” said Chentalking to Forbes. “Porsche serves a particular segment of the market, doing well for its shareholders and owners. It always serves the market for a purpose, which is the whole point.”BlackBerry shipped just 1.9m handsets during the last quarter of 2013, but customers bought a total of 4.3m handsets, resulting in a $4.4bn quarterly net loss in December 2013. Of those handsets sold, 3.2m were older BB7 models, leaving only 1.1m of BlackBerry’s newer BB10 handsets reaching customers’ hands.‘CEOs whip out their BlackBerrys because of the keyboard’The lack of native applications has often been highlighted as one of BlackBerry’s biggest weak points when compared with the iPhone and Android smartphones, but Chen said apps do not matter.“You have CEOs of major companies who whip out their BlackBerrys because of the keyboard. They don’t care about apps,” Chen said, adding: “From a security point of view I’m starting to worry about where these apps are actually coming from.”Chen’s plan to turn around the sinking company is to target the secure portable device market, highlighting regulated industries including governments, financial services and health care.He said at least two large European companies have bucked a recent trend, which has seen employees permitted to bring their own devices to work – be they Android, iPhone, Windows Phone or other devices – reversing that policy having identified it as a major security risk.“After Angela Merkel was hacked she moved straight to a BlackBerry,” Chen said.Regulated industries that prioritise security and productivity ahead of communication account for 30% of IT spending, according to Chen. BlackBerry started out as a provider of secure email and communications for large “enterprise” businesses, before entering the consumer market, which has seen its profits slide as companies like Apple and Samsung proved too strong a competition.Chen haspreviously saidthat more than 80% of BlackBerry’s existing user base is enterprise customers. BlackBerry’s future could lie in providing “mobile device management” (MDM) services for Apple and Android devices as well as BlackBerrys, which has proved profitable for the company in the past.• BlackBerry’sBBM chief left suddenly in February, causing questions to be raised over the future of the service
It’s Thursday – sorry I’m late, chatter fans!
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle's Almunia deal said to be criticized by EU officials &gt;&gt; BusinessweekEuropean Union Antitrust Commissioner Joaquin Almunia's deal to resolve a three-year-old dispute with Google was criticized by two EU officials at a meeting today, according to two people familiar with the matter.Viviane Reding, the EU's justice commissioner, and Michel Barnier, who leads financial-services policy, told Almunia at a regular meeting they were unhappy with his handling of last week's settlement, said the people who declined to be named because the talks were private."We had a very long debate which shows that there are a lot of concerns and questions," Barnier told reporters today in Brussels. "We haven't finished our work on this subject."The deal has to be approved by the other commissioners too.Swartz, Manning, and Snowden: when programmers scrape by &gt;&gt; The New YorkerRusty Foster:The difference between a "crawler" and a "scraper" is subtle, but typically a crawler is smarter about the links it follows, what it downloads, and what it leaves uncopied. For the most part, though, "crawling" is just scraping with a fancier name, and Google created one of the world's most valuable companies in part by being better at scraping than anyone else. Google was incorporated in 1998, and by 2002 its Web-scraping "Googlebots" were so ubiquitous and voracious that, in a short story titled"Robot Exclusion Protocol,"the programmer and writer Paul Ford imagined one trying to index his bathroom. Some have suggested that Google's recent acquisition of the smart-device maker Nest Labs is effectively an effort to scrape real-world data about our homes and lives, to add to the company's trove of information about us, which now includes information about the Web pages we visit, our e-mails, the books we read, our shopping habits, and more.The short story is great.Why open data was the best $3m investment in Canada's 2014 budget &gt;&gt; Cantech LetterIf Open Data strikes you as long on concept, short on results, you need not leaves the confines of Canada to witness one of the best and most widely cited examples of its relevance. In 2010, public policy expert David Eaves described "…a well documented but little known story abouthow open data helped expose one of the biggest tax frauds in Canada's history."By accessing Canada Revenue Agency records, a colleague of Eaves discovered that the CRA was being duped by fake charitable receipts -in a big way. When all was said and done, it was revealed that sketchy charities were bilking Canadians out of a billion dollars a year. That was .6% of the entire annual budget of the Federal Government, notes Eaves.Strange bedfellows: Microsoft could bring Android apps to Windows &gt;&gt; The VergeSources familiar with Microsoft's plans tell The Verge that the company is seriously considering allowing Android apps to run on both Windows and Windows Phone. While planning is ongoing and it's still early, we're told that some inside Microsoft favor the idea of simply enabling Android apps inside its Windows and Windows Phone Stores, while others believe it could lead to the death of the Windows platform altogether. The mixed (and strong) feelings internally highlight that Microsoft will need to be careful with any radical move.Could Microsoft clone the Google Play APIs and intercept calls from apps on the phone and provide its own services? Trouble is, it would be forever playing catchup to Google. That's once you've got past the problem of implementing the Dalvik VM on Windows Phone.Tablet hourly usage study: iPad dominates, Surface users more active during working hours &gt;&gt; ChitikaThe graph shows the iPad miles ahead, with Android tablets at a quarter of the use, and the Surface in the low single digits. However, there's also a "normalised" graph comparing each hour to its peak:While no tablet experiences its volume peak during working hours, Microsoft Surface RT and 2 users generate a slightly greater share of their collective daily traffic between the hours of 12-5 p.m. ET as compared to iPad and Android tablet users. The results support the idea that Microsoft's tablets are generally used more frequently during working hours as compared to its major competitors in the space, but it's important to note the similarities in all three usage patterns, and that any differences in the precise online activities between user bases cannot be discerned from these data (e.g. e-mail, watching videos, etc.)Chitika says the difference is statistically significant; the data (which applies to North America only) was collected over two weeks at the end of January 2014. It's also not split out to RT and Pro - which would have been useful to know.Are there really lots of vulnerable Apache web servers? &gt;&gt; NetcraftThe most recent security vulnerabilities affecting Apache were addressed in version 2.4.5, which included fixes for the vulnerabilities described inCVE-2013-1896andCVE-2013-2249. Depending which Apache modules are installed, and how they are used, earlier versions may be vulnerable to unauthorised disclosure of information and disruption of service. The previous release in the 2.4 branch (2.4.4), also addressedseveral cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerabilitiesin various modules; such vulnerabilities can severely compromise a web application by facilitating remote session hijacking and the theft of user credentials. Nonetheless, millions of websites still appear to be using vulnerable versions of Apache, including versions which are no longer supported.TL:DR "yes".At Sochi Olympics, crowdsourced OpenStreetMap trounces Google Maps &gt;&gt; Wired ScienceIf you're looking for detailed maps of the Olympic sites around Sochi, Google maps may not be your best bet. OpenStreetMap, the crowdsourced Wikipedia of cartography, looks to have much better coverage of the Olympic sites, as the images in this gallery show.The region outside Sochi where the Olympic ski and snowboard events will be held is virtually a pale green blank on Google maps, for example. The maps here come from the fun and fabulously time-suckingMap Compare toolon the website of Geofabrik, a German company developing commercial uses for OSM data. The Olympic park along the coast, and even downtown Sochi are also covered in more detail in OSM (although with some features that appear on one map but not the other, it's not clear which is more accurate — at least not without being there).OpenStreetMap is a modern wonder. (Apple's map of the area is pretty much bereft of detail; Nokia HERE's is OK. Puzzling why Apple doesn't just take OSM's content outright.)Mobile phone market, excluding China, will see no growth this year &gt;&gt; Investors.comApple and Samsung continue to soak up all the industry's profits, [Tavis] McCourt [of analysts Raymond James] says. Apple claimed 87.4% of phone earnings before interest and taxes in the fourth quarter, he said. Samsung took in 32.2% of industry profits. Because their combined earnings were higher than the industry's total earnings as a result of many vendors losing money in Q4, Apple and Samsung mathematically accounted for more than 100% of the industry's earnings.A year ago, Apple accounted for 77.8% of mobile phone industry profits, followed by Samsung with 26.1%, McCourt said."It remains unclear to us where any non-Chinese vendor outside of Apple and Samsung will obtain the profits necessary to re-invest in the business," McCourt said. "The mobile device market continues to look like an Apple and Samsung market in the developed world, with Chinese-based vendors continuing to take share in emerging markets."The fourth-quarter total for Apple and Samsung comes to 103.9% in 2012 and 119.7% in 2013. Both companies' profits in that period were roughly flat, so the rest of the business seems to be getting worse.Taiwan suppliers concerned about competition from China in 2014 &gt;&gt; DigitimesSince China-based supply chain players already achieved significant improvements in both product design and quality, many vendors have started turning to place their orders with these players.China-based electronics manufacturing service (EMS) provider BYD is one of the players that has been aggressively striving for orders. In addition to smartphone orders from Nokia, Samsung Electronics, Huawei, BlackBerry and High-Tech Computer (HTC), the company has recently landed orders for Intel's education tablets, Acer's entry-level smartphone and Hewlett-Packard's (HP) tablets.Intel has also turned to promote China suppliers for component purchasing and has relatively improved these suppliers ability to land orders.With consequent long-term implications for Taiwan's economy.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
In July 2012, Ahmad Haidar saw a young man die at the hands of a Syrian army sniper on an Aleppo street.The first shot had hit the civilian in the leg and onlookers felt it was a deliberate attempt to incapacitate rather than instantly kill, which Haidar says is a common tactic intended to lure out rescuers to target them too. Aware of this danger, the onlookers, unable to approach the victim, desperately struggled to pull him to safety using ropes and metal poles.“He was trying to get behind cover and people tried to help with anything that was there,” Haidar recalls. The sniper fired again with a lethal shot to the neck.The attempt to help was brave, but unprepared and badly equipped. Haidar thought there was something he could do to help.Drawing on his expertise in electronics and computer programming - which he taught before the war – he devised a hi-tech response to Syrian president Bashar al-Assad’s snipers. The result: a caterpillar-tracked, remote-controlled robot equipped with large mechanical arms.Drawing on his expertise, Haidar devised a hi-tech response to snipers. Photograph: Leyland CeccoIt is designed to pick up wounded people and place them on a stretcher inside an armoured compartment and move to safety. Haidar named it “Tena”, after a Finnish woman he once sat next to on a flight and “fell in love with for an hour”. He is now, he quickly adds, happily married.Haidar and his childhood friend Belal, an engineer, have spent the past seven months fabricating and assembling Tena in a nondescript machine shop on the outskirts of a Turkish border town. Its robotic arms – the most complex and technically demanding component - are now complete. Next, they need a bulldozer chassis to mount them on.Acquiring one will not be easy without some form of outside help. Haidar attempted to crowdfund the project onrobotena.orgbut so far it has not generated the money required. As a result, he and his wife, Isabelle, have exhausted their personal savings to meet the robot’s construction costs.Tena is designed to pick up wounded people and take them in an armoured compartment to safety. Photograph: Leyland CeccoA rebel group said it would provide a vehicle, but the machine was too large and offered only on the condition that Haidar create weapons in return. He refused. The duo has also discussed the project with various aid agencies, but have not yet been able to secure backing.In the meantime, they are working on a metallic alloy-armoured shell to protect against small arms fire. Haidar expects that this will not be robust enough to keep Tena operational for long in Syria’s urban battlefields, but if it lasts to prove the ambitious concept is viable, he will be happy. “If she saves one person and shows it can be done, then it will all be worth it,” he says.With his long straight hair and immaculate suit, Heider makes for a faintly incongruous rebel. But his background means he has valuable skills, and before he escaped Syria, he was part of a hacker group waging electronic war against the government’s Syrian Electronic Army (SEA).The SEA, Haidar says, are a formidable enemy. He has seen their operations first-hand. In early 2011, a recruiter offered him a position with the group in lieu of mandatory military service and took him to a safe house located under a seemingly normal computer retailer in Aleppo’s Al-Furqan neighbourhood.“It was another world in there,” he remembers. “They had absolutely everything, a lot of hi-tech gear.” Much of it, he adds, was US-made.He declined the offer and went into hiding, then, when the uprising began, joined up with six other hackers and began to break into state-controlled websites. His role, he says, was making viruses. Characteristically, he named them after ex-girlfriends.Haidar has attempted to crowdfund the project onrobotena.orgbut so far it has not generated the money required. Photograph: Leyland CeccoIn April 2012, Haidar says the group managed to upload a breaking-news banner to the state-controlled Al-Dunya TV channel reporting that Assad had decided to step down “for the good of his people”. Anti-government protesters hit the streets in celebratory response to this high-profile security breach, carrying banners that said “Thank you, Pirates of Aleppo”. The hackers adopted the name. “It was like a medal of honour for us,” Haidar says.The pirates also regularly broke into the Facebook profiles of activists arrested by the regime and cleaned up any evidence of rebellious activities. In their place, they uploaded explicit pictures to act as a distraction. “We would swap every revolutionary flag or phrase with pornographic photos to keep the investigators busy,” Haidar says with a smile. “It worked really well.”Haidar and his partner are working on a metallic alloy-armoured shell to protect against small arms fire. Photograph: Leyland CeccoHaidar fled to Turkey when the battle for Aleppo intensified in September 2012 and for a time worked as a “fixer”, arranging visits into Syria for members of the press. His spare moments were spent planning the robot’s development and constructing its control system, which he says will allow it to be operated from as far as almost two miles away.Tena now has his undivided attention - the rise of extremist groups in Northern Syria means that it is almost impossible for foreign journalists, as well as local journalists, to work there. When the project is finally finished and functional, Haidar plans to move to France, where Isabelle currently lives. “I’ll be on a farm with three dogs and the woman I love,” he says happily. Until then though, there is work to be done.•Syrian Electronic Army hacks Skype’s Twitter and blog accounts
Handmade cosmetics company Lush is trying to force Amazon to clean up its image by making a series of new bathroom products named after the UK boss of the online retail group.The husband and wife team behind Lush – which this week won a high court battle against Amazon over its use of the word "lush" to sell rival cosmetics – hastrademarked the name "Christopher North"as a brand name for a new range of toiletries, which could eventually extend to deodorants and hair removing cream. North is the managing director of Amazon.co.uk.The independent cosmetics company had been locked in a David and Goliath legal battle with the internet retailer, but it has finally succeeded where thousands of small businesses have failed and got the attention of the boss of Amazon UK.In an unconventional branding strategy, Lush has already now created a new shower gel and named it after their arch-rival, with the tagline "rich, thick and full of it".Lush has waged a three-year battle over Amazon's use of the word "lush" to sell products that look just like Lush's "sex bomb" bath salts and "Prince Charming" shower gel – but aren't. Amazon shoppers searching for Lush products would instead be directed to similar products described as "lush". The retail chain does not sell via Amazon and said the internet retailer was misleading customers into thinking they were buying genuine Lush products.In a high court ruling this week Judge John Baldwin QC said: "[The] right of the public to access technological development does not go so far as to allow a trader such as Amazon to ride roughshod over intellectual property rights, to treat trademarks such as Lush as no more than a generic indication of a class of goods in which the consumer might have an interest."Mark Constantine, who together with his wife Mo founded Lush with one shop in Poole in 1995, said he took Amazon to court and started making the new range of North toiletries after the US company ignored all his attempts to resolve the dispute amicably."We asked them 17 times before we went to court," he said. "After a while you realise you're being bullied."Constantine's decision totrademark North's nameand create the shower gel has certainly got his attention. The Lush boss said Amazon's lawyers had reported that North is "hopping mad".Constantine said he had trademarked the name of Amazon boss to "make a point about how upsetting it is to have something personal to you, used by someone else". He said the North shower product was originally meant to be a bit of a joke and not go on sale.But, after Amazon refused to concede it was doing anything wrong and vowed to appeal against the High Court ruling, Constantine decided he was not going to put up with Amazon's "bullying unpleasantness" anymore and would consider when to put the North products on his shop shelves."How are they going to behave, are they going to do the right thing, or continue to be naughty?" he said. "If this was a normal business relationship it would have been a joke between us. But this is Amazon, how will they behave?"We are going to keep this on the table and wait and see. If you're not going to behave in a way that's appropriate, there should be some comeback."If the North shower gel does go on sale all profits will go to good causes,  and Constantine has already held discussions with tax avoidance protesters UK Uncut.If the bright pink shower smoothie, which is a mix of murumuru butter, brazil nut oil and acai berry, doesn't have the desired effect of reining in Amazon, Lush could launch a whole series of North products using its new trademark, including deodorants, toothpaste, leg wax and "non-medicated toilet preparations".The packaging of the North shower gel is covered in tongue-in-cheek digs at Amazon's claimed tax avoidance and contentious business strategies.Constantine said his designers had a "lot of fun" making the product, which is  especially recommended for those with a "recent history of dry dull skin" and promises to flow "straight to your fulfilment centre with its super saver delivery".The product also boasts the "top tip: Kindle a new love for your skin, it's not taxing to take care of your skin with this product packed with Amazon Prime ingredients".Constantine – who has now taken the precaution of buying up the trademark to his own name in case Amazon tries a countermove – is now ready for a another outbreak of hostilities with Amazon: "Now I've said this to you," he said, "they will no doubt give us another whopping with a stick."
Three online exchanges for the bitcoin virtual currency have suspended conversions into state-backed currencies, saying they are under attack from hackers suspected of trying to create fraudulent transactions.The value of the currency has plunged as the attack has intensified, from $926 on 5 February to $530 on 12 February on MtGox, one of the affected exchanges. Bitstamp, based in Slovenia, and BTC-e, in Bulgaria, also halted withdrawals indefinitely on Wednesday as they came under attack.The moves follow crackdowns by China in December and Russia last week on use of the cybercurrency, which some authorities fear could be used for money laundering, funding terrorism or tax evasion."This is a denial-of-service [DoS] attack," said Jinyoung Lee Englund, a spokeswoman for the Bitcoin Foundation, a trade organisation for exchanges. "Whoever is doing this is not stealing coins, but is succeeding in preventing some transactions from confirming. It's important to note that DoS attacks do not affect people's bitcoin wallets or funds."In astatement, MtGox said: "A bug in the bitcoin software makes it possible for someone to use the bitcoin network to alter transaction details to make it seem like a sending of bitcoins to a bitcoin wallet did not occur when in fact it did occur. Since the transaction appears as if it has not proceeded correctly, the bitcoins may be re-sent." Such "double spending" could destroy trust in the system.
As Gore Vidal said, it’s not enough to succeed; others must be seen to fail. And you can really see them failing (along with, perhaps, yourself) at a site which lets you play Flappy Bird online along with a thousand others simultaneously.Available atflapmmo.com, the site offers a real-time view of how everyone else is doing - in general, awfully. Which you can join them in doing by pressing any button on your keyboard to get your semi-flightless bird aloft and pipe-dodging. Or not.Although loath to embarrass everyone by demonstrating too much expertise, your correspondent found it was hard not to notice that as one flapped past the sixth pipe, only a handful of fellow users were still visible on the screen.The online game appears to be much more difficult than the original version for smartphones as large number of players struggle to make it past the first three pipes. (Your correspondent can manage 44 pipes on the smartphone version, compared to seven on the MMO version.)Many users struggle to make it past the first pipe. Including us, this time. Illustration: Siraj DatooMore seriously, the fact almost 1,000 gamers are playing simultaneously on the website (MMO stands for “massively multiplayer online”) demonstrates not only the popularity and addictiveness of the game, but also the power that in-browser games can harbour.However by the end of Wednesday afternoon the site was struggling under what seems to have been a growing load as users discovered it.But this isn’t the first time the smartphone game Flappy Bird has made it to the web since it waspulled from the Google and Apple app storeson Monday.Earlier this week a number of sites, such as FlappyBird.com, FlappyBirds.com and FlappyBird.io were all set up to replicate the smartphone experience.Android users have also been warned against downloading any Flappy Bird lookalikes in the app store after security firm Trend Microdiscovered a number of malware-filled apps. It it unknown whether there any of the malware apps exist on the UK app store.• Flappy Bird getsnew ‘fan game’ from Super Hexagon creator Terry CavanaghOne of our better attempts.
iPhone owners would be forgiven for having a false sense of security when it comes to the safety of data on their phone. Apple has done a tremendous job of creating a locked-down operating system that keeps malicious software away from its elegant handsets and deters potential attackers.Android continues to be the most targeted mobile operating system. Cisco’s 2014 Annual Security Report claimed that 99% of mobile malware spotted in 2013 was aimed at Google’s smartphone operating system – the report was swiftlytweeted by Apple’s Phil Schilleras his latest jab at Android.Yet there remain some alarming facts for iPhone owners to take on board. First, its iOS software is far from flaw-free. In a 2013 report, Symantec claimed that there were387 documented security holes in iOS in 2012, compared to just 13 for Android.When Apple released its iOS 7 software in 2013, it patched a whopping 70 flaws. And while vulnerabilities do not always equate to threats, it’s clear from this data that iOS is far from invincible. What’s more, there are a myriad of ways outsiders can try to pilfer data from iOS. Given the popularity of Apple’s devices, attackers will be hungry to exploit them.Target the appsIf you’ve been reading the Guardian’s coverage of online surveillance by agencies including the NSA and GCHQ, you’ll already know that one way to gather data from smartphones is to exploit vulnerabilities in apps. A variety of techniques can be employed by attackers in this respect.One notable problem uncovered by an Israeli start-up, SkyCure, was the insecure use of what’s known as the“301 Moved Permanently”HTTP feature found in many applications on iOS, which lets developers easily switch the Internet addresses apps use to acquire data. It’s often used when services are switching domains.SkyCure found attackers sitting on the same network as a user of a vulnerable app could easily switch those Internet addresses with their own malicious site. Even when users left that network, as iOS cached the malicious URL, when they continued to use the application they would still hit that bad site, which could be used to carry out exploits on the user’s phone.At least three of the biggest US media outlets had such a flaw in their consumer-facing applications, says Yair Amit, co-founder and chief technology officer of Skycure. “You can persistently and remotely control how the application is working,” he warns.“It’s possible because most applications are loading information or commands from their server to execute on the client with no indication of the actual source. I’ve been working with many pretty well-known papers as well as other big vendors on other applications, like finance and podcasts, and patches are going out.”Amit is planning to detail some more “neat techniques” for exploiting iOS at theRSA Conferencein San Francisco this month, but cannot reveal more as he works with Apple to mitigate the threat.Insecure dataDevelopers, whether producing iOS applications for workers or for the wider public, often rely too heavily on the device to store data too. If done insecurely, this allows attackers sitting on the same network as an iPhone user, such as a public Wi-Fi network, to potentially scoop up information being sent to and from the app.“It is easy to make mistakes such as storing user data (passwords/usernames) incorrectly on the device, in the vast majority of cases credentials get stored either unencrypted or have been encoded using methods such as base64 encoding (or others) and are rather trivial to reverse,” says Andy Swift, mobile security researcher from penetration testing firm Hut3.“This mistake extends to sending data too, if developers rely on the device too much it becomes quite easy to forget altogether about the transmission of the data. Such data can be easily extracted and may include authentication tokens, raw authentication data or personal data. At the end of the day if not investigated, the end user has no idea what data the application is accessing and sending to a server somewhere.”Another common problem in iOS apps, according to Cesar Cerrudo, chief technology officer for security research and consultancy firm IOActive Labs, is improper or lack of validation of data received by the application. This allows attackers to send malicious data to the app and have malicious code executed on the user device to steal information.All of these attacks could easily be executed on public or unprotected Wi-Fi networks, so you should be especially careful when using such services, refraining from sharing sensitive data over them. And they should avoid any untrusted networks.Using stolen certificatesApple has been particularly good at defending iPhones and iPads from malware. Yet there are ways to game the system to get rogue apps on iOS devices.Stolen certificates can be particularly handy. Even though they can be tricky to acquire, some are bought and sold on underground forums, others nabbed during attacks on businesses. These certificates are designed to sign applications, providing validation they were created by legitimate parties.For iOS, they come in various flavours, the most common one being for developers who want to publish on the official App Store. But there are also certificates for signing in-house applications, where IT teams send out apps and updates via their own infrastructure, rather than using the App Store.If an attacker can get hold of a valid certificate, they can target specific employees by enticing them into downloading malicious applications, as Michael Shaulov, chief executive of San Francisco-based firm Lacoon Mobile Security demonstrates during a one-on-one presentation over WebEx.He shows me a mock phishing email, urging a user to download a security update. When the user clicks on the download link, they are asked by the device whether they want to install. If they click yes, as many would do if the email appeared to legitimately come from their employer, the malware downloads on to the iPhone.In the example Shaulov uses, a fake enterprise email client is downloaded. He uses that fake app to collect information such as calendar, geolocation and contact data, or even switch on recording without any user intervention. “This is all done on a completely fresh iOS 7 non-jailbroken device. You can facilitate such an attack without much effort,” he adds.“A lot of enterprises are now ahead of the curve with their mobility and are distributing in-house applications in such a way that it becomes a very reasonable phishing target. People are familiar with this way that IT delivers a new application, so they just click that malicious link.”Lacoon's white paper explored jailbroken spyphones.Bypassing App Store protectionsWhilst using stolen certificates is handy for targeted hits where the hackers want to avoid all the code checking that the App Store provides, the holy grail for iOS attackers is getting malware into Apple’s walled garden - the official App Store, which hasonly ever hosted one rogue app.Given Apple doesn’t allow anti-virus to work on its mobile machines, acquiring masses of malware downloads from its official market would be a major coup for a digital criminal.There are precedents. Researchers from theGeorgia Tech Information Security Centerhave previously shown off a way of sneaking a bad app into the store. They sent in what appeared to be a legitimate piece of software and Apple accepted it. But once the app was installed on a user device it would rearrange its code to enable more malicious features, such as stealing photos and sending emails.Others have created nifty pieces of iOS malware. Neal Hindocha, a researcher from security company Trustwave, isplanningto demonstrate a keylogger at RSA Conference that can monitor everything on an iPhone, right down to the swipes of a touchscreen. It will only work on a jailbroken device, however, where security protections stopping applications having too much power are removed.Jailbreaking and jumping out of the sandboxAnother potentially nasty attack vector can come from website attacks that launch a kernel-level exploit, cutting right to the heart of iOS and handing user privileges to a hacker. This is one of the most difficult ways to break iOS, especially when the attacker is doing the work remotely rather than having direct access to the device.Apple has covered off all known kernel vulnerabilities in the latest version of iOS, but researchers have theorised on possible future attacks. Tarjei Mandt, senior vulnerability researcher at Azimuth Security, has beenprobing the ways iOS allocates memoryand believes he has found a potential weakness.It lies in what is known as the new “zone page metadata structure”, which is designed to improve the performance of the operating system’s zone allocator, used for organising memory by size, dividing memory into regions, or zones.A hypothetical attack would see the hacker trick this metadata structure, information from which is taken by the code doing the memory allocation, into writing remote code into the memory pages of the device.“If you have a memory corruption vulnerability, the idea [for the attacker] is that you can target this structure to overwrite the information that it contains,” he says. “If you have the ability to corrupt that data structure… you’ll essentially be able to gain an arbitrary right [a privilege allowing an attacker to write to the device], which is pretty much the end goal of any exploit.”The attacker could direct a target to a website, where a browser vulnerability would be exploited to initiate attack code. The kernel flaw would then be used to jump out of the Apple sandbox, an emulation technology that runs code to see if it’s malicious before executing it. In theory, this chained approach would eventually lead to malicious software being lumped on the iPhone.Another way of getting root access to a phone is to jailbreak it by physically grabbing it and using known tools like evasi0n, which requires the iPhone be connected to a PC by USB, to gain user privileges. Malware could then be installed for persistent attacks.Lacoon has data showing that iOS is the favourite target of those running spyphones, buyable software that does what it says on the tin, monitoring jailbroken devices. In ananalysis of 650,000 users from a major telecoms partner, Lacoon found 57% of the 650 infected machines were based on iOS.If all this sounds worrying, there’s one encouraging piece of advice: the best strategy for the average iPhone owner is quite simple: keep your device within your line of sight, and don’t click on any suspicious links.
The best games feel right straight away. They just do. You pick up the controller, push the stick forward and everything is perfect, from the running animation, to the speed of the player character, to the sensations of mass and resistance. From Super Mario to Super Hexagon, the greatest games are the ones that facilitate flow, a mental state of energised focus and immersion, first explained by Hungarian psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi. Titanfall is all about flow.Now, just a month from release, Respawn is showing off the game again, packing out a studio in Shoreditch with long rows of Xbox One consoles. Everywhere, on every screen, there are explosions splattering across crumbling futuristic cityscapes. There are soldiers leaping from windows on to rooftops. There are giant mechs stomping through narrow streets firing off multiple rocket rounds at scattering enemies. Titanfall is a first-person shooter, of course, set amid a war between the Interstellar Manufacturing Corporation (IMC) and the Militia. Their battle rages through a whole planetary system and the story is told between multiplayer bouts. There is no campaign, just online warfare, running across Microsoft’s cloud network. Sides are six v six, but battle zones are swarming with AI troopers, including the basic grunts and the more testing spectres who traipse around the place like terminators.And there are the titans. These are huge robotic tanks that players are able to call in during each match. “Personally, the design starting point was Robotech, Appleseed, Akira, Gundam, all that awesome manga and anime,” says lead artist Joel Emslie. “We also had to ensure they had a realistic, used look to them so we went back to old movies like the Abyss, Close Encounters, all the model shops. We took the awesome Japanese designs and melded it with the cool cinematics of late-70s early 80s sci-fi.”Combat is much more spatially compex than standard military shooters, with huge double jumps and parkour-style movement.When your titan plunges down to earth, you climb in and just blast your way through hulking Mech Warrior-style encounters, as pilots swarm around your metal legs. When the damage is too much, you eject and you’re back fighting on the ground again, waiting for your titan gauge to build again so you can call in another. The idea is to mix up the gameplay feel and also lengthen the average player lifespan, pulling out of Call of Duty’s spawn-die-spawn-die nose dive. Right now, it is exhilarating stuff.We get to play two different maps and three game modes at the event. Angel City, already seen at Gamescom, is a sci-fi metropolis divided into small districts, and crammed with wrecked multi-level buildings. It’s a gift to players who have worked out that this isn’t Call of Duty, it isn’t a game about cowering at street level or climbing endless staircases. It is a game about flight. While on-foot, players can hit jump then sprint along walls, or double jump to gain more altitude. Skilled free runners will then string these vertical jaunts together, gaining momentum before slingshotting themselves across vast chasms.“You’ll get people who bring in habits they’ve learned from other first-person shooters,” says Respawn’s community manager Abbie Heppe. “Sometimes, they’re very static, they’ll get behind cover, they’ll stay on the ground, they don’t really use the tools they’re given. It’s amazing to see the light bulb go on, especially as they watch other players. Like, I will go into a HardPoint match and the first thing I’ll do is go run up a wall and hang there - you just hold left trigger to do it - and you see other players running in looking up and obviously thinking, ‘I didn’t know you could do that’. And in the next match there are all these players hanging from the walls.”And hanging from the wall, high up and hidden from raiding enemies, is a super strategy in HardPoint. This is basically Titanfall’s Conquest mode, where teams have to hold three key points on the map for as long as possible. Heppe knows that players rarely look up when they’re racing in to claim a conquest point – easy pickings.Military influencesThe new map is Fracture, set on a remote colony planet ruined by years of fuel extraction. Its clusters of simple buildings are surrounded by broken landscapes of jutting rock and sheer drops. Around the periphery are large concrete pipes, rat runs for pilots who want to stay out of sight. A vast cliff face separates the playable area into halves. There are choke points here and there and some wider pathways, but Repsawn seems to be getting away from the three-channel design of the Call of Duty maps. The studio was, of course, formed by dozens of ex-staff from the CoD series, and that DNA is definitely still there in the seamless, brute force action and balanced weaponry. But the verticality, the sheer wealth of spatial options, is leading us somewhere new.Well maybe not exactly new, but newly combined. Titanfall takes the best moments from Doom, Quake, Counter-Strike and CoD and fuses them to a fresh structure. Thanks so the science fiction guns and super aerial movement, there are real Quake moments of mid-air shoot-outs and rail gun-style precision blasts. But there is also a tactical intensity that recalls the best Counter Strike skirmishes. To me, the systems converge and balance well. And balance is what it’s all about. “There were some frustrations early on,” says Emslie. “The pilots were so fast because we were trying to emulate that Quake feel - but you couldn’t shoot them; they were moving so quickly through the environment, it was crazy. The Titans were too fast as well, and when you’re balancing a game, it’s like a teetering effect – it takes a grain of salt to throw it off.“So it was a double-edge sword, going after that feel but trying to fit those game types together - that was the key to getting it to work. There are now three titans but there was a point where we were testing the game and saying, “if we can’t get this one titan right, we can’t add the other two”. When we finally hit it, we thought, thank god! For the artists especially. The designers were threatening that they’d take the extra titans out if they couldn’t get it right - we were like, what?! We’ve built them!”Pilots have special anti-titan weapons but it's probably best not to take them on face-to-face.Balance. Respawn has pretty much obsessed over it. “There’s been tons of weapon balancing, and we’ve added things we’ve not really shown yet,” says Heppe. “Other pilots, other weapons - all the stuff you’ll see in the final game. A lot of that stuff has been added between announcing the game and finally shipping it.”The designers have also added an intriguing new power-up system – Burn Cards – a more accessible alternative to the standard Killstreak model. After levelling up to grade seven, players can start collecting a range of trading cards, each offering a specific power boost, that can only be used once in a match. These include an “amped mag launcher” which replaces your standard anti-titan weapon with a mega-powerful alternative, and prosthetic legs which provide pilots with faster movement. Cards are earned throughout the game (with successful evacs earning rare examples), and players have three active slots to slide their favourites into before each bout, effectively building a deck of cool perks. “It’s a response to modern day shooters,” says Emslie. “You get these elite players that go into a match and they know exactly how to play the level to dominate it ridiculously and basically grief the other team - it’s demoralising and eventually people don’t want to play. The burn card is something you can get by going after the AI, killing other pilots, everyone can own them.”So how did the system come about? It turns out that lots of staff at Respawn are big fans of Magic: The Gathering, including members of the senior design team. “They were secretly trying to find a way to add that style of gameplay,” says Emslie. “It becomes this challenge to go into an environments and bring particular kinds of burn cards that suit your play style. There are cards that become very handy on specific game types, so collecting cards and building out your deck becomes a game in itself. I love getting amped weapons. There’s one in the beta, an amped sniper rifle that vaporises people when you hit them - the normal gun won’t do that. You also get burn cards that shave 30 seconds off your build time so you’re the first one to get a titan… there are lots of multipliers.”Class systemIn-game we’ve seen three pilot classes so far (earning XP opens up more). The Rifleman, Assassin and QCB all wield primary and secondary guns as well as a dedicated anti-titan weapon, a tactical ability (cloaking, for example) and ordinance in the form of frag grenades, explosives packs and others. The rifleman is the standard infinitry, equipped with an R101C carbine and an Archer heavy rocket that locks on and fires at titans from safe distance. I really liked the assassins, though, with their SmartPistols, which auto-lock-on to several targets simultaneously and even lock on to the same target at several points if they have armour. QCB, of course, packs a shotgun, as well as an extended parkour kit which lets them wall run for longer, perhaps to sneak in closer to enemy targets.We also saw three titan classes: Assault, Tank and Artillery. The first is an all rounder with chain gun, rocket salvo and some useful kit including a Regen Booster that lets your shields regenerate faster. The tank wades in with a 40mm cannon and a nuclear ejector which causes your mech to explode when you eject, taking out anything nearby. Artillery is a little more subtle, and designed to support troops from a distance with its powerful quad rockets. To be honest, amid all the chaos it was tough to really get to grips with the intricacies of these machines – for newcomers, titan gameplay tends to devolve into stomping around trying to squish enemy solders, while blasting other titans in the face with missiles. Once the shield damage is to great for regeneration, these robotic giants go into a doomed sequence in which you have a few seconds of blasting, before you HAVE to eject, and pushing this to its limits is tense but exhilarating.A great way to discover titans and their capabilities is through the newly revealed Last Titan Standing mode, in which every player spawns in a titan and must fight it out to the death in two teams. Once your titan is destroyed you’re out on foot attempting to protect your side’s remaining mechs – but if you’re killed it’s game over. It’s a neat twist on the familiar Last Man Standing mode and really gets players thinking as a team unit.As for limiting matches to six players versus six… well, the announcement caused some controversy early this year, but in the heat of robotic mega-battle – with AI soldiers running everywhere – it feels like plenty. “A lot of the controversy stemmed from confusion over what AI means in our universe,” says Heppe. “A lot of the most common suggestions I had were, ‘why don’t you just take out the AIs and replace them with human players?’ That’s not something we can just do - the grunts and the spectres have different roles from humans. I find myself constantly explaining, ‘the AIs can’t do what you do, you’re special!’. We have made meticulous design choices; we spend the entire time balancing - everything has to fit together perfectly. We’ve played the game ten vs ten, we’ve played one vs one, we’ve done everything in-between and it all comes back to gameplay. It’s frustrating because people ask me on Twitter and I cannot possible explain it in 140 characters!”Emslie agrees. “We got to that number through heavy experimentation. There’s a point where if you put too many players in, no matter how big the environment it just throws everything off kilter and it stops being fun. Our goal with this game was to allow the player to survive a little longer. It can be frustrating for people to continually take sniper shots from two miles away. I miss the AI when they’re not there. I use them for tactical advantage - I can hack spectres and make them work for me and follow me around. I can create a little army if I want to. That’s something new. You have to find out if its for you.”Call of titansA lot has been made about the umbilical link between Titanfall and Call of Duty. When we last covered Respawn’s game in depth, the comments section buzzed with accusations that it looked just like Modern Warfare, right down to the weapon animations. It may look like that, it doesn’t really feel like it. There are similarities in pace, classes and armoury, but Titanfall appears to add so many layers to the tactical gameplay. Moving in and out of titans is a fresh challenge, but the ability to scorch across the skyline of maps is a key addition.It’s fun. That’s the thing. It’s chaotic, it is loud, it batters your senses with alarm systems and dialogue and explosions, but it is fun. And it flows. I felt it straightaway. The same feeling as Quake Arena, the same as Team Fortress. There is a lot of discover, and who knows how the game will hold up on public servers against hundreds of super-talented gamers. But once you’ve jumped in a titan and fired off four spiraling missiles at another giant mech across a neon-lit sci-fi city, you don’t want to get out.Titanfall is released on PC and Xbox One on 14 March , and on Xbox 360 on 28 March•Titanfall v Destiny – how this war will change shooters for ever• Titanfall – E3 preview
The mass surveillance carried out by the USNational Security Agencymeans that governance of the internet has to be made more international and less dominated by America, the European Union's executive has declared.Setting out proposals on how the world wide web should function and be regulated, the European commission called for a shift away from the California-based Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), which is subject to US law, is contracted by the US administration and is empowered to supervise how digital traffic operates."Recent revelations of large-scale surveillance have called into question the stewardship of the US when it comes to internet governance," said the commission."Given the US-centric model of internet governance currently in place, it is necessary to broker a smooth transition to a more global model while at the same time protecting the underlying values of open multi-stakeholder governance …"Large-scale surveillance and intelligence activities have led to a loss of confidence in the internet and its present governance arrangements."Besides criticising US domination of how the internet and digital traffic are organised, including the allocation and determination of domain names, the Brussels institution also warned against increasing governmental attempts to control the internet, as in China, Russia, Iran and increasingly Turkey, which passed a stringent law last week curbing online freedoms."Governments have a crucial role to play, but top-down approaches are not the right answer. We must strengthen the multi-stakeholder model," said Neelie Kroes, the commissioner for digital affairs. "Our fundamental freedoms and human rights are not negotiable. They must be protected online."She spoke out against giving the United Nations the power to organise and supervise the internet or to grant such authority to the International Telecommunications Union, voicing fears that it would confer too much power on governments.The commission called for a clear timeline for diluting US authority over Icann and making it more "global"; for agreement on "a set of principles of internet governance to safeguard the open and unfragmented nature of the internet"; and a mediation body that would scrutinise conflicts arising from contradictory national jurisdictions over the internet.Decisions over domain names and IP&nbsp;addresses should also be globalised, Brussels said. "The next two years will be critical in redrawing the global map of internet governance," said Kroes.Brussels is to take its proposals to an international conference on the issue in Brazil in April. Brazil, angered by the NSA revelations, has been highly critical of the US role in internet governance."Nearly every person has an interest in keeping the internet open, whether this is an economic, social or human rights interest," said Marietje Schaake, a Dutch liberal MEP who sits on an international body examining internet governance."Governments are trying to bring the internet under national control. States like Russia and China use the argument of increasing cyber-security to increase control over their own population. Organisations such as Icann, which registers domain names worldwide, currently function under US law. That has to change."
Microsoft has blamed an “error in our system” for producingresults on its Bing search engine that appear to censor information for Chinese language usersin the same way it filters results in mainland China.The admission is an embarrassment for Microsoft, which is making a major push to expand its business in China and has just appointed a new CEO, Satya Nadella, who has been a public critic of government surveillance in the US.On Tuesday, campaigners at FreeWeibo, a tool that allows uncensored search of Chinese blogs, revealed thatBing returns radically different resultsin the US for English and simplified Chinese language searches on a series of controversial terms, including “Dalai Lama”, “June 4 incident” (how Chinese people refer to the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989) and “Bo Xilai”, the former high-flying government official now serving life in prison for corruption.After initially declining to comment, Microsoft’s Stefan Weitz, a senior director at Bing, issued a statement denying censorship. Weitz said Microsoft had conducted an investigation into the discrepancies.“First, Bing does not apply China’s legal requirements to searches conducted outside of China. Due to an error in our system, we triggered an incorrect results removal notification for some searches noted in the report but the results themselves are and were unaltered outside of China,” he wrote.FreeWeibo’s homepage was also removed for Chinese language users. Weitz said the site had been cut because “at some time in the past the page was marked as inappropriate due to low quality or adult content.” Weitz said it had now been restored.Charlie Smith at FreeWeibo said Weitz’s explanation was “simply not true that the results ‘are and were unaltered outside of China’.”Smith said: “Anybody, anywhere, can run independent tests themselves to verify our claims and see that Microsoft is quite simply trying to cover up their complicit involvement in China’s attempts to cleanse the web of any negative information about the Middle Kingdom.”Dalai Lama search in EnglishDalai Lama search in ChineseSmith said that before he published his blogpost on the discrepancies ongreatfire.orghe had given Microsoft four days to check to see if there was a technical error. “Their first answer was ‘no comment’, but now they believe that there is a partial error on their part. But we have checked our tests to see if an error is to blame and the results are in: ‘Computer says no!’”“We also believe that this is the perfect time for Microsoft to drop its excessive global censorship policy on any version outside of China and international Bing inside China.“This story shines a negative light on both Microsoft and China. We fully expect the Chinese authorities to continue with their draconian censorship practice. But for Microsoft, this is an enormous opportunity – do the right thing and stand up to Chinese censorship now. It has damaged your credibility with customers,” he said.Weitz said: “Bing aims to provide a robust set of high-quality, relevant search results to our users. In doing so, Bing has extremely high standards that respect human rights, privacy and freedom of expression.Weitz said Microsoft is a signatory to the Global Network Initiative, an effort by a companies, human rights groups and academics to protect and advance freedom of expression and privacy on the internet. “As part of our commitment to GNI, Microsoft follows a strict set of internal procedures for how we respond to specific demands from governments requiring us to block access to content. We apply these principles carefully and thoughtfully to our Bing version for the People’s Republic of China,” he said.John Kamm, the founder of human rights in China organisation Dui Hua, said: “This is not good, but it shouldn’t surprise anyone. I’ve always felt that large corporations will defer to China. It’s not as if they are doing their bidding, but they make decisions because they think that’s what China wants.”It is not the first time Bing has been accused of censoring search results outside China. In2009, New York Times columnist Nicholas Kristofwrote that Bing searches in simplified Chinese characters produced “sanitized pro-communist results. This is especially true of image searches. Magic! No Tiananmen Square massacre. The Dalai Lama becomes an oppressor. Falun Gong believers are villains, not victims.”Microsoft told the columnist the discrepancies were due to “a bug of some kind and that that is fixed”. It said the “explanation lies in the search algorithms, rather than in Microsoft policy.”• This story was updated on Wednesday 12 February to clarify that the searches were made using simplified Chinese language characters on Google and Bing.
Canny eBay users who have put smartphones with the Flappy Bird game app up for sale and have seen bids up to £50,000 have had their listings removed by the auction site.After listing iPhones with the now defunct addictive game created by Dong Nguyen, the sellers have had their auctions shut down.Account holders received messages stating:After reviewing your eBay account, it appears that you have not followed eBay’s guidelines to list a device that can hold media or software.As a result, we’ve taken the following action:• Listings have been removed.• We have credited all associated fees except for the final value fee for your listing(s).Smartphones and tablets must be restored to factory settings before they are allowed to be sold on eBay. Please remove all content from your device, including the game Flappy Bird, before you attempt to list your item again. Please be sure your current and future listings follow these guidelines, keeping in mind that additional listing violations could result in the suspension of your account.-eBay teamOne London seller, Benio Urbanowicz, had taken the opportunity to put his iPhone 4s up for sale with Flappy Bird on it on Monday. Bids started at a modest £800 but crept up to £2,000 – at which point his listing was removed by the site.Other online selling sites such as Gumtree have yet to ban phone listings detailing Flappy Bird software in the description.•You can play Flappy Bird online for free - but watch out for malware on Android app stores
Flappy Bird might havebeen pulled from the app storebut addicts can still play the game online on a computer, smartphone or tablet.Multiple websites have seized upon the void left by Flappy Bird’s sudden removal from the Apple and Google app stores, providing free-to-play versions of Flappy Bird online.Various websites have been quickly set up, riffing on the original Flappy Bird name, including FlappyBird.com, FlappyBirds.com, FlappyBird.io and many others, all allowing users to play the game in their browser for free.Users missing their Bird fix can now play Flappy Bird online.“Flappy Bird was suddenly discontinued by its creator for both iOS and Android on February 9, 2014. For now you can play it here,” anotice said on FlappyBirds.com.Flappy Bird online on a smartphoneOther variants of the game allow Bird addicts to play Flappy Bird online via the browser on their smartphones and tabletsusing an HTML5 version of the game.Play Flappy Bird online via your smartphone or tablet computer's browser thanks to an HTML5 variant of the game.Discerning Bird players may prefer the most authentic experience possible, however, given that the addictive qualities that made Flappy Bird so madly popular were down to the game’s precise control mechanism and difficulty.Online gaming site Kongregate has a variant of the game calledFlash Flappy Bird, which is about as close of a clone of the game as is currently available.Flash Flappy Bird, based on the original Flappy Bird.Flappy malwareNot everyone attempting to take advantage of the void left by Flappy Bird is quite as desirable. Security firm Trend Micro discovered that aseries of malware-filled fake Flappy Bird appshave infiltrated Android app stores, which are especially rampant in Russia and Vietnam. It’s unclear whether any are on the UK Google Play store.The fake versions send premium-rate text messages without the user’s knowledge, quickly racking up unwanted charges on victim’s phone bills. The apps hide alerts from the messages and stealthily use Google’s Cloud Messaging system to contact a remote server for instructions.The malware apps also send personal information to a third party, including phone numbers and email addresses.“We advise Android users (especially those who are keen to download the now ‘extinct’ Flappy Bird app) to be careful when installing apps,”said Veo Zhang, a mobile threats analyst with Trend Micro. “Cybercriminals are constantly cashing in on popular games (like Candy Crush, Angry Birds Space, Temple Run 2, and Bad Piggies) to unleash mobile threats.”• Enterprising users attempted tosell used smartphones pre-loaded with Flappy Birdson eBay with bids as much as $90,000 after the game was removed from sale by the developer
It has been thirteen months exactly since the suicide of Aaron Swartz, at the age of 26. It’s not the roundest anniversary, but it’s the signal today for a global wave of protests against ubiquitous online surveillance in the western world.Swartz was a hacker, in the old internet sense of the word. An unstoppable need to create things led to his involvement in the creation of RSS, the standard for creating web feeds which now underpins much of the mobile web; in Reddit, the social news site, which merged with his own company Infogami early in its life; and in Creative Commons, the organisation which invented new forms of “copyleft” to let people unambiguously free their creations from copyright controls.It was that last motivation which led to his downfall. Swartz had already had trouble with the authorities after downloading and releasing more than 2.5m US federal court documents from the PACER service, in an effort to make public domain information actually public. While PACER charged $0.08 per page for access to the documents, they weren’t restricted by copyright. The FBI investigated Swartz, but ultimately decided not to prosecute.Two years later, however, he repeated the same trick, allegedly using MIT’s computer network to download around 70GB of papers from academic database JSTOR. While JSTOR is mainly an archive of older papers, the service does host new research as well.But Swartz wasn’t just charged with copyright infringement. Instead, due to the fact that he had apparently used a laptop connected to the physical network, hidden in a wiring cupboard in the university, the charges were of wire fraud, computer fraud, unlawfully obtaining information from a protected computer and recklessly damaging a protected computer.Perhaps because they were smarting over their failure to find anything they could stick him with over the PACER downloads, it seems the federal prosecutors had little desire to let him off lightly.Darrell Issa, in charge of the US house of representative’s investigation of the Justice Department’s prosecution of Swartz,told the Huffington Post that“overprosecution is a tool often used to get people to plead guilty rather than risk sentencing… If someone is genuinely guilty of something and you bring them up on charges, that’s fine. But throw the book at them and find all kinds of charges and cobble them together so that they’ll plea to a ‘lesser included’ is a technique that I think can sometimes be inappropriately used.”On January 11 2013, Swartz hanged himself. He left no note.The first of theNSA fileswere released five months later. In the process, the conversation around civil liberties changed. While Aaron Swartz didn’t live to see it, those who knew him, such as David Segal, the executive director of US organisation Demand Progress, say they have little doubt he would be “on the front lines fighting against a world in which governments observe, collect, and analyze our every digital action”.In 2012, Swartz was one of the guiding lights of the movement against a pair of US laws, SOPA and PIPA, which threatened to damage the legal underpinning of the internet, by potentially blocking access to any site which hosted user generated content. That campaign saw sites like Wikipedia and Reddit black out their pages for a day in protest.Two years on, the community is reunited. February 11 has become “the Day We Fight Back”.In the UK, the protest was launched at 11:30 with athunderclap, a mass call on social media for wider opposition to spying. That opening strike was supported by users including Owen Jones, Graham Linehan, and Tom Watson MP, and was organised in co-operation with a range of civil liberties organisations including Liberty, English PEN, Privacy International, Article 19 and Big Brother Watch.The groups have together launched theDon’t Spy On Uscampaign, calling on internet users across the UK to support a six-point manifesto attempting to mitigate the damage caused by GCHQ’s surveillance. Demands include no surveillance without suspicion, an end to secret laws, a requirement for a right to redress, and judicial rather than political authorisation for spying.The Fight Back campaign has garnered 120,000 signatures already, as well as 12,000 phone calls to elected officials. In Britain, it looks set to begin a conversation which has been long overdue, addressing directly the question of what the surveillance agencies can and can’t do.•Hacking of MIT website marks first anniversary of Aaron Swartz’s death
Bafta has announced the nominations for this year’s video game awards. A total of 43 titles are to be considered at the ceremony on 12 March, with finalists divided into 17 categories. At the top of the list is critically acclaimed survival drama, The Last of Us, attracting 10 nominations including best game, game design and artistic achievement. Last year’s biggest selling release, Grand Theft Auto V, has earned nine nominations, while lesser known Vita title Tearaway, from Guildford studio Media Molecule, is in with eight.As usual, the categories show a mix of blockbuster titles and respected indie releases. Up for best game this year are Assassins Creed IV, GTAV, The Last of Us, Super Mario 3D World, Tearaway and Papers Please, a downloadable strategy game about border control, set in a fictitious eastern European state. Meanwhile, post-modern adventure, The Stanley Parable is up for five awards.It is a strong year, too, for British studios. Rockstar North’s GTA V is accompanied by Lego Marvel Super Heroes and Tearaway, as well as Gunpoint by the journalist-turned-developer Tom Francis, The Room Two from Fireproof Studios, Castles in the Sky by Tall Trees, Grid and F1 from Codemasters and Football Manager 2014 from Sports Interactive. Brilliantly, Bossa Studios is nominated in Strategy and Simulation for its deliberately non-realistic title, Surgeon Simulator 2013.A full list of nomations can befound on the Bafta site.There have been significant changes to the format of the awards ceremony for 2014. Taking place at the Tobacco Dock in London and hosted for a sixth year by comedian and broadcaster Dara O Briain, the event will allow public entry for the first time in its history. The evening will be proceeded by Indie Games, a showcase of nominated titles from Sony, Namco and Sega. Portal developer Valve will be present with a “secret shop” selling merchandise, but probably not announcing Half-Life 3. Bafta has more information atits official site.
Storing details of everything you do isn't a new concept, but a new breed of apps and gadgets is helping…1 Lifelogging apps for smartphonesThere are several dedicated lifelogging apps for smartphones in 2014, taking advantage of the data and sensors inside your device.Sagastyles itself as a "digital autobiography" pulling information in from various other apps including Facebook, Instagram and various fitness trackers.Narratodescribes itself as a digital journal, with a similar focus on importing data from all your apps, whileOptimizeMecaptures data, then helps you analyse it for correlations between, say, activity levels and stress.2 Fitness trackers are  bigA growing number of people own wearable activity trackers like Nike'sFuelBand,Fitbitor theJawbone UP, and team these with fitness and diet apps likeMyFitnessPalorRunKeeperto monitor their efforts to stay in shape. Some apps –Movesbeing one example – are extending to other forms of data. Moves doesn't just know how many steps you've taken in a day, but also where you've been – an accidental journal, of sorts.3 There is dedicated  hardwareA new generation of lifelogging cameras is designed to be worn so they can capture photos throughout the day.Autographeris a £299 camera capable of shooting up to 2,000 shots a day while worn around the neck or clipped onto clothing.Narrative, meanwhile, costs $279 (but ships worldwide) shooting two photos a minute, and tagging their location using its built-in GPS.4 Big tech companies are sniffing aroundA lot of the apps and gadgets described above came from new startups, but larger consumer electronics firms are beginning to explore lifelogging too. In January, Sony unveiled a device calledCore, a wrist-worn activity tracker that connects to a smartphone app calledLifeLogger. The app uses data from Core as well as your photos, music choices and social networking updates, collecting everything together into a daily record.5 Wearables capture more dataLifelogging is also likely to play a role in currently hyped categories of wearable gadgets like smart-watches and augmented glasses. Devices likeSamsung's Galaxy GearandGoogle's Glassare worn throughout the day, with various sensors to capture data – and apps to help make use of them.6 Social services get loggingFacebook's timeline is now well established, but its annual Year in Review feature aims to show you your "biggest moments" from the last 12 months. Twitter now lets you download your archive of tweets and browse them by month. And Spotify's Year in Review 2013 showed each user what they'd been listening to most.7 It really isn't a new thingMicrosoft'sMyLifeBitsproject attracted attention in the early 2000s, as researcher Gordon Bell digitally captured a lifetime's photos, messages and work, while colleagues designed software to navigate it. Bell is still going strong, saying in a recent interview that "paper is terrible as it's unsearchable".8 Lifelogging gets emotionalLifelogging software and hardware can tell you what you did and where you did it, but apart from any related status updates, it can't tell you how you were feeling. Researchers have had a crack at that too though: the Massachusetts Institute of Technology had a project calledInside Out: Reflecting on Your Inner State, which matched photos with measurements of the user's skin temperature and conductivity to map happy and stressful moments in the day.9 Lifelogging can be artA number of artists have  used digital lifelogging as a source for their work. InAlan Kwan'sBad Trip,his wearable video camera captures his daily life, and uploads the data to a 3D virtual world for others to explore. Another artist,Stephen Cartwright, records his latitude, longitude and elevation every hour, and turns the data into artworks.10 Privacy issues loom largeThere are two thorny issues around lifelogging: your privacy, and that of others. The wearable cameras raise questions of permission from the people who are captured, especially if those photos are later published.
Fall Out Boy are capitalising on therise, flap and fall of Flappy Bird, issuing their own version of the incredibly popular mobile game.Coded in less than 24 hours and rushed to release, Fall Out Bird will be available “this week” to iOS and Android users, according toFall Out Boy’s Twitter account. “Rome wasn’t built in a day, but this game was,” they wrote. “Coming ... as soon as it’s approved.”The original Flappy Bird was designed by the 29-year-old Vietnamese programmer Dong Nguyen. Insanely compelling and maddeningly difficult, the game became a huge hit before Nguyen announced that he was removing the software from sale. “It happened to become an addictive product,”he told Forbesthis week. “I think it has become a problem. To solve that problem, it’s best to take down Flappy Bird. It’s gone forever.” Phones that already have Flappy Bird installed are now selling on eBayfor thousands of dollars.By riffing on Flappy Bird, Fall Out Boy are continuing of tradition of parody videogames started in 2008.Fall Out Boy Trail, released that year, was a version of the classic game Oregon Trail, adapted to promote Fall Out Boy’s album Folie À Deux. “[It] was another one of those late-night, ‘Let’s playa show in Antarctica‘ ideas,”Pete Wentz told Maximat the time. “I usually get them in my sleep.”For now, Fall Out Boy’s fans, Fall Out Boy’s enemies, and gamers suffering from Flappy Bird withdrawal are all anticipating the band’s new game.As one tweeterput it: “I’m really excited to smash the fall out boy members into poles several times.”Fall Out Boy’s latest album, 2013’s Save Rock And Roll, debuted at No 2.
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFrom ex-Google engineers, a device that syncs music throughout your whole house &gt;&gt; Co.DesignCreated by two ex-Google engineers, Beep is an audio adapter that will not only let you stream music wirelessly to any speaker in your house, but will sync that music perfectly between multiple rooms, all at a fraction of the cost of other systems, and with an aesthetic any design lover will appreciate.Sandvine's Device Insights Dashboard reveals that iPhone users love iTunes more than Samsung users love Google Play &gt;&gt; SandvineOn one US regional carrier with an LTE network, the Sandvine's Device Insights Dashboard revealed that:• iPhone 5S users consume 63% more data from the iTunes Store than Samsung Galaxy S4 users do from Google Play• Subscribers with flagship phones from Apple, HTC, and Samsung have an average monthly usage within 10% of each other• Tablets account for less than 1% of daily network traffic.There doesn't seem to be any simple way to know whether it's just the downloads that are larger from the iTunes Store. Data points welcome.FAA clears Surface for takeoff in US cockpits &gt;&gt; EngadgetMicrosoft's Surface Pro 2 has just joined the iPad on the FAA's list of approved pilot EFBs (Electronic Flight Bags) for all phases of flight. That follows Delta's recent announcement that it would deploy 11,000 of Redmond's hybrid tablets in its cockpits instead of the iPad, which it also considered. Apple's tablet is already used by American Airlines and others, but Delta said it preferred the readability, productivity apps and other features of the Surface Pro 2.Rumour: Google to begin forcing OEMs to certify Android devices with a recent OS version if they want Google Apps &gt;&gt; Android PoliceThe site reckons it has got hold of a Google document which closes the window for certification with Google Mobile Services on older Android versions; nothing older than 4.2 from now, it says.The wording in this statement is important - "each platform release will have a 'GMS approval window'" - this implies that the window did not formally exist, at least in writing, prior to this announcement. The 9 month window Google is giving manufacturers before deprecating older releases also changes things. From later this year on out, it means no OEM can certify a device more than two versions behind the current Android release. Google typically releases two Android versions resulting in an API level increase per year, roughly 6 months apart, so that does mean there will be a small 3 month window where devices 2 versions behind the currently announced version could be certified. That is, unless Google plans to slow the release cycle of Android OS / API level updates.Indian PC shipments fall 20%, Dell sees strong gains: Gartner &gt;&gt; NDTV GadgetsDeclining government spending on hardware hit Indian PC shipments during the October-December quarter, as sales fell by 20% to 1.96 million units, research firm Gartner said on Tuesday."Consumers accounted for 49% of total PC sales in the fourth quarter of 2013," said Vishal Tripathi, principal research analyst at Gartner. "In the absence of any government orders this quarter, the Indian PC market performed dismally, re-emphasising the fact that with current economic sentiments and the current political scenario, enterprises are deferring their purchases."That's 2m sales per quarter in a country of more than a billion people.Teach yourself programming in ten years &gt;&gt; Peter NorvigI did the following power search at Amazon.com:pubdate: after 1992 and title: days and(title: learn or title: teach yourself)and got back 248 hits. The first 78 were computer books (number 79 was Learn Bengali in 30 days). I replaced "days" with "hours" and got remarkably similar results: 253 more books, with 77 computer books followed by Teach Yourself Grammar and Style in 24 Hours at number 78. Out of the top 200 total, 96% were computer books.The conclusion is that either people are in a big rush to learn about computers, or that computers are somehow fabulously easier to learn than anything else. There are no books on how to learn Beethoven, or Quantum Physics, or even Dog Grooming in a few days. Felleisen et al. give a nod to this trend in their book How to Design Programs, when they say "Bad programming is easy. Idiots can learn it in 21 days, even if they are dummies.Norvig works at Google, and might have some idea of how long it really takes to learn to program. "Ten Years Of Code" isn't as gripping, is it, though?Ultra-HD off Target? &gt;&gt; Home Media MagazineIt starts off with chain store Target suggesting it won't carry 4K TVs, but the reality is more grainy:The Feb. 5 Consumer Electronics Association survey found nearly half of consumers (47%) saying that if they do get an Ultra-HD TV, it'll be at specialty electronics stores, compared with only 17% at a mass merchant (such as Walmart or Target), and only 8% at a warehouse club store. Only 10% said they would buy online.Eighty percent of consumers said they would look for 4K displays in stores, and 77% said they would research 4K online before buying."Ultra-HD TV consumer adoption will be a case of 'seeing is believing,'" Rhonda Daniel, senior manager of market research of CEA, said in a statement."Experiencing the technology in person is a critical component to drive consumer interest in adopting Ultra-HD as their next television."The survey saw a quarter of respondents considering a UHD TV purchase in the next year (compared with 33% who said they might purchase any TV overall during the same period). And price remains a major barrier: 75% of respondents said their chief concern was the cost of a UHD TV.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
With a publicity rollout that resembles an iPhone commercial and a swipe-driven interface that looks nothing like its clunky legacy app, Facebook’s Paper deserves to succeed where the platform’s legacy news feed fails.Simply put, there’s a lot less noise on Paper, and it makes our collective Facebook appearance less about each other and more about stories. Paper, which launched last week, surfaces news from selected publishers based on your interests in select topics, rather than showing you things you know you already like (and, not to mention, might surface two or three more times in the classic news feed).That said, Paper is not a straight aggregated news app likeCirca(which is great, if you’re looking for that sort of thing). It’s still a social platform. The Facebook messaging, friend requests and story share functions are still prominent in Paper, just built more seamlessly into its sleek design; the addictive little notifications will keep pulling you back into the social network. But the information itself is sorted into social news verticals, which don’t resemble those found in traditional news sites – or apps. In Paper, lifestyle coverage is divided into categories Well Lived (health), Cute (animals), Glow (beauty) and Pride (LGBT issues). Photojournalism and Equality get their own prominent areas, too. This style of grouping is based on the stories social web users gravitate to and organically share; it’s a strong cue for traditional publishers, and the first Facebook has given in a while.Paper is less conversational than the typical Facebook experience, but this is not necessarily a bad thing. Its attempts to mimic Twitter with ‘follow’ functionality or interest lists were relative flops, and its news feed these days resembles a Suessian noise contraption. But by providing a quiet reading experience that feels like a refuge for mobile news readers (while still allowing them the benefits of sharing their experiences), Facebook is competing against itself to take the lead with both social media and news. Given that Twitter’s information overdrivehas stalled growth and bred user indifference, Paper provides an appealing contrast with a clear purpose.With seamless swipe functionality, Facebook paper is combining news and social, an improvement on its legacy appSince Facebook went public in 2012, the tech community has watched closely –and published many a doomsday warning– as the company attempted to engage mobile web users. News about younger users ditching Facebook for the cooler pastures of Whats App and Snapchat didn’t improve optics as time went on, but refinements made to the platform’s legacy app over the past year, including revamped messaging and news feed functions, appear successful. According to Facebook, a whopping 945 million out of 1.2 billion monthly active users were using the company’s mobile products by the end of 2013. The Guardian’s Oliver Burkemanwrote thatPaper is just another pretty face in an overloaded news marketplace, but it’s much more than that. It’s a Facebook app that is high-quality enough to supplant what come before it.A few qualms: much like with Facebook’s news feed, the process that goes into curating the content users see on Paper is mysterious, and the chosen publishers are disappointingly mainstream; we’ll have to wait and see whether Paper surfaces the next Humans of New York or I Fucking Love Science. Lastly, if you’re used to the fast-moving nature of Twitter or old school news feed, Paper’s horizontal scroll might seem a bit too lazy for your tastes, and the app load time could be prohibitive.Download Paper’sIOS app here-- it’s currently only available to US-based iPhone users; Paper is not yet available on Android.
Warning: this feature contains graphic images of simulated surgery, that while non-realistic, may be unsuitable for some readers“His stomach is in the way! Now pull the liver out… Pull it out! No wait, you’ve stabbed him to death.”It’s rare to have this sort of thing shouted at you by a games developer. Sure, a lot of popular titles deal in blood and gore, but very few actually allow you to delve inside a body cavity with a hammer.And perhaps that’s why Surgeon Simulator 2013 has been such an enormous success since its arrival just over a year ago. Originally written in just two days for the annual Global Game Jam competition, developerBossa Studiosimmediately realised it had something special on its blood-stained hands: a ridiculously visceral take on the classic board game, Operation, but with a hilariously clumsy physics engine and a range of inappropriate tools. In Surgeon Simulator, you must attempt to perform major brain, heart and kidney transplants with only your disembodied hands visible on screen and a tool kit that contains things like power drills and rusty hand saws. This is all tough enough, but then, you’re also having to constantly stop your digital watch from falling off and getting lodged under a lung. It is horribly funny – both to play and to watch, which is why, when a more stable version was released shortly after the Game Jam, it became a favourite with superstar YouTube gamers. And from there, the whole thing exploded, like an over-filled blood bag.“We were worried people wouldn’t understand it, we weren’t sure they would get the joke,” says Bossa’s irrepressibly cheerful co-founder, Imre Jele. “But we put out the demo version and all the YouTube videos started, we had PewDiePie do a couple. We thought, okay, people definitely get it. So we put it on Steam Greenlight. And there’s this chart, a sort of benchmark showing how many votes you’re getting and how many you need to attract in order to reach the top 50. Well, we broke the chart. Our numbers were too high.”Surgeon Simulator 2013 has now sold over a million copies on PC and Mac, and Bossa has made a couple of brilliant gameplay additions, including a special field operation mode set in Valve’s classic shooter, Team Fortress 2, and an alien autopsy. But now it’s time for something new. It is time for iPad.Portable painDue out in the spring, the tablet version of the game features a completely new interface, replacing the mouse and button controls of the desktop original with a clever touch-based alternative. Players simply prod a tool to pick it up, but then use two fingers to move it across the screen, tapping on a body part to aim at it. Then it’s a case of gently moving one finger up and down to simulate a cutting motion. It’s tricky to get the hang of, and I drop several scalpels and a saw into my first patient because I can’t figure out how to smash the ribcage. But then, that’s the point. “The iPad obviously needs to have a very different control interface,” says Jele. “Surgeon Simulator is a game with five key presses, two mouse buttons and mouse movement; the weird thing is, in trying to replicate that, we found that there’s a point where the controls aretoogood - the whole point is that awkwardness.”In some ways, the difficulty of the game is reversed: in the PC version, you have mobility but no sense of fine touch, so even removing the cover from the body is a difficult procedure. In the iPad version, though, you have precision of touch, but less mobility, so the challenge is in directing your onscreen hand to the correct place and then using your fingers in an exact manner to pinpoint, aim and then slice at the right organs. You can use two hands if you like, but it’s all about getting those two onscreen touch points to align. If they don’t, you’re drilling through a liver before you know it. And apparently that’s not good."Right, let's get these teeth out. Nice and carefully now…"Project leader and Bossa co-founder Henrique Olifiers says the team has added lots of features within the game world to make it more interesting to explore as a touch environment – little buttons on the electric saws to switch them on and off, for example. But that’s not the addition that fans will be most excited about. The really thrilling, gruesome stuff is in the two new operations: teeth and eye transplants. The former have already been announced, and these involve attempting to remove a selection of rotten teeth from your victim’s mouth before replacing them with dentures. The problem is, performing delicate oral surgery with a hammer tends to lead to a lot of collateral damage, and with teeth flying off in great chunks, the challenge is in remembering exactly which ones you were supposed to be swapping out. Meanwhile, you see the patient’s poor face jerking about with every clumsy idiotic blow. It’s like the dentist torture scene in Marathon Man performed by Reeves and Mortimer.Completely new, however, is the revelation that there will be eye transplants. EYE transplants. During a recent visit to Bossa, I met the art department who were all studiously examining various views of Bob, the game’s hapless patient (oh God, I hope his life insurance is up to date), on their screens. The eye surgery sequence has him lying on a theatre table wearing his sterile shower cap and a great big face mask – your first task in eye surgery is to get rid of the latter. This is Surgeon Simulator though, so you can’t just gently remove it. You can wrench it off if you’re very skilled, but that takes time. Better to just grab a hammer and smash the plastic goggles to pieces, then perform surgery through the jagged holes. All the while, Bob’s eyes dart and roll, often independently of each other, adding an extra layer of ludicrous body horror to the proceedings. You’ve seen Un Chien Andalou? It’s sort of like that, but funnier. “It’s quite shocking,” shrugs artist James Broadley as he tucks into a sandwich while Bob bleeds out on his screen.Ouch. Now you just have to make sure you don’t replace his eye with a snooker ball, which has somehow been placed near the transplant organsSo yes, the worry with the iPad version was that the sick,sickhumour of the PC game would somehow be lost. But that doesn’t seem to be the case. The bizarre interplay of life-and-death importance, floaty physics and player incomprehension remains. Surgery, is of course, deadly serious, which is why it is also hilarious. Mankind cannot bear too much reality, and from MASH to Scrubs the operating theatre has provided grim humour through the juxtaposition of the prone patient and the all-too human doctors about to cut it open. And now, Bossa has added madly swirling eye balls to the mix. Comedy gold.There are other new features, including an alternative to the original game’s ambulance levels, where you had to perform surgery in the back of a moving vehicle. Bossa is going to reveal more on that soon. The team has also updated the original options screen, which features a desktop PC that you can play mini-games on if you’re dextrous enough to slot a floppy disk into the drive. The designers wanted to retain this retro-technology feature but with more of a handheld feel. Hence, in the iPad version, your desk computer is now an iZac, a parody of the olde Apple Newton tablet. And of course, you’ll be able to play apps on it – including a version of classic mobile game Snake. “We may even add a surgery app if we have time,” says Jele.Surgeon Simulator now features an ancient tablet device to fit in with its retro theme. The 'iZac' is a take on Apple's old Newton device. And it runs Snake.After this, who knows what horrors the studio has in store for this game and its fans. It is compatible with Oculus Rift, the forthcoming virtual reality headset, and this is a pretty incredible experience, your eye-line looming over the patient, your instruments seemingly real enough to touch. Bossa has also been experimenting with a new version tweaked specifically for Valve’s incoming range of Steam Machine PCs, including the company’s weird new controller, which mimics the mouse and keyboard controls PC gamers are used to. That is very early at the moment, but I was enjoying it until I managed to get my virtual hand stuck inside the onscreen video cassette recorder.There are other projects on the go here though – including a cross-platform future sports sim entitled Time To Live, which the team is currently testing on Kongregate. On top of that, the studio runs an in-house game jam every single month. “At first it was a worry,” says Jele. “It might have been two days a month that offered no benefit to the business. But not only are the ideas getting better, we have people collaborating who wouldn’t usually be working together. Everyone is learning new skills.” According to co-founder and marketing head Roberta Lucca, the studio now has a large backlog of titles ready to pick up and fine tune. “We could spend years launching all of those games,” she says. “It puts everyone in a mode of extreme creativity and it makes for incredible team collaboration. It also puts us in touch with what people like - we look at games and see each other enjoying them, it gives us a hint about what may be successful.”Operating on the futureBut surely, there’s a Surgeon Simulator 2014 on the horizon? “Right now we’re focusing on the iPad version,” says Jele. “But it seems that there are so many opportunities, so many cool stories, so much stuff we can still do. We have other game designers coming to us saying we saw what you did with Team Fortress, let’s do something together. There are so many jokes we can do. We’d love to do something with Steamworks. Allowing players to contribute their own surgeries would be awesome...”Lucca joins in, “We’re trying to protect what the game is about, we don’t want to move away from that. But in terms of the potential... It’s enourmous. There are a lot of ideas in the pipeline. We’re looking to new platforms, new ways to play the game, new ways to experience it. We 3D printed Bob the other day! We gave it to PewDiePie because he came to visit us. But there are a lot of things we‘re thinking about. Crazy, innovative things.”So where does it stop? Is there a way to tell, is there a way to avoid pummeling this thing to death, like the game’s own unfortunate patient? “There are so many jokes left to tell,” says Jele, almost wistfully. “I think when the laughter stops, that’s when it’s over. But while people are still laughing, we may as well carry on.”Well, people are certainly still laughing. And when fans see Bob’s eyes rolling beneath a buzzing saw, despite themselves, the gruesome laughter will continue. We’re sick like that. Bossa knows it.
Microsoft’s search engine Bing appears to be censoring information for Chinese language users in the US in the same way it filters results in mainland China.Searches first conducted by anti-censorship campaigners at FreeWeibo, a tool that allows uncensored search of Chinese blogs, found that Bing returns radically different results in the US for English and simplified Chinese language searches on a series of controversial terms.These include Dalai Lama, June 4 incident (how the Chinese refer to the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989), Falun Gong and FreeGate, a popular internet workaround for government censorship.A Chinese language search for the Dalai Lama (达赖喇嘛) on Bing is lead by a link to information on a documentary compiled by CCTV, China’s state-owned broadcaster. This is followed by two entries from Baidu Baike, China’s heavily censored Wikipedia rival run by the search engine Baidu. The results are similar on Yahoo, whose search is powered by Bing.Search results on Bing for ‘Dalai Lama’ in Chinese. Photograph: GuardianRunning the same search in English on Bing generates a list headed by the Dalai Lama’s own website then links to his Wikipedia page and news reports, including one from Phayul.com, a pro-Tibetan independence website. The English search results page also shows images of the Dalai Lama, unlike the Chinese search.Search results on Bing for ‘Dalai Lama’ in English. Photograph: GuardianGoogle, by contrast, generates broadly similar results for both English and Chinese searches. For Dalai Lama in Chinese it offers two Wikipedia pages as the top results followed by a series of news reports, one from Tibet.A search on Bing in Chinese for Bo Xilai (薄熙来), the former high-flying Chinese government official now serving life imprisonment for corruption, shows equally different results. The top search result is again Baidu Baike. Wikipedia is the third entry. There are no western reports on the politician on the front page. In English the search is topped by Wikipedia, then by stories from the New York Times, BBC and Financial Times.A Google search in Chinese starts with the Wikipedia page and then several news articles chronicling his downfall from sources including the BBC and Voice of America.China heavily censors the internet for its own citizens, blocking website content and monitoring the internet access of individuals. Major US firms including Twitter are blocked, while others including Google have clashed repeatedly with the authorities over censorship.The information was first collected by censorship blogGreatfire.org. Author Charlie Smith said he had originally discovered the discrepancies while checking for information on his own website,FreeWeibo.com, a site for anonymously searching Chinese social media.“The first thing we noticed was our index page was not showing up. It specifically did not show the homepage. But it was in Google,” he said.“It’s a bit crazy. Any Chinese person who is searching in Chinese from overseas is being treated as if they have the same rights as a resident of mainland China. So we won’t show them the accurate search results if they search for Dalai Lama. What you get is state controlled propaganda,” he said. “Except they don’t tell you the results have been censored. If you were in China they would at least tell you that.”“We thought there had been a mistake so we wrote to Microsoft and they said ‘no comment,’” he said.Microsoft did not return calls for comment from the Guardian.Bing accounts for a small percentage of search in China but has been building up its web services in the country. Microsoft is in the middle of hiring 1,000 new employees to build up its services in China.• This story was updated on Wednesday 12 February to reflect that the searches were made using simplified Chinese language characters on Google and Bing.
Nokia is to unveil a mobile phone running Google’s Android software, the Guardian has learnt, but will replace Google’s map and other key services with a mixture of Nokia and Microsoft features.The audacious move comes ahead of the official takeover of Nokia’s handset division by Microsoft, which is buying it for €5.4bn.The phone - believed to be dubbed the “Nokia X” and internally codenamed “Normandy” - is expected to be a replacement for Nokia’s Asha line of high-end featurephones. It could also replace low-end Windows Phones in developing markets, rather than supplanting its high-end Lumia devices running Microsoft’s Windows Phone software.The Nokia X is understood to use Google’sAndroid Open Source Platform (AOSP)software, which provides the basic functionality to power a smartphone but does not include any Google services such as maps, Google’s Mail client, Google Now or the Google Play app store. Rather than Google’s services, the Nokia X will offer Nokia’s HERE maps, Microsoft’s Bing search and Outlook email, but it is unclear how many apps it will be able to offer.AOSP is already widely used in China, the world’s largest smartphone market where, according to ABI Research, it accounted for around one-third of the 220m Android phones sold worldwide in the fourth quarter of 2013.Nokia and Microsoft have been struggling to make headway as smartphones have shifted to become the majority of mobile phone sales. Microsoft responded to Apple’s 2007 launch of the iPhone and Google’s 2008 release of Android with Windows Phone in October 2010, but still has less than 5% of global sales.The phone is understood to have been planned by Stephen Elop while he was chief executive of Nokia, together with Steve Ballmer, the former Microsoft chief executive who was replaced in February 2014 by Satya Nadella. “This move indicates that Windows Phone hasn’t succeeded as Microsoft had expected,” said one industry observer.Sources familiar with Nokia’s plans indicated that press reports about the phone - which have beenswirling for months- are correct. Nokia has already announced that it will hold a press conference at the upcoming Mobile World Congress event in Barcelona, though it hasn’t said what will be shown off.“This could be huge, but what an embarrassment it could be for Microsoft if this sells better than Windows Phone,” said one person familiar with Nokia’s plans.For Nokia, the “Normandy” is part of an effort to revitalise its smartphone efforts after being outpaced by Apple, Samsung and a number of other companies since 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2013 it shipped just 8.2m Lumia phones to mobile carriers, compared to 51m iPhones and 150m Android phones worldwide. The company did not give any figure for Asha shipments for the past quarter, but they had been flat at around 6m in the previous two quarters.Amazon used AOSP to build its range of Kindle Fire tablets, and has been able to tempt developers to recompile thousands of apps written for Google’s Android to run on the Amazon App Store.•The future for Microsoft, Android and Windows Phone – analysis
It is known as the Russian Facebook, and it is the 8th biggest social networking site in the world, with over 239 million registered users and 55 million active daily. It isVKontakte(VK), and it is host to videos of rapes, threats to kill, and the humiliation of gay people.While the world tunes in to the2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, hundreds of gay, lesbian, and transgender Russian citizens will be persecuted and attacked; the result of plots formed online by homophobic groups buoyed up by Putin’santi-gay propaganda laws.“Occupy Paedophilia” was one of the leading groups to feature in a Channel 4Dispatchesprogramme, broadcast last Wednesday, which exposed the extent of the violence faced by the LGBT community. The group has a prominent presence on VK, with over 90,000 followers – as well as other local factions pulling in more supporters.Occupy Paedophiliause the site to connect with gay men, posing as potential love interests, before luring them into situations where they will be attacked, a process they refer to as “safaris” using “bait”.Uploaded regularly to the site, films show victims being violently attacked and humilliated. This is content that is easily available to view, and is “liked”, passed around, and shared on the site, seemingly without impediment.This month Human Rights Watch released this video showing the full extent of violence perpetrated against Russia’s gay communities. Credit: Human Rights Watch / YouTubeWarning:This video contains footage some viewers may find disturbingThe leader of Occupy Paedophilia, Ekaterina Zigunova, has posted screenshots of abuse she has received from UK television viewers after the airing of the Dispatches investigation, in which she featured heavily.Despite the group claiming on screen that they are not neo-Nazis, but rather upholding a moral obligation to rid Russia of paedophiles (whom they conflate with homosexuals), the VK pages of Occupy Paedophilia and other similar groups are littered with Nazi insignia.So what is VK doing about the profiles and groups which organise and post evidence of the criminal activity (although not recognised as hate crime under Russian law) which has brought so much widespread international criticism and resulted in calls for aboycott of the Sochi Winter Olympics?When contacted by the Guardian, George Lobushkin, VK’s press officer, pledged to delete the content. “We do our best to remove the content that violates our terms of service, as fast as possible. Videos of violence and abuse are forbidden,” he said.“We also block and delete communities where users call to violence or illegal actions against gay people or any other people. Please note that we are the only Russian social network that lets its users select a same-sex person when specifying their relationship status.“But it is very important for VKontakte to be an independent company, equidistant from any ideological position or belief. People can express themselves freely, as long as they don’t commit illegal acts or call others to those.”A screenshot of one of Occupy Paedophilia's 'safari' videos shows a man being harassed and beaten for his sexuality. Photograph: YouTubeVK is not the only social network site on which Occupy Paedophilia is operating. YouTube returnsover 23,000 search resultsfor the gang, and hate propaganda from Russian fascist groups is tweeted often.Kirill Maryin is a teenager in Novosibirsk, Russia’s third largest city, who has set up the Twitter account,@ru_lgbt_teen. The profile’s name is simply Gay Teen from Russia, with a picture of an SOS sign, and the bio: “World, help us! I plead you! History must not happen again!”Kirill tweets about the everyday discrimination that he faces, as well as coverage of Russia’s politics, authorities, and how Russia’s homophobia is being covered by external news outlets.He told the Guardian he started the account to help the world understand the struggles of the LGBT population in Russia from the viewpoint of a teenager on the ground, rather than a celebrity campaigner.“General information about gay life in Russia has come from Nikolai Alekseev and his project GayRussia in the past few years.“I wanted people who live abroad to hear the true story of life for LGBT teenagers from Russia. I have no husband in Switzerland, I do not live in the ECHR, I do not organise Gay Pride in Moscow. I am an ordinary LGBT teenager, and in this country, that is incredibly dangerous.“Gays have become targets of crimes and human rights violations. The Russian state uses LGBT as a shorthand for ‘internal enemies’. Homophobia is very much prevalent in our society.”Gay Olympic athlete punches with rainbow glove at Sochihttp://t.co/iQSRMXJoPaс помощью@gaystarnews&mdash; Gay Teen from Russia (@ru_lgbt_teen)February 7, 2014The time Kirill feels the impact of homophobia the most is at school. “I have been insulted and humiliated, and the teachers pretend that nothing is happening. I am called ‘motherfucker, fag, cock, a non-entity, a mistake of nature’.“Once they told me I should move to the Netherlands because that country is for fags. I hate my school, my class and my teachers. I have no friends there, and I dream of it ending.“I am not considered a person. I have low self-esteem. Psychologists cannot do anything, and they are often also homophobic. Honestly, I cannot see an end to this problem.”As Lobushkin points out, the site does have LGBT groups. I ask Kirill if thse help him. He tells me that although he has an account and has added many LGBT groups, he limits his activity and he does not openly identify as gay on the site because he could be targeted.“I would like them to remove all the fascist calls and actions. I do not feel free there.”Children 404is one of the biggest LGBT support groups on VK. The 404 element is a reference to the internet error message – ‘404 not found’ – because gay people feel isolated and ignored, and because Russian authorities like to pretend that gay individuals do not exist.Or as the group’s founder Lena Klimova explains: “they believe LGBT people arrived from Mars”.Lena Klimova, the founder of Children 404, a support group for LGBT teenagers in Russia. Photograph: Lena KlimovaKlimova is 25 and lives in Nizhny Tagil, in the Urals area of Russia. She is openly gay and works as a journalist. Children 404 focuses on helping gay teenagers.“I saw that they needed help, at least this kind of help – the possibility to tell other people about themselves, the chance to speak out and possibly get some advice, to form a community online.“Homophobic harassment is very common on VKontakte, as in real life. And you don’t necessarily have to be openly gay, or a gay at all.The harassment hits everybody who is speaking out in favour of gays, everybody who looks like they might be gay, and everybody who does not conform to the standards of a “real man” or a “real woman”.On Wednesday, the same day as Channel 4’s Dispatches programme aired, Klimova wascharged under Putin’s new gay propaganda laws.She has been told her court hearing will be in a couple of weeks, and she faces a large fine. Lena was pursued after Children 404 was investigated by Vitaly Milonov, a prominent politician in St. Petersburg.“I am depressed. I feel very sad, hurt and bitter. LGBT people are experiencing harsh oppression: they are living in fear, they fear being fired, being beaten up, being killed just without any reason. In Russia such harassment isn’t considered hate crime. It is terribly frightening.”Despite pledging to remove the violent content and deleting the relevant accounts, five days after the Guardian’s enquiry only one video had been removed, turning a blind eye to the thousands of videos still hosted on VK;men looking into the camera with their eyes full of fear, while members of Occupy Paedophilia grab them by their necks and punch them, and Zigunova laughs.•Why rainbows are taking over Twitter
Be careful what you wish for, especially if you want to invent something new. This week Dong Nguyen, the designer of the mobile game Flappy Bird,pulled it from app stores, saying its success – it had been downloaded more than 50 million times, and was making him around £30,000 in advertising revenue each day – had ruined his simple life. He took to his Twitter account to say:"I cannot take this anymore."OK, so regretting making Flappy Bird isn't quite the same as regretting making a rifle, but Nguyen is just the latest in a long line of inventors who wish they hadn't created a monster:The labradoodleA labradoodle: its creator Wally Conron regrets the health problems in crossbreed dogs. Photograph: AlamyThe labradoodle isn't a monster – it's adorable, obviously. But what's monstrous is the way crossbreed dogs have been bred and marketed since the labradoodle's inventor Wally Conron first created the breed in the 1980s. "I've done a lot of damage," he told the Associated Press last week. "I've created a lot of problems. There are a lot of unhealthy and abandoned dogs out there." Conron came up with the labradoodle when he was working for the Royal Guide Dog Association of Australia, to provide a dog for a blind woman whose husband was allergic to dog hair. What he didn't expect was that the labradoodle – and its other poodle-cross variants, many of which have health problems – would become so popular.The AK-47Mikhail Kalashnikov, 87, holds a prototype of his AK-47 rifle. Photograph: Misha Japaridze/APSix months beforehis death in December, Mikhail Kalashnikov, the designer of the assault rifle, wrote to the head of the Russian orthodox church: "My spiritual torment is unbearable. One and the same question: if my rifle killed people does that mean that I, Mikhail Kalashnikov, 93 years of age, the son of a peasant, Christian and orthodox by faith, am responsible for people's deaths, even if they were enemies?"Electronic taggingElectronic tagging: its inventors were horrified that the tag had become a form of control and punishment. Photograph: AlamyThe electronic tag was originally conceived in the 1960s as a way of tracking former prisoners' attendance at schools and workplaces and rewarding them for good behaviour. Its inventors, Bob Gable and his brother Kirkland, were later horrified that the tag had become a form of control and punishment. "It's not pleasant," Kirkland Gabletold the Guardian in 2010, "but I'm not in control of the universe. I have to realise there are some things out of my control."Pepper sprayPepper spray: its use was condemned by its inventors. Photograph: Kevin Frayer/APAfter police sprayed peaceful protesters with pepper spray at a University of California campus in 2011, one of the scientists who helped develop it in the 80s denounced its use. "I have never seen such an inappropriate and improper use of chemical agents," Kamran Loghmantold the New York Times.The office cubicleThe office cublicle: described by its inventor as 'monolithic insanity'. Photograph: Walter Hodges/Getty ImagesIn the late 60s, a new form of office was launched, designed to give workers privacy, and increase productivity by providing more work space. Instead, they became ways for companies to cram employees into tighter spaces, a visual shorthand for uniformity and soulless work. Its inventor, Bob Propst,said in 1997"the cubiclizing of people in modern corporations is monolithic insanity."
BlackBerry has confirmed that the head of its BBM instant messaging business, Andrew Bocking, has left the company.The Waterloo, Ontario-based company did not disclose whether Bocking’s departure was part of an internal management shuffle or whether he left to pursue other interests.The technology company, which is seeking to rebuild itself under the leadership of new chief executive John Chen, appointed in November, said only that Bocking “made the decision to leave BlackBerry”.BBM had been seen as a potential revenue source for the company, which has seen its share of the phone market dwindle following unfavourable reaction to its new BB10 handsets launched at the start of 2013. BBM was introduced as a download for the iPhone and Android phones in September 2013, but the company has not released any usage figures so far. Rival messaging apps including Facebook Messenger, Snapchat and Line are reckoned to have more daily users.Since taking the reins late last year, Chen has reshuffled management ranks and has signaled that he plans to focus more on the company’s services, or enterprise, business, which manages smartphone traffic on the internal networks of corporate and government clients.But Richard Windsor of the Radio Free Mobile consultancysaid the move was negative for the company. “It looks like Bocking left of his own accord. This is worrying for both what the inner circle [at BlackBerry] think of the prospects of a recovery [of the company] and for the future of BBM itself.”BlackBerry said John Sims, who heads the company’s enterprise segment, will add the BBM team to his organisation. The company said it plans to build on BBM’s strength in messaging and expand it into new areas, including mobile marketing, community building and enterprise messaging.But Windsor suggested that putting BBM under Sims “is as good as a death sentence. BBM has 80 million users, virtually all of whom are consumers.With this asset inside Enterprise, updates and features catering towards consumers will be non-existent, pretty much ensuring that users will be leaving the platform.”He suggested that “BBM is the only reason for anyone to buy a BlackBerry device, and now that all the people who use it will not be catered for, the decline will be short and sharp.” He suggested that the moves “leads to me now valuing BBM at zero.”News of Bocking’s departure was reported initiallyby tech news website BGRon Monday.•Alicia Keys, BlackBerry and how the #KeepMoving project stopped moving
The headquarters of iCore Networks has not seen a desktop computer in five years. Instead, each of the McLean, Virginia-based information-technology firm's 160 employees relies on a company-issued iPad. They may request a laptop if they need it, but iCore is free of the bulky personal computers common to many offices, opting for devices employees can take home with them."We're pretty mobile – throughout multiple departments such as sales teams, account management, engineers, [employees] are always on the go," said Lorena Roberts, marketing vice-president. "They begin at the office, maybe in the morning, but by the time 11 o'clock hits, they're really out in the field."The company is part of anemerging trend among businesses eschewing PCs for laptops and tablets. The pattern is reflected in the global computer market: PC shipments suffered their worst decline in history in the final quarter of 2013, according to a Gartner report, the seventh consecutive quarter of shipment declines. The 82.6m units shipped globally last year represented an almost 7% decline from the previous year.Losses in the PC sector were enough to force Sony to exit the market altogether. The companyannounced plans last week to sell Vaio, its PC brand, to Japan Industrial Partners, citing declining sales.iCore buys about 15 laptops each quarter for new hires, Roberts estimated, enough for about 75% of the employees. All iPads are installed with iCore's proprietary software, which it sells to other businesses, allowing users to manage phone calls and video chat requests. The machines also come loaded with Microsoft's virtual desktop software, which allows employees to remotely access programs on their laptops. They can access email, use Microsoft Office and complete any other computer task, Roberts said.For those tasks that are easier to complete with a larger screen or a mouse, – such as compiling Excel spreadsheets or working in Photoshop – employees often keep laptops as backup. Although maintenance, software licences and hardware costs make laptops significantly more expensive than tablets, iCore continues to invest in them to offer employees "that sense of security you have with your laptop that people are used to".Some analysts say the steady decline in PCs partly reflects the relatively high price of tablets, making it an either-or proposition for some buyers. Gartner analyst Mikako Kitagawa recently wrote that as tablet and laptop prices decline, PC sales might improve, because more people can own both.Tablet sales, meanwhile,are rising quickly. Almost 80m tablets were shipped globally in the fourth quarter of 2013, according to anInternational Data Corp report, representing a 62.4% growth over the previous quarter and a 28.2% growth since the corresponding period the year before.Still, PCs remain a necessary part of office routine for many workers. Jeremy Collins, who runs the sales division at Consolidated Communications, a Sacramento, California-based internet and cable company, issued his 24 sales representatives iPad minis to accompany – not replace – their PCs.Although they often use tablets when visiting the residential neighbourhoods where they sell cable connections, employees spend about 30% of each day answering and logging customer-service requests from their PCs, Collins said. Some customer-service requests are easier to address when employees have large, dual-screen monitors – and some have more data stored on their computers' hard drives than could fit on a tablet.Collins said the team tried using Dell laptops to offer employees the functionality of a PC in a device they could use at their desks and in the field, but "laptops aren't realistic. You can't carry a laptop with you when you're walking around territory," he said. Employees complained they had to leave them in their cars.So last year, Collins decided to get rid of the laptops and invest in tablets, while maintaining the PCs for office use. "It's more of a convenience factor," he said. "If you're already sitting down at your desk [in front of a PC], you're going to be a lot quicker navigating through everything you have to navigate."This article appeared inGuardian Weekly, which incorporates material from the Washington Post
3D Printing For DummiesKalani Kirk Hausman and Richard HorneThis accessible guide covers everything from how 3D printing works to the transformative impact it could have on our lives.The Improbability PrincipleDavid HandExamining coincidence, probability and randomness, Hands argues that the "improbability principle" underpins much of how the world works.The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress, and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant TechnologiesErik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfeeHow technology brings with it wrenching societal change.MindwiseNicholas EpleyHumans are able to detect extraordinarily precise clues about each others' emotions. Epley lays bare our mind-reading abilities, and what happens when they fail us.The Future of the MindMichio KakuIn a broad and ranging book, acclaimed science writer Kaku looks at intelligence from AI and super-powered brains to alien intelligence.Cybersecurity and Cyberwar: What Everyone Needs to KnowP.W Singer and Allan FriedmanAs nations hack and counter-hack, Singer and Friedman survey the landscape of cyberwar in the 21st century.A Natural History of Human ThinkingMichael TomaselloJust what differentiates humans from other primates? What explains our species's runaway success? The key is being social and collaborative.The Age of EcologyJoachim RadkauIn this history of the global environmentalist movement, Radkau teases out the individual stories that together comprise what he calls an "age of ecology".The Perfect Wave: With Neutrinos at the Boundary of Space and TimeHeinrich PäsA history of the neutrino, nature's near-weightless and mysterious particle that could hold the key to the universe's most difficult questions.Cracking the Quantum Code of the UniverseJohn MoffatMoffat explores theories of particle physics and questions the usefulness of the Large Hadron Collider.
Tosuggest that Microsoft should abandon Windows Phone and fork Android(more precisely, fork the open source Android code) to put its own services where Google’s would be found is of course controversial. But suggesting it certainly stirred some debate - and lots of sensible suggestions.The key questions, as we survey the discussion, are:• Is it actually possible to do this? What obstacles are there?• What might Microsoft’s managers think of such a plan?Nothing to worry about! It’s fine!Of course, there were plenty of people ready to say that things are going fine for Windows Phone as it is. Look at all the countries where it’s outselling the iPhone! they said.Let’s take a little detour into numbers for the fourth quarter of 2013, which is the biggest sales quarter of the year worldwide.ABI Research reckonsthat in those three months there were 221.5m sales of “Android &amp; AOSP” phones - 150.4m “Google Android” and 71.1m AOSP phones. The latter were almost all in China. Meanwhile, Apple sold 51m iPhones.Got that? AOSP is bigger than the iPhone. It’s one country, but it’s a really big country. AOSP phones outsold the iPhone in Q3 too. The reason for quoting ABI is that it does give the breakout of AOSP v “Google Android” (ie phones running Google services); IDC and Gartner don’t.How about Windows Phone? ABI says that in Q4 it had 10.9m shipped, against 9.1m shipped in the third quarter. Against which the iPhone - you know, the third-placed ecosystem, if we’re counting AOSP as an ecosystem (though it’s more an aggregation of different ecosystems, such as Baidu, Xiaomi, and so on) - sold 51m and 33.8m (total 84.8m).Now, it’s perfectly possible that every iPhone sale in those two quarters simply updated an existing iPhone, while every Windows Phone went to a new user, in which case the Windows Phone base grew by 20m and the iPhone base stayed static. But it’s unlikely; data from ComScore in the USsuggeststhat the iPhone base grew by 5m between September 2013 (when it had 40.6% of 147.9m users) and December 2013 (when it had 41.8% of 156m users), while that for Windows Phone stayed absolutely flat.What about Europe? Data from IDC in mid-year suggested Android in western Europe had 146m users, iPhone 59.9m users, and Windows Phone 13.3m. ComScore’s figures for November 2013, shared with me, for the “EU5” big European countries (UK, France, Germany, Italy, Spain) suggested 92.9m Android users, 30.8m iPhone users and 9.5m Windows Phone users. (The difference between the two companies’ figures is likely because IDC includes more countries - Netherlands, Belgium, Portugal, and so on.) According to Kantar, in the fourth quarter Windows Phone did outsell the iPhone in one of the EU5 countries: Italy (17.1% to 12.1%), and also in Mexico, Brazil and Argentina (6.8% to 4.3%). In every other country in the EU5, in the US, in China, in Australia, in Japan, the iPhone outsold Windows Phone, sometimes by large margins.So, no - Windows Phone is not making significant inroads into the iPhone install base. It’s a distant third place in the west. Unless Microsoft’s master plan is to be in distant second place to Android in those key markets of Italy and Mexico, in which case - carry on, folks. But if you think differently - say, that Microsoft will benefit by having its services available on lots of devices, but most of all by having them used on lots of devices where it is the default - then let’s follow this.Unforkable?Peter Bright responded at Ars Technica by suggesting that Android is “unforkable”. On its face, this isn’t correct, since you can fork any open-source code. But his point is that if Microsoft picked it up, it would take huge amounts of effort to clone the APIs that Google uses for its Google Mobile Service (GMS) apps, such as Google Maps, Gmail, and of course Google Play (through which developers enable things like in-app purchases).I thought that this overstated the case. The existence of Chinese OEMs which are using AOSP to create services in China - the second-biggest ecosystem, don’t forget - shows that you can build pretty effectively on top of AOSP, and none of them has the capability of Microsoft. Also, what aboutCyanogenMod? As it says, it’s a “customised, aftermarket firmware distribution for several Android devices... based on the Android Open Source Project”:CyanogenMod is designed to increase performance and reliability over Android-based ROMs released by vendors and carriers such as Google, T-Mobile, HTC, etc. CyanogenMod also offers a variety of features &amp; enhancements that are not currently found in these versions of Android.So CyanogenMod is clearly getting along fine – and it doesn’t come with GMS. (Users can install GMS themselves, but don’t have to – other Android app stores are available in the west.)Could Microsoft clone the GMS APIs? It would probably need to do that to make it easier for app developers to easily port apps across to “Windroid” phones. Developers tell me it would be easier to do that than it presently is to port an app to Windows Phone. At a time when Windows Phone loses out on apps (do you know someone who wanted to play Flappy Bird on Windows Phone? Have they had to make do with the pirated version? That’s the sort of thing), that would make a difference.Of course there’s an ironic wrinkle if Microsoftwereto clone the APIs. WhenOracle lost its case against Google over alleged copyright and patent infringement by Android of Java, one of the key arguments was about whether APIs could be copyrighted. Oracle said they could and should be. Google argued not. Google prevailed. That’s now under appeal, with a decision expected soon. (Microsoft has filed an amicus brief backing Oracle.) If Google loses, it could ban Microsoft from cloning its APIs. But it would have to pay Oracle. Or it wins, doesn’t have to pay Oracle, and might have to face Microsoft.Don’t call my baby closedThe Ars Technica article saw an interesting intervention - from Dianne Hackborn, Google’s Android framework manager.In the comments, she defended the openness of AOSP (because the article suggested that it was becoming just a husk of kernel, to which GMS added the really useful stuff). In response to the article saying that “Google has worked to make Android functionality unforkable...” she responded:Google provides a lot of value on top of Android, with an ecosystem that is difficult to compete with, of cloud-based applications and services that are useful to users and developers. This is at least as true a way to describe as the quoted statement from the article, and I will argue it more accurately states the situation.She continued:AOSP is far more than the basic bones of a smartphone operating system. It is a complete smartphone operating system. The examples you provide for what it includes are very misleading -- what about the launcher, contacts app, dialer and phone app, calendar app, camera and gallery and on? The fact is, if you build AOSP today and put it on a phone, you will have a pretty fully functioning platform.The thing you don’t have is stuff related to cloud services, and this is not an evil secret plan of Google, but a simple fact we have been clear about from the initial design of the platform: Android as an open-source platform simply can’t provide any cloud services, because those don’t run on the device where the platform code runs.Hackborn provides a point-by-point rebuttal of arguments that AOSP is in effect closed because of the lack of GMS. She finishes with a flourish:I have been actively involved in designing and implementing Android since early on, and it was very much designed to be an open-source platform. Part of that design was to allow Google (or anyone) to build integrated cloud-based services on top of it, and that aspect of Android design has gotten richer as the years go on. What you are concerned about is not a design problem in Android, but the richness of Google’s cloud-based services.At least Android creates a much more equal playing field for others to compete with Google’s services than is provided by the proprietary platforms it is competing with.So she seems to be saying that Microsoft could do this. In theory, anyway.What about Microsoft, though?The more important thing is: can we work out what Microsoft execs think? Let’s see: Steve Sinofsky used to run the Windows team. Over the weekend, hepointed on Twitterto anarticle by Tim Anderson, as well as Peter Bright’s article. And he also pointed back to anarticle he wrote in April 2013 on “forking responsibly”in which he said that:In the taxonomy of managing legacy code, a fork is a reboot, not a recast.From a legacy code perspective, the choice to fork is the same as a choice to rewrite. Forking is just an expedient way to get started. Rather than start from an empty source tree, one can visualize the fork as a tree copy of all the existing code to a new project and a fast start. This isn’t cheating. It can be a big asset or a big liability.But the implication seems to be that he doesn’t think it’s a good idea for Microsoft. Though he’s not explicit about it.And another thing: patentsOn Twitter,Ravi Nanavati pointed outa rather important potential roadblock to this idea: Android patents.Not the patents that Microsoft sues Android handset makers for allegedly infringing - but the ones included in Android. As Nanavati points out, Android uses theApache 2.0 licence, which includes a clause about patents, which ends with this warning:If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.Hmm. But Microsoft has successfully sued a number of Android handset makers. So would that mean that if it forked Android it would be liable to patent lawsuits from Google and others?Well, this may be one for the lawyers. It certainly looks like a giant challenge, but there is one way that Microsoft might wriggle out: it has already tied up all the companies it wants to in licensing agreements. If it forks Android, it doesn’t need to go after any more companies. The clause above could be argued as relating tonewlawsuits, not existing licence agreements Microsoft concluded years or even months ago.It might just work. Who knows? But in the meantime, Microsoft’s mobile strategy remains a mess. Its money-losing services such as Bing search aren’t a default on enough mobile devices (only BB10 and Lumias at present) to turn to profit, and the money-making services (Office, principally) aren’t available widely enough on the devices that are widely used. For Microsoft, that’s not good.Nokia: joker in the pack?Finally, the Wall Street Journalreports that Nokia will indeed show off an Android phoneat Mobile World Congress later this month - and quotes “people familiar with the matter” saying:“The Android phone was aimed at emerging market customers, and has been tailored in a way that won’t promote some of the key Google-developed features that a more traditional Android-powered phone might, these people said.”How might it not do that?“Instead, the phone will come installed with a suite of services created by Nokia and Microsoft, including Here maps and Mix Radio, and a Nokia application store with Android apps. People familiar with the matter say Nokia will show the phone at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona.”That’s certainly an interesting teaser. Nokia and Microsoft services and a Nokia app store? But why?One reason for the move is Microsoft’s need to increase handset sales volumes to support its vast manufacturing capacity, and to help cover the high cost of competing and innovating in a smartphone industry dominated by Google, Apple and Samsung Electronics, according to people familiar with the plans.Sources familiar with Nokia’s plans have indicated to me that the WSJ report is correct - and Business Insider’s Steve Kovachsays he has independently confirmed ittoo. It will probably be aimed at the low end (to replace the Lumia 520, reputed to lose money on each handset) - but if Microsoft can make it work, why not carry on? If a “Windroid” phone outsold Windows Phone, why continue with the latter?•Analysis: Satya Nadella must kill Windows Phone and fork Android
Nintendo has denied reports that it launched a legal challenge against the Flappy Bird blockbuster game causing its removal from the iPhone and Android app stores.The developer of Flappy Bird, Dong Nguyen,removed the game from saleon Monday after giving a 24-hourwarning on Twittersaying “it is not anything related to legal issues” but that he simply “cannot take this any more”. He hasn’t said anything onhis Twitter accountsince Saturday 8 February.Despite its disappearance from app stores, there is still aslightly easier browser-based versionof the game, and enterprising eBay sellers have seized upon the popularity of the game,listing smartphones pre-loaded with Flappy Birds and attracting bids as high as $90,000.The similarity of images used in the Flappy Bird game to those first used in Nintendo’s Mario games brought speculation that the game was removed after a legal challenge by the Japanese gaming company. Nintendo has steadfastlyrefused to produce games for smartphones and tablets.However the company took the unusual step of denying that it had been behind the bird’s app-based demise. Normally Nintendo does not discuss its legal and other challenges, but in this case spoke up as claims about its role in the disappearance of the Vietnamese-developed app grew.“While we usually do not comment on the rumours and speculations, we have already denied the speculation,” Nintendo’s spokesman Yasuhiro Minagawa told theWall Street Journal.Two nights’ work + 50m downloads = $50,000 a dayBefore its removal, the wildly popular Flappy Bird game dominated the download charts of both Google’s Play Store for Android and Apple’s App Store for the iPhone. It was reportedly downloaded over 50m times generating $50,000 a day in ad revenue, but only took a couple of nights to create.The cause of Flappy Bird’s meteoric rise up the app store charts is unknown. While speculation remains over whether paid downloads artificially boosted the app’s visibility, its adoption by YouTube stars, including PewDiePie who published a play-through video of the game on 27 January that has been watched more than 10m times, may have contributed to the game’s short-lived but wild popularity.The exact reason for Nguyen’s removal of Flappy Bird from the app stores is unclear, although his tweets at the time seem to indicate that pressure from the media and critics was too much for the indie developer.“Press people are overrating the success of my games. It is something I never want. Please give me peace,”he said.• Hate playing Flappy Bird, but can’t put it down?That’s why it was so great
If you are anything like me, you can split your life into two distinct times: the time before Super Hexagon existed, and the time afterwards. Since the Hexagon Dateline, you will have spent significant lengths of time staring at moving hexagons of crisp light on your phone or your computer screen, listening to pulsing chiptune, learning absolutely useless skills like how to cope when the hexagon suddenly becomes a pentagon or the right way to get through those really annoying hook-shaped patterns on Hexagoner. And if you’ve even touched Flappy Bird once then you, like me, will be aware of how some games can feed on the part of your brain that just wants you to be a little bit better, and how once you’ve begun to play, stopping can be incredibly hard.I was an hour and a half into my first session of Blast ‘Em before I managed to pull myself away, and I’d spent an hour of that promising that I’d only have one more go.Power and precisionThis is what Blast ‘Em is. It’s a deceptively simple game; like a traditional shmup, you control a ship flying sideways through space, using your mouse to maneuver it on screen. It moves as fast as you can move your mouse. It shoots, constantly, at speeds dictated by which power-ups you’ve managed to snag. You have to avoid the bullets and the enemies, and collect the coins they leave behind after you’ve shot them. It’s simple. Initially, it doesn’t seem terribly interesting, if that’s all there is.It’s also slow, to begin with. Your rate of fire is slow. The enemies are few and fairly docile, easy to hit and to avoid. But after you’ve played through a few times, you start to realise that these early stages of the game are where your run can be made or broken; quite aside from accidentally smashing your ship into a slow-moving alien in a fit of over-enthusiastic mouse-waggling, you realise that your coins are also your power-up currency, and the game doesn’t ever give you quite enough of them to be comfortable. Better to grab them now, while they’re easy to get and the screen is still quiet enough for you to be able to distinguish between collectibles and bombs. Blast ‘Em’s opening section, which you will play over and over and over again, becomes an exercise in elegance and precision, hoovering up as many coins as you can possibly manage in the knowledge that later on, that will matter.Whenever you can afford a power-up, in the early stages, you should probably buy one. Rapid fire is a big upgrade, taking you from a shot a second up to a constant stream, but it has to be: as soon as you get past the point where the first power-ups are likely to show, the difficulty ramps up. More enemies, more bombs. Then, after the point where you can probably just about afford the triple shot, vertically moving enemies and asteroids. You can’t afford to be precise and pick off every ship as it rolls towards you: you have to refocus, let your awareness drift outwards, rely on your peripheral vision for bomb detection. You have to hope that you’ll have enough coins to afford to keep your power-ups running, rather than planning for it.Then, after two minutes or so of play, coins are no longer a worry and Blast ‘Em becomes a game of survival and little else. In just a few short minutes it manages to change the way you play completely, from deliberate precision to diffuse, organised panic. It offers glimpses of that strange hypnotic state that characterises the best Hexagonish games: a fragile balance between concentration and instinct, where thinking too hard about what you’re doing can cause it all to collapse.Random encountersBlast ‘Em is grimier than Super Hexagon, with a gritty crunchy old-school aesthetic, but no less charming for it; the downside is that sometimes your ship’s collisions are down to you failing to judge the pixel-thin collision distances around chunkily-drawn enemies. It’s also not too hard to master, and once you’ve hit that survival threshold there’s less incentive to keep restarting. Its randomised enemies sometimes serve it poorly; there’s no pattern to learn, and no higher levels of skill to master once you can respond to the basics well. There doesn’t seem to be much left to see or achieve, beyond a personal best and a place on the leaderboards, and Blast ‘Em currently lacks friend leaderboards.Flappy Bird acts on a similar feedback loop, though a much shallower one, and it succeeds because it’s on mobile. Super Hexagon is also at its best on mobile. Hexagonish things seem more at home there, where short serve play is almost mandatory and there are inevitably natural breaks that will prevent an endless loop of play. Blast ‘Em, despite being perfectly suited mechanically to mobile, would struggle there: controlling the ship with your finger while still being able to see the screen would be impossible. That seems a shame; it would very much life as a short-serve commute-buster. Sitting down at the PC to play it feels like more of a commitment than it ought to require.But the biggest issue is that it takes two short loading animations and a click to restart the game, instead of a single immediate click. The good news is, if you’re a wannabe coder, the source code isavailable to buy on Steamso you can craft your own version. It’s written in C# and programmer Byron Atkinson-Jones has a question and answers section on his Steam page to help people modify the game. I’d take out those loading animations if I could.Because if Blast ‘Em had a shorter restart loop, I would probably still be playing it right now. If you are anything like me, you will probably have the same problem.•Blast ‘Emis available now on PC, Mac and Linux for $5.
I was turned away from a charity shop last week. The lady shook her head as I opened the box, and actually stepped away. "No. More. Books." She nodded to overflowing shelves, and led me wordlessly to a nearby stockroom with piles of long-dead thrillers and ghost-written autobiographies. It was the same at the next shop. When even charity shops don't let you offload your clutter and conscience any more, things must be bad for the book. "Everyone has Kindles," a second woman said as she turned them away. I began to feel sorry for the box of well-thumbed stories I was struggling to offload. But my arms were aching, because the books were so heavy, and cumbersome. And basically inconvenient, unlike a Kindle. Stupid books. Oh dear. And I began to worry that books were destined to disappear completely into technology.I grew up connecting games with books. For me, their private, world-building, reality-obliterating purposes were similar. And there's an interesting melding of the two taking place. Many recent independent games feel purely authored and are deliberately returning to text to tell their stories. Could it be games are becoming the place to be literary?The way is led byDevice 6, a grown-up puzzle game for the iPhone that reads like a book but plays like a dream. This short story is made up of twists and turns, literally, in the way you have to keep moving the screen to follow it. The puzzles are well-judged and require thought and imagination to progress, rather than the detached glaze most iPhone games encourage.For younger players,Tearawayturns its attention to the paper under the words in a witty, colourful renouncing of what we expect from the digital world. Designed for the PS Vita, it folds the real world in with its papery invented one with extraordinary imagination. I've been sad to see the lack of attention given to this little love letter to gaming. If you have a Vita and a child, not owningTearawayshould be labelled a sort of neglect. But if you'd rather neglect a child in the virtual world,The Novelistis the place to do it – a troubling but welcome addition to independent games. You play an eerie presence that helps Dan Kaplan make decisions about whose desires to prioritise in his family, as he struggles to write a novel. Gradually, as your decisions have consequences for family happiness, it begins to feel like you are writing your own domestic novel too. It's a curious and psychologically ambitious game, which has an aching sadness at its heart for the amount we compromise and the pain we can cause others along the way. One of the more interesting techniques The Novelist uses is the ability to access its characters' memories. This way of getting inside characters' heads used to be restricted to the internal monologue of a novel, but games are starting to look inwards rather than just through crosshairs.Depression Questis a simple interactive fiction game that guides you through the experience of someone with depression. Its creator, Zoe Quinn, reveals a powerful understanding of how to affect through gameplay. Some options are visible, eg "Open up a little, hoping she'll understand" but you are unable to select them. This basic but intelligent design expresses so much about a mental reality where the sufferer knows what they "should" do but is literally unable to.Your own frustration with the choice is mirrored by the protagonist's and eventually a peek into self-loathing and stagnation is achieved, as well as a glimpse into how to move forward.Kentucky Route Zerohas been described as a computer play, a short story and an interactive screenplay. But in my mind it's an old-school point-and-click adventure game, just done so beautifully it confuses categorisation. Released in chapters and changing from first to third person throughout, it's a witty, unreal tale of the American south. The game somehow manages to create the visual equivalent of what happens in the imagination when you read. There is a warm, weird, wordless glow to the design and a sense of mystery and privacy in the way it's lit.Because of their more literary sensibilities, bothKRZandDepression Questhave come up against the tiresome response, "Yes, but is it a game?" – a criticism that dogs all art that tries to lift itself out of the safe or familiar. In any other scenario the remark, "This isn't a game," would be an acknowledgment that, in fact, it's much more important than that. And so it is, I think, with these works.It's sad to see the pulpy graveyards out the back of charity shops. But fiction is not dead. Books will always be my first love but I am happy to see gaming edge onto their territory. And when books, story and even paper are glorified as they are in these works, it's clear the creators know the debt they owe to flat fiction.Maybe it's best to close with this warning from an 1815 publication bemoaning the demise of the chalkboard in schools: "Students today depend on paper too much. They don't know how to write on slate without getting chalk dust all over themselves. They can't clean a slate properly. What will they do when they run out of paper?" (fromRethinking Education in the Age of Technologyby Allan Collins and Richard Halverson)I suppose we're finding out.
If pushing your enemy into the sea signifies success, then Google's decision to start ferrying workers to its campus by boat suggests the revolt against big technology companies is going well. Standing on the docks of Oakland, on the east side of San Francisco  Bay, last week, you could watch the  Googlers board the ferry, one by one, and swoosh through the chill, grey  waters of the bay towards the company's Mountain View headquarters, 30 or so miles to the south.Not exactly Dunkirk, but from afar you might have detected a whiff of evacuation, if not retreat. The ferry from Oakland –a week-long pilot  programme– joined a similar catamaran service for Google workers in San Francisco launched last month. The search engine giant is not doing it for the bracing sea air. It is a response toblockades and assaults against buses that shuttle employeesto work.Many fear fresh attacks. A young software designer waiting for a Google bus on the corner of seventh and  Adeline street in west Oakland flinches when I approach him. A few weeks earlier, activists here slashed tyres and hurled rocks through windows. Since then a police car has kept watch, but the Googler remains wary. "A reporter? Can I see some ID?" He scrutinises my press card and sighs. "We don't know what's going to happen. Anarchists are driving this."An eclectic range of motivations are behind the wider backlash against technology companies in their Bay Area home turf as well as globally. Fair-tax campaigners complain that they abuse their clout in order to dodge payments and rewrite rules in their favour. Privacy advocates say they pillage customers' data and facilitate, willingly or not, government mass surveillance. Others accuse them of worsening inequality by enriching plutocratic backers.Bay Area activists started targeting the fleets of air-conditioned, Wi-Fi-equipped buses last year as symbols of tech-driven gentrification, a process which isfuelling rent increases and evictions. The protests made headlines around the world, seeding hope in some circles, and anxiety or even panic in others."Writing from the centre of progressive thought, San Francisco, I would call attention to the parallels of Nazi Germany to its war on its '1%', namely its Jews, to the progressive war on the American 1%, namely the 'rich'," Tom Perkins, a venture capitalist, wrote ina recent letter to the Wall Street Journal. "This is a very dangerous drift in our American thinking.Kristallnachtwas unthinkable in 1930; is its descendent 'progressive' radicalism unthinkable now?"The comparison was universally ridiculed. But there is no denying that the home of the summer of love is now experiencing a winter of fear and loathing. "Those people on the buses are quite scared, they feel threatened. Now they want to hide their faces," says Jonathan Chin, the co-founder of a new security startup, Bannerman, which rents bodyguards and bouncers, many of them veterans of Afghanistan and Iraq. Techies comprise a third of clients. "They like us because there is no need to sign a year-long contract. You pay when you need us," says Chin.Watching Google's ferry steam out of Oakland docks beyond rock-throwing range it can seem as if here the anti-tech rebellion has found a bastion. It makes sense: Oakland, a gritty, industrial port city of 400,000 souls just across the bay from San Francisco, has been America's crucible of leftwing radicalism for more than a century, home to socialists, trade-union agitators, poets, jazz musicians, rabble-rousers, civil-rights leaders, Black Panthers and anarchists. Occupy activists clashed with police and stormed city hall here in 2012. A bronze sculpture of Oakland's most famous writer and activist,Jack London, overlooks the bay like a sentinel. "You have mismanaged the world," he once told a wealthy, frock-coated audience in New York, "and it shall be taken from you."Stirring, prescient words for an era scarred by the recklessness behind the economic crisis. But in Oakland the bold prediction of a reckoning, of the have-nots prising power and wealth from the elite, remains wishful thinking. In reality, there is no insurrection. The bus protests are sporadic and fleeting. They worry but do not repel tech settlers. Google's use of ferries is a tactical tweak, not a retreat. Resistance to technology workers, corporations or real estate developers ranges from puny to non-existent. Wealthy outsiders are taking and reshaping the city, gentrifying former ideological cauldrons. This should not really be a surprise. It is a pop-culture truism that the geeks shall inherit the earth, and that includes Oakland."They've kicked out thousands. They're the kick-out kings," says Kokavulu Lumukanda, 67, observing a street of Victorian-style houses from the top step of his wooden porch. A former bookshop owner who has seen neighbours evicted and forced out by rising rents, he is referring to corporate landlords, but in his view the young techies who subsequently moved in were equally culpable. "They come here to play the cultural poseur. It's like dominos falling. Whites move in, blacks move out." (Oakland has lost a quarter of its black population over the past decade, though on the whole it has been latinos, not whites, who have replaced them.)A tall, owlish figure in waistcoat and glasses, Lumukandu faces eviction from the handsome if dilapidated four-bedroom house he has rented since 1988. A new owner recently bought it for $400,000. "They want me out. They want to abide in the abode of covetousness." If banished to a distant, cheaper city – such as south to Fremont or east to Antioch – he will bid farewell to his garden of succulents, camomile, sage, lemon balm and his neighbourhood's history. "The Panthers had some of their biggest rallies two blocks from here." Lumukandu will not go without a fight. "They'll find out who they're dealing with."Google, which declined to be interviewed for this article, rejects the accusation. In a statement, it says: "Google strives to be a good neighbour in the communities where we work and live. In the last year we volunteered thousands of hours with local organizations and gave more than $19m to Bay Area non-profits." One employee says he and his colleagues help generate jobs and opportunities in the communities they settle – unlike nihilist critics who perpetuate desolation.Kokavulu Lumukanda is under threat of eviction due to gentrification in Oakland, California. Photograph: Stephen McLarenOakland's poverty, decay and murder rates deterred all but the hardiest would-be gentrifier during the dotcom bubble. But from 2007 the foreclosure crisis hit like a "Greek tragedy", according to a 2012report from the Urban Strategies Council, a local thinktank. "What began with an over-inflated housing bubble and the targeting of predatory loan products to homeowners of colour has ultimately peaked with the displacement of thousands." Some 10,508 homes were foreclosed between 2007 and 2012, with poor, black families bearing the brunt. This created a "colossal opportunity" for wealthy individuals and corporations to snap up real estate, said the report.Around the same time, a new tech boom driven by the likes of Facebook, Apple, Twitter and Google flooded Silicon Valley with cash and talent. Rather than live in sterile valley towns, much of the influx opted for the bright lights of San Francisco, driving up rents – and evictions. With prices there now rivalling Manhattan, even well-paid techies view Oakland, just a few stops east on the local Bart railway system, as a more affordable, spicier alternative. So now condos pop up like toast."The foreclosure crisis created this void that global capital filled," says Steve King, author of the Urban Strategies Council report. "And it certainly wasn't taking cues from long-term residents over what that investment should look like."Gentrification hums through northern and western Oakland: U-haul vans spilling furniture on to lawns, ADT security signs sprouting alongside bike lanes, hubs of yoga studios, music venues, boutique hotels, miniature parks. All brushing up against slums and grime.Andre Ernest, 47, an Oakland native who opened a bike shop four years ago, says tumbleweed used to roll past his door. "Now I've got people walking in every few minutes." Most are white techies conscious about their health and carbon footprint, he says. Ernest recoils, however, at the coach-loads of business types who regularly cruise down his street taking photographs. "Investors on field trips scouting out the area. In five years this area will completely change. Good for business, but for the people who don't want to be forced out it's horrible."Ernest's neighbour, Revolution cafe, a joint too grubby and grungy for the new settlers, recently closed. In its place, a few blocks north, is10th &amp; Wood, a smart new cafe with Wi-Fi and artisan burgers. Not long ago the area was riven by gangs, guns and drugs, but new residents are renovating homes and opening businesses, beams the owner, Vladimir Levitansky, 39. "It's a renaissance."San Francisco ferry arriving in Oakland. Photograph: Stephen McLarenA former Cirque du Soleil clown, he now hosts geeks, hipsters and assorted bohemians at his pavement tables. Despite a pork pie hat and check trousers, Levitansky sounds more Donald Trump than Marcel Marceau. "I do feel bad for the person who is being displaced, but – on the other side – that's cut-and-dried capitalism. The person who bought and improved (things) should be rewarded for taking that risk. If you don't have enough money to live in a certain neighbourhood, your choice is to make more money or live in another neighbourhood."A few blocks away, Maggie Larios, 30, a latina single mother sharing a cramped apartment with her two children, is all too aware of that choice. She earns just enough from a care-home job to pay the $685 monthly rent. But the landlord who owns the block is trying to evict her and other tenants who have complained about mould, cockroaches and broken windows. They suspect the neglect is intended to oust them so he can get in  more lucrative tenants."The mould has made me sick," Larios croaks, indicating her throat. "When we went to court one of my neighbours had bugs on her. You should've seen the judge's face." With her budget, Larios stands little chance of finding another apartment in Oakland. "I don't want to be homeless. My kids and I went through a very bad experience in shelters." But inevitably they will be priced out, she says. "It's gonna happen. A few years ago, to see a white person here was unseen footage. Now you see them walking the street even at night." Resistance could perhaps slow but not halt gentrification, she says. "Money talks, bullshit walks." Larios has kept one asset in reserve for emergencies: her long, luxuriant hair. "When the time comes I can sell it for $400."Jack London's spirit is not extinguished. Rio Scharf, a young tenant organiser for theEast Bay Solidarity network, is helping Larios and others to fight eviction. "We supply legal advice and use people power, pickets and phone calls to wring concessions." It is ominous, says Scharf, that some arrivals have coined the term Broakland, a nod to gentrification's poster child, Brooklyn.The headquarters of another group,Causa Justa – Just Cause, brims with energy and campaigns, including one to put an anti-displacement initiative on a November ballot. Gentrification does not solve poverty, it merely shunts the poor out of the city, says the executive director, Maria Poblet. She laments that resistance has long been a "losing battle" given proximity to Silicon Valley, which activists refer to only half-jokingly as the Death Star. "We're not in a moment where everyday people can rein in corporations. You can only start from where you are."At a 100-strong demonstration across the bay, in San Francisco's Mission district, orators speaks of mobilisation and action, of striking against privilege, rhetoric likely to make Tom Perkins sweat about anarchist stormtroopers. Two young activists hold up a black banner saying "SMASH GENTRIFICATION", with a hammer fracturing the offending word. Neither is optimistic. "On good days, I think yes, there's untapped rage," says one. "But most days are not good days." The other, an unemployed waiter called Finn, says America's social and political outcasts risk losing their refuge. "This is where we come, and now we're terrified of potential eviction notices."Oakland's activists also despair over the city'splan to integrate hundreds of cameras, sensors and data feeds in a new Domain Awareness Center, calling it a tool of mass surveillance masked as an anti-crime measure. Adding insult to injury, the police department, which wasfined $1m for brutalising Occupy protestors, hosts an annual event, called Urban Shield, which showcases tactics and technology for crowd control to other police forces.During the 2011/12 Occupy movement, protestors used to harass an auction of foreclosed properties held daily on Oakland's courthouse steps. Last week the realtors and brokers conducted their business in bright sunshine, unmolested. A woman worried about eviction from her rented home, up for sale, watched quietly from the sidelines, crying.Street activism stands little chance against amorphous economic forces, says King, the thinktank author. "I don't know how much of that resistance remains."The mayor, Jean Quan, would know better than most. During Occupy militants thronged the plaza beneath her city hall office, chanting and banging drums as police and TV helicopters hovered overhead. When I visit, all is quiet, and the mayor, perched on a sofa, spoke of protest in the past tense. "I don't see it as a huge thing here. That's not where it's at in Oakland. The city is undergoing a huge renaissance." Billions of dollars were pouring in for office, retail, housing and infrastructure projects, she says. Oakland would absorb the techies as it had previous migrants, even if this time they were "white people from the midwest".Militancy in Oakland is not dead. It has deep roots and regenerates. There will be more protests, new causes, other battles. But as sure as the tide rolls into the bay, the geeks are here to stay.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIn-app purchases - fool's gold or pay dirt? &gt;&gt; Yankee Group:Their December 2013 survey asked smartphone owners about their app behaviour:• Two out of three smartphone owners in the US never spend money on app stores.30% of users do not download apps at all; an additional 34% only download free aps and do not spend money on in-app purchases.• Users that download only free apps will most likely not spend money on in-app purchases.Only 12.5% of users who download only free apps will spend money on in-app purchases; this represents 5% of the total number of smartphone owners in the US.• Users that download paid apps are more likely to spend money on in-app purchases.83% of users that download paid apps will also spend money on in-app purchases; this segment represents 26% of all smartphone users in the US.We estimate that revenue from in-app purchases represent approximately one-third of that coming from paid apps.Anonymity &gt;&gt; Sam AltmanOn the rise of "Secret", the app that lets you say things anonymously:I've often thought about the need for an anonymous social network to go along with the fully public and the friends-only ones. But I can't figure out a way to stop an anonymous network from decaying into a Mean Girls-style burn book. If I were running Secret, my number one focus would be to kill every comment about a specific person or company. If Secret becomes more of a confessional than a burn-book, it can probably thrive.Anonymity breeds meanness - the Internet has proven this time and time again. People are willing to say nice or neutral things with their name attached - they need anonymity for mean things and things they are embarrassed about.4G smartphone market to boom in China, says IHS &gt;&gt; DigitimesChina's domestic market for 4G smartphones is poised for a massive liftoff in 2014, as shipments grow sixteen-fold from 2013 levels, according to IHS.Shipments of 4G smartphones in China are forecast to reach 72.4m units in 2014, up nearly 1,500% from just 4.6m in 2013, with the market expected to take off after the second half. It will be the first big year for 4G smartphones in only its second year in the country, up from a practically nonexistent base two years ago, IHS noted.The 4G smartphone market in China will see unstoppable growth for the next few years, with shipments doubling to 144.1m units in 2015 and rising another 53% to 219.8m in 2016, IHS projected.Microsoft's mobile muddle &gt;&gt; stratēcheryBen Thompson:Saying "Microsoft missed mobile" is a bit unfair; Windows Mobile came out way back in 2000, and the whole reason Google bought Android wasfear that Microsoft would dominate mobilethe way they dominated the PC era. It turned out, though, that mobile devices, with their focus on touch, simplified interfaces, and ARM foundation, were nothing like PCs. Everyone had to start from scratch, and if starting from scratch, by definition Microsoft didn't have any sort of built-in advantage. They were simply out-executed.Not that that should make Satya Nadella sleep any better at night. The power of mobile is that it is always with you; it is impossible for your mobile device to not dominate your computing time. At first, said time was accretive: on the bus, in the waiting room, the seams in your life. Increasingly, though, mobile is stealing time formerly devoted to PCs, making mobile not just a threat to Microsoft's growth, but also to their cash cows.So, what should it do about it?The pixel density race and its technical merits &gt;&gt; AnandTechJoshua Ho:Going from around 330 PPI to 470 PPI for an LCD IPS display incurs around a 20% power draw increase on the display, which can be offset by more efficient SoC, larger batteries, improved RF subsystem power draw. Such power draw increases can also be offset by improvements in the panel technology used, which has consistently been the case with Samsung's OLED development but regardless of these improvements, it is an increase to power draw compared to an equivalent technology display with lower pixel density. In the case of LCD displays, a stronger backlight must be used as the higher pixel density means the transistors around the liquid crystal become a larger proportion of the display, and the same is also true of OLED panels, but instead the issue becomes that smaller portions of organic phosphors on the display have to be driven at higher voltages in order to maintain the same level of luminance.(Via @tabdump on Twitter.)What the heck is happening to Windows? &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott sounds increasingly exasperated:So what does Update 1 add to the mix? This time around, Microsoft has committed what I consider to be the cardinal sin of Windows: It's a return to that age-old issue where Windows simply grew, spaghetti-like, to accommodate every silly possible need of the system's too diverse user group. Now, there are multiple ways to do different things in Metro, too. These previously consistent environment—like it or loathe it—has finally been put under the committee's knife.Now, some people will see this as "choice," because these changes — desktop-like context menus in the Start screen, a desktop-like title bar in Metro apps, and so on — will somehow make the system more consistent for them, because they still use traditional PCs. But here's the thing. This mobile environment worked just fine with mouse and keyboard in Windows 8.0 and 8.1, and it was consistent with the touch-based interactions for which the environment was designed. Now? It's a mess.New Apple Mac Trojan called OSX/CoinThief discovered &gt;&gt; SecureMacInitial infection occurs when a user installs and runs an app called "StealthBit," which was recently available for download on GitHub, a website that acts as a repository for open source code. The source code to StealthBit was originally posted on GitHub, along with a precompiled copy of the app for download. The precompiled version of StealthBit did not match a copy generated from the source code, as it contained a malicious payload. Users who downloaded and ran the precompiled version of StealthBit instead ended up with infected systems. A user posting over the weekend on Reddit, the popular discussion site, reported losing 20 Bitcoins (currently worth upwards of $12,000 USD) to the thieves.Sneaky and smart - taking advantage of peoples' trust in repositories but their unwillingness to compile if compiled code is already there. (But would you have checked the code?) To run this on a Mac you'd have to agree to a UAC-style "trust code from unknown developer" checkbox. But if you're downloading from a repository, you're already willing to do that. (Thanks @timacheson for the link.)Managed multitasking for the masses - the Windows Phone and iOS way &gt;&gt; All About Windows PhoneSteve Litchfield was helping a friend out with his slow-running smartphone:"Err… what's that circular icon superimposed on the interface?", I said, fearfully."Oh, that's just a utility I downloaded that's helping me clear some space. It runs all the time and err… helps.""Does it?", I said doubtfully. "You might like to get rid of that for a start, it's probably sucking up processor time. But in the meantime, why don't we get you up and running with some sort of Internet sync for your documents so that you don't lose an important file again?"I installed Google's Drive utility. A message popped up superimposed on the status bar" 'Scanning Google Drive…' The friend noticed me open-mouthed at the message: "Ah, yes, I installed an anti-virus program, just to be safe.""So, do you side load Android apps often", I said."'Side load'? Eh? I get my apps from the Play Store!"The number of people who use antivirus unnecessarily on Android may be quite high.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
It’s a sight sure to terrify any unmarried twentysomething:an online calculator from Time magazinewhich tells you when you “should” marry, in order to fit in with your social group.Sign (OK, click) on the dotted line, hand over the private information of essentially your entire social circle using the Facebook button (Time says it doesn’t keep it), and the calculator tells you to the day your deadline for marriage.In my own case, the calculator turned out the gut-wrenchingly disconcerting figure of three months and 28 days. So, suppressing an initial impulse to buy a shotgun and head for Vegas, I decided to dig into what the Time app actually measures.It’snotwhen you should marryWhat the “marriage calculator” actually does is look through the profiles of all of your Facebook friends to find those who have said they are married, and then take the age of marriage for these people.It then calculates the median age of those people at marriage (or, presumably, when they told Facebook they were married). The median is the point at the middle when you put everybody in age order. So if you had five friends who married at 26, 27, 30, 35 and 40, the median married age would be 30.The calculator then takes your current age and tells you how long you’ve got left if you are to be married at the median age of your friends.What’s so wrong with that?All the single ladiesBig problem No1: lots of us have plenty of Facebook friends whoaren’tmarried. Given most of my friends live in secular London – where people marry late – married friends are in a minority. Seriously, take a look:Seriously. Photograph: TimeSo while I might have only three months to fit in with my married friends, I’ve clearly got plenty of time before half of my entire social group will be married. Time is comparing me to a fairly atypical subset of my friends (in my case, largely made up of Christian Union friends from university). Just because they married young doesn’t mean my other friends plan to.Your friends tend to be the same age as youWhile Time gave me a ticking clock of less than four months , it told a colleague who’s a little older than me he had more than six months until he “should” get married. He’s been married for 13 years.Why the gap? To put it simply, most of us have social groups overwhelmingly made up of people around our age. If you’re 21, you might have one or two friends who are already married, and who are also your age. Time will tell you the clock is ticking and that you should marry by 22.If you’re 40, many more of your social group will be paired up. But lots of them will only have joined Facebook recently, lots of people marry late, and so on – and so the median age of your social group will be much later.Most of the time, Time’s calculator will essentially end up telling you the normal age to marry is whatever age you currently are. It’s not so much saying when you should marry as how old your social group is.Some people are gayNot all marriages are between a man and a woman, whatever certain states still say. Photograph: Alan Porritt/AAPAn extra little wrinkle: not everyone can get married yet. Time’s three-month and 28-day deadline for me was made all the more brutal by the fact I can’t actually legally marry in my native country (the always lovely if somewhat waterlogged England) for another six weeks and five days.Same-sex marriage is only legal in a minority of US states, and has only recently been legalised in most of those. Unsurprisingly, this has a considerable impact on the marriage market: most obviously, no-one gets a legally recognised marriage where it’s not legal.But there’s a more subtle effect: because lots of long-term same-sex couples have had to wait most of their lives to get married, the average age of people’s first civil partnership or same-sex marriage is currently in the late 40s (sometimes early 50s). As same-sex marriage becomes established this will come down, but for now gay people really should be allowed a little extra time.You really don’t have to marryIt’s true: you don’t. The US has one of the highest marriage rates of western democracies, and Americans marry younger. But even in the US, marriage rates are dropping – though divorce rates are falling, too. When people aren’t required to marry, those marriages that do take place tend to last better.Some people prefer to wait. Others cohabit. And some dislike the very concept of marriage, on principle. A bonus of a liberal society is that’s pretty much your own choice: a sentiment that Time, which is open about how the tool it built in the spirit of grabbing Valentine’s week traffic works, almost undoubtedly shares.So feel free to stop worrying about marriage, and resume worrying about how to get through another four days of Valentine’s-themed news. It’s going to be tough.
A coalition of 25 consumer, civil liberties and privacy groups have written to the White House calling for President Obama’s review of “Big Data and the Future of Privacy” to be opened up for participation by the public.Groups including the Center for Digital Democracy, the Electronic Privacy Information Center (Epic) and the American Civil Liberties Union have written to John Holdren, director of the White House office of science and technology policy, to demand that the public be given the opportunity to weigh in during the big data review, which was launched by President Obama in the wake of Edward Snowden’s revelations of mass surveillance by the National Security Agency.Thelettersays the public should be brought into the process “since it is their information that is being collected and their privacy and their future that is at stake.”The coalition met on Monday with John Podesta, a counselor to Obama and long-time Democratic power player who is leading the review, to press the case for greater public involvement. “We want it to be opened up to the public so that it’s not just the White House engaging with the usual power brokers and special interests,” said Jeffrey Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy.In the letter, the groups warn that bulk collection of personal data by government agencies and large commercial entities is putting consumers at ever-increasing risk. The groups call on the White House to “conduct a review that incorporates the concerns and opinions of those whose data may be collected in bulk as a result of their engagement with technology”.The petition over the White House review comes as more than 5,000 internet companies and groups prepare to launch what is beingbilled as“the day we fight back against mass surveillance” on Tuesday. Conceived as a day of web-based protest in honour of Aaron Swartz, the internet activist who died 13 months ago, the groups and sites participating range from Reddit and Tumblr to Anonymous and Greenpeace.The protest is being modeled on a similar joint action in January 2012 that helped to scupper the controversial Stop Online Piracy Act, or Sopa.Obamaannounced on 17 Januarythat he had instructed Podesta to carry out a 90-day review into big data and privacy. The remit of the review is to look at the challenges posed by big data as gathered by both government bodies such as the NSA and by private firms such as Facebook and Google.The Podesta-led review is distinct from an earlier panel of security experts who were asked by Obama to advise him on intelligence gathering in the light of the Snowden disclosures. That taskforcereported in Decemberand suggested a number of important changes to bulk data collection, some of which have been publicly supported by the president, others not.The Podesta review will look at aspects of data collection by the NSA and other government agencies, but will not be confined to that area, as it will also consider the activities of technology companies. In a White Houseblog postexplaining the review, Podesta said he intends to deliver a report that “anticipates future technological trends and frames the key questions that the collection, availability, and use of ‘big data’ raise – both for our government, and the nation as a whole.”The Center for Digital Democracy’s Chester told the Guardian that he believes the review was one of the most positive responses so far to the Snowden leaks. “Government and corporations are collecting a mass of information that is being used in a completely un-transparent manner. The review is an example of the positive impact that the Snowden revelations have had on US administration thinking.”
You might have noticed a change in the Guardian’s website masthead. Along withGoogle,Channel 4, and theNew Statesman, the Guardian has taken the decision to add a rainbow-coloured “g” in support of Russia’s lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender communities for the2014 Sochi Winter Olympics.But search engines and media outlets aren’t the only ones. Twitter users are now “rainbowifying” their Twitter avatars to show that they are opposed to Russia’santi-gay propaganda laws.Lauren LaverneandIndia Knightare two well-known Twitter users who have added a splash of colour to their accounts.The Guardian, New Statesman and Channel 4 logos have all been 'rainbowified' following the lead of Google. Photograph: Guardian compositeHow it all startedRupert Myers, a barrister andGuardian columnist, was one of the first to put a rainbow on his Twitter for the Sochi Games and key to it spreading among British users.Amusingly, Myers originally created the rainbow Twitter avatar as a joke, believing the rainbowification of social media was a form ofslacktivism– minimal effort from people to assuage their guilt, without actually doing anything concrete to help.*If* the rainbowification of my avatar doesn&#39;t make Putin praise homosexuality at the Sochi Winter Olympic Opening Ceremony then I give up&mdash; Rupert (@RupertMyers)February 7, 2014He really was quite sarcastic about the whole thing…If anyone else wants me to rainbowify their avatar, just ask. You can claim a generous fraction of the credit when Putin changes the law.&mdash; Rupert (@RupertMyers)February 7, 2014…but then something happened that he didn’t quite expect.“The first of the tweets got an overwhelming response, people didn’t seem to realise that I was criticising the practice,” says Myers, “They wanted to be a part of something, and their enthusiasm really changed how I felt about it.“I became quite overwhelmed by the way that people clearly wanted to send a message, however small, so I started making them rainbow avatars too when they requested. I’m now quite moved by it. I’m straight but I am really disappointed with what Russia has done.”Lauren Laverne shows her support for LGBT rights with a rainbow avatar. Photograph: /Lauren Laverne/Twitter.How you can join inIf you want to add your support to Russia’s LGBT community by adding a twibbon or an overlay for your Twitter avatar, there are now various apps, such asGay RainboworLGBT Rights.“I’ve gone from being quite cycnical about these gestures to realising people want to send a message”, says Myers, “and rainbowification is a cheerful, beautiful, simple way to reach out to people and say ‘we’re with you’.”
Korean giant Samsung is due to unveil its high-end Galaxy S5 Android smartphoneon 24 February in Barcelona, using a big budget event to showcase a device expected to have a bigger screen and a metal body.The Galaxy S5 will replace the 5in Samsung Galaxy S4, which garnered mixed reviews on its release in April last year. Critics focused on Samsung’sbloated, gimmicky software and plastic construction, which detracted from an overall solid high-end Android smartphone.Thelaunch event, at the annual mobile industry conference Mobile World Congress (MWC) in Barcelona at the end of February, is expected to bea much more low key affairthan the 2013launch of the Galaxy S4, which saw Samsung take over part of New York’s Times Square.Among other devices, it is widely expected that Samsung will announce the Galaxy S5 at the eventwith a larger 5.25in screen, improved camera, as well as the option for a metal body. There is also the possibility that Samsung will follow Apple’s lead and fit the Galaxy S5 with a 64-bit processor allowing for more memory.‘We’re not as good as we are in hardware’The key development for Samsung’s next flagship smartphone is expected to be in software.Samsung admitted that its mobile software, including that found on the Galaxy S line of phones, was poor in November, andpledged to work “very hard” to produce improved software. The electronics company dedicated half of its research and development workforce to the software issue, with software engineers numbering around 40,000 of its 326,000 employees worldwide.“Even though we’re doing the software business, we&apos;re not as good as we are in hardware,”said Kwon Oh-hyun, vice chairman and chief executive of Samsung Electronics.Dismissed as gimmicksSamsung has attempted to differentiate its Android smartphones and tablets from the competition by packing them with features, part of the software customisations made to the standard Android experience called Samsung “TouchWiz”.These additional features such as “air gesture” (to move pages without touching the screen), “air view” (to enlarge previews without touching the screen) and “smart scroll” (to scroll through pages using eye movement) have been dismissed as gimmicks critics, who don&apos;t see them bringing any value to users.The TouchWiz software additions clutter the Android experience, making using the smartphones far more complicated and leading to confused users. The bloated software has also impacted the battery life of Samsung’s devices, with many of the features taking their toll on the battery without significantly adding to the experience and slowing the smartphones and tablets down.Many users of Samsung’s smartphones and tablets have taken to removing the software by “rooting” or significantly modifying their devices, risking voiding their warranty, as the TouchWiz software is not removable without modifying the underlying Android software.Flatter, more standard Android-like appearanceThe Galaxy S5 is expected to benefit from Samsung’s reworking of its software, although the extent to which TouchWiz will have been modified is unknown. Recent allegedleakedimagesof Samsung’s upcoming software indicate that it will take a flatter, more standard Android-like appearance.A simplified approach to the additional software and removal of the gimmicky features in preference of ones that provide a genuine enhancement to everyday usage would go some way to making Samsung’s Android phones more user friendly.Samsung has brought forward the launch of the Galaxy S5 as sales of its predecessor have failed to live up to expectations. The Galaxy S4 onlymanaged to keep pacein terms of sales in 2013 year-on-year compared with the Galaxy S3 from 2012. The smartphone market as a whole expanded by around 50% over the same period, while Apple’s iPhone sales grew by 16% to 102m in the first nine months of 2013.While Samsung makes a large range of smartphones and tablets, including budget offerings like the Galaxy Ace line, a lot is riding on the success of the Galaxy S5. The larger Galaxy Note 3 with a 5.7in screen, althoughplagued with similar software issuesto the Galaxy S4, has beenoutselling the smaller device recently, despite the phablet being considered a niche product by many.More business than extravaganceThe smaller event planned by Samsung at MWC indicates a more low-key approach for the Korean company; somewhat of a comedown from its 2013 marketing budget which exceeded the GDP of Iceland at $14bn.Samsung could be learning from failures in last year’s marketing bonanza, which did not always pay off. Product placement on ITV’s popular X-Factor talent showbrought complaints from UK viewers, while a Samsung-sponsored short-film contest finale at the Sydney Opera House was criticised heavily for blatant product placement in a string of ‘behind the scenes’ videos.Last year’s New York launch of the Galaxy S4 was also criticised for being sexist, spurred by its portrayal of women who simply chatted about jewellery and nail polish while the men in the display discussed the new Samsung phone.• After poor reviews, Samsung’s David Eu, head of the Samsung Open Innovation Centre,likened the Galaxy Gear smartwatch to unripened fruit
Pope Francis is a virtual comic strip for children in a new app designed to teach his “most beautiful words” to a young audience.The Pope Francis Comics app allows children to study his key messages in speeches and tweets, and learn about his life before his papal inauguration. Older children can learn about the Pope through a comic strip while a colouring game is designed for younger children.The developer, Master New Media, calls it “a fun and interesting educational app that explains the Holy Father’s words to children to help them grow and learn”.They say it allows users to “easily see the greatness of the teaching of His Holiness, inspired by the gospel, and put it into practice into their everyday lives, with their family, at school and with friends.Screenshot of the Pope Francis Comics app. Photograph: DeveloperThe app, priced at £1.99 for iPad, appears to be an extension of acomic book series launched in Italylast November, by publishing house Edizioni Master. As well as children’s books, they have already launched magazines in the country aiming to spread the Christian message.•Twitter hoaxer comes clean and says: I did it to expose weak media
Taiwan’s smartphone maker HTC says is aiming at the cheaper end of the smartphone market with new models, as it forecast another loss in the current quarter and unveiled revenues for January lower than at any time since 2007.The company is preparing to launch its next flagship phone, almost certainly in March, and has hinted at producing wearable products. It is also rumoured that it will work with Google to produce a new line of Nexus tablets later in the year.Having seen its efforts with the top-end flagship HTC One and its $12m spending on an advertising blitz with Hollywood actor Robert Downey Jr fail to restore its fortunes, the company chair and co-founder Cher Wangtold Reuters: “The problem with us last year was we only concentrated on our flagship. We missed a huge chunk of the mid-tier market.”HTC also aims to release smartphones costing between $150 and $200 globally this year, as well as high-end phones like the One. That would give it a shot at the more quickly growing low-end market, though the high-end market – where growth has almost stalled – is dominated by Apple and Samsung.But HTC forecast on Monday that its first-quarter revenues in 2014 will be between NT$34bn and NT$36bn ($1.12bn to $1.19bn), the lowest since 2009, and make a per-share loss of between NT$2.1 to NT$2.6 - equivalent to a net loss of between NT$1.74bn and NT$2bn ($57m to $66m).Its January revenues, of NT$9.67bn ($318m), however, pointed to further decline in the company’s business even as it prepares to launch the new flagship phone, apparently codenamed “M8”.The January figures were the lowest for that time since 2007, before the current smartphone boom took off.The companymade a net lossof NT$1.8bn ($43m) for the year of 2013, equivalent to NT$1.60, after heavy losses in the third quarter.In a statement, Wang said: “We will continue to stay focused on making the best smartphone and building a compelling mid-range portfolio. Meanwhile, we are going to communicate better with consumers.”The company also avoided the risk of an import ban in the US after signing a patent and technology collaboration deal with the Finnish phone company Nokia, which had been suing it over a mixture of standards-essential and utility patents in a number of courts, including the UK, Germany and the US.Nokia had begun its patent litigation against HTC in 2012, filing more than 50 lawsuits worldwide.The agreement means that HTC is effectively making per-handset payments to three rivals - Apple, with which itsigned a similar agreement in November 2012,Microsoft, and now Nokia.The agreement is a validation of Nokia’s plans to license its patents, which it will retain after completing the sale of its handset division to Microsoft within the next couple of months.Nokia said it was “very pleased” to have reached the settlement and collaboration agreement with the Taiwanese company.•Sapphire crystal screens: why Apple is interested in a gemstone
A vulnerability in the Snapchat app allows attackers to flood the device with information, freezing and crashing the users iPhone, according tosecurity researcher Jaime Sanchez.Using a flaw in how the app authenticates users, Sanchez discovered that sending a huge number of messages to one user will cause their iPhone to crash. Even once it powers back up, the app itself still hangs until the attack is over.Sanchez, who works for O2’s parent company Telefonica, disclosed the vulnerability on Saturday, and found that the company had banned his two testing accounts and blocked the IP he used to demonstrate the attack – but had not immediately fixed the actual problem.The flaw is based on the way Snapchat authenticates users: rather than sending passwords with each picture, it sends an authentication token based on the password and the time. In theory, this lets the site’s servers reject individual requests.In practice, however, instead of demanding a new access token for every action, the app’s servers will accept re-used tokens. While the actual Snapchat app still generates new tokens each time, an attacker can generate one legitimate token, and then use it to automatically send messages.That means that the only limit to how many times a message can be sent is the speed with which the attacker’s computer can send requests to Snapchat’s servers, allowing Sanchez to use several computers at once to send a thousand messages to one phone in five seconds, causing it to crash.This is the second security breach at Snapchat in 2014. InAugust 2013, another group of researchers disclosed a vulnerability that let users find the Snapchat username associated with any phone number. Four months later,the vulnerability still hadn’t been fixed, and on January 1,4.6m mobile numbers were leaked by hackers. The company delayed fixing the issue – and apologising for the leak – fora further eight days.Snapchat did not immediately reply to a request for comment.•From Snapchat to Twitter: technology’s biggest bust-ups
British developers have a glorious history of racing game innovation. Back in the Amiga days, Geoff Crammond brought imagination and authenticity to titles like Stunt Car Racer and F1 GP. Then there was Codemasters with its anarchic Micro Machines titles, and the mud splattered thrills of Colin McRae Rally. Further up the M6, Liverpool&apos;s Bizarre Creations re-invented the F1 sim for the PlayStation generation before revolutionising the modern console driving experience with Metropolis Street Racer and Project Gotham Racing.And clearly, despite the difficulties faced by the British games industry, it is still happening today. While Evolution Studios puts the finishing touches to its ambitious multiplayer PS4 title DriveClub, London-based veteranSlightly Mad Studioshas announced a similarly intriguing prospect for the PC. The simulation-orientated outfit behind the respected Need For Speed: Shift titles is not content with developing its community-led sim,Project Cars; it turns out they have something else on the go. Something pretty huge. That something is World of Speed.Due out later this year, and currently planned as PC only, it&apos;s a massively multiplayer racing game – a team-based global competition, where crews compete across a vast range of events and competitions. As with a standard MMORPG, players earn XP throughout the experience customising their cars as they go; Slightly Mad also plans to continually update the game, adding new areas and challenges at regular intervals – just like World of Warcraft and co.The Pagani Huayra looks to be one of the exotic super cars set to feature in the gameSo its DriveClub meets The Crew on PC? Well, kind of. “You will have seen other games being announced that say that are team-based, but they’re not” says creative director Andy Tudor. “They continue to be free-for-alls where there’s very little collaboration between teammates. We experimented with team-based racing in DLC for Need For Speed Shift but players were only really out for themselves, which is bad. It didn’t feel like people needed each other to win. But in World of Speed, players willhaveto co-operate to achieve mini-goals in each event”.The format sounds similar to a team-based online shooter: to win, players must take different roles and work together as a unit. While one driver may concentrate simply on finishing first, they’ll need a wingman for protection, as well blockers charged with inhibiting the process of rival drivers. But each team will also need good drifters and drafters to grab the points that those activities offer. Every race has a series of skill-based objectives, which add to your Driver Score - these may involve spending at least 60 seconds of the race slipstreaming, or earning 200 points drifting. Vitally, at the end of the race, it’s the team with the biggest collective Driver Score that wins; placing first on the podium is only part of the story. The skill, then, is going to be getting a range of differently skilled team-mates and then ensuring everyone is equipped for the job: as in a shooter or RPG, every car also has a customisable load-out of extra features, which can be tweaked toward specific roles. Top speed, agility and damage-dealing can all be tweaked via changes to the engine, tyres and chassis.With this system, the Slightly Mad team wants to combat what it sees as a key problem of the online racing experience: the fact that your race can often be over at the very first corner if you’re knocked into a barrier and lose touch with the pack. In World of Speed, there are skill points to pick up even from last position. “It means no more instant game over,” says Tudor. “And no more rage-quitting. We hope.”Races feature two teams of four competing not just for first place but for all the point that come from stylish drivingHandling is pitched toward an accessible arcade feel – a shift in tone for a development team that traces its core back to simdriving specialist SimBin, responsible for the GTR and GT Legends titles. We got hands-on time with two circuits: Brands Hatch and ‘St James’ Loop’ a twisty romp through the streets around Buckingham Palace. The McLaren 12C I drove was thrillingly fast, but extremely solid on corners. With judicious handbrake use you can plummet into corners at ridiculous speeds then drift right through, shredding the redline into confetti. It may feel a little too safe and functional for those who enjoy the threat of spinning out at any moment, but the Slightly Mad team keep saying they want the barriers to entry really low, and no doubt there are custom upgrades to make things more taxking. We’ll have to see though.There’s vehicle damage but right now its toned down and doesn’t seem to affect performance so crashes are more Daytona than Dirt, with impacts sending cars jettisoning into the air and back onto their wheels. In an offline racer it would be too forgiving but amid the knockabout nonsense of an eight-player race, it works well. And, just as the design dictates, finding yourself in last place isn’t a death sentence – pulling a show-stopping drift in the last corner is sometimes enough to tip the points in your team’s favour, adding tension to every finish.The structure of the game doesn’t bully you into organised group play. You can just dip in and out and join ad-hoc teams of strangers for quick racing bouts, there are also asynchronous speed challenges for friends who can’t quite manage to get online at the same time. But committed players, can set up a club, start recruiting the best drivers hand then enter theTerritory Wars mode, a ranked global competition. Here race winners gain control of the event location displaying their livery and logos all over the track, which will then be visible to very other club competing there. This also opens access to the local Clubhouse, a sort of fancy 3D apartment where team mates can socialise with other players, and extra features can be unlocked. Information on this is vague right now, but Slightly Mad is promising to elaborate later in the year.Added to all this is a range of badges that players earn for various achievements within the game; these can be quick skill-based wins or specific longer-term goals, like driving 400 miles in a Ford car. Players will be able to compare these with friends and display them in a dedicated home garage space. There’s also a multiplayer ‘Airfield Playground’ location, a sort of vehicular take on the skate parks in the old Tony Hawk games where drivers can just turn up in their cars, socialise and use the obstacles to pull daft tricks and stunts.Monoca, one of the three confirmed cities from the game.Races take place in a variety of real-world locations. It looks like there will be at least three cities in the initial launch – Moscow, Monaco and London – all modelled in the sort of painstaking detail we’ve come to expect from high-end racers. According to Tudor, the development team actually went to live in each location for several weeks, exploring the street layouts. “You’ll often find short cuts and little roads that you wouldn’t have noticed on Google Maps,” says art director, Darren White. “Or you’ll see a view or vista that would make the game look better. We went for iconic cities, but also ones that could offer interesting variations in gameplay. Moscow has slightly wider roads, London is tighter with sharp turns. We created white box prototypes of each circuit first and then just constantly play tested them to get the best routes.”Although Slightly Mad wouldn’t confirm it, the range of locations is likely to take in rural and off road areas. Certainly, one of the vehicle-specific challenges is SUV racing, which surely won’t be wasted in a city setting – unless it involves a competitive school run in Chelsea. It seems players will be able to freely select events set all over the globe, but it does’t look as though events themselves will have open-world elements, unlike Ubisoft’s promising next-gen racer, The Crew. Also, races will be confined to discreet server sessions, with four-vs-four team races – although later updates may add numbers.Only a handful of car models have been confirmed so far: the McLaren 12C, Mercedes SLS, RUF Coupe (effectively a modified Porsche Cayman) and Camaro SS, although a Pagini Huayra appears among the screenshots. The team is promising a range of options from standard street cars to high-end exotics; we can also expect some retro treats and location-specific models too.Close up on a couple of the lush super cars. Players will be able to display their vehicles and driving 'Badges' to other competitorsSlightly Mad is also being guarded on how its payment model will work, although it looks like it’ll be at least partially about customising car appearance rather than performance. “Free-to-play has had a bad rep over the last few years because developers use it as a psychological skinner box, to just automate the extraction of money from people’s bank accounts, “ says producer Peter Morrish. “We’re not like that. We love games, we’re not cynical, we’re not pay to win, or even pay for an advantage. We want to have a structure where fans can pay for what they want to pay for.” I mention the Gran Turismo model, where you can fork out $140 for a rare Jaguar. “We don’t do any of that,” he says.So an arcade-based massively multiplayer racing sim, just for PC and due out later this year. It’s an ambitious concept for a studio already testing new ground with its Project Cars initiative. Interestingly, too, the company hasn’t gone for a traditional publisher – instead World of Speed is being backed by mobile communications giant my.com, which claims to have a global community of 100m customers. Mainstream British development has suffered over the last five years as the traditional giants, EA and Activision, have closed studios and moved away. It’s all about finding new ideas and fresh routes to market these days.If all the components fit together, if its payment model suits the pockets and tastes of its target players, World of Speed could be a very interesting prospect. A beta will start in the spring – we’ll know much more then. But on ambition alone, this project does justice to the grand heritage of racing games from which it has emerged.• World of Speed is due for release on PC this year.
France’s privacy watchdog got more than it bargained for when it forced Google to display a link to a privacy judgment against the search engine on its front page: the traffic crashed its servers after the link was added to the Google.fr site over the weekend.The link, to theCNIL’s decision in which it fined Google €150,000as part of a long-running dispute with the US company over its privacy policies, was prominently displayed on Google’s French site below the main search box.The CNIL - the National Commission on Informatics and Liberty - is the equivalent of the UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO), with responsibility for implementing the European Union’s data protection laws in France.“Press release: the CNIL has fined Google €150,000 for violating the law on “information and freedoms,” said the notice. “The decision can be accessed at the following web address,” it said, providing a link.The CNIL had demanded that the notice stay on the site for two days. Google first posted the notice on Saturday, but the search engine’s huge user numbers meant that thousands of people clicked the link to read the decision - overloading the CNIL servers.CNIL has objected to Google’s method of combining data collected on individual users across services such as YouTube, Gmail and social network Google+. Its new data storage model began in March 2012, combining the privacy policies of 60 services into one policy, and giving users no opportunity to opt out.The web giant appealed against the CNIL’s fine last month as well as the order to post a notice of the sanction on its google.fr homepage for 48 hours. Google specifically asked the Conseil d’Etat, France’s top administrative court, to suspend that order while it re-examines the case.On Friday, the Conseil d’Etat ruled that there was not enough urgency nor proof of damage to Google’s reputation to warrant such a suspension. This meant Google had to post the CNIL’s decision on its French homepage even while it keeps fighting it in court.“We’ve engaged fully with the CNIL throughout this process to explain our privacy policy and how it allows us to create simpler, more effective services,” a Google spokesman told Reuters in an e-mailed statement. “We will comply with the order to post the notice, but we’ll also continue with our appeal before the Conseil d’Etat.”Spain, Britain, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands have also opened similar cases against Google, arguing that its privacy policy breached local rules protecting consumers on how their personal data is processed and stored.The CNIL explanation of its imposition of the fine says that “the company does not sufficiently inform its users about the conditions and purposes of processing data” and that “it does not set retention periods for all data process” and that “it allows, without any legal basis, the combination of all the data it collects about users across all of its services”.Google has previously been told to post a similar statement about a judgement against it in Belgium in 2006 relating to newspapers. In that case it was required topost the content of a ruling - though not a link - for five daysor face a fine of €500,000 per day. Google complied.•Google’s robot army in action
