The battle for subscription music services kicks off on Tuesday when RealNetworks is expected to announce plans for a European version of its RealOne service.No disrespect to BT Openworld, which started trials of the UK's first online music subscription service late last year. However, BT's offering is still limited to classical music. While RealNetworks has yet to list its "content partners", the American version offers a wide range of music and video, not to mention MLB, or Major League Baseball.European users have had a long wait for this kind of offering. Partly this may have been due to wrangling over rights with the music labels, who do not seem to be very flexible in the way they carve up the world market. Another factor has been the time taken to build an infrastructure to deliver broadband content. However, we know this has been done: Real's network is already being used to pump Big Brother 3 over the net.Although Americans now have a choice of subscription services - including MusicNet, in which Real has a substantial shareholding, and Pressplay - Real's RealOne seems to have been by far the most successful. The company claims more than half a million subscribers. BT Openworld's head of music strategy, Ben Drury, is enthusiastic about his company's music service."The conversion rate &#91;of trial subscribers signing up for the full service&#93; has exceeded expectations. People have been blown away by the fact that it's a new and innovative service that really exploits broadband connections," he says, but he doesn't divulge subscriber numbers. Broadband's slow progress has obviously been a drawback in the UK, but Drury is bullish about that, too. Take-up "is starting to accelerate dramatically," he says.BT Openworld Classical costs &#163;7.99 a month for which users can stream audio and download 10 files a month in either Windows Media Audio (WMA) or MP3 format. Drury says WMA's digital rights   management features are not being used, so people can play files as often as they like, transfer them to MP3 players, or burn them to CD. Pop music rights may be more restrictive.  In the US, for example, RealOne Music - which seems to be a version of MusicNet, priced at $9.95 a month - limits you to 100 song downloads a month, and 100 streams.However, you cannot burn files to CD and, worse, they expire after 30 days. It costs you another download credit every month you hang on to a track. BT Openworld expects to have a competitive offering this year, though Drury is not ready to reveal when it will be up and running. "The big one this year will be aimed at the mass market," he says. "It will include anything from dance to rock to hiphop - you name it."He agrees that the Dot.music website, which BT Openworld bought this spring, "would be the perfect vehicle for us to launch the service". A sports service is likely to follow and, eventually, users will be able to subscribe to bundles of services in a way similar to satellite TV channels. The problem, of course, is that the people most likely to pay for an online music service are the ones who are already getting all the music they need from file-sharing services such as Audiogalaxy and KaZaA, which have taken over from Napster.What's more, many of these services also provide access to video and other content - blockbuster movies, TV programmes, electronic books and pornography. And because these files are shared in formats with no copyright protection, users can do whatever they like with them. The online subscription services may provide better quality; they certainly provide more consistent quality, and a more convenient service.Against that, they provide a much smaller range of titles - because not all of the music labels support all the services - and much less flexibility in the way files can be used. Are the advantages worth &#163;7.99 or &#163;9.99 a month?You decide. Things might be different if the music majors could stop users from "ripping" CDs to create their own MP3 files, and if they could drive the file-sharing services out of business. Attempts at copyright protection, digital rights management and lawsuits by the American recording industry are part of a long-term fight to tip the balance their way.
Young hot teens 4U! I get several such messages in my Hotmail inbox on a daily basis, along with opportunities to increase the size of my penis and acquire university diplomas. Without the mail filter Hotmail introduced, I'd be deleting more than 100 pieces of spam a day. Is this the future for email? Will we be spending vast amounts of time and money dealing with unwanted, often offensive, email marketing?Not if MEPs have anything to do with it. The European Parliament has been debating how to legislate for the internet for a long time. Several important decisions were made last week under the privacy and electronic communications and data privacy directive, seeking to define acceptable email marketing activity. One was that it will become illegal for EU companies to send unsolicited emails to prospective customers unless they have previously agreed to receive   them. Emails sent to existing customers will have to contain an "unsubscribe" option.A stake driven through the heart of the spammers? No more "hot teens" in your inbox? That was the laudable intention, but it's unlikely to be the case. The more dubious practitioners who send out millions of random emails are mainly based outside the EU.However, collecting email addresses to compile a database for email marketing without making people aware that this is the intention will become a thing of the past. Such practices as obliging everyone that visits a site to provide an email address before allowing access, using webcrawler software to trawl the net for email addresses and prize draw emails that the more gullible forward to mates, offering their email addresses in the process, will be outlawed. So there should be a decline in untargeted, but genuine unsolicited offers in your inbox.Industry opinion about the new ruling is divided. The Direct Marketing Association  has long lobbied for a regulatory system that mirrors the practice for direct mail and telemarketing. This is an "opt out" process. People who do not wish to receive promotional mail or telemarketing register their details on a central suppression database. Regardless of how their lists of prospect names have been collected, companies can stay within the limits of the law (and avoid offending potential   customers) by removing the names that appear on the suppression database from their campaigns."It would be much better to have an opt-out regime so everybody knows that if you're going to do an email marketing campaign, you have to clean the list against the register," explains the DMA's Robert Birskovski. He feels that small businesses, in particular, will be disadvantaged. Although most large corporations already work under an opt-in regime for cross-selling other products and services, he believes that small entrants who want to build new customer bases by buying or compiling email prospect lists will be handicapped.However, the Email Marketing Association, which represents email list brokers, marketing agencies and email marketing application providers, is delighted.Co-chairman Christopher Combemale says: "Often legislators don't properly understand the businesses they are legislating for. But in this case they got it right. For email marketing to be effective for marketers, and for customers to be protected, the concept of 'opt in' is very important. Properly targeted offers to consumers who wish to receive them will be more effective and will continue to generate high response rates."Combemale refutes the idea that smaller businesses will be disadvantaged: "If you want to buy names from third-party list owners, opt-in   lists are at a slight premium to opt-out lists - but there's a reason. Opt-in lists generate higher response rates: you're sending people offers in categories they have said they're interested in."So for small businesses using prospect lists bought from brokers for email marketing campaigns, costs may increase but response rates should improve. Those that have relied on the casual collection of email addresses from people visiting websites will be disadvantaged. Once the new ruling becomes law, they will have to provide opportunities for people to agree to receive promotional emails before adding their name to a prospect list.While the DMA's concerns focus on small businesses, the new EU ruling ultimately had the consumer in mind. The decision, however, looks flawed. Opt out is much more straightforward. If your telephone number or address is registered and someone calls or mails you, they are breaking the law. You can easily seek redress.The problem with opt-in is proving who has opted in for what. If you agree to a company sending you emails promoting its products and those of "carefully selected" third-party companies, have you any idea from who you will end up receiving emails? Once you've given your consent to half a dozen companies, you could end up getting offers from just about anyone. And those hot teens will still be lurking in your inbox.
Video playA colleague has sent me a video (an .avi file) but an error message says I'm missing a DIV3 decompressor so I can't view it. Other .avi files haven't been a problem in the past, so why the change?Jon BunchBearstedJack Schofield replies:When a video file is created, the sound and video information is compressed to save space. This is done using a codec - short for compressor/decompressor. There are dozens available, including Cinepak, Intel's Indeo and Microsoft's Video 1. The catch is that you need the same codec (or a compatible codec) to play back the video as was used to compress it. This is not usually a problem because Windows Media Player can often download the codecs it needs without human assistance, if they are on Microsoft's website. In this case, you need a DivX codec, which you can download from theDivXwebsite.You could play a DivX 3 movie with the DivX v3 or, better, v4 codecs, but as far as I can tell, DivX has removed these, leaving the new v5 as the only alternative. Unfortunately, v5 is not available just as a codec, but lumbers you with another media player you can't easily uninstall. If you search the web for DivX412Codec.exe or   DivX411Codec.exe you should be able to find a copy.When playing an avi file in Windows Media Player, select File|Properties and click on the Advanced tab. This will tell you which filters are in use: in this case, probably a DivX Decoder Filter and an Mpeg Layer 3 Decoder. Selecting one of these and clicking Properties should tell you the type and source of the codec, and may also allow you to adjust the output. This is useful because if someone else can play a video clip, they can tell you you need to play it too.More TrojansI ran the Blackcode scan for Trojans mentioned last week, and was concerned to get a warning: "The scan detected one or more open ports used by trojans. However, it may be possible that those ports are opened becouse &#91;sic&#93; of another application and not by a trojan. Please make sure that you know why is that port opened. If you are not sure, we recommend you to use a local antivirus program." How bad is this, and how come Norton Anti-Virus has not picked it up? I have used Zone Alarm since being on the net and have scanned all software.Stephen LuckJS:Statistically, you are unlikely to have a Trojan, but if you are running the Zone Alarm firewall then you should have no open ports that could allow hackers to connect to your PC. Look through the list of programs inZone Alarmand make sure you know what they all are and what they are doing. (For example, port 25 is usually used to send email to an SMPT mail server, and port 80 to access web pages.) If you can't find out, block them and see what happens. You may also get more information by running a check atHousecallor another onlineTrojanchecker. Most anti-virus checkers do a good job of finding Trojans, but Norton (NAV) and AVG are not among the best according toHackfix.Under ProtextFor years I have used Protext v.6.53, a DOS word processor that is no longer supported. I recently changed to a Brother HL-1440 laser printer for which Protext does not include a driver. Does anyone know of a Protext driver for the HL-1440, or is there a program to convert Protext files into Word files without losing formatting?Michael MillerSheffieldJS:Probably the best person to ask is Brian Watson atProtext Software, which still sells the program. Otherwise, you can convert Protext files very easily, since it can save files in Microsoft's RTF (Rich Text Format) file format.Icons offHow can I remove unwanted icons from my desktop?Jos HarrisJS:You can remove most icons from the Windows desktop simply by picking them up   with the mouse and dropping them in to the Recycle Bin. The icons with arrows are only links or shortcuts, so binning them has no effect on the applications or files themselves. If you have files saved on the desktop (no little arrows) and want to keep them, open Windows Explorer and drop them into My Documents or another convenient directory.F1 stopDo you know of any way to prevent the F1 key from firing up the Excel help system? I've managed to disable F1 in Word, but this eludes me.Ewan BennettJS:You can disable all sorts of things with security programs such as Secure Desktop but I don't expect you will want to pay $195 for it. Perhaps a reader will help us with a cheaper alternative. Otherwise you could try a low-tech solution, such as putting a red sticky label on the F2 key you really want to hit.Check outOn my hard drive I have a considerable number of files labelled File0030.chk or similar. What are these files, and is it safe to delete them? Most seem to be leftover fragments of documents I edited some time ago, though some consist of unintelligible gibberish.John DaviesCardiffJS:When Windows runs Scandisk or Checkdisk, typically after a crash, you get the option to convert any spare bits of file or "lost clusters" into files of that type, so that you can try to recover any lost work. You can delete them.Backchat&#183;Not spooky! A couple of dozen readers were kind enough to point out that the North American speaker saying "I can hear you!", mentioned by Jane Joy last week, came from a pop-up advert forSpy Hear, not from an intruder. Alan Pittwood from Loughborough University was first to provide the address of the sound file. Simon Briggs added that "Spyhear.com is a division ofLion's Pride Enterprises, which ownsTwistedhumour.comfrom which you can download  a humorous piece of spyware. Ironically, they also sell a pop-up stopping application." My ignorance was, in this case, the unforeseen consequence of blocking pop-ups and sound files with Proxomitron.&#183;Terry Bloomfield says he has got rid of the Freeserve branding of Internet Explorer "by deleting the source files from C:\Program Files\ Internet Explorer\Sign Up".&#183;The address for Henri Leboeuf's website was printed incorrectly last week because of a Mac font problem. The correct address iswww.generation.net/~hleboeuf.
What is the best way to fence stolen goods? TryeBay.
So this is what we've been waiting for: a mobile phone that can smoothly take, send and receive photos. If that's the aim, then the Sony Ericsson T68i has accomplished it - making this handset the one the kids should be crying out for this Christmas.But beware of the costs. Off the shelf, the T68i is &#163;279, with the CommuniCam camera attachment another &#163;99 - or you can get the package for &#163;199 along with a T-Mobile contract.That's not the end of it: the ability to send pictures will cost another &#163;20 a month on T-Mobile, for roughly 350 of the handset's screen-sized shots, and fewer larger-sized photos. The T68i is an upgraded version of the tasty T68, the unique selling point here being the CommuniCam, which snaps on to the end, and shows streaming views on the handset's colour screen.A click on the phone's tiny central joystick ("joystub" is more accurate) takes a snapshot, which can either be saved or sent, via multimedia messaging service (MMS) or email as a JPeg file.Sending pictures to a similar phone is obviously the most fun - this has the potential to replace SMS for the teenage nation's "r u there?" message of choice. To older phones, the MMS arrives as a text message, pointing users to a website and login, where they can view the photo.There's a great novelty value in being able to send photos so easily, which may wear off. But it is great fun in   the meantime, and as more handsets support MMS, the more ubiquitous these will become.The only caveat is that the CommuniCam feels fragile, and requires a disconcertingly rough push to dock it with the handset. But it does come with a cute little cover to protect the lens.Like its predecessor, the T68i supports GPRS, infrared and Bluetooth. Its SyncML capacity lets users synchronise contacts over the air, which makes setting up the new phone simple for personal digital assistant users.The phone carries one of the first Wireless Application Protocol (Wap) 2.0 browsers available, with support for XHTML (Extensible Hypertext Markup Language). Its wireless transport layer security class 3 provides for safe mobile commerce transactions.The Trium 110 is an attractive dual-band, pocketable phone, which, at 90g, is lighter than its immediate predecessors and now comes with a built-in antenna.For the youth market, the main attraction will be enhanced messaging, downloadable games and its 30 embedded melodies includ ing 10 polyphonic ringtones. They include classical tunes as well as melodies from Carmen or the Four Seasons. But, beware, you may not know if your phone is ringing, or whether you are still hanging on for a call centre.It has a good hands-free mode, can send messages with images and store up to 250 names. Its pre-pay price is expected to be &#163;99, and the recommended retail contract price should be &#163;9.99.
Final Fantasy XPlayStation 2 	&#163;44.99  Squaresoft/Sony 	***Unfortunately this won't be the final Final Fantasy. Not that this 10th instalment is bad, but the flaws inherent in the role-playing series are still all too apparent. Unskippable cut-scenes, cloying dialogue and heavily linear progression are just some of the problems, and although fans of the series - and there are many - will be pleased by some stunning visuals, the rest of us expected a bit more from the first FF game on PS2.Cosmetically, there are improvements. The graphics are well animated and full of variety, and Squaresoft still produces the best in-game cut-scenes in the business. But although these non-interactive storyboards are initially stirring, the fact that you can't skip them means boredom soon sets in. Then there is the spoken dialogue, a first for   the series. Plot is essential to Final Fantasy but due to poor vocal acting, much of the power of the story is lost. But there are some enjoyable elements. With progress, made by battling enemies, gaining experience points and new skills, managing the interplay among team members becomes enjoyably crucial. The turn-based combat can be engrossing, with battles taking more than half an hour.But there are still too many random battles and arduous boss characters placed after movie sequences. This is a massive game and, for those willing to persevere, there is plenty to see and do, with Squaresoft making it easier for newcomers. But by updating only the graphics and ignoring the series's myriad flaws, Final Fantasy X has to rate as a disappointment. (GH)Next Generation TennisPC, PS2,	Game Boy Advance 	&#163;19.99/&#163;29.99/&#163;24.99 Wanadoo		****With Wimbledon fast approaching, publishers are scrambling to get tennis games into the shops, and obscure French outfit Wanadoo has won this year's race. Next Generation Tennis is a competent, if unspectacular, effort that should satisfy tennis lovers.Bristling with game modes (including Training, which lets you bash balls against a    wall or hone your skills against a serving machine), it does not manage to produce such exciting-looking play as Sega's classic Virtua Tennis, which completely eclipses any real tournament play in these biff-bang days. But it does compensate by allowing two people to play doubles co-operatively, or for one   person to play doubles with a computer partner. As you progress through the various modes and earn ranking points, you unlock several top-line players (England's eternal hopeful Henman is available from the start). Graphically, Next Generation Tennis is pretty nice-looking in a high-contrast, texture-free manner, and all the requisite crowd response and atmosphere-generators are present and correct. Gameplay-wise, the control system is commendably easy to learn, but serving is too automated, so it is difficult to come up with either aces or double faults.Of the three versions on offer, the PC offers the best graphics - although, as sports games always seem more fiddly and less appealing on the PC than on consoles, the PlayStation 2 version makes most sense. The Game Boy Advance version, meanwhile, is a little gem, with great graphics and the ability to get you hooked more or less instantly. Not an all-time great, but a solid, middle-ranking pro that won't let you down. (SB)The PartnersPC	&#163;29.99 Monte Christo Games	***It's rare to find a PC games chart that doesn't include at least one title from the gaming phenomenon that is The Sims and its numerous offshoots. There seems to be no end to the hydra-like franchise and, judging by the sales figures, no desire among the gaming masses for the demise of the dollhouse-style simulation. With that in mind, it takes a brave developer to even consider encroaching on such well-established territory, but that is exactly what Monte Christo Games is attempting to do with The Partners.In The Sims, you mainly control the home and social lives of your characters, rather than their time at work, but The Partners lets you take over the working lives of a group of lawyers and juggle   the political and sexual machination of a busy office. If you think of it like a sim Ally McBeal, you're about 90% of the way there. Unfortunately, the characters in Partners don't see dancing babies, or break into spontaneous dance routines.The idea is to balance building up the office and winning cases, with objectives such as getting characters to fall in love or not fall in   love, or making sure they don't get caught in the closet with the intern. The animation is rather clunky in places and you'll need to download the latest patches to smooth out some of the bugs. However, there's enough tongue-in-cheek humour and general voyeuristic gameplay to satisfy Sims' fans while they're waiting for their next expansion fix. (RP)
Mobile phone manufacturers are supposed to be laying off staff, but no one has told Sendo. Maybe it is because it is based not in the mobile heartlands of Scandinavia, but in Birmingham. Sales are doubling annually and next month it launches its long-awaited Z100, which is the world's smallest "smart" phone combining fast net access in colour with the functions of a personal digital assistant (PDA).It is also the first phone to use Microsoft's mobile phone software, giving it access to the usual Microsoft services such as Word, Excel, etc, and synchronisation to PCs via a docking station (or over the air).But make no mistake, this is a mobile phone with a PDA built into it and not the other way round, like the new generation of Palms and Handsprings that have phone functions added to a PDA. Amazingly, it weighs only 99g, yet packs in an awesome number of features, including a large screen (for a   phone) and the best 3D games graphics I've seen on a phone. Among the large number of games in the pipeline are The Untouchables Pin Ball and IdeaWorks's Rebound.It offers web browsing, Bluetooth (from September), Java and MP3 digital music files (there is an option to use Windows Media Player) and, soon, streaming video. A separate camera attachment will be available using the screen as viewfinder. It will be launched in Britain in August but overseas next month.It can receive email, including POP3, and offers secure access to office emails behind your own corporate firewall. It does not offer instantaneous delivery of emails (like the Blackberry) but can be set to contact your email box, say, every half hour, to download waiting mail. The price is likely to be between $400 (&#163;274) and $1,000 (&#163;685), depending on operator subsidies and accessories.I had a brief test last week   with a pre-production model. If it works as claimed, then it could make quite an impact. The colour definition was much better than the Trium Eclipse, the current trend setter, and web browsing was impressive on the occasions we got through. The failures, unsurprisingly, were put down to the continuing network problems with GPRS - which is still optimistically advertised as being "always-on" to the web.Unsurprisingly, given the links with Microsoft, which has a 5% stake in the company (the management and employees own 60%), the Z100 is being aimed at the corporate market, but consumers will be targeted at Christmas.It invites obvious comparisons with Nokia's 7650 multimedia camera-phone (Online, June 6) and also with the Nokia Communicator. Sendo claims that even with its camera attachment it is lighter than the 7650 and has much more memory.   It is well under half the weight of the Communicator but doesn't have the latter's widescreen and typeable keyboard (though a foldable add-on keyboard will be available).Success will depend on whether corporate buyers prefer a lightweight pocketable phone to the bigger screen and heavier weight of the PDAs. Sendo, which hopes to sell at least a million in the first year, clear.y thinks it is on to a winner.If it is, then Sendo may evolve from being an interesting niche player into a serious competitor. Sendo - still barely two years old - is a "second generation" mobile manufacturer along with Pogo (also British). If they both succeed, we may have a British renaissance on our hands.Sendo has developed a distinctive business model. It has a staff of around 300 in Birmingham (including 180 engineers) and farms out manufacturing to subcontractors. The Z100 will be made by Celestica at Kidsgrove, less than an hour's drive away, and sold through co-branding deals with operating companies. Although it   only started producing last June, it claims to be near profitability already.How is it possible to make phones in Britain with the strong pound and the high cost of labour compared with the Far East? Ron Schaeffer, head of product strategy and planning, says that the assembly line is so automated that labour costs don't make much difference with such high value products.Sendo admits that its fast expansion is from a low base and that it doesn't even appear on the radar screen of the statisticians monitoring global market shares. It hopes to sell between 2m and 4m phones this year. This number is small compared with the 400m to be sold worldwide.But it is an impressive achievement for a UK company at a time when there is worldwide retrenchment. It can scale up production very quickly to meet increased demand. A lot will depend on the reception the Sendo gets and whether the GPRS problems can be sorted out. If they are, then we will be hearing a lot more about Sendo in future.
Kangoo Trakka. Cool name, huh? I bet it took the branding team at least one working breakfast to come up with such inspiration. What it is supposed to tell you is that those design guys at Renault can really think outside the box, that they are willing to push the envelope, be radical, daring... witty even. So now you will appreciate that the Kangoo Trakka is the latest thing in funky, left-field conceptuality, because it is a wacky hybrid between a mini-people-mover and a sports utility vehicle.Except that it's not. It is actually a small delivery van with a 4x4 transmission bolted on and the panels knocked out to be replaced by windows. And once you know this, instead of rushing out to buy one because the name's so cute and cuddly, you might pause to ask why anyone would want an all-terrain bread van. Unless, of course, you happen to be planning to open a bakery at the bottom of a ploughed field, in which case look no further.Along with the Citro&#235;n Berlingo, the Kangoo Trakka (I'm not sure how many times I can bear to write that; it might have to be "KT" from now on) belongs in that regrettable vehicle category of "the fun car". I don't know - maybe it's me; perhaps I am just a grinch - but there is something terribly un-funny about the fun car concept. The fun car is like the person, usually a complete stranger, who catches you frowning and says, always in that aggressive way, "Cheer up! It might never happen." Which, presuming you have failed to respond appropriately to their charitable intention, is followed by, "Wassamattawivuven? You lost your sense of humour?" And that is my problem with fun cars - they make me lose my sense of humour completely.The first joke I failed to find hilarious is that the driver has a grab handle immediately above and to the right of the steering wheel. This was certainly a novel position for it, and, I hope, gratuitous, because you do not really want to contemplate what kind of manoeuvre could be occurring that would cause the driver to let go of the steering wheel and grab this instead.Clearly, if you were a passenger at that moment, you would want to bale out. In which case the sliding rear doors might aid a speedy exit. And the huge area of open roof available once the vinyl covering is peeled back might be useful. It is also handy for doing Popemobile impressions on a tight budget (another grab rail thoughtfully provided for the purpose).The driving position is very upright, a dead giveaway of the Kangoo's humble commercial origins. Inconveniently, the pedals are set very high, and the clutch especially has huge travel, so driving around town is a bit like riding a pogo-stick. The gearbox has a squidgy consistency that makes gear shifts feel like stirring congealed rice pudding. And while it is unfussy to drive, the little 1.6-litre, 95-horsepower petrol engine feels barely adequate to the task. With a full complement of people and clobber, the KT might struggle up hills, I suspect. No fun at all.On the other hand, since you are travelling slowly, the views are good: there is more glass in this Renault than you will find in a medium-sized Sir Norman Foster building. The interior is reasonably well-equipped for its price range, with electric mirrors and windows, and three-point seatbelts for all rear passengers. For them, there is also an astonishing amount of headroom: the KT could comfortably seat three eight-footers in the back - provided they all had weirdly short legs. If, as seems likely, the KT will spend more time carrying kids than aliens, then you should definitely pack their badminton rackets for long journeys: there's plenty of room for a high lob.The steering is light and wieldy for parking, and the turning circle must be nearly as tight as a black cab's. The KT seems, in fact, to think it is going to be one when it grows up, because when you pull away the central locking activates automatically, just as it does in a black cab. In its dreams, however, the KT is a Boeing 747. You can tell by the overhead luggage lockers above the back seats. But there the fantasy ends: there was no sign, sadly, of a drinks trolley; nor, thankfully, of any life jackets under the seats.It is all mildly amusing, but I'm still feeling I don't get it. Why would anyone opt for this oddball when instead they could have the clever and appealing 4x4 version of the best-selling Scenic, the RX4?Well, there is the money, of course (a &#163;4k price differential). But that is not the point. Renault is craftier than that. I think it has found a new market niche: the "reluctant taxi-driver parent" - the hapless mum or dad who is forever ferrying their progeny round half the county for football practice, riding lessons, school discos and the like. And then, before you know it, they are 17 and want to learn to drive themselves - in your car. Life, eh?Well, here is the genius of Renault's "fun car": buy a Kangoo Trakka and instantly half those journeys will be cancelled; likewise the ghastly business of familial driving lessons. Just imagine: will Jemima really be willing to be seen arriving at the gymkhana in this 4x4? Uh-uh.What it does is brilliantly exploit kids' sense of shame at how naff their parents are. Owning a Trakka, for them, would be like having a dad who wears sandals with socks. You think I'm kidding?&#183;Giles Smith is away.
Forgive the self/Guardian linking, but there's lots been going on in the UK privacy arena in the last day or two that's worth a look.Stand.org, the pressure group which fought the Regulation of Investigatory Powers bill back in 2000, has reformed, this time to battle against ahuge increasein the number of organisations which can demand detailed information on how, when and with whom you are communicating. Everyone from local council bigwigs to Consignia (or the Post Office, as we all know it) can demand the information. As Stuart Millar reports today, Downing Street isdefending the move, but the proposalsgo much furtherthan any other western government has dared, thus far. And here'san interesting pieceon how Patricia Hewitt and Harriet Harman, once both fierce civil liberties campaigners, are now part of the government coming up with this Orwellian legislation.
For the last four years two privacy watchdogs, the Electronic Privacy Information Centre and the London-based Privacy International, have produced a worldwide survey of privacy and human rights.The last edition was produced in September of last year, but almost as soon as it was published its contents were rendered out of date. The September 11 terrorist atrocities radically altered views towards privacy and surveillance.The next survey will show, around the world, a shifting of the dividing line between what citizens of many countries can expect to remain private, and what governments want to be able to find out.But the news in the UK this week that surveillance powers are to be handed to a host of government departments and other groups takes the use of data retention - the keeping of detailed information on how and with whom we are communicating - to a level not seen anywhere else in the world.The new UK proposals would allow bodies ranging from the Home Office and local councils to Consignia and fire authorities to access the records.The plans have been attacked as a "systematic attack on the right to privacy" by Simon Davies, director of Privacy International.He said yesterday: "I'm not aware of any country with powers given to such a large number (or wide spectrum) of authorities."But across the world, governments are extending investigators' powers to probe their citizens' actions and movements online.Most of the other countries restrict the release of information to a handful of groups - typically, law enforcement agencies and national security agencies.Even this has been controversial in some cases. In the US, the "wall" separating domestic law enforcement agencies and intelligence agencies has been partially removed by the USA Patriot Act, introduced in the aftermath of September 11.It had been in place since the 1970s, when it was discovered the FBI and CIA had been investigating over half a million Americans during the McCarthy era.The US might be regarded as the home of the internet's libertarian spirit, but other provisions in the Patriot Act look similar to those in the UK's hugely controversial Regulation of Investigatory Powers (RIP) Act of 2000.US web users can have their surfing spied on simply if a judge is told the information that might be gleaned from the interception could be relevant to a criminal investigation.The web user need never be told what has happened, or why, and the investigators do not have to report back to the court.ISPs can even "volunteer" to hand over certain kinds of information (if not the content of emails and other communications) to law enforcement agencies without the need for court orders or subpoenas.The Act was described as "a tremendous blow" to the civil liberties of American citizens by the cyber-rights organisation, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which added that much of it had little to do with preventing terrorism, and much more to do with clamping down on domestic computer crime.Other countries have been quick to follow the US lead, and make exceptions to laws covering freedom of information and data protection.Germany has relaxed controls on the monitoring of email and bank records, and also broken down the wall between secret services and law enforcement agencies.The Australian senate is discussing large-scale amendments to its laws on telecommunications interception that would make it much easier for electronic communications to be tapped.Meanwhile, the European Parliament last week bowed to pressure from the UK government and police forces, and agreed to force internet service providers and phone companies to keep logs of their users' communications for an as-yet unspecified length of time - possibly several years.The records will allow investigators to build up a detailed picture of an individual's movements online, including which websites they have visited, the nature of internet searches they have made, and details of whom they emailed and when.This Europe-wide change of law will also erode provisions made by member states, including Ireland, which were designed to protect privacy to build confidence in e-commerce. But this week's proposed extension to the UK's RIP act will go beyond that agreed for the rest of Europe.Online activists have promised to campaign against the extension of the RIP Act's provisions, which are due to be debated on Tuesday.Stand.org, a campaigning group that fought against the original RIP Act, has been resurrected to fight the amendment.Whatever the outcome, the researchers preparing the 2002 Privacy and Human Rights survey will have their work cut out recording the sweeping changes in their field since September 11.
In those gaslit days a quarter century ago before the arrival of the internet, the Post Office owned a primitive device known to its engineers as the printermeter. It could be fixed to a phone line if subscribers complained they were being overcharged. Then it would obligingly type out details of whom each call was made to.Naturally, police and secret service officials soon latched on to the possibilities. Although a printermeter was not as voyeuristic as full-scale phone-tapping, which needed Home Office clearance, it could reveal much about a person's private life - and Post Office staff would discreetly install one on request, no questions asked.In those early days, when heavy electro-mechanical manual gear meant relatively few people were actually surveilled, there was only a single group of campaigners who made any fuss about the secretiveness and lawlessness of Whitehall. And to find them, the few journalists who took an interest in the issue had to trek into the bleak surroundings of King's Cross and bang on a locked and grubby warehouse door. Up a flight of narrow stairs, this rickety office housed Patricia Hewitt, general secretary of the National Council for Civil Liberties, and Harriet Harman, the NCCL's lawyer.Throughout the 70s and 80s, this pair of firebrands ran tenacious - and eventually triumphant - campaigns to bring the eavesdroppers under the rule of law. They frequently went to Europe, whose judges ruled against the UK in the landmark 1979 Malone case. And they went to Strasbourg   on their own behalf when it transpired that a paranoid MI5 officer had placed both their private lives under secret surveillance. In TV clips of the 1980s, both women appear railing articulately against the stupidities and character assassinations of a clumsy government which had far too many secret powers.Yet nowadays, eavesdropping opportunities have blossomed almost unimaginably. Itemised phone statements can be generated by the million at a mouse-click. Messages pass round the world's computers by email. And the mobile phone in our pocket can function like a tracking device, making an automatic radio map of each individual's travels.The entire security establishment eagerly sought to get its hands on this electronic cornucopia. It   obtained the Regulation of Investigatory Powers (Ripa) Act two years ago, to allow it. But the Guardian revealed this week that a host of other minor officials are quietly getting the same powers as the police - ranging from NHS executives to local council bureaucrats.So where are Harriet Harman and Patricia Hewitt now that we need them again? Well, embarrassingly enough, they are both members of the government perpetrating this Orwellian trick. Harman is solicitor-general, and Hewitt is trade secretary, where her own officials at the DTI now stand to get the kind of snooping rights which she once denounced.Ripa provoked scarcely a ripple when it was first published in February 2000. This newspaper, a handful of Liberal Democrats and a lone   Tory backbencher - Richard Shepherd - expressed concern. Charles Clarke, then Home Office minister, insisted that the sweeping powers were vital in the battle against criminal gangs, paedophile networks, and what he called "sophisticated international organisations" with access to the most powerful technologies. Labour backbenchers were silenced.The act authorises targeting of an individual in order, as the Home Office puts it, "to obtain a picture of his life,   activities and his associates". It also authorises the bugging of homes and cars and the use of undercover agents. It covers the interception of pagers, mobile and satellite phones and email, as well as private networks, including office switchboards.Ministers can allow many unexpected agencies to undertake covert surveillance. They include health, social security and agriculture. Those who can demand the names and addresses of all private emails now include the environment agency, the food standards agency, and the office of fair trading - anxious to keep tabs on private companies.They can intrude on behalf of that catch-all term "national security", for public safety, public health or "any purpose" specified by order by the home secretary. The very organisations which   should be called to account are thus given powerful new weapons to persecute their critics. Community groups, individual members of the public, journalists and their sources could be targeted for investigating wrong-doing such as corruption or even asking awkward questions.Victims of surveillance cannot even appeal to Labour's own Human Rights Act, which enshrines the right to privacy. Ripa explicitly prevents such appeals, stating that the only recourse for a complainant is to a tribunal - which meets in secret.Hewitt and Harman should be wriggling.The authors have been reporting on civil liberties since 1977.< A HREF="mailto:david.leigh@guardian.co.uk">david.leigh@guardian.co.uk<                                              / A >richard.norton-taylor@guardian.co.uk<                                              / A >
Charity websites are failing to recoup the money they are spending on development costs from online donations, according to a new survey to be released at the end of this month.The study of the top 500 fundraising charities found that charity websites on average raised £1,250 each a year, compared with the average development cost of £4,000.Professor Adrian Sargeant, director of the centre for voluntary sector management at Henley Management College, who conducted the research, said: "Our results indicate that the sector still has a long way to go before significant sums of money will be raised over the web."The research also found that those internet sites which offer users information are more likely to raise money. These include charities in the medical field, such as Cancer Research UK."There just aren't thousands of people out there looking for organisations to give to. There has to be a distinct reason to visit a site that is not necessarily related to making a donation," said Prof Sargeant.A few charities are making money from their internet, according to the survey, including the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, Barnardo's, and the British Red Cross.The survey also found that charities with more established websites tended to raise more money, suggesting that fundraisers were learning from their experience. The more expensive sites to develop also generated more income.Websites that allowed users to interact with the charity, for example by accessing personalised content, registering for updates or searching for information, achieved much higher returns.Higher performing sites also tended to have established links with other sites and with corporate partners. However, using an agency for site development rather than building it in-house did not increase returns.Prof Sargeant concluded: "The use of the internet is still in its infancy and in any case will only benefit those organisations who are able to offer surfers a reason to visit their site."The full report will be available at the end of this month and copies will be available from Hazel Loutsis on 01491 571454.
Nokia dealt the hi-tech sector a fresh blow as the world's biggest mobile phone maker warned that sales will fall more than expected in the second quarter.The Finnish company said that sales would decline by 2-6% instead of growing 2-7%, as previously forecast. But the maker of more than one in three mobile phones sold worldwide, stuck to previous profit estimates per share target of 0.18-0.20 euros (0.11-0.12p) compared to 0.17 euros a year ago.Nokia's much-awaited trading update deepened concerns about the hi-tech sector, which has been in the doldrums ever since the hi-tech bubble burst in March last year. In recent days, technology stocks have been pummelled by sales warnings from Intel, the world's biggest computer chip maker, and RF Micro Devices, Nokia's US supplier of radio chips.Although still the world's biggest supplier of mobile phones by far, Nokia has been hit by slowing sales after an unsustainable breakneck expansion in the mobile phone market. The mobile phone industry last year saw its first ever decline in annual handset sales and investment bank Merrill Lynch has said it expects annual sales to fall again this year and next.Nokia is also facing increasing competition from the likes of Siemens and Samsung. Nokia has been slower than rivals to bring mainstream colour-screen handsets to market while sales of new Nokia devices such as its 5510 handset with a full keyboard and built-in digital player are said to have been disappointing.The lack of attractive data services that run on so-called general packet radio service systems in Europe have also led consumers to delay upgrading their current phones.
No contract requiredFor commuters wrenched from their slumbers by the screech of Eine kleine Nachtmusik, the trials endured by mobile phone owners may seem like just deserts. For suffer they do, as soon as they sign up for one of those plaguey handsets and entrust themselves to the care of the big service providers.Not that Simon Marvin of Stockport had to sign a contract in order to be persecuted. When bills started tumbling through his letter box, he discovered that fraudsters had bought seven mobile phones from the same branch of The Carphone Warehouse using his bank details. The police didn't want to know because they claimed it was unclear who was the victim, but three of the four service providers withdrew their demands as soon as Marvin reported the crime. Not so the fourth, One2One (now T-Mobile), which ignored all Marvin's evidence, and that of a contrite Carphone Warehouse, and unleashed its debt collectors upon him. "The mobile phone companies' security is so poor, criminals don't need to steal phones in the street - they can go to a shop and buy them fraudulently with no questions asked," says Marvin.This, sadly, is not an uncommon scenario, which makes a mockery of the elaborate security details required of new phone applicants. You don't even have to lose your credit card to be stung - a transaction slip left in a restaurant, a telephone order or an internet transaction on an insecure site may be enough to furnish thieves with the information they need. Happily, a quick chat with the company rescues Marvin from the debt heavies. "We've now closed his account and erased all the details," says a spokesman three days later. "It took so long because we were waiting for the customer to send the bills back to us." (Funny that the company doesn't seem to keep copies of its own invoices).A little too directMary Wilkinson of Oxford is also being harassed for bills for a phone she doesn't own. In March last year, she was cold-called by a salesman and told she had won a mobile along with several months' worth of free line rental and calls. Before her prize could be dispatched, however, she had to supply her bank details as a security. The phone duly arrived and Wilkinson studied the accompanying blurb and found that she would, in fact, have to pay full line rental and call costs for 18 months before qualifying for her free package.She returned the phone by special delivery within the seven-day cooling-off period, had the cost of her postage refunded and congratulated herself on a lucky escape. Too soon. Her next bank statement showed that two direct debit instructions had been set up against her account by Singlepoint 4U, a company she had never heard of. Certain "reputable" companies were, her bank explained, permitted to set up direct debits without customers' permission, an iniquity Consumer faithfuls will be aware of.Singlepoint told her that it was billing her for the mobile rented from Vodafone and promptly hit her with a demand for calls made 10 days after she had returned the handset. Numerous complaints brought numerous promises that all would be set right, but the demands for ever-increasing amounts kept on coming and soon she began receiving menaces from debt collectors. Pleas to Oftel produced nothing but soothing words. It had, it told her, no legal powers to coerce Singlepoint.Oftel should be a little more courageous. Consumer fearlessly treads where it dared not and within four days Wilkinson is saved. Singlepoint says that it was not informed by the original dealer that Wilkinson had returned the phone (even though Wilkinson herself informed them of the fact in a dozen letters). It has now refunded the money debited from her account and sent her a bouquet and &#163;32 of goodwill. "We are very sorry for the delay and are currently reviewing procedures to ensure that this doesn't happen again," says a spokeswoman.Caught in a gapIf you are rash enough to register for a mobile phone, the fun starts when you try to disengage yourself. Service providers lock you into all manner of commitments to safeguard their interests, but blithely ignore their own conditions when it comes to yours.Gary Fisher of London decided to port his mobile phone number from Orange to Vodafone, but found himself disconnected prematurely. Orange admitted a mistake and gave him a temporary number while it sought to reinstate him. However, Fisher was then informed that he had requested a new 12-month contract and that the temporary number was permanent. Neat, eh? Despite numerous promises to resolve the mix-up, Orange hounded him with bills for 15 months then referred him to a credit reference agency which meant that his recent requests for new credit cards and bank accounts were turned down.After Consumer interferes, Orange comes over all contrite and sets up an investigation. It has now amended Fisher's credit records and sent an apology. This grand gesture, it fondly hopes, might restore his faith in the company.Get it writeDaniel Nunn of Banbury, Oxfordshire, thought that he had successfully terminated his account with Genie but, despite disconnecting his phone, the company decided to bill him for future months of line rental. Nunn wrote and emailed to no avail. The only response was a letter from the debt collectors threatening a horrid fate if he didn't pay up. Genie encourages its customers to contact it by email, but each of Nunn's attempts received an automated reply referring him to the website which didn't address his problem. It's helpline, meanwhile, costs 50p a minute.Guess who - or what - is to blame? The computers, of course. "When the customer tried to cancel his contract, our accounts department wasn't fully automated so there was a delay in the cancellation reaching the billing department and a new bill was generated," says a spokeswoman. "We have now got a new software system and are reviewing our response times." The innovation of a person with a pen on the end of a telephone line doesn't seem to have occurred to this communications giant.Cheque mateAfter terminating his Vodafone account, Gindo Tampubolon, of Manchester, waited serenely for his &#163;150 deposit to be returned to him. It didn't come. Eventually, he was told it had been credited to his cancelled account, and several promises to refund it to his bank came to nothing. Eventually, Vodafone claimed that a cheque had been posted and Tampubolon called to report that he had not received it. Four months later he was still waiting."We sent a cheque out some weeks ago," says Vodafone doggedly, "but clearly he didn't receive it." No, he pointed that out several times to no avail. This time, though, the company does manage to bestir itself and Tampubolon is promised a second cheque.&#183;Write to us at119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email us atconsumer@guardian.co.uk.
Apple's grammatically-challenged Think Different advertising campaign is over, after five years, and in the US it is now trying to convert Windows users. The story ran inThe Wall Street Journal[paid subscription required] which got the best quotes.(For example, Jobs saying: "We have a really good relationship with Microsoft right now. The way I look at it is, what's a few points of market share among friends?") You can readThe MercandUSA Todayversions free. As Jobs told the WSJ, "There are a lot more people out there that use Windows computers than no computers, so that's a very rich target for us." To put it a different way, Apple's turnover has halved since the launch of Windows 95, and there are already more Windows XP users than Mac users, so it has increasingly little to lose.
IBM is claiming a breakthrough in storage technology with its nanotech-based"millipede"development. There's another takehere.
Final mention of Extreme Computing (promise, at least until something else interesting rises up from it), is Danny O'Brien'scommentson the event. "Woah. I'm still a little in shock over XCOM... Even Dave [Green], who... pretty much single-handedly organised much of the show, seemed a bit dwarfed by the magnitude of what he'd done. It was all about five times bigger, and ten times weirder than I'd ever imagined it to be."
Somepicturesfrom yesterday'sExtreme Computing Conference.
Bad news for those of us into groovy wireless networking: "Other uses of the 2.4 gigahertz (GHz) band that's the home of Wi-Fi may result in such widespread interference that Wi-Fi networks won't be possible indoors or outdoors in many urban areas," reports802.11b Networking News. Very true: at home, where I've got an Apple Airport setup, we've found that our remote control farting machine doesn't work when Airport is turned on. The controller must use a frequency occupied by the (presumably much more powerful) Airport network. That means no farting fun for us, which we can live with, but things could become a bit more serious if our neighbours decided they wanted to use the Airport freqencies themselves. Now, it's squabbles over car parking and fences. In the future: arguments over radio spectrum?
Now recovering from Extreme Computing 2002 yesterday, and you'll find various accounts of the day's events atBoing Boing,PlasticbagandBen Hammersley.com. Although you probably know that, given our logs show a lot (and I meanlots) of folk coming in from those sites. So, if this is your first visit, welcome. Hope you'll come by again. As for the event itself, it was a very good show indeed. Tons of interesting stalls, some very interesting people, and if they'd called the debate in the pub across the road "consultancy" they could have fleeced a few corporations several thousand quid a head just to listen in. Biggest thing for me? The huge subculture that exists around computing, the internet and (to a lesser extent) weblogging came out to play yesterday. And it revealed itself to be evolving very quickly indeed: it has its own, well-developed literature, music, humour and politics, despite its youth (youth of participants, in the main, and youth of the movement itself). I've only experienced that kind of energy and debate in the US until now but, as observed during the lightning demonstrations by Ben Hammersley, this gathering was also very, very British in its nature. I mean: origami following on from the Dysons. And getting a respectable round of applause, too. Great stuff.
So we're blogging live from the floor ofExtreme Computing 2002in the Camden Centre, London. It's packed to capacity, and there's a myriad of bizarre stalls showing off - and selling - everything from tea towels with Google searches printed on the front toamazingly ambitious public database schemes. On stage, George and Freeman Dyson, and Tom Standage, have just blown us away with a discussion that rampaged from biotech to (nuclear powered) space flight, and now the lightning presentations have kicked off... and someone's doing an origami demonstration. Things go downhill shortly when I joinTomandBenon stage to defend blogging against charges of being "fashionable".
Times are hard at Palm. In the US, if you buy an m500, you can now get a voucher for afree m105,
The Motion Picture Association has emerged victorious from its latest battle to block online movie rentals, shutting down an Iranian film distribution service, Film88.Film88 launched in April and offered users the ability to watch major Hollywood releases as video-on-demand on their PCs for only $1 (65p). The MPA argues that such unauthorised movie streaming is a blatant violation of intellectual property rights.The MPA - whose members include major Hollywood studios such as Warner Brothers and Twentieth Century Fox - has already shut down one movie-streaming service based in Taiwan, Movie88. However the US has good ties with Taiwan and feared that a nation unwilling to cooperate with US copyright infringement charges would give free rein to pirating.That may still be true, but Film88 was hosted on Dutch servers, and the company in the Netherlands shut the site down yesterday.Film88 has promised to fight back and find another host. "We will be back online soonest possible. Regards, Film88," the site read today.In February, the president of the Motion Picture Association of America - the MPA's parent organisation - testified to a congressional committee that major studios are working to offer a legal alternative to the likes of Film88 and Movie88.Jack Valenti told the committee that the theft of American copyright is the "potential undoing of America's greatest export trade prize."He said the studios were pushing ahead with video-on-demand services despite the current lack of a mass market because the MPA believed "that 99% of the American public are not hackers. Given the choice between a legal alternative for watching movies and stealing, I believe the vast majority will choose the legitimate alternative, but only if we do not allow lawlessness to become 'mainstream'."The MPA estimates that piracy costs US studios more than $3bn (£2.05bn) each year, but that figure does not include losses from internet piracy.
There were several thousand empty seats forEngland's fantastic win over Argentina today- and part of the problem is FIFA has messed up with the technology. The servers runningFifatickets.com(Nettime server statshere) can't cope with demand for tickets. FIFAclaimthose pesky fans are (imagine!) staying logged onto the site until tickets for a particular game go on sale. So now they're logging everyone off after 15 minutes, and the site is running smoothly, right? Um... well, no.
If you're a hard-up terrorist there's no need to fork out cash for satellite photos of your favourite target.Detailed aerial photos of Aldermaston, Porton Down and scores of other potential targets are available for free over the net. The images are legal but defence experts are calling for them to be removed or banned."This is playing into the hands of the terrorists," says David Rendel, Liberal Democrat MP for Newbury, close to the Aldermaston nuclear research establishment."Anybody who is committed to making an attack will be able to get the necessary information from other sources but this is making it too easy for them. These images have to be removed. If that requires legislation then so be it but I hope that we can shame them into hiding it voluntarily."But Sean Phelan, chairman of Multimap.com, one of the free online aerial photo suppliers, says: "I don't think it's a security risk. We've taken the advice of security experts. The Ministry of Defence is not concerned about these images."Quite frankly, you would get a better view of these sites by driving up to them and taking your own photographs from a nearby hilltop. You could also get information from an Ordnance Survey map."When tested, the Multimap.com service, provided in conjunction with BT, could furnish detailed images in seconds. Surfers need only log onto BT's directory enquiries website and search for the target's telephone number. From there a "hot button" asks if you would like to "view this location". A few seconds later an Ordnance Survey map of the target pops up. Another button click produces a highly detailed aerial picture of the site.Multimap is free but other websites charge for this service - an aerial picture from GetMapping costs £45. The company says that this allows them to log who buys its photographs. This information can then be passed onto the security forces if needed. But with the free sites there is no way of identifying the person downloading the map if they were to use an internet cafe.Rear Admiral Nick Wilkinson, a defence official, says that there is no point in trying to prevent publication of such  photographs as they are available elsewhere.However, the former chairman of the Commons intelligence committee, Lord King, said such policies had been made obsolete since 11 September."All democratic societies &#91;need&#93; to really tighten up on their security. Of course they may be available elsewhere, but you don't make it easier for people."
Dan Briklin has some good thoughts on whysmall players matter on the web. He points out that while the big internet properties such as AOL/Time Warner and Microsoft have vast visitor numbers, the stats suggest most of us also spend a lot of time visiting much smaller sites. Big Media might strut about like it owns the place, but: "the numbers show that the contributions of the myriad of small players -- individuals, non-profits, and small businesses -- are crucial to the vitality of the web and its value to people."
Getting too much email? TheGood Experiencenewsletter offers a special report that might help. To summarise, they suggest you maintain an empty inbox, deleting emails after acting on them.
Consumers, not just schools, will be able to buy theApple eMacat a suggested starting price of £949 (inc VAT).
An Internetatlas of the oceans. The AP story ishere.
Even before Star Wars: Attack of the Clones had officially opened to cinema audiences worldwide, pirate DVDs of the highly anticipated movie were being offered through internet newsgroups and spam email. As a spokeswoman for Lucasfilm admitted, there is little it can do to stop anyone from smuggling in a digital camcorder, pointing it at the screen - and later burning   hundreds of copies using a DVD-R drive and a PC.No wonder, then, that when Sony released the Attack of the Clones soundtrack album in Europe, it wanted to make sure unauthorised distribution was impossible. "Will not play on PC/Mac," warn the disc's front and back covers, and sure enough, anyone trying to play it on a computer or to "rip" its tracks to their hard drive will find it difficult.If that disappoints   some of the sci-fi saga's many fans, so be it. Sony is just one of a number of major media operations willing to risk consumer disapproval to end piracy, increasingly driven by the ease with which digital media can be copied using standard PCs. The music and movie empires are striking back, and if a few personal freedoms are trampled underfoot, that's just tough."We have to take a stand against piracy," says Universal Music Group spokesman Adam Liversage. His sentiments are echoed by colleagues from Sony, EMI and Bertelsmann Music Group (BMG). They plead that their business is being decimated by commercial pirates and ordinary folk uploading and downloading music from the internet.Certainly the PC has become the 21st century's successor to the tape-to-tape cassette deck. It is capable of reproducing any digital information regardless of whether the user has the right to do so. With the internet, and CD and DVD writers, any home computer can become the basis for the mass distribution of perfect copies.Naturally, the makers of these systems enjoin users not to "steal" content - even as they're encouraged to "Rip. Mix. Burn" CDs of their own. No one can deny that products like Apple's iTunes and Microsoft's Windows Media Player have perfectly legitimate uses, but it is their power to make copyright material available to all at almost no cost that scares Sony.The International Federation of Phonographic Industries (IFPI), the representative body for the music business, estimates that one digital copy was made for every two CDs sold last year. Worldwide, album sales fell 5%. Sales of CD-R media, on the other hand, have nearly tripled since 1999.IFPI accepts that "one copied CD is not necessarily one lost sale of the original". UK CD sales were up 7% last year, and market researchers find that users of internet file-sharing services such as Audiogalaxy, KaZaA and MusicCity Morpheus tend to buy more CDs than other consumers. Even Sony's own figures show listening to music drives sales. But it is hard not to conclude that today far fewer people are buying music because they can download and burn it for free.Whatever the extent of such activity, corporate fears over lost revenue and lost control may be provoking a massive over-reaction that threatens not only piracy but legitimate uses. According to organisations such as the UK's Campaign for Digital Rights and the US-based Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), the user's right of access granted by long-established copyright laws.That is certainly the case with Sony's Attack of the Clones disc. The album may not be capable of being ripped to the net, but that's little consolation for anyone who quite legitimately listens to CDs on their computer. The disc contains extra data that stops it from operating in a PC or Mac; consumer CD and DVD players just ignore this special track, a key component of Sony's Key2audio copy protection technology.Attack of the Clones isn't Sony's first anti-rip CD. According to company communications chief Jonathan Morrish, a "dozen or so" discs have been released in the UK since last December, among them albums by Deacon Blue, Celine Dion, Shakira, Ozzy Osbourne and Roger Waters. They represent around 4% of the company's CD output.If that seems too small a figure to be a serious threat to piracy, it's because Sony is taking a cautious approach. After BMG caused controversy last year by copy-protecting Natalie Imbruglia's White Lilies Island, mainly by not telling anyone it had done so, Sony doesn't want to face the same media outcry.BMG is more open too. Its logic, that if the public knew about the test it would invalidate any attempt to determine whether the anti-rip mechanism caused problems with consumer CD players, was faultless, but problem atic. By definition, if a disc wants to meet the CD standard, it has to work on any compatible player, including PC-based units. If it doesn't, it's not a true CD. If a disc claims to be a CD and doesn't play in a compatible player, its maker is in violation of trade descriptions legislation, says Dai Davis, a consultant with IT law firm Nabarro Nathanson. Which is presumably why Sony's anti-rip discs don't sport the familiar Compact Disc Digital Audio logo.Morrish admits that anyone who uses a computer as a hi-fi will be disappointed with the Attack of the Clones CD, and adds that Sony may support PC playback if it's an issue with consumers. Key2audio includes a downloadable player application CD suppliers can offer if they wish. So far, few consumers have complained, Morrish says - a claim echoed by BMG and Universal, who put the number of returned CDs as a very tiny percentage of the millions released in Europe alone.The copy-protection technology chosen by Universal and BMG is Cactus Data Shield from Israeli encryption specialist Midbar. It too blocks ripping, but does allow PC playback through an embedded player application - though it plays back "near CD quality" compressed versions of audio tracks, not the real thing. That may satisfy some users, but others, who   have grown used to copying tracks to an MP3 player, won't be happy. That is illegal under UK and soon EU law, notes Davis, but it's a violation, made for convenience rather than criminality, that many music fans have none the less become accustomed to making with impunity.Most people would agree that is a reasonable use of copyright material, as would cracking the code protecting other media to allow protected content to be viewed on unsupported platforms. Alas, content companies have no truck with that idea. Indeed, the two defining digital rights legal cases were launched against Linux users who simply wanted to view legally acquired content on their operating system.Russian programmer Dmitry Sklyarov was arrested in the US last year after visiting the country to talk to encryption experts on how he had bypassed the code Adobe uses to protect eBook text and created a utility to extract that text. Had he been found guilty of breaking the code, Sklyarov would have faced up to 25 years in gaol, but Adobe dropped the case, and in return for testimony against his employer, Elcomsoft, the Russian was allowed to return home. Elcomsoft, however, remains in the dock for selling Sklyarov's software in the US.Sklyarov was indicted under the USA's Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), which outlaws any attempt to bypass copy-protection technology. The same law, which came into force in 2000, was used to gag a magazine, 2600: The Hacker Quarterly, for publishing the source code for DeCSS software. It was created by 15-year-old programmer Jan Johansen to copy DVDs to a hard disk to make them viewable in Linux.Johansen himself faces trial in his native Norway for his part in the development of DeCSS under the country's own anti-hacking laws. DeCSS bypasses a DVD's content scrambling system (CSS). CSS is so simple it can be broken with just seven lines of code, but that's enough for anyone to fall foul of the DMCA, whether they offer the software, publish the source code or discuss it in academia - the latter traditionally a defensible "fair use" of copyright material.Don't assume only American coders have it bad - anti-encryption technologies violate UK copyright law, according to Davis. The European Union Copyright Directive (EUCD) of May 2001 told member states they have until the end of this year to enact similar legislation.That, warns Martin Keegan of the Campaign for Digital Rights, will effectively grant content companies scope to define their own   copyright law. "Copyright law was developed to balance the rights of the content creator to an income with the needs of others to view and use that content," he says. "Encryption software protected by the EUCD, allows the music industry to write its own rules as to how copyright material may be accessed and distributed. Effectively, the market and not the public is being allowed to define what's fair use and what isn't."For example, a DVD might not play until you click an Accept button signalling you agree not to say anything bad about the disc's contents or the company responsible for it. An extreme case, perhaps, but one "encryption technology as law" makes possible, warns Keegan.And worse may come. In the US, South Carolina Democrat senator "Fritz" Hollings has proposed the Security Systems Standards and Certification Act (SSSCA), which calls for the integration of copy-protection technology in any device capable of presenting content to the consumer.The SSSCA is a long way from enactment and is sufficiently impractical to impose that it may never be put on the statute book. But that won't stop the music and movie companies from pursuing copy protection strategies. Sony plans to release more anti-rip discs in the UK.   BMG will do the same but on a pan-European basis. Universal has committed itself to protect all pop releases worldwide by the end of the year. The remaining two of the "big five" music companies, Warner and EMI, wouldn't detail their strategy, but it is hard to see them rejecting copy protection. The Association of Independent Music labels (AIM), which makes up almost all remaining UK CD sales, is exploring the technology, too.They will all need to stay on their toes. Canny PC users have already beaten Sony's Key2audio with PostIt notes, and utilities available online allow CDs to be copied binary bit by binary bit thus sidestepping the PC's error checking mechanism, which most anti-rip technologies fool into believing the CD contains corrupt data.As the Attack of the Clones DVD shows, ending piracy forever may prove impossible, but the media empire will continue to extend its copy-protection technologies to overcome PostIt note tricks and the like. And if a few established personal freedoms are trampled in order to protect corporate revenue streams, so be it.
Apple has bowed to pressure and decided to sell its low-cost eMac to consumers (previously, it was only going to education users). The eMac - with a 17-inch CRT screen it's a kind of iMac 1.5 - starts at £949, including VAT, which is not bad value at all - although you'd probably want to add some memory to thebasic configuration. This machine now looks a very good bet if you were considering the lower-end flat panel iMacs, which cost at least £300 more.
"Stick a fork in this. It's done". Version 1.0 of theMozillaweb browser was finally made available for download yesterday, with versions for Windows, Mac 9.x and OSX, Linux and others. I'm blogging using the Mac 9.x version right now, so if you're reading this then it's so far so good...
'We would start at 9am, study for the equivalent of an office day, then take a break for dinner, then have a "wrap session" in the evening". So says Andre Vaux, network development officer at West Oxford District Council about his six-day voluntary incarceration at the hands of The Training Camp UK, a US-based IT trainer that practises "accelerated learning". Vaux was one of eight people on his course who wanted to minimise time out of the office, but still get an accredited IT qualification."If you wake up at 3am in Training Camp, instead of worrying about your work, you can go into the lab and work it out for yourself," he says. "It is pretty intensive, not everyone's cup of tea at all. You need a lot of get-up-and-go."If your get-up-and-go just got up and went at the idea of spending 70 hours over six days immersed in the detail of computer networks (or 14 days of round-the-clock learning to get a Microsoft MCSE -170 hours of tuition), consider the alternative. "To do my Cisco CCNA course would probably take about 40 weeks if I was to do it in the usual way," Vaux says, "I'm always very busy, but I wanted to further my career." Vaux faced a problem that millions in the UK share: how can we acquire the right computer skills, at the right price, if our employers don't have a formal training programme? Vaux convinced his bosses to pay for his qualification, but half of his fellow trainees were paying their own way, investing their savings to earn a new career, or a promotion.Whether the training is to make you a networking professional, or simply a competent user, there's evidence that more employers then ever are relying on staff to organise their own training. A survey released last month by MORI, produced on behalf of training specialist KnowledgePool, found that we spend less time being trained at work than we spend ill in bed. More than two in five workers had received no training in the last year. As a result, 31% of workers revenged themselves on their employers: they admitted to lying or exaggerating about their skills - most frequently about technology skills.But when it comes to acquiring those skills, a significant number of employees now prefer to organise their own learning. One third still prefer to go on formal courses   organised through work, but 19% now prefer to study themselves.There are risks to organising your own training though: "Choosing courses can be very hit and miss. If you want to program in Java, for example, you choose a Java course, but that might not get you further in your career if you don't have complementary skills. It's like getting on any train that is going in the right direction, and hoping you will get to your destination.It's better to say, "I'm a   junior analyst, I want to be a senior analyst, what's the gap?" says Brian Sutton, chief educator at QA training. His company gives its students a training tool which uses the Skills Framework for the Information Age, a cross-industry framework that shows what you need to know to do every job in the IT department. "It provides a picture, like the picture on the box of a jigsaw. It's the trainee's job to put the pieces together," he says.That might be a lot of pieces: a course that says you   can program in Java doesn't show that you can work in a team of programmers for example. Sutton sees many self-funded trainees taking the cheapest courses, which they soon regret. "Training can be jolly expensive. But keeping the cost to a minimum is often a mistake."Tech-Connect is a company that combines training with practical advice on how to fund it. "Probably 40% or 50% of our trainees come to us through a &#91;government sponsored&#93; Career Development Loan," says Priscilla Kheir, a director. The loans, up to &#163;8,000, are made by Barclays, The Cooperative, Clydesdale and the Royal Bank of Scotland, and do not have to be repaid until you have finished a course and found a job: in the interim, the government pays the interest. The amount you can borrow can include the cost of books, travel - even babysitters."An advanced course might take between six and eight   months to complete, more if you have to train at weekends," she explains. "So in the nicest possible way, we are hand-holding, it's a big risk to do a course and change career." Sometimes, Kheir discourages people from borrowing money to take courses that would be too ambitious. "It's not just about getting people on to a course. It's about making sure they do well on a course."Training in basic IT skills has caused even more heartache for the UK's self-starters this year. The government's individual learning accounts scheme, by which 2.5m people applied for grants, predominantly for training in basic IT skills, was suspended in November 2001 when large-scale fraud from cowboy trainers was uncovered. Until it is replaced, many computer novices have to find our own courses, and decide which ones are worth the cash. Terry Watts, chief operating officer at cross-industry   body e-Skills UK, recommends nationally-recognised qualifications like the European Computer Driving License, which will be recognisable on a CV. 'It's hard to spot which ones matter, so in the first instance I'd go to the local college of Further Education and see what courses they have to offer,' he advises. James Golfar, development director at Internet Exchange, a network of 36 venues offering access to the internet in the UK, either based in the high street or in libraries, recommends having a long-term goal: the 40,000 people his company trained last year had access to a mentor who would create a training plan. "More than 85% of individuals who are doing IT training are doing it to get a better job _ You need a trainer who will deliver training against a clear certification route."And Henry Stewart, managing director of Happy Computers, whose trainees work for companies from Starbucks to the cabinet office, advises you not to be lured by e-learning on the internet if you are forced to train with your own time and money. "There's a lot of hype around e-learning, but you have to be pretty dedicated to make it work. E-learning works brilliantly as part of a bigger training programme, but unless you are incredibly self-motivated it's not all you need." His advice: be prepared to spend a little more, and go to a company that is accredited by the Institute of IT Training: "If it isn't accredited, you have to ask yourself why."If training yourself seems risky, expensive and time-consuming, it has one important benefit: in-house training often doesn't give you certifications that will be recognised by your next employer. Before joining e-Skills UK, Watts spent 14 years at IBM. Today, despite having been an IT director, he doesn't have a single cross-industry certification from his training.Perhaps the best route is to convince your boss to pay for your course, as Vaux did in West Oxford. At Tech-Connect, Kheir has a line that she uses on behalf of her students. "Employers worry they will train their staff, and then the staff leave. I say, imagine what it will be like if you don't let them train, and they stay."
It's been a long hard slog for Pete Spark, an entrepreneur who has been trying to raise money for revolutionary software that allows companies to assess the environmental impact of all their business decisions.The founder of Ecsponent, Spark has been trying to get funding for his idea for the past three years without much success. But now he has got a foot in the door at insurers Royal and Sun Alliance."Suddenly, people aren't thinking I'm a mad fool, people sit down and listen now," Spark says.R&amp;SA, along with a handful of corporate giants, has taken   the first steps to incorporate environmental and social factors into their business activities. R&amp;SA this year issued its second environmental and social report, setting out the company's progress in meeting targets in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, waste production and water use.Spark is working with R&amp;SA on a six-month project to create a framework that incorporates guidelines established by the global reporting initiative (GRI) in 1997. A loose-knit group that includes representatives from industry, human rights organisations, unions, and the UN environment programme, the GRI developed bottom line guide lines on social and green impact issues.As Pritchard at the R&amp;SA notes, one of the great difficulties in trying to adopt green business practices is the lack of good quality data."With a large organisation, it's much harder than I anticipated to collect comparable data," says Pritchard. "There is a lack of benchmark comparability."R&amp;SA has made a start by collecting data in several areas such as electricity consumption, gas consumption, water consumption and waste from its operations in different regions. So, for example, waste created per employee is highest in the US, 414kg/emp, and lowest in Australia, 274kg/emp. The UK comes in somewhere in between at 330kg/emp.Ecsponent seeks to take the process further by coming up with software that allows a company to quantify the environmental impact of all its business transactions."In order for a company to fully understand the environ mental impact of its economic activity," Spark explains, "that organisation needs to understand the environmental impact of all the companies with which it does business. For instance in the supply of energy services, is that energy produced renewably or non-renewably? And therefore what emissions is the 'buy-side' company culpable of as a result?"Spark believes that it is possible to come up with software that allows companies to incorporate information that would lead to "green accounting". Say an executive buys a plane ticket on company business. The purchase is done via the net and the confirmation is sent back to the company and entered into his costs. "There is no reason why that information channel can't use that data to work out the energy emission of that transaction," says Spark. "You would be able to work out the emission costs of that specific plane journey, based on the fuel it uses and the number of people travelling on it."The idea is to integrate the kind of environmental reporting that already goes on at companies such as R&amp;SA into their procurement system, so that every transaction is done though a "green goggles" perspective. Ecsponent would give away its software and then charge for verification, to see that it is installed and working properly. "We give   away the razor and charge for the razor blades," as Spark puts it.This kind of environmental accounting would not be possible without the internet, said Spark, given the vast amount of data that needs to be exchanged."Using the internet reduces complexity," he says. "By hand it would be very expensive."
Last week's unexpected vote by the European Parliament to give sweeping powers to EU governments to monitor internet, phone and email traffic has angered civil liberties groups everywhere. It will allow governments to force phone and internet companies to keep detailed records of customers' web, phone and email usage for a long time.Civil libertarians in the UK had been expecting the parliament to reject "data retention" of this kind and then to use that decision to try to overturn the UK government's unilateral moves in that direction.This is because even before the European Parliament's vote, the Home Office was planning to introduce data retention under the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act (ATCS), passed hastily in December. Since February, the Home Office has been consulting on what the rules should be.For the beleaguered telecoms industry this is a new set of legal requirements and costs. For the rest of us, data retention could turn everyone's lives into an open book."Data" means traffic data collected in the normal course of business by all communications service providers. For mobile phone companies, it includes call records and cell site data showing subscribers' movements throughout the country (and abroad, if they have roaming turned on). For internet service providers, it includes login/logout records,   web caches, email headers, and internet numbers assigned and when. It does not include the contents of email messages or specific web addresses.Even without the contents, traffic data can be extremely revealing, showing a pattern of relationships and communications that allows the authorities to build a detailed picture of someone's life.Caspar Bowden, executive director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research, says: "Records from internet logs can be matched automatically with mobile phone location records and government databases to piece together a 'jigsaw' of the most intimate details of anyone's life." Bowden and FIPR are the reason web addresses are not classed as traffic data. They argued successfully during the passage of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act that these frequently contain sensitive information such as passwords.Mr Bowden points out that, although David Blunkett claims these powers will be used against terrorism and organised crime, the law allows that even a minor incident, such as joyriding near a military base, might be linked to terrorist activity. Further, although current thinking is that the laws will apply to businesses, as broadband spreads we could all be communications providers. Even now, individuals run anything from chat servers and file-sharing systems to websites, and they all create data.The argument is that September 11 changed everything. But as far back as April 2000, there were rumours that the security services wanted communications data retained for as long as five years. A document written by the National Crime Intelligence Service on behalf of GCHQ and other agencies confirmed this when it was leaked in December 2000. The laws that passed in the first post-September 11 shock   are arguably the laws they wanted all along. One blockage against them was the European Parliament's commitment, reinforced in a vote in November 2001, to privacy. This is now gone.The code of practice for data retention under ATCS was due before the end of the current Parliamentary session. In the past few months there have been several drafts. Some require data retention for up to two years.Roland Perry, director of public policy for the London Internet Exchange (Linx), puts the overall cost to ISPs and telephone companies at roughly &#163;40m a year. That includes set-up costs and procurement (which one large ISP estimates at some   &#163;100,000), amortised costs and network redesign.It does not include subject right of access under the data protection laws, nor agency access requests. Europe's decision changes one big fear: that the upshot would be to impose costs on UK communications providers that didn't exist elsewhere. Even so, in a global market businesses may well choose to relocate outside the surveillance zone.Under the toughened 1998 data protection laws, data is to be retained only if, and as long as, it is required for business purposes - billing, for example. Exemptions are granted if there is a legal requirement.It is similar in Europe but the European Parliament's   decision overturns this part of the 1997 EU directive on privacy of telecommunications, on which our 1998 data protection laws are based. Member states are now allowed to bring in legislation to mandate data retention and law enforcement access.Under ATCS the code of practice is voluntary (with a provision to make it mandatory if after review it is necessary). So is it a requirement? David Evans, compliance manager in the information commissioner's office, says: "The Home Office seems to think it's compliant and compatible; we have doubts."The Home Office says it believes "the code works within the framework set within the Data Protection Act."Ian Walden, a consultant at Baker and Mackenzie, says he thinks the government has a case. "It's only voluntary to the extent there is no penalty. But it is a statutory code of practice." The weakening of the European Convention on Human Rights may help the Home Office's case.The key question, which no one can answer, is whether retaining the data will actually keep us safer."Personally, I think this is a disproportionate response," says Walden. "If they thought it was worthwhile before, then it should have appeared in &#91;the Cybercrime convention&#93;. I don't think law enforcement will know what to do with all this data."
Flashy KartooHardly a month goes by without someone offering a new way to search the web, but Kartoo is the most striking for years. Saying it provides a graphical representation of the results does not do it justice. It works well on names (try Bill Gates) and is fun.Kid craftSchools planning to enter the Science Museum's web design competition must hurry, entries are due by July 15. Sites must be based on real or virtual visits to the Science Museum in London, the National Museum of Photography, Film &amp; Television in Bradford, or the National Railway Museum in York. Last year's winners are on the Stem site. Schools planning to enter the digital video competition being run by Becta, Britain's educational communications and technology   agency, have until October 4 to submit entries.Kosher?Pro-Israel HonestReporting has introduced TerrorPetition. com , to back a petition calling on the media to describe Palestinian suicide bombers as "terrorists". HonestReporting has already become known for its letter-writing campaign, not least to the Guardian's readers' editor, Ian Mayes. Another way of supporting the Israel Defense Force is to send your favourite tank crew a kosher pizza. After concern that this could represent a security risk, the site says: "Our pizzas are delivered with the cooperation and permission of the security forces."Save itWhile clay tablets and papyrus stick around for centuries, digital data may last only a few years before it is rendered unreadable by advances in technology. The Digital Preservation Coalition, launched in February, is trying to do something about it. The DPC has now launched a website where you can read its useful handbook on the topic, published last year by the British Library.Final whistleA few amusing football sites didn't make it into last week's Online round-up, including Avaya's. This is the company supplying the "integrated voice and data infrastructure" to several World Cup competitions, and its site has a Funny Game selection of video clips of football mishaps.Fibonacci is offering an excellent World Cup Wallchart   of the electronic variety - it takes up screenspace but no wallspace. Unlike the Guardian's planner, it needs Windows. And for those who have a life beyond football, the European Commission wants to train you to do business in Korea and Japan.BetterWhen it worked, Amihotornot was a phenomenon and inspired dozens of sites before everyone lost interest, or moved to Pick The Hottie, which did the same thing better. If you are still looking for a couple of minutes' pointless amusement, What's Better? lets you choose between all sorts of random offerings, such as Einstein and a Moist Towelette. All you need to know: Princess Amidala is top of the pops.Toy maniaWe don't often mention nakedly commercial sites, but this one has some browse value, too. Firebox sells all those silly boys toys - tanks that fight laser wars on your   desk, indoor radio controlled airships, Duck Popper popcorn makers, and so on - that can be hard to find locally. It is accepting Father's Day orders until Wednesday noon.Google goodsGoogle has always invested in ways to make its search technology more useful, and now it has opened a sort of hi-tech playground with demos of some of the features under development. For starters, these include keyboard shortcuts, a glossary, and voice-based searching. Of course, Google is so simple that it is easy to miss the enhancements. For example, I've only just noticed that, after a search, you can click on any underlined words in the blue Web bar to look up their definitions at Dictionary.com.Text mattersThe Book &amp; The Computer has redesigned it site, and posted an interview with Alan Kay, the computer scientist who, 34 years ago, came up with the idea of the Dynabook &#91;Dynamic book&#93;. Being more focused on books than computers, it neglects to ask him about the closest thing to his vision so far: Microsoft's forthcoming Tablet PC.
The demise of the digital TV network ITV Digital and the slow take-up of digital audio services may not prove such a disaster, after all. In fact, it may pave the way for new, and more popular, data-based services using existing digital TV and radio technologies."Datacasting", as the technology is known, is not a new concept. Digital satellite viewers have been able to receive broadband internet applications for some time, and some basic text-based data services are already available to homes equipped with the latest DAB (digital audio broadcasting) devices. But thanks to advances in chip manufacturing, the possibilities of receiving high-speed datacast services via mobile products, such as personal digital assistants (PDAs), are now beginning to emerge.Last year, the DAB manufacturer Roke Manor    unveiled a DAB tuner about half the size of a mobile phone. And showing last month at the Frankfurt High End Hi-Fi Show was a portable DAB product from Imagination Technologies about the size of a matchbox.  Although both devices are intended primarily for audio purposes, both companies are looking to build the technology into PDA devices. Imagination Technologies has been working with the Cambridge-based company TTP Communications and Digital One's commercial digital radio network on a prototype PDA. DAB customers can receive these services with Psion's Wavefinder, a PC-based digital audio tuner.Matt Honey, managing    director of Unique Interactive which makes similar products, says: "We see the mobile space as the key for data services over DAB. Within the next two years, we imagine that people will be using a PDA with a built-in DAB module to access a wide range of data services on the move."  So is DAB a potential rival for 3G technology? Not really. Unlike 3G, DAB does not require a new infrastructure of transmitters. It also offers reasonably fast downstream speeds (typically between 200kbps and 250kbps). And, importantly, because bandwidth isn't shared, there isn't the likelihood of much lower access speeds as with 3G.  "Telcos are realising that DAB provides a useful way of realising services that 3G won't be able to," says Howard Quentin, chief executive of Digital One, whose products are expected include many of those that 3G is promising, such as internet access and short video clips.However, because the technology only operates in one direction (from the datacaster to the end user), it needs to be partnered with a return path technology such as GPRS or 3G for interactive applications. According to Keith Hayler, chairman of IP Datacasting Forum, 3G and DAB are natural bedfellows. "DAB offers operators enormous bandwidth within the broadcasting environment."On trial in the Isle of Man are a number of hybrid DAB/3G applications, including one that uses both technologies for internet connectivity and another that provides a music jukebox to users via a notebook com  puter. Developed by Virgin Radio and Scottish Media Group, this allows users to select a playlist using a 3G connection on their computer and to download tracks using a built-in Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB) tuner inside their PC.  Nor is DAB the only technology the IP Datacasting Forum is considering for high-speed data delivery. DVB may also provide a complementary service to 3G.In trials across Oxford recently, NTL Broadcast demonstrated that the existing digital terrestrial network - the same platform used until recently by ITV Digital - could be used for transmit ting both video and data services to a mobile screen fitted inside a car with a 10cm antenna on the roof. Meanwhile, the Finnish company Nokia recently demonstrated a prototype hybrid device that combines a 9210 Communicator mobile phone with a built-in DTT (digital terrestrial TV) tuner.Unfortunately, whether products such as these come to market lies partly in the hands of regulators. Under current UK legislation, only 10% of digital terrestrial TV spectrum and 20% of digital audio frequencies can be used for data purposes. We could be in for a long wait before datacasting really takes off.
What is 'extreme computing'?It's putting the DIY punk-rock attitude back into a hobby that's gone a bit corporate and dull. It's encouraging people to do things technology wasn't intended to do. To be honest, it's largely a load of the interesting people that we've linked to in Need to Know but never met in person - and now you can too.Part of the festival is a salute to 20 years of the ZX Spectrum - was that your first computer?Well, before that I had a flat-keyboard, no audio, black and white 1K ZX81, which made the Spectrum something of a revelation. The Spectrum was the So Solid Crew of its day - it was cheap, it was street, and made you cooler than all the posh kids with their BBC Micros.Did you have a favourite Speccy game?We've got the authors of some of the greats - Chuckie Egg, Meteor Storm, 3D Ant Attack, Wild West Hero - coming to the event, so I can't really pick favourites. But I was always a sucker for anything where you had to jump around the screen collecting arbitrary items.So is the festival going to be mostly about nostalgia?It is forward-looking too, but focusing on innovative uses of existing technologies instead of just "buy another upgrade and your life will be better". As Orwell put it, "he who controls the past, controls the future" - clearly a big fan of the Terminator films.What particularly excites you, or disheartens you, about the vision we have at the moment?The folks behind the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and European Union Copyright Directive want to outlaw anything other than officially approved music in controlled formats. Who do they think they are - the Taliban? On the plus side, we've nearly got rid of all those idiot dotcoms - just a few more to go now, and they know who they are.What's the state of net comedy?The Onion is influential - almost too influential, argues Area Man. And photo manipulation is big with the kids - Shakespeare once classified grades of satirical comment from "the quip modest" to "the reply churlish", to which we must now add "having your head crudely superimposed on the body of an animal".Anything else you're working on?Possible UK version of Electronic Frontier Foundation. Album of acoustic cover versions of synth-pop classics. Book explaining what the hell NTK was on about for the last five years.&#183;This event will be at the Camden Centre, London, this Sunday 11am to 7pm.
The relationship between high-speed internet access and the content industries remains unresolved. Will ubiquitous broadband drive the demand for premium content to fill the pipes or will it demolish content-based business models for good? To find out turn to the grown-up sector.As the take-up of broadband communications grows, one sector that   thought it would do well from the shift from low-speed to high-speed access was the "adult" sector. As has been the case since time out of mind (see, for example, the evolution of VHS video in the US), the producers and consumers of pornography have provided a laboratory for rapid technological change and its relationship to rapid evolution of business models. I can't do better than to reference the Economist, which once advised readers that "butts'n sluts.com" might be a better place to find insight into the future of web-based business models than corporate marketing departments.For the adult sector, already an experienced exploiter of the internet, moving to broadband appeared to be a no-brainer. Websites soon began to offer movies and video streaming alongside their traditional fare made up from text and pictures. Unfortunately (for the websites) the law of unintended consequences has kicked in. Now that their consumers have broadband, it has become possible for them to download the entire contents of naughty websites in a reasonable time and with reasonable convenience.On a typical cable modem or ADSL link, downloading 600Mb of website content and then burning it on to a CD might take three or four hours, but that's no longer a big barrier. Consumers log in, sign up with their credit card, fire up some shareware to hoover up all of the content on the website and rebuild it locally, and then go out to dinner. When they come back, they cancel their subscription.It may get even worse for the adult service provider. At the end of the month, when the credit card bill arrives, the consumer calls the bank ("hey, someone's stolen my credit card number") and charges back the original subscription. Now they have all of the content and it's cost them nothing.Since a large fraction of the little that consumers will actually pay for online content is spent on adult content (Jupiter put it at $273m out   of a total market of $1.4bn), trends in that sector are important. Not that the content industry is unaware of the dangers. Yahoo found that finance sites were plagued by screen scrapers running every few seconds to grab real-time stock quotes (traffic on the finance sites dropped by 80% after the screen-scrapers were blocked). The content owner who provides a premium service finds that people sign up for it, download the information and then provide the service themselves.Content owners want consumers to have broadband so that they will view movies and so forth online. But given ubiquitous broadband, the content will slip away like sand through their fingers. This is not to say that it is impossible to sell content online. Consumer Reports, the American equivalent of the UK's Which?, has been charging $24 a year since 1997 for online access to its product ratings and now boasts 800,000 paying subscribers. There are other successful niches, such as the New York Times crossword, but it would be brave to bet the future of the sector on them.In the UK, BT has already   decided to abandon the broadband content business and concentrate on providing access. But access to what? It could be that the real value of broadband will be in high-speed interaction, not in high-speed viewing. Thus one might expect online interactive game playing across high-speed low-latency networks to be a beneficiary. Playing Quake Arena via wireless LAN and cable modem from my house against my brother 70 miles away was amazing fun. Having said that, figures released recently at the industry's annual show (the Electronic Entertainment Expo) indicated that fewer than 10% of online players would pay extra to play.Broadband models may be about creating a community that consumers actively want to participate in. Here, as I have previously noted, the "always on" characteristic may still be the driving force rather than the greater bandwidth per se. The validation of this theory may already be visible in the US marketplace where a survey found that while the most popular use of the dialup internet was email, for hi-tech always-on super-fast broadband users it was... email.
Big BrotherI'm very disappointed with the conclusion at the end of Working the Web BBC (May 30). "You may as well use it, since (for now at least) we are all footing the bill."The BBC, with its massive public funding, totally skews the commercial media business in the UK. This doesn't hit just the big media companies, it hits small businesses as well. Look at what they've done to the magazine market.The same is going to happen on the internet. No small business stands a chance against the mighty BBC and its publicly funded development budgets.I am launching a new website, Curiousfox.com, in a couple of weeks. It's a local history and family history contact site. It's a good idea, the time is right and we've set it up on non existent budgets. But if it works, how long before the BBC just throws a few switches and puts us out of business? In the UK, the BBC is the biggest threat faced by any new media business.Rosanne Sharprosanne@waystone.comRealPlayerPaul Trueman correctly says that you need RealPlayer to optimise value from the BBC website. Unfortunately, RealPlayer is not available for the new Mac OS X operating system. So, until the end of this year, I and many other Mac users, will be unable to access BBC content.Warren Newmanwarren.newman@btinternet.comInky fingersChoosing a computer printer (Second sight, May 30) is even harder than choosing a mobile phone, where the buyer is clearly shown the running costs for each offer.That is not the case with printers. The price of cartridges is often similar between models, but the capacities vary enormously. HP's Deskjet 820i printer has a 39ml colour cartridge; its Deskjet 840 colour cartridge contains just 15ml. How many pages per ml? Nobody is telling.We have a national standard for comparing fuel consumption of cars and energy costs for fridges. So why not for printers?John Geddesjohn@takeyourtoothbrush.comWaste notJack Schofield blithely argues that disposable printer cartridges may be best. But we   need to realise that on our finite planet there is no "away" to throw anything. Maybe Jack should read the UN report Global Environment Outlook 3 prepared for the Johannesburg summit which demonstrates the severely threatened state of the earth and realise that we all have a responsibility for working toward sustainable solutions?Professor Peter Reasonmnspwr@management.bath.ac.ukPotential printI'd been refilling an old Olivetti 192 for a while, then bought an Epson 790, failing to check the question of refilling. I sourced a refilling kit, but five inks and a resetter would cost &#163;60, including &#163;15 for the chip resetter. Cartridge World in Gosforth, Newcastle upon Tyne, has the kit but still charges &#163;10 a refill. I wrote to Epson but got no reply. The Intellidge chip system doesn't seem to measure the ink, but to count the pages. I would say this contravenes trade descriptions, and normal expectations, of the product. Please let me know how I can dispose of the 790. The latest in this line is the 810. Does this have the chips? I have gone back to using a couple of old Canon BJC 4200s which are adequate as I went off the digital photography idea, thanks to the 790.John Sandersjohnsanders1@onetel.net.ukFix it, LinuxNeil Barnes (Feedback, May 16) asserts that there is a problem with getting files from Linux to windows. There are solutions in Unix but they are not well distributed. If you break a Linux Window manager (Craig Nelson, same page) tell someone and they will get it fixed. Fixing problems is a purpose of the Linux developer community.Ralph HintonLondonData defenceI have had a number of problems with a northern university failing to supply all the data that they hold, in a subject access request in 40 days. The vice chancellor's nominee admitted that they breached the Data Protection Act.Interview notes, which it voluntarily refused to supply, saying it was not their policy to allow access to them, were not available to me when I asked for them in a data subject access request, having being turned down for promotion by an all-male interview panel in favour of two men.J Priestleyjpriestley@ntlworld.comADSL successOn the recommendation of a friend, I signed with Pipex for the Xtreme Solo Service (a DIY ADSL connection). I booked the service on its   website on Monday. By Saturday I was watching the green light and a box pop up on my screen to confirm my 256Kb upstream and 512Kb downstream connection.This is the only real answer for anyone who wants "24/7" access.John RobinsonHead of ICT servicesLondon Guildhall University
Spooky!My daughter and I were browsing some web sites on a Windows 98 computer when we were interrupted by my grandson who was teasing his baby sister. My daughter told him loudly to stop it. Then an educated female voice, which was either Canadian or American, came over the speaker saying: "I can hear you!" Nothing else was said. I have no microphone attached to the computer. Have you any ideas?Jane JoyJS:Could there be a built-in microphone you have missed? If the security of your PC has been compromised by a"Trojan horse"program such as Back Orifice then it would be possible for someone to listen to what you say, to comment, and worse. Seewww.hackfix.orgfor a quick introduction to the subject. Mcafee and other anti-virus scanners will detect most or all known Trojans, but you can also run theBlackcodesecurity scan online.Little BrotherI am converting files from a Brother LW-750 word processor. Although I have managed to read the text files, I cannot get into any of the picture files, which have a .geo file extension.Nigel RowlandJS:The images could be in GeoPaint format, from the GeoWorks program. You may be able to convert them with theXnViewand NConvert programs. XnView can handle an astonishing array of graphics formats - more than 360 of them, from Adex to Zoner Zebra.Video chatMy son and his family are heading off to Australia, and my wife and I obviously want to keep in touch. Can you give me some advice about equipment/software/methodology for videoconferencing over the web, before I splash out any cash? I have a Toshiba Satellite running Windows XP.Max GordonJack Schofield replies:The basic requirements are a webcam, microphone, speakers and software. It doesn't matter which webcam you use - the quality will be low in any case - but some have a microphone built in.You may want to add separate speakers. I use a Plantronics DSP-400 headset which has a microphone and its own sound card - very handy for notebook PCs, but only for one person at a time. There is a wide choice of video conferencing software, but try Microsoft's Net Meeting: you will find it under Start|Programs|Accessories|Communications.Just plugging in a USB webcam should be enough to start the installation with Windows Me and XP, and possibly with Windows 98SE. Users of earlier versions of Windows can download NetMeetinghere.If you want to try an alternative, your webcam will probably include videoconferencing software. For other options, see the links below.www.meetingbywire.comwww.netmeetinghq.comCrash padI cannot open any WordPad documents in Windows 98. Every time I try, I get the message 'This programme has performed an illegal operation and will be shut down'. The details are that "WordPad cause an invalid page fault in module MFC42.DLL at 6c37f9eb."Angela MartinJS:According to Microsoft this is a known problem and can be solved by correcting a damaged entry in the system registry. Search Google for Q218632 or go straight to:http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;EN-US;q218632and you will find thatHenri Leboeuf's siteis a good way to find this sort of information.Backchat&#183;Last week, David Prestage asked about converting Locoscript files to Microsoft Word on a PC. Mike Ellistonmikell@thepcwclub.org.uksays: "Locoscript PC files will not, unfortunately, convert directly to RTF but they will readily convert to WordPerfect format which Word reads and imports with no problems at all. This is a far better method than via ASCII. In LocoPC, at the Disc Manager, place the cursor over the file. Press f9, Export, select WordPerfect and change the file type to WP. Locoscript PC will import Locoscript 3 files created on a PCW which can then be converted to WP as above. Files created in Locoscript 4 must be resaved as Locoscript 3 first. John King will undertake the conversion of PCW and LocoPC files at quite reasonable rates. See his site at the link below.www.pcwking.freeserve.co.uk&#183;The "branding" that many ISPs add to Microsoft's Internet Explorer annoys a lot of people and how to remove it is a frequently asked question. Rather than editing the registry directly, it turns out there are a couple of free programs that will do the job more conveniently. Colin Hall suggests Plutosoft's Internet Explorer Fixer Upper. Ian Wareing and Chris Pogson suggest Access Codes' IE Personalizer.http://accesscodes.hypermart.net&#183;George Lind asked about enlarging the text size to make web pages readable. Dr Gary Bagnall, Paul Gorton and Raymond Scott pointed out that the Opera browser has a zoom feature that allows pages to be enlarged without making them look horrible.&#183;Finally, on running more than one program at once, James Moreland reminds me that two years ago I was of a mind to disable the Windows Scripting Host or remove it altogether. "Best stick to a DOS script," he says. "'More modern' is not necessarily 'better', especially where Microsoft is concerned."
Watch out if you see someone holding a Nokia phone at a funny angle: they could be taking your picture. Nokia's 7650 is Europe's first camera-phone, but there are high hopes for its success. Similar devices have already taken about a third of the Japanese market, where more than a dozen camera-phones are available.Of course, a few people have been plugging little cameras into Sharp, Casio, Palm and other handheld computers for several years, without the idea taking off. What makes the 7650 interesting is the ability to use MMS (Multimedia Messaging Service) instead of SMS (Short Message Service). In other words, you can "text" your friends pictures and sound clips. This could change the nature of telephone dating games quite dramatically in ways that may well offend readers of the Daily Mail.Nor is the camera the 7650's only significant feature. It has GSM for voice, always-on GPRS for sending photos and using a Wap browser, and both Bluetooth and infrared for short-range communications. It can also handle Java downloads, and includes a couple of built-in games: Snake EX and Bounce.The system software is   Nokia's Series 60, which is based on the Symbian operating system derived from the Psion Series 5 handheld computer. It is OS 6 rather than the latest OS 7, but Nokia argues it is more than good enough for its purposes. The Symbian OS means you get a full-featured personal digital assistant with contacts book, calendar and to do list, and you can synchronise it with Microsoft Outlook on a PC, using Nokia's PC Suite.Nokia is certainly doing its best to promote the 7650. It took about 300 European journalists to Barcelona late last year, when it announced the device. Last week it hosted another 60, including me, at its headquarters in Helsinki, and everyone got a prototype camera-phone to play with. (No, not to keep.)I found the 7650 commendably easy to operate. The user interface is highly simplified and can be confusing until you get used to the small visual clues that indicate there is more to see if you scroll down or across.Most functions can be selected by pushing in the tiny joystick, skipping other menu options. Wap is not as easy to handle, but this seems to be a feature of Wap. (It hung a few times when I was trying to navigate websites, but turning the power off and on restored normality.) The main complaint is the usual   one with mobiles: entering text on a tiny numeric keypad. But today's texting aficionados may not find this much of a problem.The camera lens is on the back of the phone, so it is    clearly not intended for person-to-person video conferencing. Set on Normal, it produces low resolution VGA pictures (640 x 480 pixels) about 26K in size - no use in photographic terms, but fine   for MMS. There is no flash and no facility to use an external flash, which limits its usefulness, but there is a Night setting.At first, the value of MMS is going to be severely limited   by the fact that almost no one else will have an MMS phone. However, SMS users will get a text message and will be able to collect pictures from the web.Alternatively you can send pictures to email addresses, which I found worked well.Whether this is viable will depend on the way networks charge for the service. A normal picture is 160 times as big as an SMS message, but no one is going to pay &#163;16 to send an MMS.Drawbacks? Unlike, say, the Sagem WA3050 PocketPC, it doesn't work as a speakerphone, so you can't talk and use the PDA functions without adding an earpiece. It doesn't have a nifty mini-keyboard like the Handspring Treo or the RIM Blackberry. Some of the phone journalists thought it was on the large side at 114 x 56 x 26mm and 154g, and smaller, cheaper, sexier camera-phones should soon be available. However, it doesn't look big compared with PocketPC-based smart phones and Nokia's Communicator range.The main drawback is likely to be the price. Nokia staff variously quoted &euro;550 and &euro;800, the latter being the retail in Finland. It remains to be seen what the street price will be with a contract from someone like T-Mobile, but only the PDA buyers will be willing to pay &#163;350 to &#163;500 for a 7650.
The wind-up radio, invented by the UK's Trevor Baylis, has become an icon of benign technology. Beloved of environmentalists and design gurus alike, it has already shifted over 3m units worldwide. Now the company that bought the idea from Baylis has moved into the mobile   phone market. This month, Freeplay will launch a wind-up mobile phone charger to go with the recently commissioned wind-up torch for the Swiss Army knife.The bright yellow Freecharge looks like a sporty Walkman or maybe even a latter-day football rattle. But what it does is allow you to power your mobile by using a sustainable form of energy. To power your mobile phone with the Freecharge you simply windup and a mere minute of elbow grease will give an average of five minutes talk-time and up to four hours' standby, depending on the state of the phone's battery.But who would want to use one? Well, me for one. I recently took a Freecharge to Oxfordshire, where I spent the weekend on a barge on the Thames.After a day or so my battery ran out. I'd only made a couple of calls home and sent the   odd text messages. We had only one plug socket on the barge, so the device came in very handy.It is heavy and a little too clunky to slip into your pocket. I'd feel a bit daft using it in the centre of town. For a moment, it did feel as if I was winding an old field telephone, but that added to the fun. More importantly, we could ring the barge's owner when the engine looked like it was overheating. Without it, we'd have had to stop and go hunting for a payphone.Later, when down to the last drop of juice - with the phone's alarm bleating in my ear - I was able to sustain a call just by winding. If I had have been making an urgent call, say to a passport office or a credit card company - it could have been a lifeline. And with the summer festivals coming up, I'd say the Freecharge is essential.Freeplay says that it is not   just a camping company. They are also marketing the phone to heavy users and business people. There are plans to expand the use of the Freecharge to include PDAs by next year and the company plans a similar charger for laptops."At any one time we have a lot of experimentation underway," says Rory Stear, CEO of Freeplay. "The hardest thing for us was designing a product that wasn't crazily out of kilter with the size of a mobile phone."The Freecharge is manufactured by Motorola using Freeplay technology. But adapter modules will be available for other major manufacturers at no extra cost, says Steer.And there is an ethical reason for using the Freecharge. According to environmental groups, the production of mobile phones is harmful to wildlife and politically problematic. This is because most batteries use a rare mineral called coltan that might be an excellent conductor, but some   observers believe that coltan mining is funding civil wars in Congo and Zaire."We think the Freecharge is a great idea," says a spokesperson for Friends of the Earth. "Because it reduces energy consumption and the emissions that are affecting climate change. It is also a very practical energy solution that helps people get used to the idea of sustainable energy."Floating through the locks in Oxfordshire's exquisitely manicured countryside, I couldn't help but agree.&#183;The Motorola Freecharge will be available from major electrical retailer, priced &#163;59.
Championship Manager 01/02Xbox 	&#163;44.99  SI/EidosThis must be the first example of a four-star game that I don't think you should buy, unless there is no alternative. Championship Manager Season 01/02 - or Champman 3 to its friends - is a complex, detailed and thoroughly involving simulation of football management. The Xbox version looks and plays just like the hugely successful PC version. But that is both a blessing and a curse.On the good side, because the Xbox has a built-in hard drive, console owners can finally sample the delights of this great game. On the down side, it is very frustrating to play with a handheld controller instead of a keyboard and mouse. SI could at least have nodded in the direction   of console playability by, for example, letting users save a number of preset formations, such as home and away squads and tactics.Further, while PC players can back up their precious game data, I'd worry about doing this on the Xbox, assuming it reaches the same sort of humungous size. And while CM3 is almost proud of its lack of fancy graphics and sound effects - there's a sort of reverse snobbery here - this means it doesn't exploit the Xbox's main strengths.There are some minor limitations with the Xbox version. For example, you can only play three leagues at a time instead of 26, and there are not quite as many players. But the stats are up to date and, in all essential respects, this is the real thing. Xbox-owning football fanatics should snap it up.However, if you already have a PC, buy the PC version rather than the Xbox version. And if you don't have either, you might find a suitable secondhand PC for little more than the cost of a new Xbox.  (JS)Starmageddon: Project EarthPC 	&#163;29.99 Lemon/MindscapeIt's been so long time since we've seen anything on the Mindscape label, it's hard to recall what the last one was. Now a whole clutch of them has arrived, the first of which is Starmageddon.Initial impressions are not promising, thanks to an excruciatingly long loading time which harkens back to Amiga days rather than the Ultra 66 DMA my hard drive promised and every other game seems to handle with ease. Nevertheless, once the game has loaded it does look rather impressive. Starmageddon is pure realtime strategy set in outer space, a bit like Homeworld but with resources to manage and a nifty 3D engine that never quite handles the action as well as you think it might.The 3D effects are impressive, zooming effortlessly across large reaches of space and utilising true particle   physics if the developer blurb is to believed. It also allows you to play three different battleplanes at once, which may have been done before (Earth 2150) but never in 3D. The gameplay may be more mundane, with two campaigns to choose from, consisting of the usual building, mining and researching chores but the action has sufficient panache to overlook the game's fundamental failing. Almost.Unfortunately, this is a very difficult game to play. The enemy always seems to have greater command of the Z-axis than you, swooping out of the dark and strafing your ships while you fumble around with the camera desperately trying to lock on to a target. Somehow the ability to set fleet formations pales before your inability to set "moods", with your units happily allowing themselves to be blown to bits unless you directly order them to fight back or take evasive action. Once you master the roving camera, you will undoubtedly start winning battles, but it's easy to see why the big developers consistently avoid 3D engines in games of this sort. It's never as easy or fulfilling as it looks on paper. (MA)CrashXbox 	&#163;39.99  RageBritish developer/publisher Rage is in a bit of a fix, having just announced a shares issue to raise cash. So it desperately needs Crash, its latest game, to achieve decent sales - while Microsoft desperately needs triple-A games to encourage more people to buy Xboxes. Crash is a decent effort, but doesn't have the power and individuality to work miracles.Anyone who played   Destruction Derby on the PlayStation and PlayStation 2 will find Crash very familiar indeed. Its basic premise involves driving garishly painted hot-rods, muscle cars and performance cars around, smashing up opponents before they turn your car into a smouldering wreck. This has always been fun, but has been done ad nauseam.Graphically, the game is impressive: the cars look wonderfully smooth and shiny until you begin taking chunks out of them. Rage has relieved the tedium of driving around in circles and deliberately crashing by including 36 challenges. Some of which are fun - particularly the bus-jumping, which requires judicious use of the nitro button, and the mission where you must avoid oncoming skittles and hit crates. But the Career mode is over too soon and, despite the ability for up to four people to play against each other, Crash provides little by way of replay value.Rage may be over ambitious but it would be a crying shame if it disappeared off the map altogether.  (SB)
Poetry is a classic web subject area: a vast sprawling cottage industry with visibility and distribution problems in the offline world. When I edited Poetry Review I used to get wan little letters saying "I can't find your magazine in your newsagents - how can I buy a copy". If only they'd known: the terrible economics of newsstand distribution; the measly 40% take on the cover price - and that's if you sell them; the returns can be huge. So we were subscription plus upmarket bookshops, and sample pages on the web of course.On the web, distribution is no problem: it's all available 24/7, and everyone is equal, at least theoretically. There is the perfect book-buying system in Amazon, there are online poetry magazines and newsgroups. The publishers have websites so you can see what's available (bookshop poetry sections can be very patchy).Perfect in theory. How does it measure up? Google produces 7.25m pages for "poetry"; "rock music" only manages 422,000, "food and drink" 606,000; even "Britney Spears" only turns up   1.2m. So there is a lot of poetry out there.The Poetry Society site is a good place to start: it's a huge resource, maintained with great energy by the Society's Californian web wizard, Jules Mann. As well as all the Poetry Society's own activities and its online Amazon-style shop - you can join online, enter the National Poetry Competition and buy a wide range of publications - it links to all the useful sites.If you are interested in a particular poet or a poem or even a line from a poem, you can do worse that simply type it into Google: if it's there, you'll find it. It used to be hard for beginners to the poetry scene to find their way: now the web will get you up to pace remarkably quickly. The Poetry Library has a list of magazines and once you have the   titles you can check out their web presence on Google. And if you're really stumped for that lost quotation the Poetry Library's Lost Poems Noticeboard now has its virtual equivalent - just type your request into the form and someone out there is almost certain to have what you need.The Poetry Society site lists forthcoming publications from the major publishers and most of them have their own site. Poetry Society links will also find you 20th-century poets with good websites devoted to them, eg Simon Armitage, Seamus Heaney, John Kinsella, Roger McGough, Sylvia Plath . A new resource coming in June is the Contemporary Writers website  from Booktrust and the British Council. It will include novelists as well as poets and provide a useful profile of 250 UK writers, growing at the rate of 20 per month.Bloodaxe Books  publishes more of the best contemporary English poetry than anyone else, so its website, recently rejigged and growing, offers a real taste of the best of the scene.The web is good for listings and you'll find a lot of gigs at The Poetry Kit. For London events, Poetry London is the place.The web, of course, is international, and poetry used to be very insular. But there's no reason now not to check out what's happening in other countries. The prince of online poetry magazines is Jacket, run from Australia by the poet John Tranter. It has never been a print journal. The design is beautiful, the contents awesomely voluminous, the slant international modernist and experimental. Issues of Jacket grow slowly so that you can read parts of the June issue already: it is devoted to Ern Malley - the great Australian Poetry Hoaxer - and includes the complete poems and a radio documentary in Real Audio.Good portals save you a lot of time and trouble: Web del Sol 
is a large US site that pools the resources of dozens of magazines. You can find classic US magazines such as Agni, Kenyon Review, Sulfur, and Prairie Schooner as well as, further out, Exquisite Corpse and Painted Bride Quarterly. Poetry Daily has its ear to the ground for contemporary American poetry.Finally, the poetry workshop is the engine room of poetry. If you don't have one near you in real time and space, Yahoo lists 1,530 poetry groups: one of them must be yours.
I've long thought that the Alfa 156, in either saloon or estate version, was one of the prettiest cars on the road. Apparently, I'm not the only one: since its 1997 launch, the 156 has won Car of the Year and went on to become a bestseller in the UK - a country traditionally suspicious of pretty Italian cars that would start rusting as soon as they heard a British weather forecast, and which had an alarming tendency for bits to come away in your hands.Having seemingly conquered the quality management issue, Alfa Romeo - always one of the most romantic names in motoring, with a sporting heritage every bit as long as the more prestigious marque of Ferrari - has now set about tweaking the 156 to give it BMW-rivalling performance. The previous top-of-the-range Alfa closely matched the quickest 3-series car. Now, with this 250-horsepower GTA, Alfa has trumped everything the Bavarians have got (barring the mighty M3).The first thing you notice is the bodykit. It certainly gives the car a more purposeful look; I'm not sure if you'd still call it pretty. It might get up and punch you.Gone is the overbite at the front of the old 156: a deeper, lower air dam gives the car a kind of Kirk Douglas jawline. Then there are the side-skirts, but again, you won't want to call them that in the car's hearing (talk admiringly about the big alloy wheels and red-painted Brembo brake callipers instead).The seats hug your tush and thighs in such a way that you start to hope there will be some shoehorn-type implement to get you out again. The "A" of GTA stands, apparently, for "alleggerita", meaning lightened, the term first used in Alfa's touring-car racers of the sixties. (I'd thought it must stand for "allegro", for that is how this instrument demands to be played.)To park yourself in this GTA, though, is to feel an implicit reproach - whatever the Italian is for "Blimey, who ate all the pies?" springs to mind. It must be still more disconcerting if you are female and had assumed that bottom-pinching was a practice now found only in kitsch seaside postcards.For, make no mistake, this Alfa is an old-fashioned macho car: an unreconstructed, testosterone-snorting Italian stallion. If it were a character in The Sopranos, "GTA" would be the guy who pistol-whips a hapless New Jerseyite for taking his parking space and then dusts off the sleeve of his Park Avenue suit, straightens his hair and walks his waiting blonde girlfriend into the swank restaurant.Since we're dealing in stereotypes, you have to wonder who this car's implied driver is. Seeing as it's an estate (albeit cunningly disguised as a "Sportwagon"), you might reasonably pause to consider what kind of family would want a car that goes like a pumped-up go-kart. You can imagine Homer Simpson at the wheel, actually. But, then again, there's no sunroof for Marge's hair.The old 2.5-litre V6 was no slouch, but this bored-out, tuned-up 3.2 V6 version is truly hardcore. The GTA's ride is so firm, the velocities and vectors of which it is temptingly capable so extreme, that any outing is like being put in the world's sportiest designer cocktail maker. The driver is stirred, for sure, but the passengers arrive distinctly shaken.To see why, you have to peek under the bonnet. Most lumps are, well, exactly that; but this V6 is a thing of beauty, a piece of industrial sculpture in aluminium and chrome. That's Italian design - even the typography on the milled block is gorgeous.I suspect the soundproofing from the engine bay was deliberately moderated, so the driver can hear all the action under the bonnet. The car's Bose sound system comes complete   with a subwoofer, but it's the engine that does all the barking. More animal impressions, in fact, than Johnny Morris - growls, grunts, woofles, whistles, purrs and howls. Vivaldi it ain't, but as soundtracks go, it has a certain brutal charm.To be fair, the GTA has finesse aplenty, as well as power. The steering is amazingly quick and responsive. And, for a front-wheel-drive car, its handling is sublime. The suspension uses double wishbones. I thought these were something you only found in genetically modified chickens, so I can't begin to explain how they work. Let's just say it enables our Alfa to get off the line with unseemly haste - and without torque-steering itself into the opposite lane.Wicked acceleration, of course, must be matched by virtuous deceleration. The brakes are strong and tireless, but so much so that the car seems to reach the limits of its grip surprisingly early, tyres chirruping and protesting, especially over uneven tarmac. While I'm finding fault, the gear shift is clunkier and more gated than in previous 156s. No doubt it needed beefing up so that the transmission could cope with the extra power, but I missed its former silky action.Nor is it easy to love the acreage of textured black plastic that characterises the interior, but it's pretty   much what you expect in a 21st- century motor. And, in that sense, it's invisible - much like the vast array of abbreviations and acronyms that help you keep the car on the road. ABS is strictly for paupers these days; this Alfa GTA has more three- letter acronyms than your average teenager's text message: VDC, HBA, ASR and AQS (believe me, you don't need to know).My favourite feature of the 156, though, is its ABD. That's for Anti-Backseat Driving. OK, I made that one up. But it's very simple: all the instruments are deeply cowled in such a way that only the driver can read them. So your passenger has no idea how fast you're going. Until you have to stop, that is, when the reappearance of their lunch on the faux-rhino hide fascia alerts them.
Brazil is going to win the World Cup, according to acomputer simulation.
The leading e-commerce sites are still rubbish, from ausabilitypoint of view, but if they keep improving at the current rate, the survivors should be OK in about 15 years, according to the latest resport from the Nielsen Norman Group, reports CNet.
Microsoft has agreed to stop"cooking the books", following an investigation by America's Securities &amp; Exchange Commission. Or as the story puts it, Microsoft "agreed to stop using an accounting practice that allegedly understated revenues and misled investors". The problem was that it had too much money coming in following the launch of blockbuster products, so it would stash a few hundred millions in its cookie jar as "deferred income", and later smooth out its revenue figures. (Wall Street and investors love firms that show nice financial numbers and make their targets.) Of course, it is not such an unreasonable thing to do if you get money up front (Windows licences) and suffer costs later (support, bug fixes etc).
Looking forward to this Sunday'sNTK/Mute-organisedFestival of Inappropriate Technologyin London, where I'll be joiningBen Hammersleyand top Euro bloggerTom Coateson "the 'fashionable' weblog panel". I trust the "fashionable" refers to the blogging scene, rather than any expectation regarding our attire. But on the subject of weblogs and their future, there's an interesting new post up atPressflex, which discusses the development of the blogging form, and asks: will people eventually be blogging for a living? It degenerates into a bit of an ad at the bottom, but before then poses quite a few interesting questions. Perhaps we'll have a go at answering a few on Sunday. Or not.
