A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPatents: that word does not mean what you think it means &gt;&gt; TechPinionsSteve Wildstrom, on the USPTO "invalidating" Apple's patent (see below):In this case, the challenge was filed by Samsung and, as is the normal practice, its challenge was considered without any response from Apple (that's what ex parte means.) [Matt] Macari citesUSPTO statistics(PDF) that such request are granted over 90% of the time. Apple now gets to come in an defend its patent before the USPTO - Samsung isn't actually a party to the case. In a bit under 70% of such cases, some of the claims of the original patent are invalidated in reexamination while the rest are upheld; the patent in question contains 21 claims. About 11% of the time, all claims are rejected, leaving the patent invalid.Macari, mentioned there, writes for The Verge, and is an intellectual property lawyer by training.RIM 3Q fiscal 2013 quarterly results &gt;&gt; RIM (PDF)Revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 was $2.7bn, down 5% from $2.9bn in the previous quarter and down 47% from $5.2bn in the same quarter of fiscal 2012. The revenue breakdown for the quarter was approximately 60% for hardware, 36% for service and 4% for software and other revenue.During the quarter, RIM shipped approximately 6.9m BlackBerry smartphones and approximately 255,000 BlackBerry PlayBook tablets.That's the lowest smartphone shipments since the same period in 2009. It had an operating loss of $230m, and most crucially of all lost subscribers - 80m previous quarter, 79m this. That last figure is the really dangerous one.Also: RIM's quarter ended 1 December. The BB10 phones are being announced on 30 January. So that's two months of the current quarter without new products.EU to file formal complaint against Samsung &gt;&gt; MarketWatchEuropean Union regulators plan to issue a formal complaint against Samsung Electronics within weeks in its anti-trust probe over patents, EU's competition chief Joaquin Almunia said Thursday.The commission, which acts as the EU's competition watchdog, is investigating whether Samsung's past use of injunctions against Apple violated antitrust rules."We will issue a statement of objections very soon, I don't know if at the end of this year or at beginning of next year, because we are in the last step of our internal procedure," Almunia said, referring to the formal charge sheet issued by the commission.In case you haven't followed it: Samsung used standards-essential patents to fight Apple in court battles, seeking injunctions (sales bans). But if you submit your patent for a standard, you agree that you'll always license it, judged by a court if necessary. An injunction is in effect a refusal to let the court decide or to license.This also confirms that the reason Samsung stopped seeking injunctions on SEPs on Tuesday (but not seeking injunctions on non-SEPs, or on SEPs in other countries) was because it got wind it was in trouble with the EU. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Google sweetened Motorola deal with Arris by promising to cap liability In TiVo's billion-dollar+ patent claim &gt;&gt; TechCrunchIn anOctober court filing, TiVo claimed that Motorola is responsible for "massive production of infringing DVRs" that "dwarfs the numbers of accused products at issue in TiVo's previous cases." The filing also states, "TiVo's damages claim is likely to run into the billions of dollars," and it says that TiVo will try to get the courts to stop Motorola from selling the allegedly infringing products. (Motorola has its own patent-infringement claims against TiVo.)The threat of a huge patent lawsuit would probably cast a cloud over any acquisition talks, but Stanzione said Google has actually agreed to cap Arris' liability in the case to "a very small number." He didn't say what that number was, but when one of the analysts on the call asked if Arris might be liable for $1 billion in damages, Stanzione laughed and suggested that it was much lower than that -- and he added that TiVo won't necessarily win the case.And so the cost of the Motorola Mobility acquisition goes up again, since Google's ready to step in and cough up for Arris. (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)This is the web right now &gt;&gt; The OatmealAt least, the state of the web in winter 2012. (Thanks @lollygagging for the link.)Apple stands to lose another patent crucial to its battle with Samsung &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaWhile Apple had a stunning $1.05 billion trial victory against Samsung this summer, things generally haven't been going its way since the August verdict. On Monday, US District Judge Lucy Koh ruled that Apple's case wasn't strong enough to win an injunction.With Koh due to publish a post-trial order about damages any day now, a key Apple patent is being threatened at the US Trademark and Patent Office. US Patent No. 7,844,915, the patent covering Apple's "pinch to zoom" smartphone navigation feature, may be invalidated. In a patent reexam, examiners discovered multiple pieces of prior art that they found should reject Apple's claims.Some people have been suggesting that the Apple-Samsung jury should have invalidated the patent, which is nonsensical - they're not patent examination officers. It's likely Apple's patents will still be in place (just) by the time Judge Koh finishes. The question is, will they be valid by the time it reaches the appeal court - and will that have an effect on the appeal? (Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.)Nokia to resume development of 10-inch Windows RT tablet, say Taiwan makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesNokia has talked about cooperation with Microsoft, Qualcomm and Compal Electronics to resume development of a 10-inch Windows RT tablet, and is likely to unveil the model at the 2013 Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, during February 25-28, according to Taiwan-based supply chain makers.If anyone can see sense in this, please explain how a loss-making company would benefit from making a 10in tablet, which is a worse market than ever to compete in since the arrival of 7in tablets. More to the point: where are the 7in tablets running Microsoft software - and would that be Windows Phone, Windows RT or Windows 8? (Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.)Examining Apple's security efforts in 2012 &gt;&gt; TidBitsRich Mogull:The slightest Apple security or privacy glitch creates an instant media frenzy, the online equivalent of the local news telling parents that drinking water will poison their children. 2012 also saw the first widespread, albeit non-damaging, Mac malware. "BYOD" (bring your own device) is the biggest hot-button issue in enterprise security, and is predominantly driven by user demands to support iPhones, iPads, and Macs. I can no longer walk into a meeting with enterprise IT without at least some Macs or iPads in the room, officially supported or not.This is a nearly complete reversal from just five years ago...Another strong indicator of iOS security is that digital forensics firms, those who produce the software used by law enforcement to recover data from mobile phones and computers, are as yet unable to crack data protected by the highest level of iOS encryption enabled by default (for email and participating apps) when you set a good passcode.He reckons Apple security generally is better now than at any time he's been examining it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Troubled BlackBerry maker Research In Motion (RIM) lost one million subscribers in the last quarter, the first drop in users in the company's history.The news came as RIM reported better than expected revenues of $2.7bn (£1.6bn), although they were still down 47% compared with last year. Excluding one-time items related to restructuring and other issues, RIM reported a loss of $114m or 22 cents a share for the three months ending 1 December.The original smartphone giant, RIM's market lead has long been surpassed by Apple's iPhone and those powered by Google's Android system. RIM said its base declined from more than 80m to "approximately" 79m in the past three months, when it shipped 6.9m smartphones and 255,000 of its PlayBook tablets.The company is planning to launch BlackBerry 10 in early 2013 as it attempts to take the fight back to Apple and its rivals.Apple has stumbled recently as sales appeared to be slowing and the company mishandled the launch of iPhone 5 by dumping the popular Google Maps app for its own flawed product. However, Apple is expected to sell 47m iPhones in the first quarter of 2013."RIM continued to execute on its product roadmap plans and to deliver on key financial metrics as it gets set for the global launch of BlackBerry 10," said Thorsten Heins, the president and chief executive officer., "More than 150 carriers are currently completing technical acceptance programmes for the first BlackBerry 10 products, and beta trials of BlackBerry Enterprise Service 10 are under way at more than 120 enterprises including 64 Fortune 500 companies."This is an exciting time and our carrier partners, application developers and employees are all looking forward to unveiling the innovation and excitement of BlackBerry 10 to our customers on 30 January 2013."The company also announced that Robin Bienfait, chief information officer for RIM, would retire at the end of this year after six years'  service.
Seven bidders will vie for the biggest chunk of mobile data bandwidth to be auctioned in Britain in January when Ofcom sells off 4G spectrum that is expected to raise £3.5bn for the government's coffers.The bidders are Everything Everywhere – the combined T-Mobile and Orange operation, which is already offering 4G services – Vodafone, O2 and Three, as well BT, the Hong Kong conglomerate PCCW (which owns Hong Kong Telecom), and the British network company MLL Telecom.At least one of the bidders will be obliged by Ofcom to commit to providing its service to 98% of the UK population. Ofcom has placed a reserve price of £1.3bn on the 4G sale, but the government's tax and spending watchdog, the Office for Budget Responsibility, has estimated a £3.5bn boost to public finances.It is not expected to bring in anything like the £22.5bn collected by the 3G bandwidth auction in 2000, when the present four networks were successful.Mobile operators in the Netherlands last week paid €3.8bn (£3.1 billion) for the country's 4G spectrum, easily surpassing expectations of around €450m. In Ireland last month, operators overcame a challenging economy to generate €854m.The auctions will cover a range of 28 lots of frequencies covering 250MHz of spectrum, compared to the 333MHz spread now available.The four UK network operators are already preparing their networks to add 4G capability, which they hope to begin offering by next summer. Meanwhile, the number of smartphones able to use 4G services is growing rapidly: Apple's iPhone 5, the Nokia Lumia 920 and recent versions of Samsung's Galaxy S3 handset will all be able to use frequencies allocated by Ofcom, though not all handsets will work on every frequency.The consultancy Strategy Analytics forecast this week that 275m 4G-capable smartphones will be shipped worldwide in 2013, more than tripling from 91m in 2012. "[4G] has quickly become a high-growth, high-value market that no operator, service developer, component maker or device vendor can afford to ignore," said Neil Mawstxon wireless analyst at Strategy Analytics.BT, PCCW and MLL Telecom will probably be looking to offer data services to fixed locations. MLL Telecom, based in Marlow, Buckinghamshire, already owns wireless spectrum to provide connections to businesses in remote locations, with spectrum at 32GHz and 40GHz.The auction itself will be highly complex, with participants able to bid in each round for different slices of bandwidth at different frequencies, but at rising prices. Sources at Ofcom have indicated that it is one of the most complicated auctions it has ever run.Partly that is because 4G (also known as LTE) services do not offer basic voice services; they are data-only, so they do not provide an entry point for any company seeking to compete in the mobile network business. But 4G does provide superfast data connections at speeds of up to 100 megabits per second, faster even than a number of broadband services, especially in rural areas.The 28 lots of frequencies are within two bands, 800MHz and 2.6GHz. The lower frequency, created by the analogue TV switchoff, has longer range but can carry less data; the higher frequency can carry more data but has a shorter effective range, and is hampered by buildings. EE's current offering is at the 1,800MHz frequency, which it already owned, but which it will have to share with Three from autumn 2013.There will be further 4G auctions in 2014 when the Ministry of Defence sells off some high-frequency bandwidth. The European Commission has also said that existing 3G suppliers must be allowed to switch their existing 3G spectrum over to 4G if they want to.Some operators are also working on "voice over LTE", or VoLTE, services which would encode voice signals in internet data packets, and so provide voice capability, which could also be applied to "fixed" services to homes or businesses.
Google has disappointed the British set-top box maker Pace by selling its profitable Motorola Home business to Arris Group in a $2.35bn cash-and-stock deal.Pace had been a frontrunner with Arris to buy the division, which Google is selling after acquiring the larger Motorola Mobility (MMI) mobile handset and set-top box business for $12.5bn in August.The move leaves Google with the loss-making handset business and the patent portfolio belonging to MMI, with which it had hoped to fend off lawsuits against its Android mobile software from Apple, Microsoft, Nokia and others.Pace indicated that Google had demanded too high a price for Motorola Home. Arris will acquire the business for $2.05bn in cash – which it is raising through debt financing – plus about $300m in newly issued shares in Arris, giving it roughly 15.7% of the company. The deal should be closed by the second quarter of 2013.Pace has applied to have its stocks relisted, after they were suspended when news of its bid first surfaced.For Arris, the acquisition gives it broader capabilities in consumer video products and services, and will boost its patent portfolio through a licence to what itcalled"a wide array of MMI patents".MMI's Home business generated quarterly revenues of about $880m over the past year, and about $60m of quarterly profit. It builds set-top boxes for a broad range of US cable companies.Bob Stanzione, Arris's chairman and chief executive, said: "Acquiring Motorola Home builds on Arris's rich history, creating a global player with significant footprint, revenue and cash flow. It also adds expertise in video and a larger presence in the home to our core strengths in voice and data, ensuring we are even better positioned to capitalise on and manage the evolution toward multi-screen home entertainment."In astatement (pdf)Mike Pulli, Pace's chief executive, said: "The company was unable to reach an agreement with Google on terms that the board believes would have been in the interests of Pace's shareholders."We viewed the potential acquisition of Google's Motorola Home business as an opportunity to accelerate our stated strategy, but only if real shareholder value could be delivered." He said Pace expected to remain on target for its 2012 financial results.
Hello again, and welcome to the penultimate section of our festive countdown. There have been complaints that many of our choices so far have been rather – let's say – obscure. We disagree, but I'm not sure those people are going to be much happier with numbers ten to six...For everyone else, this selection proves a key theme of 2012: this was the year indie stepped up and claimed a central role in the industry. At least four of the following games were part of that.Once again I've been helped out by our regular contributors, whose names appear in brackets after each entry.10.Fez(Xbox 360)Polytron's Fez is a multifaceted delight - everything about it feels perfectly pitched. The platforming is elegant, tricky but rarely annoying; the puzzles fiendishly difficult at times but a delight to solve; the graphics and music gorgeous; and the core idea innovative and delightfully executed. Gomez, the cute and cheerful fez-wearing character at the heart of the game, picks up the ability to rotate his 2D world in three dimensions, and in doing so open doors to gather cube segments, save the world and unlock secrets about the world he lives in – deciphering coded languages and complex puzzles as he goes. (Mary Hamilton)9.Super Hexagon(iOS, PC)Simple, astoundingly addictive and brutally difficult, Super Hexagon is a beautiful git of a game with a gorgeous chiptune soundtrack. With just two controls – left and right – you pilot a tiny triangle trying to avoid incoming walls of light in elegant, repeating patterns. As with creator Terry Cavanagh's other work, the game unabashedly appeals to hardcore perfectionists and challenge lovers, and there's a genuine, visceral thrill in beating your own high scores – even by a couple of seconds. The first time you survive for a whole minute makes you feel like a god. (Mary Hamilton)8.Guild Wars 2(PC)Guild Wars 2 lets players play together without having to talk to each other. Dynamic events  throughout the online fantasy world sees teams of warriors spontaneously forming to deal with enemy threats, and a removal of the standard class roles (big chap, sneaky chap, magic chap, medic) makes groups both easy and fun to be a part of. Up until now, World of Warcraft has been the benchmark for MMOs; it's suddenly looking very old fashioned next to this. (Grant Howitt)7.Walking Dead(iOS, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)So this is how it ends – humanity scrabbling for existence against the undead hordes, but mostly against each other. Walking Dead is a stark survival adventure following an escaped convict and the little girl he somehow chooses to protect. The two drift into dangerously fragile relationships with other people; they lurch from one disaster to the next. The player is forced to make impossible decisions that always involve death and regret. Walking Dead is so many times more grim and terrifying than Resident Evil 6 it's almost laughable. True, some have questioned how much choice you really have in the game – but then, that's the whole point. In the end, it doesn't matter.6.Spelunky(PC, Xbox 360)Derek Yu's Spelunky, which evolved from PC freeware to XBLA download this year (and therefore had its first commercial release in 2012, qualifying it for this list), is a dungeon crawling 2D Rogue-like in which you explore randomly generated mines in the hope of finding great treasures and rescuing distressed damsels. More often than not, though, what you actually find is sudden death, thanks to spikes, traps, angry shopkeepers and a range of unpleasant animals. The fun of the game is as much in the stories it generates as the pleasure of the platforming, and playing is an exercise in overcoming failure – repeated, grinding, permanent failure – to find great glee in the occasions when everything just happens to go right. (Mary Hamilton)
In the empirical literature over copyright enforcement and the internet one correlation keeps resurfacing: the fewer legal options there are, the more piracy there is.If you want people to buy media, you have to offer it for sale. If it's not for sale, they won't buy it, but many of them will still want to watch or hear or play it, and will turn to the darknet to get – for free – the media that no one will sell to them.This isn't a surprising research finding. Everyone who's ever run a business or worked in any kind of sales job knows that rule one is to make a product that people want and then offer it at a price they're willing to pay. Doing this won't always make you rich, but no one ever got rich without starting from there.But whenever this amazing finding is revealed anew, the entertainment industry's PR arm springs into motion to tell us all that people just shouldn't take stuff without paying for it, full stop. Taking things without paying for them is stealing. All those people who downloaded Wreck it Ralph or any of the other movies and TV shows that were released in the US months before their UK release are just crooks, and they're bad, and they should stop. Because stealing is wrong. Wrong, wrong, wrong.Let's set aside the rhetorical dishonesty of equating copyright infringement with theft for a moment (the law distinguishes between the two for a good reason – the former is a regulatory violation, the latter is a crime) and focus on why the entertainment industry would ever want to defend its right not to sell us the things we want to buy from them.Like most things that successful businesses do, defending the right not to sell stuff makes a certain, perverse kind of sense. In the case of Wreck it Ralph and other movies, the UK distributors have their own pipelines that have different schedules from their US counterparts.The US industry times blockbuster movie releases to the Thanksgiving holiday weekend (which isn't observed in the UK), the UK has bank holidays and half-terms that the US doesn't observe, so the industry has a hard time lining up the releases of all its biggest investments/cash cows with the dates on which people are most actively buying their cinema tickets.When it comes to TV shows, there's a real advantage to being able to wait until they have run for a series or two in the US so that its audience size and popularity can be demonstrated before licensing it for UK distribution. But this means that the UK broadcasts tend to lag behind the US ones, sometimes by years.Today it's hard to find any knowledgeable person who thinks that making more money by delaying a release to an optimal date is possible, except to the extent that the knowledgeable person is selling something.That's not surprising. Lots of businesses would be more profitable if their customers arranged their purchasing choices for maximum seller profitability. But in the real world of markets, businesses have to confine their profit maximisation strategies to schemes that customers are willing to go along with.So cinemas can charge hefty markups on soft drinks, but not totally insane markups. Once the markups reach a certain threshold, the losses from people who sneak in their own drinks will outstrip the extra profits from the higher margins earned on "honest" customers, and prices have to come down.This compliance threshold is a natural limit on all businesses – the cap on earnings represented by customers' stubborn refusal to put your corporate profits ahead of their personal good.But there is a way around this: externalising the enforcement costs.Externalising is the practice of pushing a cost off of a firm's books and onto the public's side of the ledger. For example, Selfridges could save a tonne of money on security guards if plainclothes police could be persuaded to station themselves at discreet intervals around the department store from opening to closing.If the police could be persuaded to stand outside the entrances all night, Selfridges could even dispense with the expense of locks and keys for its doors. Around-the-clock police stakeouts are much more expensive than locks and burglar alarms, but Selfridges doesn't pay police salaries  we all do, through taxes.The modest rise in taxes that Selfridges would have to pay for its share of the police guarding its doors would be more than offset by the tremendous savings it made from abandoning its private security arrangements.To the extent that corporations are charged with maximising shareholder return, they are machines designed to externalise their costs. If there's no penalty for dumping raw waste into drinking water, and there is a cost for processing it before discharging it, corporations can argue that they are legally required to poison our water. To do otherwise is to needlessly spend money that could otherwise be paid tothe shareholders. This turns out not to be merely a theoretical problem – any time a corporation can save money by sticking the public with its problems you'll find corporations doing just that, even if it costs thousands of times more to decontaminate the water supply than it does simply to treat the sludge before it's dumped.In a real marketplace, the ability of entertainment companies to stagger their releases would be curtailed by the willingness of customers to put profits ahead of their own desire to watch TV or movies when the rest of the world is talking about them on Twitter and Facebook – and not six months later, timed to coincide with a bank holiday. However, by equating watching TV at "the wrong time" with theft, the entertainment companies have been pretty successful in convincing politicians that the public should foot the bill for this decision through costly market interventions, up to and including a branch of the City of London police charged with finding copyright infringers.Which brings us back to the empirical evidence on lawful alternatives and piracy rates. The fact that people eschew the black market when there is a legitimate alternative tells you that they're not thieves looking to steal. Rather, like the notional customer who sneaks in her own fizzy drinks rather than paying for the cinema's insane markups, they are potential customers whose purchases have been forfeited by a business that has violated rule number one: offer a product that people want to buy at the price they're willing to pay.Like all externalisation, making the public pay for the profit-maximisation scheme of delaying release windows is a net loss.The marginal increase in profits from release delays are gobbled up by the terrible costs of policing the public through Draconian laws like the Digital Economy Act and absurdities like the censorship orders that force ISPs to block The Pirate Bay. What's more, research has shown that when lawful customers are sent to the black market through the unwillingness to sell, they sometimes linger there.When NBC pulled its digital offerings from the iTunes store, researchers found that downloads from The Pirate Bay of NBC programmes shot up, but so did downloads of programmes from other broadcasters – and they stayed high even when NBC restored the lawful alternative to Apple.In other words, when the entertainment industry asks us all to pay for its profit maximisation strategy of not selling right now it actually creates more pirates – and then asks us to pay to police them, too.This all makes perfect sense from the entertainment industry's perspective. So long as the salaries of chest-beating lobbyists who wander Whitehall weeping about theft are lower than the incremental profits represented by release windows, they're ahead of the game.But we all lose by this subsidy. The entertainment industry's pennies cost us pounds to police. So long as our politicians are willing to open the public purse to these scroungers, they will go on cheating the system to maximise their shareholder returns.
Thursday! Might be worth at least considering by those final presents today?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft Surface software shouldn't be 'Windows', said Dell &gt;&gt; CNET UKDell boss Jeffrey Clarke suggested to Microsoft top dog Steve Ballmer that extending the Windows name to tablets was a bridge to far. Clarke reasoned a Windows logo on the back would suggest tablets ran the same software as laptops and computers - when in fact they run a different operating system with fewer features, and only selected apps from the Windows Store.Microsoft decided instead to keep the brand for tablets, electing to simply present the tablet software as Windows RT. Windows RT is optimised for the low-powered ARM processors found in most tablets, and is presented as a stripped-down version of the full-sized Windows 8 software designed for the powerful Intel chips found in laptops and desktop computers.So that went well, showing off Dell's ability to influence Microsoft's thinking.Should you stick with Windows 7, at least for now? &gt;&gt; Consumer ReportsA quick look at our newest computer Ratings tells an interesting story: Despite the release of the new Windows 8 OS, many Windows 7 computers are still available from a variety of retailers, and several top our Ratings. If you're shopping for a new computer right now, there are some good reasons to opt for Windows 7.Steve Ballmer must be heaving a sigh of relief. If Consumer Reports isn't in favour, Windows 8 isguaranteedto do gangbusters business now.FixYa reports on common problems with 7-inch tablets &gt;&gt; ZDNetJack Schofield:No seen-inch tablet is perfect, but users of different models have different complaints, according to a report from FixYa, the problem-solving website. Google Nexus 7 owners complain about system update issues, for example, whereas for Nook HD owners, poor touchscreen response is the main problem.Sometimes the main complaint is inherent, rather than (say) a design fault or manufacturing error. For example, Amazon Kindle HD buyers don't like adverts on the lock screen, while Apple iPad Mini owners say the 4:3 screen ratio is a drawback for watching movies.Latest telecoms and pay TV complaints figures revealed &gt;&gt; OfcomLandlines: worst for complaints (per thousand) is TalkTalk. (Previous quarter: TalkTalk.)Fixed broadband: Orange. (Was: TalkTalk.)Mobile phones: T-Mobile (was: Three)Pay TV: BT (was: BT).Google Maps for iPhone returns with redesign that makes it easier to use &gt;&gt; WSJ.comWalt Mossberg:The Android version still has a few features the new iPhone version lacks: maps of the interiors of stores, malls and airports; bicycling directions; the ability to view map segments offline; and special offers that show up for some businesses. Google says it left these out for now because they aren't heavily used and the company wanted a new Apple version pronto. It says these may be added over time.More important are the Android app's traits Google abandoned in the new iPhone version: too many menus and steps to get things done, confusing icons, and a concept called Layers that was techie talk for things like switching from map view to satellite view.Researchers use liquid metal to create wires that stretch eight times their original length &gt;&gt; EurekalertResearchers from North Carolina State University have created conductive wires that can be stretched up to eight times their original length while still functioning. The wires can be used for everything from headphones to phone chargers, and hold potential for use in electronic textiles.To make the wires, researchers start with a thin tube made of an extremely elastic polymer and then fill the tube with a liquid metal alloy of gallium and indium, which is an efficient conductor of electricity."Previous efforts to create stretchable wires focus on embedding metals or other electrical conductors in elastic polymers, but that creates a trade-off," says Dr. Michael Dickey, an assistant professor of chemical and biomolecular engineering at NC State and co-author of a paper on the research.Useful. Can't think what for just now though. Suggestions?Android botnet found on all major US carriers sends thousands of spam texts to infect users &gt;&gt; The Next WebA new Android spam botnet has been discovered that uses infected phones to send thousands of SMS messages without the user's permission. While the threat is not (yet) widespread, it has already been spotted on all major US carriers and has the potential to make a big impact at the network level if it isn't dealt with soon.On December 3, security firm Lookout detected the threat, which it dubbed SpamSoldier, in cooperation with one of its unnamed carrier partners. It spreads through SMS messages (it has not yet been detected on any major app stores) that advertise free versions of popular paid games like Angry Birds Space.The text that spreads it looks pretty obviously spam. Except people fall for spam.The beauty of the Android fanboy battles &gt;&gt; Computerworld BlogsJR Raphael:Stop and think about that for a second: I'm now getting heckled for recommending one Android device over another Android device. The heated debate - the one that gets people's blood boiling - is now over a perceived snub to someone's Android brand of choice.How cool is that?Oh, wow, it's just like the graphics card battles of the 1990s. They achieved so much too, and made such a difference to the lives of all who participated. (In other words: it's only cool if you think playground fights are cool. And it achieves just as much.) (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Answers about Android &gt;&gt; BBC NewsRory Cellan-Jones: Why is there this gap between the BBC's offering for Apple and Android - I've heard talk that it's all about the fragmentation of the Android ecosystem?Daniel Danker [head of iPlayer at the BBC]: "It's not just fragmentation of the operating system - it is the sheer variety of devices. Before Ice Cream Sandwich (an early variant of the Android operating system) most Android devices lacked the ability to play high quality video. If you used the same technology as we've always used for iPhone, you'd get stuttering or poor image quality. So we're having to develop a variety of approaches for Android."RCJ: Why don't you just forget the older devices and concentrate on new ones?DD: "People write to us saying just that, why bother supporting older devices, why don't you just start with - and then they insert whichever model of phone they have. But more than a quarter of our requests to iPlayer come from devices running Gingerbread. And the number one [Android] device contacting us is still the Samsung Galaxy S2, which can't handle advanced video."And to answer what some ask:"YouTube has lower expectations of quality, and they have no issues with content protection. Netflix has good quality but it builds the entire video player on phones - they have to reengineer for every device. That is costing a lot of money and as a public service broadcaster we don't have the resources to do that. People also say everybody else is doing it, but that's not true. Neither the ITV Player nor 4OD offers a full Android service."It's screen size, screen resolution, graphics performance, CPU performance, APIs available by OS version - all those things interleaved, not just a single one. (Thanks @alanaudio for the link.)HTC 1Q13 smartphone shipments to grow slower than expected, say sources &gt;&gt; DigitimesAffected by the launch of iPhone 5 and rapidly declining smartphone prices in China, HTC reportedly has revamped its product roadmap for 2013 and is expected to see its smartphone shipments rise 10-15% sequentially in the first quarter of the year compared to a 20-30% growth projected previously, according to industry sources.HTC has suspended development of a number of new models for 2013, reducing the visibility of its orders for handset components, the sources revealed.These are very difficult times for HTC with Android: it's caught between the jaws of Samsung on the top end and cheap Chinese "white box" handsets at the lower end.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Twitter is offering its 500 million users a download containing the entire archive of their tweets - including data such as where, when and with what they tweeted.The chance to grab an archive of your own tweets was formally announced on Twitter's blog, though it has been rolling out to users for the past few days.The move gives people the chance to look at what they said - though without the interaction with other people it might seem to be of limited use.The archive is presented as an HTML file which is accessed through a web interface, but with better and faster searching features than on Twitter itself - which offers limited access to past tweets.Twittercelebrated its sixth birthday in March, having grown from tiny beginnings in 2006, when Jack Dorseysent the first public tweet- "just setting up my twttr".Since then Twitter hasgrown to 200 million active usersworldwide, adding more than 60m since May. Ten million are based in the UK, and 140 million in the US. However, there is a total of 500 million registered accounts around the world - suggesting that fewer than half are "active". Even so, Twitter's general manager Tony Wang suggested the service is "the pulse of the planet".Announcing the move, Mollie Vandor of Twitter's engineering teamwrote:we're introducing the ability to download your Twitter archive, so you'll get all your Tweets (including Retweets) going back to the beginning. Once you have your Twitter archive, you can view your Tweets by month, or search your archive to find Tweets with certain words, phrases, hashtags or @usernames. You can even engage with your old Tweets just as you would with current ones.Dave Winer, the developer who developed the first blogging software - of which the 140-character Twitter is its most compressed form -commented on his blogthat "One thing they haven't said is how frequently they will allow people to download their archives. Once a week? Once a month? Or is it a one-time thing? But this is important. It will make a pretty substantial difference in the tech market, imho [in my humble opinion]."A shared pool of tweets from many users would enable new forms of archive to be created - though they would rapidly go out of date. Twitter sees billions of new tweets every few days, meaning that any attempt to create an archive rapidly becomes outdated. Every tweet is however being archived by the US Library of Congress - although the public cannot access that electronically. A limited number of companies have access to the "full firehose" of tweets for analysis and processing for commercial companies.
Crass party gameCards Against Humanitycan now count Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales as one of its most fervent fans after the makers donated all $70,000 of their holiday profits to the Wikimedia Foundation.The "free party game for horrible people" has grown its cult following based on its cental conceit: that the more taboo, politically incorrect or downright vile your answer to a question is, the more hilarious and consequently higher score.A game founded in such base instincts and distributed free on the internet might seem an unlikely source of charity, but when it came to issuing a special holiday edition, the game's creators, decided to do something both creative and public-spirited.They offered the the pack of festive themed cards at whatever price people were willing to pay, without saying the profits would go to charity.Max Temkin, co-creator of Cards Against Humanity said they came up with the pay-what-you-want packs as a way to build up excitement for the game and to experiment with payment models.In two days, they sold most of their approximately 85,000 holiday expansion packs with people paying an average of $3.89. The majority of people paid $5 and 19.79% didn't pay anything."From the outset we decided we wanted to give all the proceeds to charity and that made it more fun for us," said Temkin. "We weren't really worried about the bottom line, we were really able to do it as an experiment and do it in a great way."After covering an assortment of costs including manufacturing, shipping and development they were left with $70,066.27 in profit, of which every cent was paid to the Wikimedia Foundation."We wanted to pick something we thought the users of our game of had heard of and believed in and used and we felt like Wikipedia is pretty unique in terms of having universal appeal," said Temkin. "It's something that helps a lot of people of all different classes and levels of education in different places all around the world … We also support the social mission of Wikipedia."Or, in Cards Against Humanity language: "Wikipedia is very important to us because without it we would not have known the exact volume of a dose of fresh boar sperm or graduated college."To play the game, the "card czar" picks one of the black question cards and the other players draw from their decks of 10 answer cards to produce a response. The best response wins an "awesome point".So when someone draws the card, "What gets better with age?" some of the potential game-supplied replies include: women in yogurt commercials, waking up half-naked in a Denny's parking lot, serfdom, the shambling corpse of Larry King, Harry Potter erotica and the token minority.Those are some of the more repeatable answers.An on-site infographicshows that the money could have went towards buying Little Monkey Caye island in Belize, 28,000 packets of astronaut ice cream or 1,000 liters of fresh boar sperm. Instead, they chose to donate it to the company who told them the exact volume of a dose of fresh boar sperm.And Wikimedia Foundation founder Jimmy Wales is pretty excited about the results:OMG this is so fucking cool.Scroll to the bottom. Cards against Humanity, you are the best.ow.ly/gb5H2&mdash; Jimmy Wales (@jimmy_wales)December 18, 2012"I can't even tell you how we were freaking out yesterday when he tweeted about us," Temkin said. "$70,000 is a lot for a game like us, but it's still pretty small, we weren't sure it would move the needle for Wikipedia or not, so it was really cool to hear from him."Temkin also said that they received emails from Wikimedia workers thanking them for the donation.Cards Against Humanity was envisioned by eight friends from Illinois and has grown to acquire cult popularity. On Tuesday, it was the best selling Toys and Games product on Amazon, where it regularly sells out.It costs $25, but it is also available as a free download under a Creative Commons license, which means people can't legally sell it, but they can print a copy of the game on their own.The business strategy of putting the product directly in the hands of consumers follows the company's self-starter ethos.The game became a success on the online fundraising site Kickstarter, where the game met its fundraising goal of $4,000 nearly four times over in January 2011.
In response to the Newtown shootings, Antwand Pearman, CEO of GamerFitNation,posted an event on Facebookcalling for 21 December to be a day of ceasefire for online shooters.It's gathered nearly 2,500 positive responses at the time of writing, and spawned lively discussion both on the page itself and on the #OSceasefire hashtag on Twitter.These online expressions of solidarity, sadness, grief and awareness are not new, but as games become more mainstream awareness of them has grown. Online communities of all types are now properly understood as "real" communities, filled with real people, real emotions and the capacity to act together in the way that offline communities do.The massrenaming of space stations in Eve Onlineafter the death of Sean Smith in the Benghazi consulate attack is only the most high-profile example of how gamers can respond to loss and bereavement. Schools, towns, and all sorts of offline communities have come together to show their loss in the wake of the Newtown tragedy – so why not online gamers?There's a common narrative about video games in the wake of spree killings. It started with Doom after the Columbine shooting, and it continues with yesterday's Sunfront page storyabout Adam Lanza's Call of Duty habits and, more bizarrely, theDaily Express on his loveof Dynasty Warriors.The media has a nasty habit of tying violent gaming (and horror movies, and the sort of music made by men who wear eyeliner) to mass murder, though in recent years that knee-jerk reaction has been getting softer.It is not rare for 20-year-old American men to play Call of Duty; that Lanza did so is not a surprise. And while the debate about the link between game violence and real aggression is far from finished, it would be vastly overstating the current evidence to suggest that CoD or any other game could cause someone to kill.So it's been strongly argued by some critics –Kieron Gillen among them– that the ceasefire call feeds into the media's narrative, as though by laying down virtual arms gamers are accepting some link between their hobby and the grim reality of Friday's events. The critics are keen to emphasise that there is no connection, and that those who enjoy games should not need to apologise for their hobbies.The Facebook events page refrains from commenting on the violence in gaming issue, saying: "We are simply making a statement that we as gamers are not going to sit back and ignore the lives that were lost. Instead we will embrace the families with our love and support."But not everyone will read that page, and in the light of the shoddy journalism around the issue it's fair to suppose that an online shooters' vigil might serve to reinforce the perceived link.It's also unclear whether any of the gamers taking part have reached out to the families of those killed in Sandy Hook, to find out how they might respond to such an event.Seen as a gesture of respect, a ceasefire could be a powerful expression of a community's sorrow, especially if it is widely taken up.Seen as an admission of guilt, it risks damaging the debate around violence in games and its link with real-life crime. And, in either case, it diverts attention away from the debate about real gun control in the US, where gamers stopping shooting pretend bullets at avatars for a day does nothing to stop the next person picking up a real gun and shooting another human being.
If austerity means ditching your pay-TV subscription, but you're reluctant to lose some of the features of the set top box provided by Sky or Virgin, the Humax DTR-T1000 box might be a good alternative.It has been around for a few months, but recent software updates make it worth taking a detailed look at now, as irritating shortcomings have been ironed out and useful functionality has been added, which means it should be a worthy piece of kit to have around during the forthcoming flopping-in-front-of-the-telly season and beyond.Humax has a good track record of making set top boxes: its Freeview and Freesat receivers and recorders have won praise in the past. This one is a YouView box, which means it incorporates the familiar Freeview service with on-demand TV, both from catch-up services and from dedicated content providers.Well, provider ... at the moment if you buy this box yourself rather than as part of a package with broadband from an ISP, the only additional content provider is Now TV, which is part of the Sky empire. That provides movies on demand for £8.99 a month and, having looked at (though not subscribed to) it, it seems to have a wide range of offerings, which you can browse by genre. You can't sign up via the box, though; you have to go to thewebsite.There is talk of further providers such as Netflix and Lovefilm being added to the YouView platform, though at present that remains just chatter. However, in theory the platform is infinitely scalable and in time other content providers could well come on board.What's missing from the content on offer is dedicated sport TV channels – no ESPN or Sky Sports, so if you want more than the current Freeview platform provides, this isn't the box for you. Don't forget though that it also serves up digital radio, and you do get BBC 5 Live Sports Extra and TalkSport as a consolation prize.For the record, the mix of channels is what's available in your region on the Freeview platform, which includes an extensive collection of rubbish such as shopping and quizzes, as well as the usual +1 channels, all the BBC and Channel 4's offerings, kids' shows and news channels, including Sky News and, for an alternative worldview, Al-Jazeera.One of the early annoyances was being unable to set up groups of channels so you could ignore the stuff you don't want to see; one of the more useful recent updates has added the ability to hide channels you don't watch. You still can't create groups, but at least the EPG (electronic program guide, displayed onscreen) isn't cluttered up with shopping channels if you don't want it to be.The EPG is very good. Again, a software update has improved it since the launch of the platform in the summer: a crisper font sounds like tweaking but it has made it more readable. From the EPG you can set recordings and – this is the fun bit – scroll back in time. If a programme you missed is available via one of the on-demand services, just hit OK when you reach it in the EPG and it will start playing: no need to go searching for it via the iPlayer or whatever.On-demand is also served up first via the players themselves, which you access through the MyView button on the remote, but also is offered in a very useful browsable format, also via MyView. That arranges on-demand content by genre, so if you want something to watch, that's the best way to find something. Depending on the broadcaster, some of it goes back quite a long way in time: for example, 4oD was offering a fascinating documentary on the attempt to identify one of the people who made the heartbreaking jump from the Twin Towers on 9/11 and whose fall was captured on film, which was broadcast back in January.There's nothing to differentiate between the various YouView boxes in terms of software – the platform is the same across devices, so it's down to your preference on hardware. The Humax device offers twin tuners, which means you can watch one programme and record another at the same time, and a 500GB hard drive, which can hold up to 300 hours of standard-definition recordings or 125 hours of high-def recordings.One glaring omission from this box is onboard Wi-Fi. This box needs to be online, and that's a challenge if your TV isn't near your router. There's no dedicated Wi-Fi dongle available either. So you need an Ethernet link to your router: I use the older g-only version of thisD-Link Ethernet bridgeto put my TV and assorted boxes on my network; or you could usePowerline plug adapters, which send the data over the mains.YouView says you need a minimum connection speed of 3Mb/s; mine is more like 17Mb/s, which means HD content is smooth and unbuffered, even when streamed wirelessly via the Ethernet bridge. But do check your broadband speed using a site such asspeedtest.net.All the Freeview HD channels are present and correct, and to my not especially discerning eye, the YouView box's HD picture is a step up in quality from the Humax Freeview recorder, the HDR-Fox T2 which Ireviewed a couple of years agoAnother recent addition via software updates is the ability to control your box via your iPhone or iPod Touch: you can connect up to five iOS devices to the box and use that to set up recordings. However, that doesn't reflect the channels you've hidden, so all the rubbish is displayed, and the app's functionality is a bit limited. You can see the listings and set a recording remotely, but that's it – you can't tweak any settings. And at the moment, the app is only available for the iPhone/iPod Touch running iOS5 or higher – there's no iPad or Android version, never mind any other mobile platform.Some niggles remain: the box is slow to boot, and it can sulk and freeze when it first comes back to life. The eco-mode means you can't leave it in standby for more than 12 hours; you have to reboot the box beyond that and that can mean a surprisingly long wait for it to start.If you're coming from an earlier Humax box, some of the buttons on the remote are in the "wrong" place – curse you, muscle memory. As noted, there's no on-board Wi-Fi; and there's no Bluetooth, either, which makes searching for a programme by name a painful process despite the predictive text which fills in suggestions as you type – it would be great to be able to pair a Bluetooth keyboard with the box.The default parental control PIN is easy to guess and even easier to Google: those with children should change it. And although you can set up the networking manually and give the box a static IP address, it can't act as aDNLAbox, which means you can't stream content from your other devices to your TV via the box.There's a USB port on the box which is fundamentally useless – apparently it's only for engineers to use when fixing the box, so you can't use it to play other content – photos, films etc; nor can it be used to plug in a Wi-Fi dongle.The lack of DNLA functionality might be a dealbreaker for some; the other niggles are just that – things that would be nice to have. Those wrinkles aside, this is a very capable box that is easy to use and delivers on its promises.You should be able to find this box for around £250, which although higher than a standard Freeview or Freesat recorder, is nonetheless a bargain compared to a Sky or Virgin subscription.Pros:seamless on-demand content; excellent EPG; easy to useCons:lack of onboard Wi-Fi; slow start-up; no DNLA functionality.Humax YouView
It's part three of the Guardian Gamesblog 2012 countdown and we're rushing toward that all-important top ten. For now though, here are the five titles just outside it – there are indie thillers, sci-fi epics and undead adventures, all of them worth a place under your Christmas tree this year (though digital distribution is totally starting to ruin that well-worn cliche).Anyway, here we go – co-contributors Mary Hamilton and Rich Stanton have helped out this time.15.Hotline Miami(PC)Dennaton Games' ultraviolent, psychedelic assassination simulator, somehow manages to be both unbearably cool and deeply disturbing. The game's unreliable narrators leave the story open to interpretation by the player, in between bouts of frantic button mashing and gruesome action. Finishing a level can take seconds, but learning the locations of enemies, the best approach vectors and the absolute perfect timing can take hours to accomplish. It's a hard, grim, challenging game, which takes the same cultural references as Grand Theft Auto but treats them in averydifferent way. (Mary Hamilton)14.Mass Effect 3(PC, PS3, Wii U, Xbox 360)The EA title Mass Effect 3 will not be stocked at Game storesAnd so it's over: Shepard vs the Reapers, Earth half-destroyed, a galaxy of armies to recruit into one last showdown – The Dirty Dozen on an interplanetary scale. There were worries about dumbing down that proved – for most of us – unwarranted; the combat is deep and rewarding, the story engrossing. The finale? Flawed, but then, you know, sometimes that happens (The Abyss, The Birds, Lost...) – I still think we should have let it be. After all, how could anything have summed it all up foreveryone? Oh Shepard, this is the end, beautiful friend.13.Tribes Ascend(PC)The free-to-play Tribes Ascend is videogame shooter as team sport, a high-flying thrillride more about movement and positioning than itchy trigger-fingers. Offensive players use jetpacks and a frictionless landscape to 'ski' towards the enemy flag at high speeds, where doughty defenders await with maximum firepower – an intergalactic game of tag, all bound up in the perfect escape vector. Most new players will hit a wall at more than 150 km/h, and be awarded a medal called 'It Happens'. It does, but only in Tribes Ascend. (Rich Stanton)12.Planetside 2(PC)Fed up with fighting against 15 other people in teeny environments, endlessly repeating the same old movement patterns? You have FPS fatigue, my friend, and there's a solution right here. Planetside 2 is a gigantic massively multiplayer sci-fi FPS pitching huge armies against each other in vast open world encounters. While it's free to play with in-game purchases, it's possible to keep your spending in check and still have weeks of fun. Another groundbreaking experiment from SOE while it beavers away on Everquest Next.11.ZombiU(Wii U)Anyone who thinks Nintendo platforms are only ever about Mario and kids' games has obviously never played Resident Evil 4 (originally on GameCube) – and should immediately sample this uncompromising slab of survival horror bleakness. You're the survivor of a zombie plague struggling though a wrecked London, just hanging on to life – and often (so often) losing grip, only to have your character replaced by another terrified looking civilian. The controls are tricky, the visuals dark and smeared, but this is an incredibly atmospheric horror adventure, stuffed with shocking set-pieces and tense, panicky moments. The sheer terror when the monsters come and you realise that you lost that big bag of dynamite and bullets two characters ago...  No, you're alone against the savage dead, and you grip the cricket bat and prepare to join them.
Phew, Wednesday, we're getting close to Christmas!
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSamsung displaces Nokia as top cellphone brand in 2012 and takes decisive smartphone lead over Apple &gt;&gt; IHS iSuppliSamsung's world share of smartphones at 28% for 2012; Apple's at 20%. Nokia, HTC and RIM at 5%. That leaves 37% of smartphones split among huge numbers of tiny Chinese manufacturers. As a proportion. smartphones will be 47% of world shipments in 2012, IHS iSuppli estimates, while total mobile shipments will fall by 1%.Thank you, and we're listening &gt;&gt; Instagram BlogKevin Systrom, chief executive of Instagram:Legal documents are easy to misinterpret. So I'd like to address specific concerns we've heard from everyone.Funny how lawyers who read those updated terms had the same interpretation as everyone else.Spain sheds nearly 500,000 mobile lines in October &gt;&gt; TelecompaperSpain lost nearly 486,183 mobile lines and datacards in October, ending the month with a total mobile base of 53.71m users, down by 3.1% over the same month of 2011, according to a report by Spanish regulator CMT.A sign of economic stress? Business accounts being closed? Hard to know. Still feels like something is happening though.Why you should want to pay for software, Instagram edition &gt;&gt; The AtlanticAlexis Madrigal:Here's an alternative version of what Instagram could have done before Facebook purchased them. Instagram has, what, 100 million users? If they got $5 a month from 20 million of those users, they'd be looking at $300 million in quarterly revenue. That's a nice chunk of change when you have a baker's dozen employees. You think those guys could split more than a billion dollars a year and call it good. Or hell, make the user numbers an order of magnitude smaller: 2 million out of 10 million users. That's still $30 million dollars a quarter for 13 guys.Eminently sensible. Of course that's Spotify's model, roughly.Android: An update &gt;&gt; BBC Internet BlogDave Price, head of BBC iPlayer, Programmes and On Demand:?The BBC launched the BBC Media Player for Android nearly three months ago. Since then it has been downloaded to more than one million Android phones and tablets.In this short period of time we've witnessed a dramatic change in the Android platform and in BBC usage on the platform.When we launched, seven inch Android tablets weren't driving significant usage. Fast forward three months and the Kindle Fire HD and the Nexus 7 are now both firmly in the top five Android devices for BBC iPlayer and the BBC Media Player.The Android platform is extremely important to the BBC and our audience and engineering for it requires an ongoing commitment.And that commitment is big - really big - because there are more than 1500 different Android devices requiring support, and no simple way to support them all.How much do maps cost and what are they worth? &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu:What's worse, the market may have been cornered -- there may be no suppliers [of the essential data]. Unlike hardware components, the maps component is not a commodity with a market of suppliers. The work needed to maintain the maps is a commodity but the aggregation and consolidation of the data is valuable and those who have gained control over the data and they are not likely to license it to any competitors for strategic (i.e. political) reasons.So we have a perverse situation of a very costly, unprofitable asset requiring duplication of maintenance effort by politically motivated actors imprisoned by their own strategic interests.HTC Said to halt larger Windows Phone on display resolution &gt;&gt; BloombergGot the headline, right? Ah, but read on:HTC Corp scrapped plans to produce a large-screen smartphone using Microsoft's operating system because the screen would have had lower resolution than competing models, a person familiar with the project said.The Windows software doesn't support resolutions as high as that on Google's Android platform, said the person, who asked not to be identified because the information isn't public.Chief executive officer Peter Chou's decision to halt the project using Windows Phone 8 software leaves HTC with only Android for phones measuring larger than 5 inches diagonally, dealing a blow to Microsoft in its efforts to win share from Google and Apple.So this was going to be a "phone" larger than 5in, to compete with the Galaxy Note. Not in the generality of the smartphone space. A key question: at what size does Microsoft stop you using Windows Phone and insist on Windows 8? (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Interview with Julie Larson-Green, the executive in charge of Windows 8 at Microsoft &gt;&gt; Technology Review. | MIT Technology ReviewQ In the future, are all PCs going to have touch screens?For cost considerations there might always be some computers without touch, but I believe that the vast majority will. We're seeing that the computers with touch are the fastest-selling right now. I can't imagine a computer without touch anymore. Once you've experienced it, it's really hard to go back.Lots of implications in this. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Drunken Twitter and Facebook users who post grossly offensive messages online may be less likely to face prosecution if they hit delete and express remorse after they sober up, Keir Starmer, the director of public prosecutions, indicated.Announcingguidelines for the prosecution of people who misuse social media (pdf), Starmer said he wanted to set a high threshold for prosecution in cases where people post "grossly offensive, obscene or false" messages and he urged "considerable caution" before bringing charges to avoid a chilling effect on free speech."If a message is taken down very swiftly and there is remorse then it may not be proportionate to have a criminal prosecution," said Starmer. "It is not a defence that you have sobered up but it is relevant that whatever the material was, it was taken down pretty quickly when the person realised it was inappropriate."The Crown Prosecution Service is dealing with a rising caseload of allegations involving posts on Twitter and Facebook – about 60 in the last 18 months.  It published a 14-page guide on prosecuting cases involving social media communications, partly to avoid a repeat of the so-called Twitter joke trial. A Doncaster accountant, Paul Chambers, was pursued through the criminal and appeal courts for more than two years for joking that he wanted to blow up Doncaster airport because it was closed by snow and he wanted to fly to see his new girlfriend.The guidelines come into force on Wednesday and Starmer has drawn a clear distinction between grossly offensive, obscene or false posts and those that credibly threaten violence, harass or stalk and breach court orders such as anonymity for rape victims. He said the CPS would deal "robustly" with the latter categories of social media use which include trolling.Starmer said the guidelines could leave it open to Lord McAlpine, who was libelled on Twitter when users wrongly indicated he was suspected of being a paedophile, to allege individuals had committed an offence by mounting a campaign of harassment against him.Javed Khan, chief executive of Victim Support, said the new distinction between credible threats and offence was sorely needed. "Victims tell us sustained and vindictive targeting on social media can leave long-lasting emotional and psychological scars so we warmly welcome clarification on how prosecutors will deal with online threats or harassment."Chambers' solicitor, David Allen Green, director of media at Preiskel and Co, welcomed the guidelines as "a step forward". "The real test will be in practice, especially the thresholds adopted by the police when making arrest decisions."Starmer is acutely aware that the ever-increasing volume of communication on-line could result in the CPS being swamped by cases that allege posts are "grossly offensive, obscene or menacing or that are false and there is an intention to cause annoyance, inconvenience or needless anxiety to another". He said: "There is a high threshold that must be met before criminal proceedings are brought and in many cases a prosecution is unlikely to be in the public interest." It means that for a writer to face prosecution a post must be shown to be either more than offensive, shocking or disturbing; more than satirical, iconoclastic or rude; or more than the expression of unpopular or unfashionable opinion about serious or trivial matters or banter or humour, even if distasteful or painful to those subjected to it.Starmer stressed that the context of a message was important: "Banter, jokes and offensive comments are commonplace and often instantaneous. Communications intended for a few may reach millions."
After a day of media reports and social media statements decrying Instagram, the photography app's co-founder Kevin Systrom sought to prevent an exodus of users by promising that the company has no intent to sell user photos.Instagram changed its terms of service this week using language that suggested that the app, and its owner Facebook, would be allowed to sell people's uploaded photos or related data to third parties without permission.Users reacted with fury to the suggestion that their carefully filtered photos of Thai food and drunken escapades could be used by Instagram advertisers to promote products without them receiving compensation.Many deleted their accounts and began exploring their other social sharing options for photos on sites such as Flickr and Hipstamatic.But on Tuesday evening,Systrom released a statementclarifying that Instagram had no intention of selling user photos."To be clear: it is not our intention to sell your photos. We are working on updated language in the terms to make sure this is clear," Systrom said.He also said that the rewritten terms were meant to legally provide for room to experiment with "innovative advertising" in the app.Systrom's explanation reads much like the model of advertising employed by its owner Facebook. This means that the company could analyse which brands a user follows on Instagram and use their data, profile pictures and photos to show their Instagram followers that they follow that business."The language we proposed also raised questions about whether your photos can be part of an advertisement," Systrom said. "We do not have plans for anything like this and because of that we're going to remove the language that raised the question."The company says the advertising they made way for in the terms of service is meant as a way to avoid banner ads and other things "that would hurt the Instagram user experience".In the blog post, Systrom also clarified that the app neither owns user content nor claims rights to it, and the new change in terms won't allow them to."We respect that there are creative artists and hobbyists alike that pour their heart into creating beautiful photos, and we respect that your photos are your photos," Systrom said.Finally, Systrom clarified that nothing will change about privacy settings, which state that if your photos are private, they can only be shared with the people who users approved them to be shared with.Systrom said there will be more updates and that the proposed changes were released early so people could provide feedback before they go into effect in 30 days.
It is 253 days since Mark Zuckerberg's Facebook bought Instagram for $1bn. On that day – Monday 9 April – the two-year-old photo-sharing service became the latest member of the new internet establishment.In an FAQ section on Instagram's website, the companyexplainsthe cost of its app in just 12 words: "$0.00 – available for free in the Apple App Store and Google Play store."In fact, the cost of using the app is that you, the user, are the product.You, the user, hand Instagram the sepia-tinted photos that will make multi-millionaires out of its Stanford-educated founders.You, the user, divulge detailed profile information that will keep the company's commercial team in pocket.You, the user, tell Instagram where your monochrome snap was taken so its vast collection of private data will keep growing. (You can turn that element off, but many people don't.)That is the cost of most free internet services. Why is it a point worth making?Instagram this week changedits termsof use to make clear that it will be able to display your "username, likeness, photos (along with any associated metadata), and/or actions you take" in connection with advertising without you being notified or reimbursed.The entire legalese is, like the finest legal writing, somewhat vague and ambiguous. But essentially it means that Facebook, as the owner of Instagram, can use your pictures to promote anything from famous landmarks to food brands or festive onesies without asking your permission each time.As my colleague Charles Arthur noted, the change led toan outpouring of rage online(similar in kind to that which greeted the sale of Instagram to Facebook back in April) from users furious that their photos were being "stolen" without compensation.Those users might consider defecting to Flickr, whose users retain the rights to their pictures and allow the company's owner, fading (or resurgent?) internet portal Yahoo, the right to "use, distribute, reproduce, modify, adapt, publicly perform and publicly display such Content on the Yahoo! Services solely for the purpose for which such Content was submitted or made available".Like Instagram, Flickr is free (charging only its most snap-happy customers). But the cost of running Flickr has been underwritten by other corners of the Yahoo empire, and premium users of the service help keep its terms on the straight and narrow for those who are less dedicated.The vast majority of Instagram's 30 million users will still be posting pictures of their Christmas presents this time next week, some no doubt flattered that any company would want to be associated with their three-second handiwork.But the change does pose a problem for professional photographers.Richard Gray, the mobile photographer and lecturer, syndicates some of his Instagram pictures to an agency for money. If those pictures were being sold separately by Instagram to another company and used as advertising he would be in trouble, he said."When Facebook took over there was a lot speculated about how it was going to be monetised but it looks like they're trying to turn the whole thing into a library of stock images," Gray said."A lot of people won't really care. I think it's the 10% of people who take pride – the iPhonographers, if you like – those people will drift away and make a fuss about it."Would it make business or PR sense for privacy-sensitive Facebook to flog your photos to companies for $1 a pop? Probably not. But the change should come as no surprise to users who thought they were the ultimate controllers of their data.
Samsung has stopped seeking sales bans for Apple products such as the iPhone and iPad in lawsuits in five European countries, apparently after being warned by the European Commission against abusing its ownership of patents essential for standards such as 3G networking.The unexpected boost for Apple in the smartphone patent wars came just hours after it was disappointed in California byJudge Lucy Koh, who turned down its request for a US sales banon 20 Samsung smartphones and tablets, despite winning $1bn in damages from a jury verdict in August.The mixed news had little impact on Apple's share price, which continued a gradual rise since dipping close to $500 on Monday, its lowest point since February. The stock price hit $702.10 on 19 September, but since then has been in a prolonged slump. Analysts have cut their rating on the stock, suggesting that Apple is cutting production of iPhones – despite the company having trumpeted the sale of 2m iPhone 5 handsets in three days at its introduction in China last weekend.Samsung decided unilaterally not to seek court injunctions in Germany, the UK, France, Italy and the Netherlands over Apple's use of its patents for standards such as 3G. But the lawsuits will continue, with Samsung seeking payment for use of the patents, which Apple has not denied.The surprise move follows intense scrutiny from the EC's antitrust unit, which has beeninvestigating the South Korean company's use of "standards-essential" patents (SEPs) in lawsuitsfor almost a year. Companies have to use SEPs to make their devices work with standards such as 3G or Wi-Fi – but the patent owner agrees to license them on terms that are "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory" to any applicant. Samsung and Apple have disagreed over the payment terms for the licences.In the US, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) warned earlier this month that letting SEP owners demand sales bans if they disagree on licence paymentsamounted to a "holdup", and that judges should refuse them. The warning came in a filing in a lawsuit where Google subsidiary Motorola Mobility (MMI), which holds a number of SEPs, is suing Apple; the FTC sided against MMI.Florian Müller, who has studied the patent battles and is unconnected to Apple or Samsung, told the Guardian: "I'm convinced there was pressure from the EU. The commission could have taken its time, but the Mannheim regional court was going to rule on two Samsung SEP lawsuits on 25 January – and I think it still is going to rule, but it will only rule on whether Samsung is entitled to damages as opposed to potential sales bans."Samsung has dropped its push for the most drastic remedy – sales bans – with respect to the most lethal weapon, SEPs, and only in Europe, not in the US, Asia or Australia. This is exactly the scope of the EC investigation."But the DoJ is also investigating Samsung in the US over precisely the same matter – suggesting that Samsung may make a similar climbdown there to avoid hefty fines.Samsung said it had dropped its request for sales bans in Europe because "we strongly believe it is better when companies compete fairly in the marketplace, rather than in court" and that it had withdrawn them "in the interest of protecting consumer choice". However, Samsung is still seeking sales bans on Apple products over non-essential patents in Germany, and on a number of patents in other countries.In California, Judge Koh turned down Apple's request for a sales ban because it said that it had not shown that Samsung's infringement of its patents – covering screen behaviour such as the "bounce" on scrolling through a list – had directly boosted its rival's sales, or hurt Apple's. But she also threw out complaints by Samsung that the jury foreman Velvin Hogan had been biased against it because of a 1993 lawsuit brought by hard-drive maker Seagate, in which Samsung owns shares and for which the foreman had worked.
Twitter now has more than 200 million active users around the world, with some 10 million of those in the UK underlining its rapid growth as a social media tool.The number of Twitterati has shot up from 140 million in May, with major events such as the presidential election in the US and the Olympics converting more people from passive to active users, according to Twitter.Growth was also driven by people discovering Twitter for the first time, a spokeswoman said, citing France as a market that had seen "huge growth" this year, partly driven by its own presidential election.But with more than 500 million registered users worldwide, the figures show that more than half of those with a Twitter account prefer not to tweet themselves.Mobile growth is also catching on with 60% using smartphone apps – in the UK 80% of active users are using their phones to access content.In a tweet noting the statistical landmarkTony Wang, general manager of the social networking giant in the UK, said: "There are now more than 200M monthly active @twitter users. You are the pulse of the planet. We're grateful for your ongoing support!"Areport earlier this year published by social media analysts Semiocast, showed that the UK was the fourth biggest Twitter nation, beaten only by the US, Brazil and Japan.In June 2012 the top three cities by number of tweets were Jakarta, Tokyo and London. Manchester came in as the second  most active city in the UK.The rapid growth and perceived importance of Twitter in the US, where there are 140 million registered users, was underlined on Monday when Nielsen said it had teamed up with the social media companyto measure "split screen" TV viewing from next year.Nielsen research shows36% of 35 to 54 year-olds and 44% of 55 to 64 year-olds use their tablets while watching TV.
This week on Tech Weekly with Guardian technology editor Charles Arthur, we meet the man who created the MIME email protocol that allows us to sent email attachments. Nathaniel Borenstein is an influential figure in the technical developments of electronic communication and chief scientist at the email management company Mimecast. He discusses the evolution of email and how we protect ourselves against spam and make emails work for us not against us.Charles is joined by Guardian technology and media reporter Josh Halliday to discuss this week's tech news including theuproar at Instagramas they change their terms and conditions, why Christmas is canceled in the world of domain names and the latest in the Apple v Samsung patent wars.
Put down the cracker and pack away the bunting: plans for Christmas to have its own winter wonderland online are on ice until 2014.A new top-level web domain, .christmas, was expected to be among the first of 1,000 new internet suffixes to launch in the 12 months from April next year.But it narrowly missed out in ahotly-anticipated lotteryin Los Angeles on Monday night, coming out of the virtual hat at the 1,290th pick. That means .christmas is unlikely to appear online until late 2014.As a result there is no way for companies to set up special Christmas-themed sites with the suffix .christmas – a disappointment to Bret Fausett, who runs Unregistry, the company that would sell .christmas websites, as well as .blackfriday. But Fausett put a brave face on it: "[.christmas and .blackfriday] are timeless and without substitutes. They will be just as good in 2014," hetweetedas he watched the lottery.Call it divine intervention, or the luck of the draw, but the pope continued his holy expansion into cyberspace after .catholic in Chinese was the first new domain name to be drawn. The Vatican's Pontifical Council for Social Communication secured the suffix less than a week afterthe pope made his debut on Twitter.Another world faith using the web to transform its image also struck internet gold on Monday night. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints – or Mormonism – will be the first global religion to have its own decicated space on the English-language internet after .mormon was the 118th address picked out of the hat.Mormonism is one of the world's fastest growing religions – with more than 14 million members – but will restrict use of its .mormon address to "church officers and employees and organizations affiliated with the Church," according to its official application form.Representatives of religions, governments and multinational corporations flew to Los Angeles for the domain name lottery hosted at the Hilton hotel by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), the body which is overseeing the launch of the new internet suffixes – reckoned to be one of the biggest expansions of the web since its creation by Tim Berners-Lee in 1991.Kelly Salter, a domain name specialist at the web hosting firmNames.co.ukwho watched the lottery draw, said: "The pope may have only had his Twitter for a week, but clearly the Vatican were saying their prayers with .catholic in the Chinese language coming top of the ICANN new gTLD draw last night – and poor Santa with .christmas falling way down the list at 1290."It looks like we're in for a traditional Christmas, even Santa turning up for the new gTLD priority draw couldn't help the .christmas application. It's unlikely we'll see .christmas until 2014."Salter said she expects ICANN to launch about 750 of the new internet domains – technically called "generic top-level domains" – from April next year. In 2014, about 1,000 of the addresses are expected to go live.Some of the domains, such as .play, .news and .music, have attracted fierce competition from the likes of Google, Amazon and other media giants. The launch of those domains will be severely delayed as a result of the competition, which could eventually be decided by a highest-bidder-wins auction.
Facebook has infuriated users of the photo-sharing and filtering service Instagram bychanging its terms of serviceto allow it to sell peoples' uploaded photos or related data.The change has led to an outpouring of anger online — although the move echoes similar moves made by other services,such as Twitpic in 2011, which are allied to fast-moving microblogging services such as Twitter.The change may give a boost to Yahoo's photo-sharing serviceFlickr, which last week launched a new mobile app, and which gives users full control over the rights to their pictures. Although Flickr has resale deals in place with a number of companies, it shares revenue from those with users and only uses photos with users' explicit permission.The new Instagram clause notes that "some or all of the service may be supported by advertising revenue" and says that, as a result, "to help us deliver interesting paid or sponsored content or promotions, you agree that a business or other entity may pay us to display your username, likeness, photos (along with any associated metadata), and/or actions you take, in connection with paid or sponsored content or promotions, without any compensation to you."That means that Instagram photos could be used in advertising, without reference to the owner, with all the payments going to Instagram. There is no opt-out from that use except to stop using the service and to delete your photos.But Dan Catt, who worked on the early development of Flickr – one of the first photo-sharing services online –pointed out on Twitterthat any pictures which included recognisable people would require explicit permission in the form of a "model release" from Instagram to the advertiser seeking to use it, which might be impossible to grant.The announcement has led to a number of services springing up to let people download their existing Instagram pictures into another archive and even delete them, such as recollect.com.Facebook bought Instagram because it was growing rapidly. The photo-sharing service was about two years old and had around 33m users at the time of the acquisition – though none on them were paying for the service.Don Dodge, a venture capitalist who has also worked at Google,commented at the timethat "the value of a company is different for different potential acquirers. If Facebook can monetise its users in a way that justifies $100 per user, then paying $30 per user for an acquisition is a great deal".
Many readers found that they hadn't played most of Monday's titles, but we think this batch should be very different. There are some big brands nestled in here with two indie upstarts – if you haven't tried at least one of these in 2012 you might have stumbled on this page by mistake (UPDATE: or as DaveFalse rightly points out in the comments, you might just own a PS3).Anyway, here we go, counting down from 20-16. As ever, this is a subjective list and its completion involved no science, no Metacritic skimming, no statistical comparison. It's all made up in our heads.20.Forza Horizon(Xbox 360)Forza HorizonTwo years ago, Leamington-based developer Playground Games was commissioned to make an approachable spinoff from the sensible Forza series. The result is Horizon, an open-world driving game based around music festivals and yoof culture. Under the bonnet, however, the game shares car physics with its more serious counterpart, and has all of that knowledge and statistical information siphoned into its engine. It's a serious game dressed in casual summer clothing, but one which finally gives players the chance to drive their dream cars on the open road.19.Diablo III(PC)Diablo 3Five flamboyantly distinct classes make Diablo's return to dungeon-crawling an experience where the clicks are surprisingly varied. Choosing the skills with which to equip your chosen warrior is where the game's strongest magic is to be found, but hovering loot in the dingy, mossy fruit machine is as compulsive as it ever was. Arguably, these strengths are overshadowed by the auction system, in which developer Blizzard assumes the role of an actual bank, demanding every player be connected to the internet to play and other such controversial stipulations. Still, behind the headlines – the news of stolen accounts, exploits and other such post-release woes - sits a game of distinguished pedigree and daring, where every click delivers.18.Legend of Grimrock(PC)Taking inspiration from dungeon-crawling classics such as Dungeon Master and Eye of the Beholder, Legends of Grimlock puts four scurvy adventuring types in their natural environment – an underground maze riddled with monsters, traps and the sort of security systems that can be outwitted by lateral thinking rather than keys – and lets them get on with it. It's almost impossibly hard at every stage of play, but very, very satisfyingly so given its old-school credentials.17.FTL(PC)Faster Than Light's influences are broad and ancient, combining Elite's space trading with Rogue's randomly generated challenges and realtime space combat from so many Star Wars wannabes. The goal is to cross space with your precious cargo, a data packet from a rebel fleet who want it back, and the intergalactic chase drives you forwards with some urgency. But the true race is to upgrade your ship ahead of the difficulty curve, maintaining weapons, keeping topped up with fuel and ammunition and fighting fires both figurative and literal when under attack. It also borrows X-Com's trick of allowing you to name your units, adding to the drama and curious heartbreak when one catches fire or suffocates.16.Halo 4(Xbox 360)Halo 4 Photograph: Copyright, Microsoft, 2009. All343 Studio's first mainline Halo release since the studio took over development from series originator, Bungie, is broadly a success, albeit a conservative one. Its storyline charges players with a more personal, affecting goal than usual: to save Cortana – Master Chief's luminous AI companion, from the AI Alzheimer's that's killing her. In the face of repetitive tasks, and a general lack of imagination in the campaign, the Cortana plotline adds humanity and drive, while 343 squeezes every last drop of power from the Xbox to deliver some of the most arresting vistas seen on the system. In the accompanying Halo multiplayer arena, 343 excels with one of the most fully-featured and assured eSports offerings of 2012.
Apple has been dramatically rebuffed by a California judge after its request for a US sales ban on a number of Samsung smartphones was turned down in the California court wherea jury awarded it $1.05bn (£635m) in damagesfor patent infringement in August.But Samsung saw one of its biggest complaints about the verdict – that there had been jury misconduct, with the foreman Velvin Hogan being biased against it and introducing his own knowledge to the deliberation – thrown out.Therulings by Judge Lucy Kohmean that the two phone giants, which together control about half of the entire smartphone market worldwide, will both be dissatisfied with the outcome of the post-trial hearing – though Samsung will have more cause to celebrate because its infringement will only cost it in monetary, not sales terms.In her ruling, Koh said: "Samsung may have cut into Apple's customer base somewhat, but there is no suggestion that Samsung will wipe out Apple's customer base, or force Apple out of the business of making smartphones. The present case involves lost sales – not a lost ability to be a viable market participant."In effect, Koh told Apple that it is big enough to compete directly with Samsung – and that a sales ban would have little real effect on the market dynamics between the two companies.Samsung, from South Korea, is the world's largest mobile phone and smartphone maker. Apple is the second largest smartphone maker, but ships only about half as many smartphones as Samsung. It has a substantial lead in the tablet market, though. Apple had wanted US sales bans on a number of leading Samsung smartphones and tablets.Other parts of the US court system, however, are preparing to re-hear a call by Apple for sales bans on Samsung's Galaxy Nexus smartphone.Joff Wild, of Intellectual Asset Management magazine,saidthe decision by Koh was "the most sensational and unexpected twist" in the trial: "a [sales ban] is what Apple wanted and it is what Samsung most feared. For two companies swimming in cash, the jury award was neither here nor there."Apple is expected to appeal the decision by Judge Koh to deny any injunction. Florian Müller, who has followed the smartphone patent battles between companies in detail,noted: "It may be unprecedented in the legal history of the United States for an injunction motion to be denied across the board despite such a large number of infringement findings (roughly half a dozen) by a jury and, especially, in light of the competitive situation between the two as well as the jury's findings of willful infringement."The jury originally decided that a number of Samsung smartphones and tablets infringed a group of Apple patents, including the way that screens of data scrolled, and the appearance of the iPhone 3G introduced in 2008. Apple opened a number of lawsuits against Samsung in April 2011.Apple had wanted sales bans on 26 Samsung devices following the verdict, and had petitioned Judge Lucy Koh to that effect in a hearing on 6 December. But in a ruling handed down by Koh late on Monday in the San Jose court, she said that to win a ban, it would be necessary to show that "Apple must have lost these sales because Samsung infringed Apple's patents. Apple has simply not been able to make this showing."Koh said Apple had not shown that an sales ban would be necessary for restitution of any loss by Samsung's infringement, and that it had not shown that elements infringed by Samsung had been the key reason why people chose Samsung devices over Apple ones.Koh's denial of Samsung's claims of jury misconduct followed complaints by the company that Hogan had previously had a lawsuit involving Seagate, in which Samsung is a shareholder.But Koh ruled that Samsung had effectively waived its right to complain about Hogan because it had carried out pre-trial interviews with him – known as voir dire – and had not then followed up points he had raised. "Parties [in the trial] waive their right to challenge the jury's impartiality if they are aware of the evidence giving rise to the motion for a new trial or fail to exercise reasonable diligence in discovering that evidence," she wrote.Samsung's lawyers, she suggested, seemed to have been hoping that Hogan – and the jury – would rule in their favour, and only objected afterwards because the verdict went against them. Samsung's side, she said, showed "lack of reasonable diligence" in investigating Hogan's relationship with Seagate.She added that "it is not clear whether Mr Hogan was intentionally dishonest", and that Samsung had not shown whether he knew of any relationship between Samsung and Seagate, which he left in 1993 – nearly 20 years before the trial. Instead, "what changed between Samsung's initial decision not to pursue questioning or investigation of Mr Hogan, and Samsung's later decision to investigate was simple," Koh wrote."The jury found against Samsung, and made a very large damages award. This is precisely the situation that courts have consistently found constitutes a waiver of the juror misconduct claim."
Tuesday! Got any Christmas presents left to buy?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamInternet regulation seen at national level as treaty talks fail &gt;&gt; ReutersBut the United States' refusal to sign the treaty even after all mention of the Internet had been relegated to a side resolution may have convinced other countries that they have to go it alone, delegates said."This could lead to a balkanization of the Internet, because each country will have its own view on how to deal with over-the-top players and will regulate the Internet in a different way," said another European delegate, who would speak only on condition anonymity.Without US and European cooperation, "maybe in the future we could come to a fragmented Internet," said Andrey Mukhanov, international chief at Russia's Ministry of Telecom and Mass Communications.The internet is already fragmented, though. China? Syria? Libya? Egypt?Google Maps for iOS may violate European data protection law &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaNot everyone was euphoric when Google Maps for iOS showed up earlier this week. Take the Independent Centre for Privacy Protection in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany for instance. Computerworld spoke to the organization's deputy privacy and information commissioner, Marit Hansen, who expressed concerns about the app's location data sharing. By having this option switched on by default, Hansen says, it violates European data protection law...Hansen's main gripe is that Google's use of "anonymous" is misleading. "All available information points to having linkable identifiers per user," she told Computerworld. Hansen added this would allow Google to track several location entries, thus leading to her assumption that Google's "anonymous location data" would be considered "personal data" under the European law.(Thanks @rubbernuke for the link)Walmart slaps heavy discount on iPhones, iPad &gt;&gt; PCMag.comAccording to a Facebook post on theofficial Walmart page, Apple's iPhone 5 is getting $62 shaved off its price so long as purchasers also sign up for a two-year contract at the time. That puts the 16-gigabyte iPhone 5 at a mere $127, or all of $72 less than what Apple charges customers that purchase an iPhone 5 from them directly.*gritted teeth* If it's on a two-year contract the upfront price is meaningless unless you know the per-month price. The page specifies "new two-year contract or eligible upgrade". (Thanks @altwebid for the link.)Windows 8/RT tablets hard to sell, say Taiwan makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesBased on sales performance since Windows 8 was launched in late October, Windows 8/RT tablets are difficult to sell due to higher prices than those for Android tablets and insufficient available applications, according to Taiwan-based notebook supply chain makers.First-tier vendors' 10-inch Windows 8-based tablet models average above NT$20,000 (US$685). Compared to 10-inch models with Nvidia's quad-core Tegra 3 processor and Android there is a price gap of about NT$8,000-12,000.In addition, the number of apps that is currently available for Windows 8, is far lower than those for iOS and Android, the sources noted.It was going well until that final paragraph. (Which is the penultimate paragraph of the story.) Do they mean "Metrofied" apps for Windows 8? Or Windows RT? Either would be fine, but there are as many apps for Windows 8 as there are for Windows 7 - arguably, more.Awesome HD Slinky Slow-Mo &gt;&gt; YouTube(Thanks @LazioLazio for the link.)The stars are liars: how Twitter outs celebrity smartphone shills &gt;&gt; The VergeRussell Brandom:while the brands might not be thrilled at this telephonic two-timing, many industry analysts believe that, in cases of product placement, these indiscretions won't hurt the products at all. Michael Kamins, Director of Research at the Stony Brook Business College, who has studied celebrity endorsements, put it this way: "Product placement works on a link towards cognition and awareness. It doesn't necessarily make people like the product, but it gets exposure."The iPod used celebrity "endorsement" (read: use) to great effect. Apple learnt that lesson from Sony, which did it with the Walkman. (Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link.)The Letter - Where's my Nexus 4 - Register Your ComplaintStarted by an annoyed user, who has lots agreeing:When it comes to communicating what is happening with the orders and money, for the LG Nexus 4, it is confusing at best, most would describe it as a shambles.I have started a site for people to register their complaints and will provide it to you in time. It contains hundreds of very unhappy people, and the site itself is receiving thousands of unique, return visitors, indicating the scale of the problem. I will forward these on to you at your request.We can clearly see the following details emerging; customers who have had money taken from their account, and were initially informed their estimated delivery date was 3-5 working days has been and gone. When we have called to ask what is happening, it is obvious from the contrasting information given out by Google employees, that not even they know what is going on. It is also evident that orders are not being fulfilled in a "first come first served" fashion, which is extremely disheartening for everybody involved.(Seeour story.)The psychology of online reviews &gt;&gt; British Psychological SocietyA few mouse clicks and sites like Trip Advisor and Amazon offer us an abundance of reviews written by strangers. Yet, how they affect our judgements has been little researched.NowBrent Cokerhas conducted a pair of studies and his main finding suggests that we remain impressed after reading early positive reviews, even if negative reviews come later. It's a finding that could help us be more objective when reading review pages, and it will surely also be of interest to marketeers and PR professionals hoping to give their products an advantage.Seventy-six undergrads were told all positive facts about one fictional coffee brand and all negative facts about another, along the lines of: "the company has put green policies in place" and "the company has tried to cover up exploitation of its workers". Pictures illustrated the facts.Huawei, ZTE trade lawsuits &gt;&gt; XinhuaHuawei Technologies, the bigger rival by sales, sued ZTE claiming patent and trademark infringement in Germany, France, and Hungary on April 28, the company said in a news release.ZTE retaliated the next day, saying it had filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Huawei in China, accusing it of infringing ZTE's LTE-related patents.The lawsuits, among the many that have taken place in the telecom industry, reflected that companies want to gain the upper hand in a new round of construction related to next-generation networks by accusing rivals of infringing on property rights, analysts said.Huawei said ZTE is infringing on its patents related to data-card and Long Term Evolution (LTE) - a high-speed mobile Internet standard - technologies. It also said ZTE used a trademark registered by Huawei on some of its products.Android handset maker v Android handset maker. Pick a side.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Google has celebrated the 120th anniversary of the Nutcracker with a doodle depicting scenes from the ballet.The ballet, scored by Tchaikovsky and set around Christmas, was first performed alongside his opera Iolanta at the Mariinsky theatre in St Petersburg on 18 December 1892, but was poorly received. It was not until the 1950s, when George Balanchine re-imagined the choreography, that it became a major international hit.The story of Clara and Hans Peter being whisked off to the Kingdom of the Sweets was first seen in England in 1934, before reaching the US ten years later. Nowadays the Nutcracker is performed by ballet companies around the globe, commonly over the festive period.On top of the countless live performances, there have been various film adaptations, including a 1993 version starring Macaulay Culkin and narrated by Kevin Kline.
Google is this week expected to escape the biggest anti-trust investigation for more than a decade by agreeing with US regulators to tweak the way it displays searches.It is also reported to be ready to sign an agreement with the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) not to use its patents to stifle mobile competition. Europe's anti-trust chief is meeting Google's chairman, Eric Schmidt, as the European commission ponders similar action.The FTC is expected to announce a deal this week afterinvestigating since June 2011whether Google has abused its dominant position in search, the lucrative core of its empire, by favouring its own products while disadvantaging rival companies or products.If the case proceeds, it would be the biggest showdown between regulators and Silicon Valley since the government took on Microsoft 14 years ago. That ended with Microsoft avoiding a breakup, but enduring oversight that significantly changed its corporate culture.Any move that stops short of a full-blown case is likely to anger rivals, large and small, who have been pushing for the FTC to curtail what they see as the search giant's abuse of its monopoly in search. Some reportedly met the department of justice last week in preparation for what they saw as a climbdown by the FTC.William Kovacic, former chairman of the FTC and now global competition professor of law and policy at George Washington University, said Google was unlikely to escape the investigation unscathed and some action seemed inevitable."Institutionally it's hard to believe they won't do something, given all they have invested in Google. I can't imagine the press conference where the chairman stands up and says they have decided to do nothing," he said.In April the FTC hired top lawyer Beth Wilkinson, a former justice department prosecutor who played a lead role in the conviction of the Oklahoma City bomber, Timothy McVeigh, to lead the investigation into Google.The recruitment of Wilkinson, a partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &amp; Garrison in New York, was seen as increasing the likelihood of a prosecution. The FTC has hired outside litigators only twice in the last decade.Kovacic said he had no inside track on what the FTC was likely to do or when but said: "The likelihood of some intervention is running at 100%."The company declined to comment on the case. "We continue to work co-operatively with the Federal Trade Commission and are happy to answer any questions they may have," Google said in a statement.The Guardian understands from FTC sources that in October the staff recommended to its five commissioners that they take action against Google. That then has to pass a majority vote.Separately, Google is expected to sign an agreement not to use "standards-essential" patents owned by its Motorola Mobility (MMI) handset subsidiary to seek US sales bans against rivals. MMI owns thousands of patents which Google has valued at $5bn, but both the FTC and EC have focussed on MMI's use of them to seek sales bans against Apple and Microsoft in the iPhone, iPad and Xbox.The FTC filed a court brief on 5 December as an observer of the battle between Apple and MMI in which it said that letting holders of standards patents obtain injunctions amounted to a "hold-up" that could harm consumers seeking standards-compliant products.Google bought MMI in a $12.5bn (£7 7bn) acquisition completed in August 2012, but had hedged on whether it would agree to a no-ban deal on standard-essential patents (SEPs). Now it seems ready to agree to the FTC's demands.However Google is believed still to be negotiating with Joaquin Almunia, the antitrust chief of the commission. Jon Liebowitz, the head of the FTC, met Almunia earlier in December, and on Tuesday will meet Eric Schmidt, Google's executive chairman.The EC is thought to be more concerned about Google's position because it has a far higher share of the search market – more than 95% – compared to the 65% it commands in the US.No agenda has been given for the meeting between Schmidt and Almunia, but the two have met a number of times as the EC investigation has ground on since the end of 2010.Almunia said at a press conference last week that although he didn't have a specific deadline for his talks with Google, "the road won't be open forever". If they can't agree, then a court case could follow in which Google may be obliged to regulate its search results according to EC strictures.
The winners have been announced in the2012 Vodafone Foundation Smart Accessibility Awards, with four Android developers each walking away with a €50k prize for apps designed for people with disabilities or elderly people.Ablah, Jaccede, Happen and Starting Blocks are all examples of the inventive work going on around accessibility on smartphones, but I sat on the judging panel for today's event and was impressed by all the finalists, who are operating in an area where social benefits rather than lucrative sales or big-dollar acquisitions are the reward.Here's a rundown of the winners, with links to the apps or the developer wherever possible. It was a condition of entry to the awards that apps be available on Android devices, but several entrants are also available on iOS.WellbeingThe winner of the Wellbeing category wasAblah, an app that developer Juan Carlos González Montesinos originally made for his five year-old son, who is autistic.It's a visual augmentative communication app that each user can customise with their own pictures, words and sounds, whether it's for a child to use to ask for something, or for a parent to explain to the child their plans for the day.The app was released two years ago for iOS devices, and now has around 4,000 users. The new Android version was entered for the awards.112 for Deaf was a runner up in this category: an app by Pablo Miguel Fernandez Perez &amp; Carlos Andrés Fernandez Perez to help deaf people communicate with the emergency services, quickly sending their location and as many details as possible about their emergency. It'll be available in Spain and maybe Italy in January on the Google Play store.The other runner-up in this category wasFontrillo, developed by audio engineer Marco Forlin as an SOS app for elderly people, or anyone who's not at ease with a smartphone. It includes the ability to shake the phone to start an SOS call to a preset trusted contact, but has the potential to become a fully-fledged Android homescreen replacement.MobilityThe winner of the Mobility category wasJaccede, the official Android app for the French website of the same name. It's a location-based guide for public venues and businesses with detailed information on their accessibility for people with various disabilities.The app lets people browse its database of 26k places, but also add their own entries and comments to swell that data further. The company is localising the site and app for countries outside France, and working on integrations with larger databases of places.One runner-up was a technology called Aerial Obstacle Detection byMobile Vision Research Lab– an app for smartphones with dual cameras (or using an accessory for phones lacking these) that scans what's in front of a blind person at chest-height, and helps them avoid it. The idea being to keep them from walking into things they wouldn't detect using a cane or dog.The other runner-up in this category wasiNearest– another app to help people find nearby services, from taxi ranks and train stations through to cafes and bars. Not just aimed at people with disabilities, the free app taps Google and Foursquare data to quickly show nearby hotspots.Independent LivingThe winner of the Independent Living category was also the top-scoring app for the panel of judges: an accessible news-reader app calledHappen.Developed by Airsign Technologies, it's a way for people with reduced vision and/or hearing to browse articles from a range of reputable sources that's simple to use, and which plays nice with screen-reading technologies. A neat feature helps blind users control the app using their headphone volume buttons, too.One runner-up in this category wasIDEAL Group Readerfrom Apps4Android: an e-book reader app for people with a range of disabilities, from visual impairment through to dyslexia – as well as anyone else looking for a stripped-down e-reader. The app ties in to a number of e-book stores and free-downloads catalogues.The other runner-up in this category wasHearing Aid – Cochlear, a very innovative $1 app developed by Quanti that amplifies human speech while filtering out background noise. The idea: to make an Android smartphone plus a pair of earphones an alternative to (or temporary replacement for) a hearing aid.Social ParticipationThe winner of the final category was British startup Gemixin with an app calledStarting Blocks. It's an app designed for "complete beginners" in the smartphone world, particularly elderly people.The idea: a simple-to-use tutorials app teaching them the basics of using their phone, with eight lessons on topics like scrolling, gestures and input. It's free, with developer Gemma McLean keen to talk to handset makers about preloading it on their devices. In a sense, it's an embarrassment for the mobile industry that such an app is needed, but needed it most certainly is.One runner-up in this category wasMobile Accessibility with Braille supportby Code Factory, a collection of mini-apps designed to help blind or partially sighted people use their Android smartphone more easily.The apps include calls, texting, calendar, email, web browsing and other key functions, and it works beautifully with connected braille devices (although also without). It's expensive on Google Play – 75 Euros – but developer Ferran Gállego wants to work with operators to make it free to users.The other runner-up wasSpeech Assistantfrom A-Soft, whose developer Ton Schalke explained he'd made it to help his hospitalised mother communicate after she lost the powers of speech. It displays a screen of words and phrases that can be pressed to create sentences, which can then be read out by the device. It's very customisable – words, but also the colour scheme and appearance.The awards were organised by The Vodafone Foundation, backed by AGE Platform Europe and the European Disability Forum.
Google UK's managing director has made a fulsome apology to would-be buyers of the new Nexus 4 smartphone, blaming "scarce and erratic" supplies from manufacturer LG, but admitting that "our communication has been flawed" with both sides.Dan Cobley, the managing director for the UK,put the apology on his Google+ pagefollowing widespread criticism in user forums of erratic and perverse delivery schedules, in which people who ordered the phones online from Google earlier saw shipping dates long after those who made subsequent orders.The Nexus 4, made by LG to Google's specifications, runs a "pure Google" version of Android without any handset maker's alterations. The comparatively low UK price of £239 for the 8GB model of the high-specification handset - which offers a 4.7in, 320ppi screen, 8 megapixel camera, HSPA+ connectivity and NFC - attracted a significant number of buyers seeking to use it for a sim-only contract with a carrier.But Google hit a series of supply chain problems because demand ran ahead of supply. Google has repeatedly declined to say how many were ordered worldwide, but has been overwhelmed with demand each time it has offered stock through its site, beginning in November.Cobley said in a comment on one of his own posts told would-be buyers and those who had ordered that "I know what you are going through is unacceptable and we are all working through the nights and weekends to resolve the issue". He offered an "unreserved apology for our service and communication failures in this process", adding that he realised that "the people who ordered the Nexus 4 so early are among our most committed and loyal users".People who ordered the phones earlier in the month complained that after being told it would be shipped in "3-5 days", that they then received no further notification from the company, and saw other people who had ordered later receiving shipping notifications. The problems have caused il feeling with a number of buyers."I don't mind (well, I'm a bit miffed) that my phone is late," wrote one would-be owner, Ben Stewart, on Cobley's page. "I do mind that first in, first out isn't being obeyed." That, together with the lack of communication, "are what's really annoying", he said.The hassles over delivery and shipping have left a number of purchasers dissatisfied over Google's handling of the provision of phones. The Nexus 4, made by LG, is the fourth "pure Google" Android phone, following the Nexus One made bt HTC, and the Nexus S and Galaxy Nexus made by Samsung.Google has also struggled with customers complaining that when they have wanted toreturn Samsung-made Nexus 10 tabletsbecause of problems, but haverun into problems getting shipping labels.Although the Nexus line of phones has been high-profile online, actual sales figures have been comparatively low, with figures released by Samsung during its patent trial with Apple in California over the summer showing that the Nexus S sold around 500,000 units in the year from the second quarter of 2011, when it went on sale there, compared to Samsung's total phones sales of around 14.5m in the US for the same period.The Nexus 4 has attracted widespread attention because of the low price at which Google is offering it - equivalent to that for a lower-spec smartphone, rather than the Nokia Lumia, Samsung Galaxy S 3 or iPhone 5 with which it might be compared.One irked commenter at product-reviews remarked: "Google needs to just buy a company that knows how to manage this process of selling physical items on line and shipping them. What they have now is a joke, If you call their device support, the people are clueless. Their ability to provide tech support for my Nexus 7 [tablet], or order status for my Nexus 4 is nil."Google owns the loss-making mobile phone manufacturer Motorola Mobility (MMI). But MMI is in the midst of a retreat from a number of manufacturing and sales positions outside the US, selling off factories in China, India and Brazil and closing offices in South Korea and Taiwan. It is also not set up to deal directly with customer sales, because it is structured as a phone manufacturer which deals with carriers, rather than selling direct.The text of Cobley's apology reads:Dear allI know that what you are going through is unacceptable and we are all working through the nights and weekends to resolve this issue. Supplies from the manufacturer are scarce and erratic, and our communication has been flawed. I can offer an unreserved apology for our service and communication failures in this process.For those that originally received a 3-5 days shipping estimate, your orders are now in process for fulfillment. You can expect an email notification early this week which will include tracking information. Although you will be initially charged in full, you will receive a credit for the shipping charge soon after.For others that received pre-Christmas shipping estimates, we anticipate processing your orders for fulfillment this week.I realise that the people who ordered the Nexus 4 so early are among our most committed and loyal users and we are doing all we can to put things right.Sorry again.Dan
The City of London police is to establish an intellectual property crime unit as part of fresh measures to tackle copyright infringement, the business secretary, Vince Cable, has announced.The police force, which already specialises in intellectual property crime, will set up a dedicated unit to target illegal downloaders next year.Cable announced the move in a speech on copyright reform in London on Monday.He said the government would run a national consumer campaign from next spring to highlight concerns about illegal downloading and counterfeiting.The government is responding to recommendations from the Hargreaves report on the future of intellectual property in Britain. The report, released in May, recommendedan overhaul of copyright lawswhich it said could add up to £7.9bn to the UK economy."Our creativity, our openness to and talent for innovation, is a key pillar of our return to robust growth. So it is right we work to create the environment in which creative, innovative businesses of all shapes and sizes flourish," Cable said in a speech at The Big Innovation Centre in London."A vital part of this is making sure the intellectual property landscape encourages and cements success and growth. The new vision for how we support businesses and consumers is central to achieving this."Cable also announced plans to speed up the approval process for patents to 90 days, from the current waiting time of up to three or four years. The trademarks examination service will be cut from 10 days to five.The intellectual property office, which is part of the government's department for business, innovation and skills, will pilot an advisory service aimed at helping small- and medium-sized businesses profit from their trademarks.Cable's speech was the latest government response to professor Ian Hargreaves report on copyright, which recommended10 major changesto free-up existing laws around intellectual property.The recommendations include the establishment of a digital copyright exchange by the end of 2012 to act as a "one-stop shop" to make it easier to get clearance for the use of copyrighted content. The government chose to runa further study on the feasibility of the exchange, published at the end of July, which meant the formation of the body has been delayed.The government hopes to respond to recommendations on proposed copyright exceptions – such as ending the law that makes it illegal to download a CD on to an MP3 player – in the new year.
PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (40)PC (1)Wii U (1)52 (6)Hitman Absolution(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (44)PC (1)43 (3)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (41)PS3 (32)Wii (7)VITA (7)124 (4)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (91)Xbox 360 (6)Wii U (2)PS3 (1)115 (2)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (35)36 (5)Assassin's Creed Iii(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (39)PC (3)Wii U (1)77 (7)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)68 (8)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)PS3 (44)Xbox 360 (43)VITA (12)PC (1)79 (9)Lego The Lord Of The Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (26)Wii (17)3DS (6)410 (10)Wwe '13(16+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (39)Wii (2)711 (11)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (42)Xbox 360 (27)PS3 (17)912 (15)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (76)PS3 (17)PC (7)5213 (14)Football Manager 2013(3+)PC (95)PSP (5)714 (16)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (29)Wii U (17)VITA (8)215 (12)Moshi Monsters: Moshlings Theme Park(3+)DS (76)3DS (24)816 (13)Medal Of Honor: Warfighter(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (43)817 (18)Lego Batman 2: Dc Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (39)PS3 (21)Wii (13)DS (10)2318 (–)Forza Horizon(12+)Xbox 360 (100)519 (17)New Super Mario Bros. 2(3+)3DS (100)1720 (20)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (37)PC (8)10UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Just like Christmas coming early, a new internet domain name for all things festive could be among the first to go live in spring next year.The domain .christmas is among the first wave of new internet addresses to rival .co.uk and .com planned to launch in the first half of 2013.Christmas shoppers will be browsing websites like Santa.christmas or Giftideas.christmas by this time next year if the new domain gets the go-ahead.The body responsible for the rollout, ICANN, will hold a lottery draw in Los Angeles on Monday to decide which of the proposed new addresses will be the first to go live.Multinational corporations and governments from around the world have scrambled to pick up highly sought after domains – including .islam, .news and .search – as part of the process that will change the face of the internet.Little is known about the group of self-described domain name experts bidding for .Christmas under a company calledUniregistry.However, the company'spublicly-available application formprovides some clues on their plans for .Christmas.It states: "Christmas deserves its own online space as a home for all meanings, activities, and services related to the holiday. All of the wonderful uses of the internet in the support of the Christmas season will be enhanced by the .christmas generic top-level domain. When the top-level domain .christmas is appended to the end of [a] website name, the site's viewers will have an immediate context for the content about to be viewed. A registrant's choice of .christmas as a top-level domain will provide a lens through which a viewer will see the associated content."Roland LaPlante, chief marketing officer at the internet infrastructure firm Afilias, said .Christmas was a great example of how "dot Brand" is going to change the web.He added: "The internet is a mysterious and magical thing – and soon it could have its own winter wonderland in the form of .christmas. This time next year we might see people using .christmas to help with gift inspiration, buying turkeys or even finding getaways to the Lapland."The domain is also secure against naughty counterfeit listers, so you can shop without fear of getting coal in your stocking. For those of us that struggle with choosing gifts, having this dedicated domain will help to take care of all Christmas-related activities."Unlike some of the other high-profile new domains, internet users will be able to create their own website or email address using the .christmas suffix when it goes live.ICANN plans to launch roughly 1,000 new internet suffixes in the first 12 months of the rollout, with the first expected to be available by early 2013.Other domain names in the lottery draw on Monday include .blog, .music, .hotel and .london, with the latter applied for by London &amp; Partners, the official promotional firm for the capital.Kelly Salter, a domain product specialist at web hosting firmNames.co.uk, said successful candidates on Monday would have a huge competitive advantage in launching their new internet addresses.
The days are short and dark, the nights long and cold, and there are a lot of celebrity cooks stuffing turkeys on TV. It can mean only one thing. Christmas is coming, and with it a chance to look back on the gaming year through rose-tinted spectacles and the fug of mulled wine.Some are saying that 2012 was not a vintage year for video games. They must have been playing different ones to us. From the daintiest indie treats to the most pulverising of mega-budget Triple A bomb blasts, it has been a year rich with gaming pleasures. Somehow, we have managed to distil all this down to 25 titles.As usual, a disclaimer: this is NOT, I'll shout that again, NOT, an attempt at an objective, scientific representation of the year. These are the favourite games of the Guardian writers, suggested, fought over, rejected, snuck back in, fiddled with, chucked around and then presented in an order that most of us could agree on. We may be mad, we may have drunk too much eggnog, hey, we may even be wrong. But this is our list.So here goes with the first selection of five titles – the rest are arriving daily throughout the week. Simon Parkin will be writing up the first two days, Keith is taking over from there. Feel free to argue and berate us – that is all part of the fun. But remember, it's Christmas: play nice or Santa won't bring you any of the games on this list.25.FIFA 13(3DS, PC, PS3, Wii, Wii U, Xbox 360)Few series demonstrate the iterative side to video game creation better than the annual sports franchises, tweaked with the precision of a watchmaker, upgraded with the fanaticism and finesse of an engine tuner. FIFA 13 continues EA's unflinching quest to replicate the intricacies, artifice and surrounding bloat of the beautiful game in pixels. The new additions to defensive and offensive play work well, the refreshed gameplay modes are immersive, the visuals as slick as a David Silva through ball. Another Premier League winning performance.24.Gravity Rush(PS Vita)The Vita's stand-out release at launch, Gravity Rush introduces Kat, a mystical girl blessed with the Newton-befuddling ability to alter gravity, propelling herself from pavement to the side of the house to the underside of a bridge at the squeeze of a button. The chirpy dialogue, heaped mysteries and assured presentation lend yet further drive and impact to a game that is surprising in its lightness of theme and touch. But it's the sense of beguiling tourism – the ability to zip and dart around Sony's intricate vistas – where gravity's rush is truly found.23.Botanicula(PC)Point and click exploration: that's the simple premise of Czech outfit Amanita Design's latest PC title. The designers behind the leisurely esoteric games Samorost and Machinarium again turn to a whimsical fantasy world containing a series of somewhat formulaic puzzles, but also a lavish, intricate playpen for non-logical interaction and investigation. At its best, Botanicula is a wide-eyed journey through a world of roots, ferns and branches, investigating the whisper and scurry of life sub-ankle level.22.Sine Mora(PC, PS Vita, PS3, Xbox 360)A collaboration between Hungarian studio Digital Reality and Japan-based Grasshopper Manufacturer, Sine Mora is a curious beast: a shoot 'em up grown neither in the arcades nor in the wild west of the app store. A generous tribute to the genre's greats, from Einhander to Borderdown, the game displays not only a deep understanding of the fundamentals and execution required to craft a classic in the Gradius style, but also a few new ideas for how to evolve it yet further. It also offers all the score attack depths of a Cave shooter with a more welcoming visual style and hard-coded systems to make navigating the hailstorm of bullets more manageable for the newcomer.21.Spec Ops: The Line(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)2012's most divisive game, Spec Ops: The Line is viewed by some critics as a sharp dissection of the first-person shooter genre and by others as a scattershot failure. The story follows Captain Martin Walker, sent into a post-catastrophe Dubai with an elite Delta Force team on a reconnaissance mission that soon descends into chaos, both external and mental. The story scoops dollops of influence from Conrad's Heart of Darkness, but for many the execution falls far short of, say, Apocalypse Now's repurposing of that vision. A critique of the most prevalent game genre in contemporary culture, or a game whose commendable ambition outstrips its creators' abilities? A question as open to interpretation as the game's plot. The Guardian games team was split, but some passionate advocates ensured its inclusion here.
Apple has confounded Wall Street's expectations by announcing it sold more than 2m iPhone 5s in China, a record for the company, after a launch on Friday that observers had thought low-key.Chief executive Tim Cook said the sales – which were allotted by online lottery to defeat gangs who buy and resell the handsets – had been "the best first weekend sales ever in China" in astatement.Sources including Shanghai Daily said that even if Apple's stores were comparatively quiet, itscarrier partners selling the iPhone 5 had a busy weekend, with people signing up to buy the handsets with contracts through China Unicom and China Telecom. Before the launch, China Unicom had had 300,000 preorders for the device, compared with the 200,000 it had for the iPhone 4S in January.Even so, Apple's stock was downgraded by at least one analyst, as Citi Research cut its recommendation from "buy" to "neutral", suggesting people shouldn't buy or sell it. Citi Research also lowered its target for the stock to $575 (£355) from $675, saying there was growing competition in smartphones and lower excitement around the iPhone 5.The announcement by Apple seemed calculated to respond toreports on Friday suggesting the lack of queues at its stores meant a lack of interest. In fact the online lottery – instituted by the company after near-riots around the launch in January of the iPhone 4S – meant customers could come into stores at any time to pick up a handset if they were allocated one in the scheme.China is the world's largest smartphone market, and growing fast, dominated by cheap devices built on Google's Android software. Apple's key problem is seen as the lack of a contract with China Mobile, the country's largest mobile operator, which has more than 700 million customers.The iPhone 5 was launched in the US and 30 other countries in September, and will be on sale in more than 100 countries worldwide by the end of December – the company's fastest rollout ever.That makes direct sales comparisons with previous years hard, but also means greater volumes for Apple overall in the increasingly competitive smartphone market, where smartphones using Android have a dominant – and growing – share, and new competitors using Microsoft's Windows Phone software have begun rolling out.
Hey, it's Monday! Did you do any games this weekend? I spent Saturday evening at the OneLifeLeft/Regular Features/Hookshot Christmas party in glorious Mayfair, London. I was the one in the white beard, inviting grown adults to sit on my knee so that fellow Guardian writer Simon Parkin (dressed as an elf) could give them presents. This actually happened – and at least one of you was there to see it!
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNokia Lumia 920: not the Windows Phone for me &gt;&gt; ReadWriteDan Rowinski:Smartphones, by their very nature, have limited screen space. Mobile app design experts know to optimize their apps' most important aspects while marginalizing (hopefully in a stylish way) less vital features. Microsoft seems to miss the boat here.For instance, look at the Microsoft Office app for Windows Phone 8. Note that the header of the app says "Office" in big red letters. The bottom has a gray bar with a search icon and a folder and the settings button. An app designer I know looked at that and said, "why the heck is Microsoft wasting all this space with the header and footer?" Issues like that crop up in many of Microsoft's own apps.The GPS: a fatally misleading travel companion &gt;&gt; NPRJuly 2011:Two summers ago, a mother and son on a camping trip had GPS in their car and got stuck on an abandoned mining road [in Death Valley, Utah] for five days."She barely survived. The boy did not survive," [Death Valley ranger Charlie Callaghan] says.Callagan wondered if part of the problem was that out here, GPS companies might be relying on old maps with roads that have long been closed.The error was in the data used by all the major GPS companies, including Nokia's Navteq, TomTom, and Google.Fun Places on the Internet (in 1995) &gt;&gt; PaleofutureMatt Novak:The Internet was a precious commodity to me then -- a metered experience that I had to track diligently so as not to waste a single minute. That is, until AOL offered flat-rate unlimited monthly billing in 1996.Just look at that scenery!Why Google Maps is better than Apple Maps &gt;&gt; The AtlanticAlexis Madrigal:Nokia had been making quarterly updates, but Nokia's Fox told me they'd be at weekly intervals by the end of the year. Apple may be in a tougher position because they don't own all their own data; we don't know what the feedback process is for improving their maps. My guess is that it can't be better than Google's, which is approaching the real-time dream, according to Google's Manik Gupta, the senior product manager for Maps. That means that not only are Apple's maps worse, but they're probably not even improving at a faster clip.The takeaway here is odd. It's not about Big Data but Big Labor. Apple employs roughly 25,000 people in the core business (outside retail), so it might be unthinkable to hire a few thousand people (more than 10 percent of the current company) to make its maps competitive. But so far, that's the only proven way to build a great digital mapping system. Deal with that. Or deal with Google.Dell quits smartphone business globally, drops Android &gt;&gt; ForbesNow in the 5th year of its "transformation," Dell's mobile strategy looks very much like it was before its push in the consumer business and the adoption of Google's Android system for most of its mobile devices (Streak, Aero, Thunder)."It's a content play with Android. Amazon is selling books and Google is making it up with search. So far we couldn't find a way to build a business on Android," added [Jeff] Clarke [head of Dell's Consumer Division].It now only costs $100 to know everything about your DNA &gt;&gt; GizmodoMapping out your genome is the 21st Century equivalent of staring deep inside your soul; it's tempting to look, but terrifying what you might find. The DNA divers at 23andMe are hoping that slashing the price of their home-testing service--from $300 down to $100--will be enough to tilt the scales towards discovery. Are they right?Well, it's noteverything. But it's a lot.A question of identity &gt;&gt; Tim HarfordYou can get a sense of the opportunities available from the iris-scanning ID system introduced by the state of Andhra Pradesh in 2008 after a botched effort in 2005. The system dramatically reduced fraudulent duplicate payouts. Frances Zelazny of the Center for Global Development estimates that the system paid for itself within one month.ID systems have proved their worth elsewhere. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, 180,000 former soldiers have received cash pensions as an incentive to demobilise. The system uses mobile ATMs, smart cards and iris-scanning technology.Microsoft: Barclays cuts estimates on weak PCs, slow Surface ramp &gt;&gt; Forbes[Barclays Capital analyst Raimo] Lenschow notes that the current valuation builds in a substantial future erosion of the company's Windows franchise. "Based on our analysis, we believe the current share price suggests that Windows is potentially losing 30-50% of its consumer business and around 20% of its enterprise business over the long term," he writes. "Given the current pace of cannibalization and tablet share trends, this scenario may not be a bad starting point, in our view."Losing it in terms of ratio of annual replacement, perhaps. He also cut his forecast for the fourth quarter of Surface shipments from 2m to 700,000.Apple to enhance resolution of next-generation iPad mini, say sources &gt;&gt; DigitimesApple's next-generation iPad mini will focus mostly on enhancing the device's display resolution, according to Taiwan-based backlighting industry sources.The sources have yet to specify whether the device will use Apple's Retina Display technology to enhanced resolution, but market observers said it is highly likely based on the development of past Apple products such as the iPhone and 9.7-inch iPad series.Not just sources, butbacklightingsources.The Guardian and Facebook - a more social experience &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukIn the future, for example, users on our site may be able to 'agree' or 'disagree' with comment pieces, take part in polls or express their view on the likelihood of a football rumour coming true. The key thing is that the user will be in control and if they're not interested in sharing it will not impact on their experience of accessing our content on guardian.co.uk.As part of this switch in focus, from Monday 17 December we will begin directing users who click on a Guardian link within Facebook straight to our website to view articles, so over time all users will no longer be shown the content on a page within Facebook.How Google's Maps App for iPhone hurts Nokia &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comJust hours after the Google Maps app was released Wednesday night, it skyrocketed to the No. 1 spot on Apple's list of most downloaded free apps, with thousands of five-star reviews. Nokia's maps app, Here, got a lot of buzz when it came out in November, but a majority of users rated it one star.A chart on AppData, an analytics service that tracks the rankings of apps, shows that downloads of Nokia's Here app took a nosedive in late November. Now Nokia's maps don't appear to be gaining any traction in the App Store.Every silver lining has a cloud.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Claire CheungTablet designerSelects: Joola TT BuddyWho is your friend?The Buddy is an hourglass-shaped robot made by a German company, Joola. You put ping pong balls in the top – you can fit about 100 – and it just shoots them out at you from across the table. It's got an oscillator, so it can send them out randomly or in exactly the same place, and it can put three kinds of spin on the ball: underspin, topspin and heavy topspin. You can change the speed, so that you can have between 12 shots a minute or up to 70, but that's more than one a second, so I can't imagine ever doing that.Is table tennis having a renaissance?It really is. There are loads of ping pong bars in New York and in the East End of London. TheWiredChristmas party is actually at a ping pong bar in Holborn called Bounce, so I'm going to set this up and get practising my backhand.What is your favourite technology brand?I am a complete sucker for Apple products, but they don't need any more publicity, do they? I wouldn't ever get&nbsp;to that stage where I get a tent up and have a little flask of tea outside the&nbsp;store&nbsp;waiting for a new product, but&nbsp;I'm a designer and, aesthetically, they look great and they work really well.&nbsp;The iPad mini is just amazing, small and slick; that's definitely on my Christmas list.Around £115;joola.comNate Lanxon, wired.co.uk editor, in the Brainwave Cat Ears. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the ObserverNate LanxonOnline editorSelects: Necomimi Brainwave Cat EarsNice ears.They are incredibly fun and unusual, but what I really like about them is that on the surface they look cute and interesting and weird, but they are actually incredibly sophisticated, technology-wise.Sophisticated – how?Some people think, does it just detect perspiration? Is it random? But it's detecting electrical activity in the brain: it looks at how focused or relaxed you are and how much you are concentrating on something or when you are surprised, because that changes the electrical activity in your brain. It then uses that reading to animate the motors in the ears.So the ears wiggle if you are happy?Sort of. If something grabs your attention, they might perk up or twitch. But it's not detecting your surprise, it's detecting the difference the surprise makes to your brain's electrical activity. It's a wonderful juxtaposition of cute and pointless, and high-end technology from Japan.Are they a product you might use once or twice then forget about?They are a posh novelty for a gadget-obsessed person. They are not practical. In a way, they are the most attention-seeking gadget you could possibly want. It's quite a good party piece, so, if you are looking to make some friends or some conversation at a party, it's probably the best £100 you will spend. But at the same time they are effectively useless. I guess that's why I love them.Are you a technology hoarder?On occasion, but they tend to get passed to friends and family: what's an old phone to me is still a very nice phone for my mum. I'm also very nostalgic about old tech. I've still got my Nokia 3210 somewhere, because I think it's the best phone ever made.Around £100;necomimi.comAndrew Diprose, Wired art director, with the Jawbone Big Jambox. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the ObserverAndrew DiproseArt directorSelects: Jawbone Big Jambox wireless speakersThis is the Big Jambox – it still fits in the palm of your hand.I already have the small Jambox and it's brilliant, but this one is just another level: the sound is just so much better. "In the office we do what we call 'the SBTRKT test' whenever we are testing speakers – one of their tracks goes on and it gets turned up." And it's passed the test, basically. The bass is taut for something so small; it's not going to rock a house party but it's super-neat.The Jambox is wireless and cordless – has it changed the way you listen to music?I really think I'm going to get rid of my hi-fi. I moved house about four months ago and I haven't even fired up my old stereo or my old turntables. I just use my phone, or my iPad, or my computer and Bluetooth the music to the Jambox. You can just wander around the house, it's no fuss, and I hate cables. People are not looking for that audiophile thing any more: two speakers, six feet apart, in front of you. They want simplicity and convenience.It's strange that the original Jambox was smaller – technology usually gets more and more miniaturised.Yeah, it's half the size. I think you can get an improved depth of sound and better amplification. And it's a lovely thing to hold; it's nice that it's finished with rubber. You can also use it for making conference calls, because there's a microphone in there.What would be your desert island gadget?The only things I really, really love are myTechnics SL-1200turntables. Everything else can come and go – Apple this and that – but they have a dear place in my heart.£259.95;jawbone.comMadhumita Venkataramanan, assistant editor, with the MakerBot Replicator2 3D printer. Photograph: Suki Dhanda for the ObserverMadhumita VenkataramananAssistant editorSelects: MakerBot Replicator 2 3D PrinterYou hear a lot about 3D printing – is it now ready for home use?Exactly. MakerBot is this small company in Brooklyn and it's been making 3D printers for about four years. This is its first foray into 3D printing for the home: it's really easy to set up and you get sent the material to use,  a polymer,and you can print all kinds of things. It's gone from being very much a geek thing into something anyone can do.It doesn't look so different from a normal printer. How does it work?Everyone asks: "How does it print in 3D?" But then you see it and it seems so obvious because it's like a potter's wheel, I always think, building up material. It starts from the bottom, layer by layer, and then you have this object. You can make a doll's house, for example, or chess pieces, or little parts that look like Lego and fit together. It's expensive now – around $2,200 (£1,363) – but that's going to come down. And you will be able to do more ambitious objects, like furniture and curtains.What else can 3D printers make?Iris van Herpenis a fashion designer who used to work with Alexander McQueen and she does a lot of 3D-printed dresses that are just stunning. But the next big leap is when they can print an actual human organ. Going from objects to something that can go in a human body. That's already happening; it can print blood vessels and cartilage, which is crazy.Are you an early adopter?Not really. I grew up in India, where everyone was very much Windows-oriented, and I've always had a Dell as a laptop. No one is going to get rid of their desktops in Bombay – it's very much part of your ecosystem at home: your TV, your desktop, grandmother uses it to Skype you. So I definitely think desktops are going to be relevant for a while.$2,199;makerbot.com
Almost every product you buy now carries a barcode, and its familiar black-and-white lines are used in more than 5bn transactions each day. Its co-inventor, N Joseph Woodland, who patented the idea 60 years ago, has died aged 91.Like many great ideas, the barcode took decades to become accepted. In the beginning, the technology was not available to make it work. In the end, it took a massive effort – and massive investments – to get the Universal Product Code adopted by millions of manufacturers, distributors and retailers. The system finally got going on 26 June 1974, when a US shopper, Clyde Dawson, bought a 10-pack of Wrigley's Juicy Fruit chewing gum from the Marsh supermarket in Troy, Ohio. The cashier, Sharon Buchanan, scanned the UPC barcode, the till showed 67 cents, and a new age had begun.Products could now be tracked using cheap or free machine-readable printed labels. Library books could be checked in and out, and so could people, including new-born babies and marathon runners. Some joked that we should all be barcoded at birth.The seed was sown in 1948, when Woodland was a graduate student and teacher at what is now Drexel University in Philadelphia. His friend Bernard Silver overheard the president of a retail chain pleading with the dean of students to research ways to capture product information automatically at checkouts. His pleas were rejected, but the problem fascinated Woodland, and the two students tried several ways to solve it. Woodland left Drexel and moved to his grandfather's apartment in Florida to work on it.After several months, he had an idea based on morse code, which he had learned as a scout. As he told his local paper in Raleigh, North Carolina in 2004: "I was sitting in a beach chair. I stuck my fingers in the sand, and I drew my hand to me. I left three or four furrows in the sand. I said, 'Wow. I could have wide lines and narrow lines [instead of dots and dashes].' That was the invention. It sounds too simple, doesn't it?"The patent application, lodged in 1949, had circular codes so they could be read from any angle. However, print smearing could make them hard to read, and bars proved more reliable. The idea took a long time to mature. Woodland joined IBM in 1951, hoping the computer group would develop it, but it did not. In 1962, Woodland and Silver sold their patent to Philco for $15,000 and Philco sold it on to RCA. This was the only money they made out of it. Silver died the following year, at the age of 38.Pioneering research did continue, particularly through David J Collins, who founded Computer Identics, and RCA. As recorded in Tony Seideman'sBarcodes Sweep the World, it was not until an IBMer saw a demo of RCA's award-winning bullseye barcode system at a grocery conference in 1971 that they suddenly remembered they had its inventor on staff. Woodland was moved to IBM's research centre in Raleigh, where he played a significant part in the development of the UPC barcode, which was adopted over RCA's design. (And IBM subsequently made a fortune selling networks of electronic cash registers run by IBM computers, because every shop needed new kit.)Woodland's implementation had been inspired by movie soundtracks, that worked by shining a bright light through a stripe of varying width. He tried bouncing a cinema-bright light off his circular barcodes and using an RCA935 vacuum tube to read the results. It proved the concept, but was hugely expensive and impractical. The solution had to wait for the invention of laser beams, which Collins used with his primitive barcodes, and microchips. By that time, Woodland and Silver's patent had long since expired.Woodland was born in Atlantic City, New Jersey, the elder of two boys, and graduated from Atlantic City high school in 1939. He gained his first degree at Drexel in 1947, where his studies were interrupted by the second world war, when he was assigned to the Manhattan Project in Tennessee, developing the atomic bomb. His graduate studies at Drexel were interrupted by dropping out to invent circular barcodes, but he completed a master's degree in mechanical engineering at Syracuse University. He worked for IBM from 1951 until he retired in 1987.His work was recognised with aNational Medal of Technology and Innovationin 1992. Last year, he was inducted into theNational Inventors Hall of Fame. His daughter Susan told the Raleigh News &amp; Observer: "It was wonderful for Dad to be honoured in that way, but the recognition was always secondary to the product being used."He is survived by his wife, Jacqueline, whom he married in 1951; their daughters, Susan and Betsy; his brother David, and a granddaughter.•Norman Joseph Woodland, inventor, born 6 September 1921; died 9 December 2012
iPhone 5SAs per usual, it is expected that Apple will release an "S" update before moving up an integer.Possible features?Respected tech industry analystPeter Misek is predictingit will come with a new "super HD camera/screen, a better battery and NFC [near field communication - used in such things as contactless payment systems]". He also claims that, like the Nano, the phone will be available in six to eight colours.When can I buy one?Misek suggests that Apple will be speeding up its cycle  of launches, so we should expect it in June.Apple iTVThere has been speculation for some years that Apple would make a land grab for the TV market. Apple CEO Tim Cookrecently remarkedthat turning on a TV is like going "backwards in time by 20 or 30 years". That is, like the music and phone industry previously, it's in need of an Apple update.Possible features?Cult of Mac reported that the TV would feature both Siri and iSight to enable voice and face recognition –&nbsp;iPhones and iPads could also be used to control it.When can I buy one?Gene Munster (industry analyst)has predictedthat the Apple iTV will be launched in October 2013: "It should cost $1,500-$2,000 and come in sizes from 42&nbsp;inches to 55&nbsp;inches." It is likely a UK version would only be released when licensing deals with British TV channels are finalised.Xbox 720Microsoft's long-awaited follow-up to the Xbox 360, rumoured to be called the Infinity.Possible features?Like the Kinect, the console will use motion detection technology andT3recently revealed that Microsoft had filed a patent concerning projecting augmented reality 3D images on walls, which would require you to wear Wi-Fi-enabled 3D glasses. May also include a Blu-ray drive.When can I buy one?A Microsoft executive did talk about a "new Xbox" but this statement was quickly withdrawn by the company; however, the company has placedjob ads which mention the new console. ABloomberg reportsays the XBox 720 is likely to be available from autumn 2013.Amazon phoneThe internet giant is said to be adding a phone to its range of Kindle readers.Possible features?Don't expect any revolutionary hardware, but the software will allow seamless integration between Amazon's Appstore, Amazon MP3, Amazon Cloud Player and Kindle books. In short, it will be more of an multipurpose Amazon revenue-generating device than a phone. AsPC Magazinehas suggested, it's likely to be cheap. This is because Amazon is expected to subsidise the cost of the handset and the monthly price plan using the revenue from the vast amount of Amazon media, electronics and whatnot you are inevitably going to purchase with it. It is also likely to come pre-loaded with a bar code scanner, which will point out how much cheaper everything is on Amazon. Yes, it does sound pretty Faustian.When can I buy one?Your pact could start in mid-2013.Augmented reality glassesGoogle and a company called Vuzix are lining up futuristic specs for people who can't bear not to be connected.Possible features?More of a headset than a pair of spectacles, the Vuzix projects a small colour image in front of your eye, runs the Android operating system and connects via Bluetooth to your phone. The screen could show you text messages, emails or map directions.What this device's killer app will turn out to be is anyone's guess. It could, for instance, use face recognition to remind you of fellow partygoers' names, their CVs and their latest Facebook status updates and tweets – never be stuck for small talk again! A scary Charlie Brooker-scripted future is heading our way, basically.When can I buy one?Summer 2013 for under $500. Google Glass isn't expected until 2014.NestA "learning thermostat" designed by two former Apple employees, it has already been described as the "iPhone of thermostats" byWired.Possible features?Via Wi-Fi, it connects with your smartphone, allowing you to control your heating whether you're at home or not. Over time it learns your schedule and designs a heating or air-conditioning programme around it. It can detect when you're not at home. And it looks pretty: it glows orange for heating, blue for cooling.When can I buy one?They're already available in the US for $250 – the manufacturer claims you will claw that back in utility bill savings in two years.
Keynes's observation (in hisGeneral Theory) that "practical men who believe themselves to be quite exempt from any intellectual influences, are usually the slaves of some defunct economist" needs updating. Replace "economist" with "algorithm". And delete "defunct", because the algorithms that now shape much of our behaviour are anything but defunct. They have probably already influenced your Christmas shopping, for example. They have certainly determined how your pension fund is doing, and whether your application for a mortgage has been successful. And one day they may effectively determine how you vote.On the face of it,algorithms– "step-by-step procedures for calculations" – seem unlikely candidates for the role of tyrant. Their power comes from the fact that they are the key ingredients of all significant computer programs and the logic embedded in them determines what those programs do. In that sense algorithms are the secret sauce of a computerised world.And they are secret. Every so often, the veil is lifted when there's a scandal. Last August, for example, a "rogue algorithm" in the computers of a New York stockbroking firm,Knight Capital, embarked on 45 minutes of automated trading that eventually lost its owners $440m before it was stopped.But, mostly, algorithms do their work quietly in the background. I've just logged on to Amazon to check out a new book on the subject –Automate This: How Algorithms Came to Rule Our Worldby Christopher Steiner. At the foot of the page Amazon tells me that two other books are "frequently bought together" with Steiner's volume:Nate Silver'sThe Signal and the NoiseandNassim Nicholas Taleb'sAntifragile. This conjunction of interests is the product of an algorithm: no human effort was involved in deciding that someone who is interested in Steiner's book might also be interested in the writings of Silver and Taleb.But book recommendations are relatively small beer – though I suspect they will have influenced a lot of online shopping at this time of year, as people desperately seek ideas for presents. The most powerful algorithm in the world isPageRank– the one that Google uses to determine the rankings of results from web searches – for the simple reason that, if your site doesn't appear in the first page of results, then effectively it doesn't exist. Not surprisingly, there is a perpetual arms race (euphemistically called search engine optimisation) between Google and people attempting to game PageRank. Periodically,Google tweaks the algorithmand unleashes a wave of nasty surprises across the web as people find that their hitherto modestly successful online niche businesses have suddenly – and unaccountably – disappeared.PageRank thus gives Google awesome power. And, ever sinceLord Acton's time, we know what power does to people – and institutions. So the power of PageRank poses serious regulatory issues for governments. On the one hand, the algorithm is a closely guarded commercial secret – for obvious reasons: if it weren't, then the search engine optimisers would have a field day and all search results would be suspect. On the other hand, because it's secret, we can't be sure that Google isn't skewing results to favour its own commercial interests,as some people allege.Besides, there's more to power than commercial clout. Many years ago, the&nbsp;sociologist Steven Lukes pointed out that power comes in three varieties: the ability to stop people doing what they want to do; the ability to compel them to do things that they don't want to do: and the ability to shape the way they think. This last is the power that mass media have, which is why the Leveson inquiry was so important.But, in a way, algorithms also have that power. Take, for example, the one that drives Google News. This was recently subjected to an illuminating analysis byNick Diakopoulosfrom the Nieman Journalism Lab. Google claims that its selection of noteworthy&nbsp;news stories is "generated entirely by computer algorithms without human editors. No humans were harmed or even used in the creation of this page."The implication is that the selection process is somehow more "objective" than a human-mediated one. Diakopoulos takes this cosy assumption apart by examiningthe way the algorithm works. There's nothing sinister about it, but it highlights the importance of understanding how software works. The choice that faces citizens in a networked world is thus: program or be programmed.
I have an iPhone 3 and a first-gen iPad. They need replacing and those new Google/Nexus phones and tablets look pretty nifty to me – and way cheaper. How can I change brands without losing all the iTunes music and apps? It feels like it's easier to leave Scientology than leave Apple.Let's start with the bad news: there's no simple way to transfer apps from your iPhone to your new Google Nexus. Sorry. However Android's version of the iTunes App Store,Google Play, is just as comprehensive and you'll find that most developers have created versions across different operating systems, so it's just a case of starting afresh and re-downloading all of your favourite apps onto your new phone – although you will have to re-buy your apps. Many of the apps you use will have your data stored online, so you can just log in and see your Facebook account, Instagram photos or saved documents straight away.Music-wise there's an app calleddoubleTwistthat's been specially designed for Apple evacuees like you, which allows users to organise their iTunes music from a PC or Mac and sync it with an Android device. For your pictures I'd recommend uploading them to Flickr and using the Android Flickr app to view and share them.All done? Congratulations, you've left one cult and joined another.I have too many passwords and log-ons to remember. I've seen sites that can manage them for me; how do I know they will protect my data?While some internet security experts would argue that you shouldn't trust a password management system that you haven't developed yourself, few of us have that level of technical ability, so password management software represents an option. Services such asPassword Safe,LastPassand1Passwordgenerate strong passwords for each site you use and store them in an encrypted file accessed by one master password. You install the software on all your devices and only have to remember a single password. The weakness of these systems is that if one of your devices is stolen, hackers can run password-cracking software such as the charmingly namedJohn the Ripperto unlock the master password. Some of these sites use the cloud to store your details, which some security experts consider a flaw. However, these sites insist they have both these matters covered.If you're not the trusting type, an alternative approach might be to develop your own personal algorithm for generating passwords. For example, take a line of dialogue from a film: "Hello. Jerry Langford, please. Rupert Pupkin." Then string together the first three letters from each word: heljerlanpleruppup. Then disrupt it with a few repeated strokes of the alt and shift keys: He¬Je®La~Pl´RuπPuπ. This is certainly more secure than using pets' names, sports teams or any word from the dictionary. Another tip is to respond to security questions in a nonsensical, guess-proof way, for example: what's your mother's maiden name? Ans: PrejudiceCalcified.Manufacturers are continually releasing newer, "better" digital cameras. What's a good future-proof camera for less than&nbsp;£300?Ah yes, megapixel envy. Encouraging us all to buy a new gadget, then releasing a slightly better model a few months later, is the tech industries' not-that-cunning plan to exercise our PayPal accounts.Currently (and this advice may change in three weeks – sorry) if you want a feature-packed option then go for the Fujifilm FinePix F800 EXR, an advanced compact camera with 20x optical zoom, a 16-megapixel sensor and simple wireless image transfer, allowing you to send your snaps to other devices or straight to the web.If you're willing to pay a little extra then Samsung's new Galaxy Digital camera has been hailed as the next big thing in photography. It's a 16-megapixel compact camera that runs Google Android and boasts 3G and Wi-Fi connectivity, meaning you have instant access to apps and the internet from your device. It retails for nearly £400 now, but no doubt the price will fall… although I can confidently predict this will mean a new slightly better model is in the works.I have a gazillion digital photos – all in complete disarray. I loathe iPhoto as a way of managing them and the face recognition is creepy. I don't want to be beholden to Apple (iCloud) or Google (Picasa), so what's the best cloud storage software that will sync with my iPhone and iPad?Your best option isDropbox. If you give it permission the free cloud storage service will now automatically take all of the photos from your phone when you sync it to your computer and send them to a dedicated folder. From here you can sort everything out into categories and as Dropbox is cloud-based you can get access to your&nbsp;photos, files and documents wherever you are.If you want an online storage platform to show off your photos to your friends or even total strangers, then try Flickr. It provides users with a free and easy way to organise and share photos and it's a firm favourite with everyone from professional photographers to friends who insist on snapping every mediocre moment.What's the best practice to prolong laptop battery life?It's not rocket science. Engage the power-saving option. Switch off the bluetooth or Wi-Fi when you're not using them. Clean the battery contacts with alcohol. Run only the applications you need – for example, if you're simply writing using a simple text editor rather than a multitasking "office" application. Install more RAM on your computer, so it doesn't have to work so hard. Unplug connected devices, empty the DVD drive. If you're using a PC, regularly de-fragment the hard drive. Extending&nbsp;the overall life of the battery is best done by avoiding over-heating the battery: don't block the cooling vents and consider removing the battery when you're using the mains. Also, ensure the AC adapter has the correct voltage.Can I use Microsoft Office for free?No. Microsoft is an old-fashioned tech company so makes its money by selling and licensing software. However, the new-fashioned way is free and open source. My bosses at Observer Towers use, for example,OpenOffice, which includes word processing, database and spreadsheet applications and allows you to read and save documents in the Microsoft Word format.Alternatively, you could try a cloud service such as Google Drive, where you'll have the advantage of being able to get access to your documents from any computer or device with an internet connection – although you will be charged for storing more than 25GB. Prices start at £1.50 a month.
We've all been there: Christmas Eve, those presents you ordered (through gritted teeth) from Amazon haven't arrived. Either you brave the crowds for a last-minute dash to Waterstones, or Auntie Sue goes empty-handed. Unless… doesn't Auntie Sue have an&nbsp;iPad?Few people realise you can "gift" apps by right-clicking in the iTunes store and, at the risk of giving free PR to Apple, I recommend it to lazy shoppers everywhere.The first port of call should be Touch Press, namely its breathtakingly goodThe Waste Landand Shakespeare'sSonnets, jointly produced with Faber. Random House'sA Clockwork Orangewill delight Burgess fans, and the Scrooges among you: it's been reduced to £4.99 for the festive season.London: A City Through Time(Heuristic Media) recently won theBookseller's FutureBook Innovation award for best reference book app, whileTitanic: Her Journey(History Press) was highly commended. Touch Press'sThe Orchestra, just out, is simply brilliant, while Dan Snow'sTimeline WW2andBattle Castles(Harper Press) reach the parts that TV tie-in books&nbsp;cannot.For children, NosyCrow's apps are unbeatable, especially its award-winningThe Three Little Pigs. Also excellent areWar Horse(Egmont and Touch Press) and futuristic fairytaleKhoya(Tank and Bear).But if you're still not convinced that apps alone make worthy Christmas gifts, perhaps the way to do it would be to slip an iTunes voucher inside the 50th anniversary hardback edition ofA Clockwork Orange(William Heinemann) or a beautifully bound copy of Shakespeare's sonnets. That way Auntie Sue can have her cake and eat it.
Angry Birds Star WarsiPhone/iPad/Android/Windows –&nbsp;Price variesNot just the best Angry Birds game: the bestStar Warsspin-off in a long time. You still fire birds at pigs, but it's augmented with light sabres, lasers, etc.Barclays PingitiPhone/iPad/Android/BlackBerry –&nbsp;FreePingit, one of the year's most innovative apps, allows anyone&nbsp;&nbsp;to send money to friends (and receive it from them) using just their mobile number.Barefoot World AtlasiPhone/iPad –&nbsp;£2.99Why should an atlas on a touchscreen device look like a printed book? This app opts for a spinable, zoomable virtual globe packed with information, stats and sights and sounds.ChromeiPhone/iPad/Android –&nbsp;FreeGoogle's browser came to smartphones and tablets in 2012. Its ability to synchronise bookmarks, passwords, website history and open tabs across devices is a time-saver.Clash of ClansiPhone/iPad –&nbsp;FreeThis has been one of the biggest gaming hits of the year on Apple devices: like FarmVille crossed with a war game as you build a village, train troops and fight other players.Fab.comiPhone/iPad/Android – FreeThis shopping website focuses on great design across a range of products and is a well-tuned way to browse its catalogue and buy direct from your device.FantasticaliPhone – £1.49Fantastical replaces the iPhone's default calendar. Voice dictation, integration with Facebook events and the ability to use it with Google Calendar make it a winner.FigureiPhone/iPad –&nbsp;£0.69Techno music app based on powerful technology, but with a playful interface on top. Within minutes you'll be creating beats, melodies and building-shaking bass lines.London: A City Through TimeiPhone/iPad –&nbsp;£9.99Packed with an encyclopedia's worth of text on the capital, and swelled further with photos, videos, 360-degree views, audio tours and more.The MagazineiPhone/iPad – Free trialAn intriguing attempt to find out what a magazine designed from the ground up for smartphones and tablets might look like. It costs £1.49 a month for two issues.Me BooksiPhone/iPad –&nbsp;FreeA picture-book store where parents can browse and buy stories featuring Peppa Pig, Charlie and Lola, Peter Rabbit and other Ladybird classics, then read them with children.National Rail EnquiriesiPhone/Android –&nbsp;FreeA must-download this year. It's a slick, quick way to search for train times, check for disruption, set alerts to wake you up at your stop and tap through to buy tickets.NetflixiPhone/iPad/Android/Windows Phone – FreeNetflix charges you £5.99 a month for access to its growing catalogue of films and TV shows, including slick smartphone and tablet apps.New Star SocceriPhone/iPad/Android –&nbsp;FreeIf you love football and haven't played this, what are you waiting for? It's a ferociously addictive game that puts you in the boots of a player, passing and shooting to glory.Nokia City LensWindows Phone –&nbsp;FreeOne of the best attempts yet to use "augmented reality" to help you find your way around the real world, while highlighting points of interest you might otherwise miss.The OrchestraiPad –&nbsp;£9.99A wonderful dive into eight performances by the Philharmonia orchestra, with video, audio, a synchronised score and information about instruments and players.Paper by FiftyThreeiPad –&nbsp;FreeThere are plenty of ways to write text notes on an iPad, but Paper is a beautifully designed app for other scribblings: sketches, diagrams, flow charts and doodles.Pocket PlanesiPhone/iPad/Android –&nbsp;FreeRunning a global airline might not sound like the stuff of gaming dreams, but this makes it fun. Buy and upgrade aircraft, plan your routes and hook up with friends' airlines.RadioplayeriPhone/Android –&nbsp;FreeLooking to stream British radio stations to your smartphone? This aggregates hundreds, including all of the BBC's and commercial, community and student stations.Romeo and Juliet: Explore ShakespeareiPad – £9.99A new way into Shakespeare's play. It offers the full text, an audio performance, word clouds and a theme line to explain key concepts.SongPopiPhone/iPad/Android – FreeThe game involves guessing the titles of songs from clips as quickly as possible in a range of genres, before challenging friends to beat you. Very addictive.SparrowiPhone –&nbsp;£1.99The iPhone's Mail app is fine for most people, but Sparrow was an excellent alternative. With extra features, intuitive swipe controls and a smart way of sorting your contacts.SwiftKey 3 KeyboardAndroid –&nbsp;£2.99An alternative keyboard for Android smartphones with very clever predictive typing that also corrects your spelling and missing spaces as you tap away.Toca BandiPhone/iPad –&nbsp;£1.49The best children's app for 2012 gets youngsters to create a song by dragging and dropping colourful characters, each with their own sound, onto the screen. Joyful.Xbox SmartGlassiPhone/Android/Windows Phone –&nbsp;FreeAn intriguing glimpse of the future for games consoles – your tablet or smartphone acts as a remote control when not playing games, and a second screen for additional content.
Games out this week include iPhone classic,Jetpack Joyride(PS3) retooled for play on a bigger screen;Outdoors Unleashed: Africa 3D(3DS), which has you shooting up the Serengeti's wildlife in a non-stop safari of death.Far more excitingly,Ace Of Spades(PC) brings guns and ammunition to a Minecraft-style world, so you and your team can build, maintain and extend a fortress as you exchange pixelated pot shots with the enemy.The other new content out this week isHalo 4: Spartan Ops Episode Five, the latest instalment of Halo 4's weekly heavily-armed soap opera, which sees you leading teams of Spartans in assaults against the Prometheans. It contains a neat plot twist, effectively reframing some of the events of the campaign, and offers a nice fresh challenge for those still getting back in touch with their inner genetically altered super soldier.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe thing that made Skyrim great was its sense of pioneering, blazing a trail across an untamed wilderness in search of your own adventures. Earlier downloadable content gave you a side story about vampires and the ability to build a pre-fabricated McMansion for your character, but somehow failed to capture the essence of the game. All that changes with Dragonborn, which lets you leave Skyrim for the island of Solstheim, an entirely separate land mass. It comes with new monsters and towns - best of all, though, is the impression of virgin territory: seeing a suspicious light in the distance or ruins on a hilltop and galloping off to see what's going on. It provides a hearty slab of exploration along with an interesting mystery to unravel.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewMario's evolution from barely-animated 8-bit lump, to shiny, immaculately drawn HD is now complete, and seeing his pastel-hewn world clearly for the first time is an oddly revelatory experience. The same can't quite be said for this game, which follows a well-worn path and, despite its name, doesn't really do terribly much that's new. It's a spiritual successor to 1991's Super Mario World, using a similar map and borrowing some level design, while adding a new power-up, the Squirrel Suit, that lets you glide short distances. It saves most of its most original ideas for later in the game as you near Princess Peach's castle, now occupied by bad guy, Bowser. Its biggest innovation is five-player co-op, where the player with the gamepad can paint in extra platforms to help the other four get to the ends of levels more easily. Obviously that power can also be used to hinder, should they find themselves in that sort of mood. It's business as usual for Mario – now in high definition.
I enjoy a car with a sarcastic name. Like a Mitsubishi Carisma, a vehicle with the charisma of a potato. Or a&nbsp;Rover Streetwise, which, despite its attempts to look tough, is clearly a Rover 25 underneath – a cowering, curtain-twitching old granny of a car. Or&nbsp;a&nbsp;Suzuki Swift, which isn't. Isn't swift, I mean.Nor is a Skoda Rapid rapid. The entry-level, 1.2-litre, three-cylinder petrol-engine model must be spectacularly unrapid. This one I'm trying, the 1.6 diesel, is actually&nbsp;perfectly adequate, so long as you don't expect any thrills. Or frills. That's what this is – an adequate, honest, sensible, no-nonsense, good-value family motor, a&nbsp;European rival to the cars that come out of Korea. With a very large boot for its size.We took it to Devon for the weekend and it easily swallowed two adults' and one baby's going-out-of-town paraphernalia (pretty much everything we possess – you never know what you're not going to&nbsp;find in the countryside), with room to spare.And it got us there and back safely, and comfortably (though not luxuriously), on a tank of diesel, without damaging the planet too much. And... and that's about it. The car simply didn't become a character in the drama of the weekend, in either a good way or bad.It certainly didn't make much of an emotional impact on my girlfriend. Regular readers of this column (ha!) will know she's not exactly a petrolhead, but she'll usually come up with something, at a push. Not this time. I honestly think she didn't notice it.Spoilt cow, you might think, and you'd be right. But to be fair to her (I'm full of fairness today), it really isn't very noticeable. It's a shame because Skodas can be quite interestingly designed (I'm mainly thinking about the likable – unabominable? – Yeti). But this one is instantly forgettable. Go on, you've seen the picture, now look away... See? You've instantly forgotten what it looks like.Inside it's the same story: dullsville. Poor Simon, the photographer. He really struggled to find an interesting detail for the little interesting detail picture. It all works and makes sense, but nothing stands out.No one's going to buy a Skoda Rapid because they've fallen in love with it; they're going to buy it because the numbers make sense. There's nothing wrong with that, of course. It's a car for the budget, not for the heart; a means of getting from A to B, without excitement, or joy, or anything else, really.It is in short – and unsarcastically – a Skoda Vapid.Skoda Rapid 1.6 TDIPrice£17,100Top speed118mphAcceleration0-62 in 10.4 secondsCombined fuel consumption64.2mpgCO2emissions114g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating1/10
