The internet phone service Skype plans to raise up to $100m (£65m) through a Wall Street flotation, although the company's prospectus revealed today that the firm is facing a potentially embarrassing investigation by US authorities for alleged sanctions-busting in Iran.Based in Luxembourg, Skype provides low-cost calls through cyberspace and is adding millions of extra users every week – at the end of June, it had 560m registered users, of whom 124m made calls in the average month.Skype provides free calls between its users but charges a fee for connections to landlines and mobile phones. It reported underlying earnings of $115m in the six months to June, on revenue of $406m.The public offering is expected to allow various holders to sell, although the company is yet to provide details. Founded in 2003 by two Scandinavian entrepreneurs, Skype was owned by the US online auction company eBay from 2005 to 2009. But eBay sold a 70% stake in November to a group of venture capitalists for $2bn.At present, a 56% stake is held by a consortium including Silver Lake, a Canadian pension fund, and Andreessen Horowitz, which is run by Netscape founders Marc Andreessen and Ben Horowitz. A further 30% remains in eBay's hands while Skype's original creators, Niklas Zennström and Janus Friis, have 14%.Skype has set out ambitious expansion plans – it wants to embed its services in televisions and mobile devices and has struck relationships with potential partners including Verizon Wireless, Panasonic, LG and Samsung."Although we have achieved significant global scale and user growth to date, the penetration of our connected and paying users is low relative to our market opportunity," said the company.Such is Skype's popularity that its name has entered the global lexicon as a verb, with users globally talking about "skyping" each other. The company has 839 staff, including 237 in Britain. Some 40% of its calls in the first half of the year involved video contact, as well as voice.But Skype's prospectus revealed a potentially troublesome distraction in the shape of a probe by the US treasury's office of foreign asset control, which enforces trade sanctions against regimes such as Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's government.Skype disclosed that at the end of last month, the US authority served a subpoena on one of its controlling shareholders, Silver Lake Partners, demanding information about "call termination fees to an Iranian telecommunications provider" since 2005. If found to have been flouting a trade embargo, Skype admitted it could face "civil penalties including fines".
For a while, it seemed as if the ongoing debate about online safety, and all the expertise engaged with that, was obscured by simplified 'panic button' coverage in the spat betweenFacebook and Ceop, the Child Explotation and Online Protection centre.In the meantime, the Family Online Safety Institute had been collaborating on something far more worthwhile - an international directory of online safety initiatives. Grid features profiles, an outline of projects and initiatives and details of research and legislation in 150 countires.Photo bySarag G...on Flickr.Some rights reserved.It has been an enormous undertaking, taking two years to develop and with eight specialists. Fosi raised about $200,000 in sponsorship from its members including MySpace. Corporations and government organisations will pay a subscription to access the site, which will summarise updates and major developments in quarterly reviews from an expert panel and guest contributors.Consumer version planned"We think it's a hugely significant portal because 10%-15% of this content has never been seen in English," said Fosi's European development director David Miles, who led the project. "There's a cornucopia of stuff in Indonesia, for example, around ICT and education."If you look at the challenges for parents in South Korea, Venezuela or London, they are facing similar issues - cyberbullying, learning to be web confident and in the differences between parents and kids. What is different is how the parents respond, the way an Arab parent responds to a parent going onto Facebook for the first time compared to a parent in Asia."This professional edition is the first incarnation – a consumer version, as well as expansion to cover a total of 200 countries, is in the works. It should combine the best practice of all the online safety agencies worldwide, as well as what doesn't work, and generally make online campaigns more informed, coherent and centralised.But it will be a significant challenge to keep the directory updated, just as it will be a challenge to adapt online safety mechanisms to cope with the growth of video which, Fosi, says, will account for half of all online content within two to three years.The problem with the panic buttonAs for that panic button episode, Fosi chief executive Stephen Balkam said it was largely a label invented by the press. "Ceop has done a good job raising awareness of the potential dangers on social networking sites," he said. "The problem is that in cases like that ofAshleigh Hall, she never panicked at all. She never thought of herself as in imminent danger - she was actively cooperating and communicating with this guy and actually went off Facebook onto MSN Messenger, whichdoeshave a panic button." For Ceop to put so much emphasis on the panic button – or what Ceop internally actually calls a 'don't panic button' – as an essential solution was therefore rather disingenuous, he argues.Using that button as a reporting tool is far from a one-button process, and it is also not an anonymous process as it requires the child to enter their name and address to make a report. That's not the case for Childline and even 999.Cyberbullying is 99% of the problemFacebook handles 2m reports through its site every week, and 80% of those are false. But of those cases that are genuine, by far the biggest issues are cyberbullying, addiction, oversharing and 'sexting' – when girls are bullied into sending photos of themselves to 'boyfriends'. Balkam cites research byNcmec, the National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children in the UStheCrimes Against Children Research Centerat the University of New Hampshire, which found that 1% of child victimisation cases involved the internet. "Those cases are shocking and disturbing and they make the nightly news, but therefore they seen a greater problem than they are."The future of online safety is also about far more than just Facebook, which bears the brunt of the publicity because it is the most visible site. But it does have the opportunity to set a standard."Ceop has done a good job in companies like Facebook," said Balkam. "It has awakened the sense of responsibility inside companies not just to improve, but to to innovate more in areas to do with reporting abusive behaviour or abusive content. It's not bad at all to force the entire industry to raise its level and raise the bar."It has also forced Facebook to communicate a bit more about what it is facing. No company in the world has ever attracted 500m users or 2m complaints per week. It's extraordinary."Balkam said he'd asked Facebook, somewhat tongue in cheek, if it had a philosopher on the staff because it is having to deal, at a very fast pace with what is good and what is abhorrent behaviour."Aristotle and Plato struggled with that – and the average age at Facebook is 28."
A Conservative MP has been criticised for deliberately making it difficult for constituents to contact him.Dominic Raab, the MP for Esher and Walton, has attempted to remove his parliamentary email address from websites so that voters can reach him only by post, phone or in person.Not all MPs make their email addresses public but many, includingeducation secretary Michael Gove, do.Raab threatened to report one website to the information commissioner if it did not remove his email address from a "contact your MP" list.Campaigning website 38 Degrees today printedan exchangebetween a member of staff and Raab, in which he demanded the site stop forwarding emails from constituents to his parliamentary account.The MP said he had already had his address taken off the publicly available House of Commons directory "to avoid it being used by lobby groups such as your own".In an email to 38 Degrees, Raab wrote: "Please understand that MPs get a high volume of correspondence and emails. Just processing the emails from your website absorbs a disproportionate amount of time and effort, which we may wish to spend on higher priorities, such as helping constituents in real need or other local or parliamentary business."Johnny Chatterton, the digital campaigns manager for 38 Degrees, had asked  the MP to clarify that he did not want constituents to be able to contact him "quickly and easily".Chatterton said: "It appears that you are asking to be removed from a system that quickly and easily allows your constituents to get in touch with you about issues they care about."You mentioned complaining to the information commissioner. As an MP you are paid, with taxpayers' money, to represent your constituents, and we believe that as your parliamentary email address is in the public domain it's legitimate to use it to facilitate your constituents getting in touch with you. We have been in touch with the information commissioner to confirm this."Before the election, when you were still a candidate, you were happy to encourage people to email you and provided an email address for us to use – I expect some of your constituents would be disappointed if it was the case that you were less happy to be contacted now you have been elected."In response, Raab said: "I am now formally requesting that you remove my email from your website system. If you refuse, I will submit a formal complaint to the information commissioner."When 38 Degrees checked with the information commissioner's office, they were told they were most probably not breaching the Data Protection Act in using Raab's email address to "allow individuals to email MPs at their House of Commons email addresses about specific subjects that their constituents have issues concerning". Such use would fall within a politician's "reasonable expectation".Defending his position today in an email to the Guardian, Raab said: "My blogand website advertise ways for constituents to contact me – by letter, surgery, telephone, comment on my blog and emailing my local association."Despite being on crutches after surgery, I am holding six open town hall meetings, starting next week, to hear directly from constituents across the constituency. I try to answer every letter and email in reasonable time. But, I request lobby groups remove my email from their systems – because they swamp MPs with automated emails, which detract time and energy from concentrating on those in real need."
We're now eight months into 2010, and it's been a pretty good year for video games. But has it been arevolutionaryone? Have we seen anything released in the last 32 weeks that we'll be able to look back on in a few years and say, 'yep, that was the game that changed it all'?If we're looking at big console titles, I would say the jury's out. For me, Red Dead Redemption is the game of the year so far, an exciting, immersive and intricate Western adventure, filled with wonderful ideas. But in terms of form and function, it is quite patently a refinement of the Grand Theft Auto recipe – an open-world adventure with an overarching story and a non-linear mission-based structure. The online multiplayer mode, which lets you explore the environment with friends, is a step beyond the deathmatch variations offered with GTA IV, and hints at a future in which co-op gameplay is much more seamless and experiential, but that's as far as it goes.Elsewhere, Super Mario Galaxy 2 is a sublime example of Miyamoto and Nintendo's grace and imagination, but it is not a radicalised blueprint for the future of platform gaming. Final Fantasy XIII looks so gorgeous in places you want to weep, but again it's trading on a generation of Square Enix brilliance. God of War III is a beautiful hack-'em-up, but a hack'-em-up nonetheless. Mass Effect 2 tunes every element of its predecessor, without shattering its epoch. Bayonetta and Demon's Souls are hardcore curios, hinting more toward the past than the future.Really though, looking at thebestgames of the year could be a mistake. Often, ground-changing mechanics and concepts will arrive in offbeat, overlooked titles. If you think about music games, the formative titles were the likes of Konami's Beatmania and Bust a Groove from Enix, both fondly remembered, but hardly set the world alight at the time. Similarly, the fighting game wasn't born with Street Fighter or Tekken, its elements were garnered from peripheral fare like Data East's Karate Champ and Konami's Yie Ar Kung-Fu. Indeed, few genres come to us via fully formed and exceptional titles: Doom might be an example, Tony Hawks Pro Skater another. Of course, these games were proceeded by early experiements in similar gameplay mechanics, but they utterly redefined their fields, spawning new avenues of design.As flawed as it is, I wonder if Heavy Rain might be the most prescient title of the year so far, with its emphasis on emotion, interpersonal communications and the minutiae of everyday life. Or perhaps it is Blur, which brings in social networking and cross-platform challenges; or APB in its attempt to rescue the MMO from the conventions of World of Warcraft and its ilk. And outside of the console biz, there's Digital Chocolate'sNanoStarsconcept, which allows mobile gamers to buy and customise avatars that can then appear across multiple games. Or there'sConspiracy of Good, an augmented reality game designed by Heroes creator Tim Kring, that may take this concept out of a thousand university research labs and digital art projects and into the mainstream mindset.Innovation can be about really tiny ideas hidden within fairly standard games. For example, one of the first titles to use the sniper scope effectively was MDK, a near-forgotten 1997 oddity from Earthworm Jim developer, Shiny Entertainment. Or it can be totally new concepts that need to be honed and explored through generations of titles.Whatever the case, have we seen anything truly ground-breaking in 2010 yet? Anything that points us toward a new era of interactive entertainment? Or is that all about to kick off in three months when Kinect and Move arrive?
On the face of it, a free MMO for PC boy racers sounds like a great idea. Need for Speed is also one of the few great racing games that anyone has bothered to convert to PC – it's even playable on a keyboard, although a USB analogue controller is strongly advised as selecting power-ups by pressing the number keys proves impossible at speed unless you're an octopus!Accessing the game could not be easier – the client can be freely downloaded with an EA account – and downloads remarkably quickly compared to the tortuously slow downloads you might be used to when using Steam or even Battle Net. Graphically, it's impressive at first glance but AI opponents have a habit of suddenly warping into view and bonus items like Nitrous boosts merely cause cars to "blink" on and off into the distance. The game world is also not truly free-form, as you can teleport instantly to the next event undoing any need to learn either of the two city layouts.The lobby is where you wait for fellow drivers to show up or try out the single-player tutorials. However, these are limited at best – with only Pursuit mode throwing up a worthwhile challenge as you aim to outrun the cops. NFSW is all about the multiplayer, supporting up to eight players in a variety of point-to-point races, and this is where the game's Catch-22 kicks in.Your see, NFSW is not so much a free game as a free demo. Yes, you can unlock a decent number of cars and bonuses using your starter pack alone, but experience points are hard to earn and you're locked from Level 10 to the maximum Level 50 . So you have a choice of either taking days of boring, formulaic racing to get to a decent level to compete, or buying an upgrade pack for £15 which gifts you with a stash of experience points that you can spend on bonuses or reputation boost.Once you are in active MMO mode, undoubtedly serious competitive play for ranking points will prove a real attraction to some, but the racing action is formulaic and the course designs unimaginative, even when you start unlocking shortcuts via the upgrade packs. Even then, the racing is a deeply linear experience that won't impress those used to the vast, detail-packed courses of the better console racers, including the recent NFS: Shift.So yes, NFSW is unlikely to set either the racing or MMO world alight. However, for PC owners usually deprived of this genre entirely, it's a welcome addition and well worth trying out just to see how much of your time and money you fancy spending on mastering it. As a free demo, it's one of the biggest you'll find so why not take a look?
UK top 10 games chart, week ending August 7 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (2)Toy Story 3(3+)DS (35)Wii (22)PS3 (21)Xbox 360 (18)42 (8)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2(18+)PS3 (58)Xbox 360 (39)PC (2)DS (1)393 (4)Dance On Broadway(12+)Wii (100)64 (1)Starcraft Ii: Wings Of Liberty(16+)PC (100)25 (3)Red Dead Redemption(18+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (49)126 (6)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)357 (7)Dragon Quest Ix: Sentinels Starry Skies(12+)DS (100)38 (5)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)DS (32)Wii (29)Xbox 360 (22)PS3 (16)79 (9)Super Mario Galaxy 2(3+)Wii (100)910 (10)Battlefield: Bad Company 2(16+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (35)PC (17)23Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2009ELSPA(UK) Ltd
Apple (NSDQ: AAPL) hired Mark Papermaster to head up the company's iPod and iPhone hardware engineering teamsonly after litigation was cleared up between him and his former employer IBM. A year and a half later, Papermaster is leaving under another tense situation, following widely reported problems with the iPhone 4's antenna.Photo byJ from the UKon Flickr.Some rights reserved.The New York Times reportedover the weekend that Apple confirmed Papermaster's departure, but would not elaborate as to whether he was fired or decided to leave on his own. Unnamed sources who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said Papermaster had been pushed out over a series of hardware problems, some related to the iPod Touch.Papermaster's responsibilities will be handed over to Bob Mansfield, senior vice president of Macintosh hardware engineering, who is already responsible for some iPhone components, including chips, the retina display and touch screens.The top hardware executive's departure is all-too timely, given the recent fiasco around the iPhone 4's antenna that ultimatelyprevented Consumer Reports from recommending the device. Apple tried to extinguish the fire byhosting a last-minute press conference, where it apologised, admitted it wasn't perfect and agreed to give all customers a free bumper.
My gaming weekend was mainly spent on the excellent multiplayer feast that is Crackdown 2. Yes, the sequel was not quite the revolution hoped for - by me anyway - but in multiplayer at least the game delivers. I also celebrated the start of the football season by, er, playing a few games of International Cricket 2010.  Anyway, how was your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team5 Hilarious Gadget Unboxing Videos &gt;&gt; MashableBlackBerry's Security Approach Leads to Theories of Secret Deals &gt;&gt; New York TimesAT&amp;T's bullish earnings report suggests iPhone exclusivity is almost over &gt;&gt; EngadgetWhy We Need To Abolish Software Patents &gt;&gt; TechCrunchThe HTML5 Parsing Algorithm &gt;&gt; Surfin' SafariHelp! The iPhone 4 has replaced my iPad! &gt;&gt; The Unofficial Apple WeblogA VC: Some Thoughts On London On Our Way HomeExecutive Leaves Apple After iPhone Antenna Troubles &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comGoogle's Schmidt on Verizon and Net neutrality &gt;&gt; Beyond Binary - CNET NewsYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
The online classified advertising site, Craigslist, is facing accusations that it has become a hub for underage prostitution after two young women placed an advertisement in the Washington Post saying they were repeatedly sold through the site to men who "paid to rape" them.The allegations came as a federal judge threw out an attempt by Craigslist – named after its owner, Craig Newmark – to stop a criminal investigation over its "adult services" section which is alleged to carry thousands of prostitution ads daily.In an open letter to Newmark placed in the Washington Post, the two women appealed for him to shut Craigslist's adult services section.One of the women, who identified herself as MC, said she was forced into prostitution at the age of 11 by a man who trafficked "many girls my age"."All day, me and other girls sat with our laptops, pasting pictures and answering ads on Craigslist, he made $1,500 a night selling my body, dragging me to Los Angeles, Houston, Little Rock – and on one trip to Las Vegas in the trunk of a car," the ad said. "Craig we write this letter so you will know from our personal experiences how Craigslist makes horrific acts like this so easy to carry out … and the men who arrange them very rich."The second woman, identified as AK, said that last year she met a man twice her age who pretended to be her boyfriend. "He put my picture on Craigslist, and I was sold for sex by the hour at truck stops and cheap motels, 10 hours with 10 different men every night. This became my life," the ad said. "Men answered the Craigslist advertisements and paid to rape me. The $30,000 he pocketed each month was facilitated by Craigslist 300 times."AK said she knew of more than 20 girls who were trafficked on the site: "Like me, they were taken from city to city, each time sold on a different Craigslist site."The ad was partly paid for by Fair Fund, a group working with young women who have been sold for sex. It described Craigslist as "the Wal-Mart of online sex trafficking". Fair Fund said it had checked the women's accounts and could vouch for them. It said AK had met the US attorney general, Eric Holder.Craigslist's chief executive, Jim Buckmaster, said it worked tirelessly with law enforcement agencies to identify ads that exploited children, manually reviewed every adult service ad before posting and required phone verification by the person placing it.Two years ago, under the threat of legal action by about 40 US states, Craigslist began charging $10 (£6.25) per posting for adult services ads, whereas most of the site is free. Some of the revenue goes to charity. That did not reassure groups working with children forced into the sex trade.Thousands of ads continue to be placed each day that list charges for encounters. Many include words that the Fair Fund says are flags for underage prostitution such as "fresh" and "inexperienced".Last month, dozens of anti-prostitution groups led protests outside Craigslist's San Francisco HQ to demand an end to sex trade ads.Several days before the Washington Post advert appeared,Last week, Newmark was confronted in the street by a CNN reporter with ads from Craigslist that appeared to offer girls for sex, and the case of a 12-year-old girl forced into prostitution and sold on the site until she was freed in a police raid north of Washington in June. A 42-year-old man was charged with human trafficking. Newmark declined to respond.The website is under criminal investigation in South Carolina, where the attorney general, Henry McMaster, described Craigslist's alleged promotion of prostitution as a "very serious matter". On Friday, a federal judge threw out an attempt by Craigslist to block the investigation. The same day, the attorney general of Connecticut, Richard Blumenthal, called for Craigslist to scrap sex adverts.Buckmaster has accused McMaster and other law enforcement officials of "grandstanding" and attempting to impose an outdated sexual moral code.
The Appleantenna debaclehas taken another twist with the surprise departure of the senior executive responsible for engineering the iPhone and the iPod.Mark Papermaster, Apple's senior vice-president of devices hardware engineering, is leaving the company less than two years after he was controversially lured from IBM. The company would not say whether he had resigned or been dismissed, buthis details have already been removed from Apple's corporate website.Papermaster's exit sparked speculation he was paying the price for "Antennagate". It comes just six weeks after the launch of Apple's latest smartphone, the iPhone 4, which was marred by complaints that the handset's signal strength fell sharply when held a certain way.Apple has now offereda free "bumper" caseto all iPhone 4 users that fixes the antenna problem, and insists demand for the phone remains high. However, the episode has been labelled a rare PR blunder by the company, especially after chief executive Steve Jobs angered rival handset-makers by stating that the reception problem was common in the industry.Papermaster had led the hardware engineering teams that designed Apple's iPhones and iPods. Although Apple would not say why Papermaster is leaving, spokesman Steve Dowlings confirmed thatBob Mansfield, senior vice-president of Macintosh hardware engineering, is "assuming his responsibilities".There was no other official statement from Apple on the departure and the company did not respond to requests for comment.Papermaster had only worked for Apple for just under 16 months. He had previously been employed for 25 years at IBM, where he was a leading expert on its Power chips. IBM launched a legal challenge when Apple appointed Papermaster in October 2008, claiming that he would divulge trade secrets. The two sides eventually agreed that Papermaster would wait six months before joining Apple, and promise not to reveal confidential IBM information to his new employer.Apple has said it hired Papermaster because he had "strong general engineering skills, is an outstanding leader, and because we believe he will be a good cultural match at Apple". Papermaster called the move a "once in a lifetime" opportunity.John Gruber, who blogs about Apple atDaring Fireball, said it was "clear he [Papermaster] was sacked", pointing to his absence from the 16 July press conference when Jobs discussed the antenna issue. One analyst argued the change of corporate culture at Apple may have been too much for the IBM veteran."At the end of the day, it might have been that he didn't have enough T-shirts and blue jeans in his closet," said Brian Marshall, an analyst with Gleacher &amp; Company.The iPhone 4's antenna is housed within the steel band that runs around the outside of the handset. This allows the phone to be significantly thinner than previous versions, but holding it so the bottom left-hand corner of the case is covered can cause the mobile reception strength to fall sharply.
Despite the opening of their flagship store in London's Covent Garden yesterday, Apple has been having a tricky time. The company is celebrated for its sleek design and hassle-free software, but there  is growing resistance to the "closed shop" nature of its products, the "Mac monopoly" that means users are encouraged to buy their music through iTunes and that all "apps" must come pre-approved from the Apple store. Such tight – and profitable – security is grudgingly accepted by Mac, iPhone and iPad users because the machines themselves are so good.Now, however, Apple's untouchable brand has been tarnished. First came the grumbles from technophiles, underwhelmed by the iPad, although this didn't stop the gadget selling at record levels. Then came the iPhone 4's handling issue. The "loses signal if you hold it" hiccup compromised what is, ultimately, a mobile phone.Apple then managed to compound the fault: first offering little more than a bandage for the affected area and then revealing another mistake entirely. The admission that its method for measuring what phone signal was available had been wrong all along. In all its phones.And to cap it all, this week the German government pointed out a security failure that renders some iPhones, iPads and iPods vulnerable to hackers, a threat considered so dangerous that the German Federal Office for Information Security  officially warned citizens of "two critical weak points for which no patch exists". A statement that leaves Apple's all-important reputation for perfection looking bruised.• This article was amended on 10 August 2010 to remove a statement that users "must" buy their music through iTunes.
I've just discovered that the ancient Egyptians worshipped a beetle – a scarab. Quaint, isn't it? I mean to say, we've come on such a lot since those primitive times.But what's this? A note from myGuardiancolleague, Charlie Brooker, about something he calls theJabscreen. "Several times over the last year," he writes, "I've attended meetings that started with everyone present gently placing their Jabscreen face-down on the table, as though commencing a futuristic game of poker. It wasn't rehearsed, wasn't planned, it just happened; a spontaneous modern ceremony." Charlie was struck by "the sight of a roomful of media types perched reverentially around their shiny twit machines… each time it happened, a vague discomfort would hang in the air until, in a desperate bid to break the tension, someone would mumble a sardonic comment about the sinister ubiquity of the Jabscreen, likening it toInvasion of the Body Snatchers. This would prompt a 25-minute chat about apps and gizmos and which level of Angry Birds you're stuck on. Sometimes there wasn't much time for the meeting after that. But never mind. You could all schedule a follow-up on your Jabscreens."The Jabscreen, you will have guessed, is the Apple iPhone, an object currently regarded with Egyptian-grade reverence by the chattering classes. But, in fact, the obsession with so-called "smartphones" extends way beyond Apple's device. Whole swathes of geekdom are devoted to various embodiments of Google's Android phone. Legions of men in suits – up to and including the US president – swear by their BlackBerrys. There are people who believe that their Sony-Ericsson scarab not only spreads sweetness and light, but can also cure chilblains. There are, incredibly, even people who worship devices running Windows Mobile. And so it goes.Not surprisingly, the mainstream media are anxious to service these obsessions, and so every launch of a sacred object is lavishly reported. Last week, for example, RIM – the company that makes the BlackBerry – unveiled its latest assault on the smartphone market. It's called the Torch and it has a shiny glass screen just like the iPhone. But – lo! – it has something else:a slide-out keyboard!!!Wow!All of which makes one want to scream that it's only a bloody gadget. But by then one has moved on to the business pages, which are regularly gobsmacked by the sales figures for electronic scarabs. It seems that Apple is selling 4m of the things every month, and is having trouble keeping up with demand. But Android sales – at 4.8m a month – have now overtaken them. Is this a sign that Android will win out? Or will Apple pull some clever marketing stunt – like releasing a cut-down nano iPhone for the Christmas market, just as it did with the iPod? Will the BlackBerry Torch make a late run? And where the hell is Nokia?Are we perhaps losing our sense of proportion? The smartphone market is interesting, but just a small segment of the overall market. In 2009, for example, something like 175m smartphones were sold. The top end of industry predictions of sales over the next few years is about 500m devices. But the world currently buys about 1.3bn phonesa year, the vast majority of which are "dumbphones" – ie simple handsets that can't access the internet and which are muchcheaper to own and run.Now, over time, Moore's Law – which says that computing power doubles every 18 months – will ensure that these dumbphones become smarter. What this means is that the way the market will evolve is not by Apple &amp; co selling more sophisticated, pricey, expensive-to-run smartphones to increasingly downmarket sectors, but by cheap phones gradually becoming more capable as they start to run more sophisticated operating systems.All of which means that the factor that will determine the evolution of the phone market is not the features of specific devices, but the operating system that they run. At the moment there are about 10 different mobile operating systems, which is patently unsustainable. My guess is that we will eventually get down to two or three. Apple's iOS and Android look like certainties. The question is what comes third – BlackBerry, Nokia's MeeGo or Microsoft's Windows Mobile?No matter what happens, let's remember that these things are just gadgets. After all, even the Egyptians' holy scarab was only a dung beetle.
Floyd the RobotPlanetfallWhen it was still possible for a game to be built from nothing but words, Steve Meretzky's first title for Infocom set a new standard of emotional involvement for players.Planetfallcast you as a lowly ensign in a space fleet whose escape pod crash-lands on a deserted planet. The sole survivor of whatever disaster occurred is a simple-minded robot called Floyd, who strolls around of his own accord and - in an apotheosis that has some of today's most hardened coders swearing they sobbed into their Commodore 64s - ultimately sacrifices his life for your sake.The King of All CosmosKatamariDamacyNobody does bonkers game concepts as gleefully as the Japanese, but even aficionados concede that Keita Takahashi's series of Katamari games - where you play a miniature prince - deserves an award. Topping off the odd scale is the prince's father, the King of All Cosmos, a planet-sized binge-drinker who seems to be made from Lego and old toys, and whose uniquely deformed syntax has earned him a dedicated following. "This sky is not pretty at all. It's rough and masculine. Possibly sweaty." A&nbsp;very particular kind of genius.Niko BellicGrand Theft Auto IVThat the gaming world's most notorious series featured a Serbian immigrant as the hero of its latest episode is a tribute to the freshness of the thinking behind the sales and headlines. Arriving in a parallel New York City dreaming of the good life painted by his cousin, military veteran Niko finds awaiting him not cocktails and swimming pools, but a failing taxi business and money owed to the mob. A truly adult character in a gleefully adult game, Niko also boasts a surprisingly subversive line in anti-materialist disillusion.MarioDonkey KongOne of the world's most beloved cultural icons, Mario is as much a series of attributes as a character: moustache, dungarees, hat, springy jump. Created by debut designer Shigeru Miyamoto for the 1981 arcade classicDonkey Kong- and managed lovingly by his parent ever since - the leaping hero, initially known only as "Jumpman", soon won a following and a name. Almost 30 years on, he's now featured in more than 100 titles, including some of the most commercially successful and critically acclaimed games in history.The LemmingsLemmingsThe miniature characters of this early hit walked towards a doom that only the speed of your mouse could avert. They were interchangeable, expendable and numberless, so turning these midget chunks of 8x8 pixels into characters was a major achievement for 1991. DMA Design pulled it off thanks to charmingly characterised animations for each special ability (digging, climbing, floating on giant umbrellas) and the judicious use of chipmunk-squeaky sound effects - "Oh no!" being the most commonly heard, thanks to the fiendish difficulty.Arthas MenethilWarcraft IIIIf you're going to do fantasy, you may as well embrace the histrionics that come with the genre, hence the introduction of the character of Prince Arthas in the third of their Warcraft strategy games in 2002. Initially the valiant model of a medieval knight, everything changes when Arthas picks up a cursed sword and begins to perpetrate a steadily more sinister series of atrocities (think dead peasants), culminating in killing his own father. The character really came into his own in the mightyWorld of Warcraft, over which his twisted spirit presided for five years. Top-class schlock.Captain OlimarPikminJapanese genius Shigeru Miyamoto's second entry on the list is an intriguing character. Olimar is a diminutive astronaut who has crash-landed on a strange planet and must enlist the help of its inhabitants, the plant-like Pikmin, to fix his ship. So far, so standard. But Olimar is a very particular kind of hero: a salaried employee of an interstellar delivery company, married with a wife and children, tasked in a later game with rescuing his company from bankruptcy. A little man solving big problems - it's hard not to glimpse a veiled autobiography in this whimsical portrait of private enterprise going right.GLaDOSPortalGaming's funniest, freakiest female also happens to be a psychopathic artificial intelligence, thanks to this exquisite 2007 first-person shooter.Portaltakes place in a scientific testing facility, where a female voice appears initially to be guiding you on your way and - slightly more strangely - attempting to bribe you with promises of cake. The game becomes progressively more bizarre, until the denouement sees you breaking out and executing your deranged interlocutor, GLaDOS (Genetic Lifeform and Disk Operating System). Be warned, though: the cake is a lie.Guybrush ThreepwoodThe Secret of Monkey Island"I once owned a dog that was smarter than you." "He must have taught you everything you know." Boasting the gaming world's first insults-based combat system, 1990'sThe Secret of Monkey Islandcast you as wannabe pirate Guybrush Threepwood. Thanks to the dazzling LucasArts team, outwitting evildoers with your ready wit and solving increasingly fiendish object-based problems was a constant delight - and the geeky Guybrush an unforgettable presence in countless nascent gaming lives, from his knobbly knees to his less-than-silky sword skills.Garrus VakarianMass EffectThe Mass Effect series has set new standards of plot, characterisation and player interaction: the second outing even allows the import of saved characters from the first so that old animosities, allegiances and romance can be continued. Among the dozens of non-player characters, alien investigative agent Garrus Vakarian stands out: having fought alongside him in the first game, the second sees him operating as a vigilante. Your job is to re-recruit him to&nbsp;your cause.
Just as the end of the 90s saw adventure games fall out of favour, military real-time tactical games, once the mainstay of PC gaming, are rapidly being edged out by fickle technology aficionados. First-person shooters and fantasy role-playing games are wooing the masses with uber-sharp graphics and fancy gizmos, which capture your movements like real life.However,Close Combat: Last Stand Arnhemprovides a welcome reminder that games can still hit the spot without gimmicks or aesthetic perfection, focusing instead on simple pleasures like a user interface that works and an impressively engaging level of realism. That's not to sayArnhemdoesn't look fantastic, with beautifully hand-drawn maps in high resolution, but it does so without resorting to close-up, slo-mo footage of Nazi guards' ears being blown off, which makes for a pleasant change.Following on from the excellentClose Combat: A Bridge Too Far, released more than a decade ago to much fanfare and followed by a handful of lesser sequels,Arnhemraises the bar with more than 60 new battles, operations and campaigns, representing critical points in the second world war. With bridges to demolish and repair, rivers to assault and cross, and night-time skirmishes requiring the use of flares to locate the enemy,Arnhemprovides plenty of challenges. There are also stacks of modifiable features to customise missions, and an improved head-to-head combat mode to test your skills against other burgeoning generals online.
The point-and-click renaissance isn't limited to retro-remakes on fashionable slabs of touch-screen technology. The iPad may hog the headlines, but a slightly more subtle genre rebirth is occurring in the misunderstood world of educational titles.In recent years, Channel 4 has been doing great things to prove that educational games can be didactic, daring and entertaining. Last week, it unveiledThe Curfew, an online game offering young adults a brilliantly constructed gameplay experience, and while thematically and stylistically it's hugely different, in terms of core mechanics it is an adventure game in the classic form. There is pointing and clicking, characters to talk to, scenes to explore, and a narrative tangle to unravel.Conceived to explore issues surrounding social liberty and authoritarianism, it presents an Orwellian near-future where citizens are restricted in ways that are sadly familiar across the globe, and charges the player with helping a band of rebels to topple the regime.Developer Littleloud has built a convincing alternate reality made from interactive video footage, parodies of computer and console interfaces, and illustrated urban scenes realised with flair, that hope to inspire a teenage audience to question a number of provocative injustices.
Price£10,875MPG48.7Top speed114mphFor some fearful souls, danger lurks round every corner. But when I told my young daughter's friend that there was a shark riding in the back of Citroën's new supermini, the DS3, I didn't expect her to burst into tears and refuse to get in. It seems being a "fun dad" is itself pretty hazardous. What I was (hilariously) pointing at was the car's jagged B-pillar. An angular fin which breaks the surface of the window line with a plausibleJawsimpression. It's swimming towards the back of the car, so at least it's moving away from you.The dynamically stylish DS3 is named after the legendary Citroën DS of 1955, one of the most technically advanced and radically chic cars of all time. The divine Déesse was always going to be a tough act to follow, and  a name can be both a blessing and  a burden, but these days DS probably means Nintendo to most people, so maybe customers will just imagine that Super Mario is at the wheel.The car is the first in Citroën's new DS line, a range which will eventually consist of three distinctively styled and attention-grabbing vehicles. The DS4 and DS5 are set to launch in 2011 and 2012 respectively, though there seems to be no real reason to begin  at 3. Maybe it's like public school, where they start in the third form.The little DS3 finds itself swimming in shark-infested waters. The market segment it has dived into already boasts some of the finest "premium" small cars around – there's the Mini, Fiat's 500 and Alfa Romeo's MiTo. These three are a bunch of show-offs, so any mere breaststroker will quickly find themselves sinking. The DS3, therefore, comes with a raft of stand-out, head-turning design features that aim to give it a fighting chance. Simply having an efficient engine, comfortable seats, comprehensive active and passive safety features,  a decent stereo and a bunch of doors is, like… whatevvvvvvur. So the DS3 has twinkling daylight running lights, a&nbsp;handsome double chevron chrome grille, those killer shark fins and a&nbsp;"floating roof". The rear pillars have been wrapped in glass to create the impression that the roof is levitating above the car's low-slung rear end. It's a brilliantly eye-catching device, but it comes at a cost – you can't open the rear windows.If the fins and floating roof have done their job and hooked you as  a buyer, you'll be faced with a blizzard of options. Citroën will encourage you to click on its bespoke "DS configurator" and give vent to your creative urges. There are 38 body and roof colour combinations to choose from – the wing mirrors, wheel caps, dashboard, gearstick, upholstery  and even carpets can all be specified. And, the icing on the cake, you can even have your key fob matched to  the colour of your car.Given all the efforts to create an effervescent and strikingly different personality for this car, it will break the hearts of Citroën's designers to hear that in the week I test-drove the DS3, three separate people asked me how I liked the "new Mini". In a way they weren't too far off the mark, as the vehicles do share the same engine – a super-responsive 156bhp 1.6-litre turbocharged power plant, which makes both cars great fun to drive.Prices start at £10,875 and rise to £15,030 – but crucially Citroën says that all its models will be cheaper than the equivalent Mini. And they've chucked in the sharks for free…Blankets on the ground: the best picnic spotsYour back is sticky, your legs have cramp and if you have to listen to one more radio adbreak you will SCREAM! Time to pull over and eat that delicious picnic you carefully threw together from what was left in the pre-holiday fridge (beetroot and Nutella sandwich, anyone?)But where to stop? The usual sites are all litter-strewn nightmares. Thankfully, the RAC has launchedpicnicwithrac.co.uk- a site for sites, compiled by 4,000 of its members. And the best in the country is at the Ladybower Reservoir (above), off the A57. Just don't forget the bottle opener…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
When the iPad launched, much was made of its potential to revive the flagging newspaper industry. Of course, that's not surprising given that the people making the fuss were the ones likely to benefit should Apple's tablet solve the problem of how to charge people for what they're now used to getting for free. As it is, games developers are making a much better fist of using the new platform to revive flagging fortunes.In 2000, it looked like adventure games, a staple since the birth of gaming, were dying out. LucasArts, publisher of classic point-and-click adventure titles such asMonkey IslandandDay of the Tentacle, abandoned the genre altogether in favour of less cerebral fare. The story-heavy, character-driven games often required incredible feats of lateral thinking to solve fiendishly difficult puzzles and the rise of console gaming seemed to have done for them entirely. While the arrival of the Wii, with its novel control system and family focus, may have occasioned a small revival, it is the iPad that may prove the perfect platform for forgotten gems and new arrivals alike.Monkey Island 2is widely regarded as one of the great point-and-clickers, and the special edition (Apple App Store, LucasArts, £5.99, 12+) retains the magic of the original while adding some extra flourishes. The witty dialogue and smart design were always the game's strength, but it's been given a fresh lick of paint, so it looks superb on the hi-def screen, and the addition of voiceovers is well done.The main benefit of playing on the iPad, though, is the highly intuitive control mechanism the 9.7-inch touch-screen allows. Simply touch where you want pirate wannabe Guy Threepwood to move to, or on the object you want him to interact with, and it will be done, with more complex options at the bottom of the screen. There's also clever use of the multi-touch system – hold three fingers on the screen to bring up a hint, or two to highlight objects that can be interacted with. For the purists, a swipe of two fingers across the screen reverts to old-school graphics and the traditional cursor controls can also be used.Broken Sword: Director's Cut HD(Apple App Store, Revolution, £4.99, 12+) offers a similarly polished remake&nbsp;for the mid-90s murder mystery. The puzzles are dense and complex, and the story doesn't attempt the humour of theMonkey Islandseries, instead revelling in its Dan Brown-esque adventures. The graphics aren't as impressive, but the voice acting is strong, and again the tactile interface seems a natural fit for the genre.Dracula: The Path of the Dragon Part 1 HD(Apple App Store, Anuman, iPad, £2.39, 9+) is a newer title getting an iPad update. Controlling a Catholic priest in search of the undead looks suitably gothic, and the presentation is excellent, with breathtakingly simple controls. However, offering only a few hours of gameplay at this price is off-putting.Only two months into its life, the iPad already offers a wide gaming selection, which will only improve as developers get to grips with creating specifically for this platform. Point-and-click adventures may have found their natural home, but the iPad will surely excel at a wide variety of genres. Real-time strategy games, likeCommand &amp; Conquer, could benefit from a simple touch interface, and I was astonished at how wellNOVA HD(Apple App Store, Gameloft, £3.99, 12+), a first-person shooter, controls and looks. If we are all to own Steve Jobs's latest invention, then perhaps we'll be too busy playing to click on to a newspaper.
StarCraft II: Wings Of Liberty, Mac &amp; PCAfter the success of StarCraft: Brood War, a sequel was inevitable, even if nobody could have guessed it would take 12 years. From the people who brought you World Of Warcraft, comes StarCraft II, a real-time strategy game in which the Terrans take on the cybernetic Protoss and the shrieking, organic Zerg in a series of beautifully orchestrated battles. With near-perfectly balanced units, the endlessly absorbing single-player game involves slowly cultivating resources and training the right troops before waging war against your two foes in a series of 29 missions, interspersed with well-acted scenes of grizzled space marine machismo; it may actually have been worth waiting over a decade for this. Multiplayer mode is what gives StarCraft its longevity, though being faced with Korean kids able to perform more than 350 "actions per minute" on its predecessor means your chances of ruling the world are limited.Blizzard, £34.95-£39.99Robo Logic 2 HD, iPadRobo Logic 2 HD.All games demand the use of programming skills in their creation, but only a very few require programming skills to play; Robo Logic 2 HD, a mildly tarted-up iPad remix of the excellent iPhone game, is one of them. You're in charge of a robot, which needs to be guided around a series of obstacles to activate specially marked orange squares. To do that you assign it a set of commands including move forward, rotate clockwise or anti-clockwise, and jump. The skill is in completing its levels with as few commands as possible, preferably without continual use of trial and error, while the programming is as simple as dragging commands into a grid and in no way relies on actual knowledge of computers. This version comes with an upgrade shop that lets you buy a U-turn command and extend the number of steps in your programs, but is otherwise as elegant a brainteaser as its forebear.Tommy Kammerer, £1.79Star Wars: Battle For Hoth, iPhone &amp; iPod TouchStar Wars: Battle For Hoth.Apple's app store isn't short of tower defence games, in which you position your forces to protect a base against attack by sundry aliens or monsters – a task with more than passing similarity to the doomed rebel defence of ice planet Hoth against invading imperial forces in The Empire Strikes Back. This time the rebels' chances are significantly enhanced in that The Battle for Hoth is hilariously easy. Stormtroopers, AT-STs and AT-ATs lurch towards you to be mown down by remorselessly tough rebel gunners and ion cannons. The sound effects and introductory music are as evocative as ever, even if in-game music can on occasion be insistently martial. Other than a minimal difficulty level, its interface is a lot less than perfect, with the fast-forward and pause buttons juxtaposed so you're forever stopping the action you're desperately trying to speed up. Without its Star Wars licence, this game would quietly vanish without trace.THQ, £1.79
SlushPile Hell"Slushpile" is publishing slang for the unsolicited manuscripts that usually stack up on some lowly employee's desk whose job it is to make sure the next JK Rowling doesn't slip away. Here, half as an act of revenge, half to reveal just how deluded most prospective authors are, an American literary agent brings us the finest covering letters that accompany these works of possible staggering genius. One person who's written the first five chapters of a book offers to accept a lesser fee if the publisher agrees to finish it; another claims that "God told me to write this book and that it would become a bestseller." The agent's comments are fabulously spiteful: one author, who promises their 318,000-word novel picks up after the first 100 pages, gets the response, "Hey, a SQUIRREL! Cool … Oh, hang on. What were you saying?" If your book appears on this blog, you may never actually want to write it.Found Shopping ListsFound Shopping Lists.The internet is a nightmare. First you run the risk of getting sacked if you slag off your boss on Facebook; now drop a shopping list in the street and you could be ridiculed for your pretentious grocery choices. Here those found lists find a home. Most at first glance look ordinary, yet they reveal that we're all a bit weird, especially the way we abbreviate everyday items. What exactly is "swats", which appears at the end of a list that reads "bread, sandwich (egg), parmesan, cabbage, beans, swats"? Furthermore what kind of shopping trip requires "lav spray", "shortbread biscuits" and "surgery"? Just make sure your next list isn't on the back of a letter headed A DECLARATION that ends "be very afraid".Blog roll: SnacksWasabi Popcorn from snackspot.org.uk.Encounters With Remarkable BiscuitsBoring videos of chocolate fingers, a Hob Nob fight and a biscuit-based ballad of love.Foodstuff FindsSeen something new at the supermarket? Wonder what it's like? Find out here.EyedropperForget the Mercury Prize: stand by for the second annual British Pie Awards.Tapas RevolutionJoin the chef on a mission to take tapas to the nation on the back of his moped.The Chilli SourceThe myriad delights and wonders of the British kebab, including reviews from across the UK.SnackspotStill the internet's go-to site for spotters of new snack product advances – wasabi popcorn anyone?What we learned on the web this weekAnyone Can Make A Star Trek Movie.Anyone canmake a Star Trek movieThe greatestYahoo answers of all timeThe wondersthat await inside a Glasgow Munchy BoxNever aska graphic designer to do you a favourHow toconvert your loo into a rave toiletThe distancebetween two postcodesWhat wouldhappen if the Earth stopped spinningMorgan Freemanwas a really bad DraculaJason Stathamis a man about townHow toswear in English if you're Korean
There are some off-road vehicles that are fine as far as they go, as long as where they go is not off-road. Then there are the off-road vehicles that suffer the opposite problem. They don't really make much sense on-road. The Isuzu Rodeo Denver Max LE is a certain contender for the latter category.In the first instance, it doesn't look appropriate in a road setting. Not, at least, a road setting with pavements, buildings and pedestrians. It may work in a road setting with, say, nothing but two-lane blacktop cutting through a huge vista of tumbleweed, mesas and buttes stretching as far as the eye can see. But there's not a lot of that round my way.So, instead, the Rodeo Denver sat in my suburban street, as inconspicuous as Clint Eastwood with a shotgun at a pilates class. I wasn't sure what to do with it. Obviously, driving it was out of the question. Where would I go? Where would I&nbsp;park?Howwould I park?These were the questions I&nbsp;pondered as I checked out the double cab arrangement. The back cabin, which works as a large boot, can be disassembled so that it's an open-back pick-up truck in which you could load manure or, sheet, anything you goddamn want.Actually, despite its name, and an appearance that suggests a good ol' boy just stepped from its cabin in his cowboy boots, the one place you can't buy a Rodeo Denver is in the US, where this Japanese take on butch Americana is not on sale. That&nbsp;makes a kind of sense: good ol' boys are not renowned for their enthusiasm for foreign cars.Anyway, after a couple of days of looking at the thing, I drove it to Cambridge. I was tempted to forgo the whole dreary motorway network and off-road across forest, stream and farmland, but in the dry weather, there was no mud challenge, so I took the M11. Seldom, outside a bedroom context, have I felt so potently heterosexual as when flooring the Max to the max on the motorway. Yee-hah! I'll say this in its favour, when those doggone middle-lane cruisers saw me in their rear-view mirrors, they got the hell out the way. But where's a country music radio station when you need one? Somehow,the Jeremy Vine Showdidn't really fit the bill.For such a large car, the navigation system screen couldn't have been smaller, and its faulty touch-screen facility demanded punching. Consequently arriving late in the car park of my destination, the only space carried an unwelcome notice: "Do not reverse into this space." Until you've tried to park a Rodeo Denver front-first in a tight space between two cars, with no back-up room, you can't really call yourself a cowboy.Isuzu Rodeo Denver Max LEPrice£24,059 (inc VAT)Top speed108mphAcceleration0-62 in 10.7 secondsAverage consumption33.6mpgCO2 emissions222g/kmEco rating3/10Bound forWay out westIn a wordhorsepowered
Normal service has been resumed for BlackBerry users in Saudia Arabia after a temporary service outage prompted fears government authorities had followed through with threats to block certain features.Saudi Arabia had said it would begin blocking functions such as text messaging, email and instant messaging if BlackBerry manufacturer Research In Motion (RIM) refused to allow authorities access to the users' encrypted data.Reports frominside the countrysaid state-owned phone operator Saudi Telecom had rolled out blockages of some BlackBerry messaging services.When contacted, RIM said it would not be making a statement.Earlier this week, the Canadian manufacturer dismissed claims it would allow any government special access to its users' information.In recent weeks, the manufacturer has been blighted by security demands from authorities in the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and India. The Indian government earlier this week said RIM had agreed to address concerns that the encryption services on BlackBerry devices were being exploited by terrorists.RIM's devices attempt to prevent the interception of messages by encrypting data and processing it in a variety of operational centres outside local jurisdictions.UAE's Telecommunications Regulatory Authoritysaidthis perceived local unaccountability is the problem: "Today's decision [to suspend BlackBerry services on October 11] is based on the fact that, in their current form, certain BlackBerry services allow users to act without any legal accountability, causing judicial, social and national security concerns for the UAE."RIM has moved to quell customer fears over the potential of government authorities to intercept mobile communication. A statement released by the company said: "RIM co-operates with all governments with a consistent standard and the same degree of respect."Any claims that we provide, or have ever provided, something unique to the government of one country that we have not offered to the governments of all countries, are unfounded."The RIM co-chief executive, Mike Laziridis,  earlier this week said this issue was much larger than mobile security. "This is about the internet,"he told the Wall Street Journal."Everything on the internet is encrypted. This is not a BlackBerry-only issue. If they can't deal with the internet, they should shut it off."Authorities in the UAE have said BlackBerry services will be switched off from 11 October if negotiations break down.
Hold that tweet. Ever wondered how Twitter influence might be measured? Lucky for you, Hewlett-Packard researchers have been working it out.Analysing 2m tweets, then using the "Influence-Passivity Algorithm" below, a team of researchers found the technology websiteMashableto be the most influential Twitter account, based on links posted and links retweeted.Thenine-page research documentnotes the importance of separating "influence" from "popularity". Influence, therefore, is judged on a user's engagement with Twitter, rather than their number of followers.Researchers collected their dataset for a period of 300 hours in September 2009. During this time, and using the IP-Algorithm, the top 10 most influential Twitter users were:Users with a high number of followers but low relative influence were ranked as follows:
Just in case you missed this yesterday (and I did because it was my birthday and I was finally watching Toy Story 3), Rocksteady Studios has announced the name of its Arkham Asylum sequel.Batman: Arkham Cityis out in autumn 2011, and takes place inside a new maximum security home town for Gotham's most dangerous criminals. That's right – it's Batman meets Escape from New York.Strangely, the Gotham city council decided to locate their prisonville in the heart of the city – a town planning folly that would have Prince Charles frothing at the mouth. And with the Joker recovering from the injuries sustained in the last game, frankly there goes the neighbourhood.Characters expected to appear in the game include Catwoman, Mr. Freeze, Talia al Ghul, Two-Face and The Riddler, with Mark Hamil set to provide his iconic voicing of the Jokerfor the final time.But Bat fans, who is missing from this line-up of thugs and mad men? And what do you make of this 'same-but-bigger' sequel set-up?
I've got a backlog of trailers that I wanted to get up on Gamesblog, so here are five of them at once – all interesting in different ways. If you want to see some cowboys, Stan Lee's favourite Spider-Man villain, a Brazilian footballer, a Windows Phone 7 game and a cross between Lemmings and Line Rider, then saunter this way...Red Red Redemption: Legends and Killers(Rockstar, PS3, Xbox 360)Here's a look at the latest Red Dead Redemption DLC pack offering nine new multiplayer map locations, as well as a new projectile weapon, the tomahawk. Could be messy. The pack also includes eight characters from Redemption's predecessor, Red Dead Revolver. Released on August 10, the pack is selling for £7.99 on PSN and 800 Microsoft Points on Xbox Live.Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions(Activision, DS, PS3, Wii, Xbox 360)Due out in September, Shattered Dimensions is the latest third-person action adventure to feature Marvel's iconic webslinger. The game takes place in four different Spidey universes – Noir, Amazing, Ultimate and 2099 – and each gets its own graphical style. The big draw with this video, though, is an interview with Marvel founder Stan Lee.FIFA 2011(EA, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)EA has announced its new FIFA 2011 cover star – Brazilliant midfield maestro, Kaka. He'll snuggle up beside Wayne Rooney on boxed copies of the world-beating footy sim. To celebrate, the publisher has released this little teaser. The game is out on October 1 in Europe.Mush(Angry Mango, Windows Phone 7)A few months ago, I reported on the X48 indie game development competition for Tech Weekly. One of the student teams I met there has now entered the University of Abertay'sDare to be Digitalcontest with this stylish little puzzler. According to artist Henry Hoffman, "The game revolves around a little character called Mush. He decides that his village is too mundane and goes off on an adventure into his world to discover the missing emotions. Using the Windows Phone 7 touchscreen you draw a smile to make Mush happy, making him light and able to float upwards. Drawing a sad face saddens Mush and makes him sink in water and weigh down objects. Shaking the phone angers Mush, allowing you to break obstacles and run faster." Take a look and you'll see the influence of Loco Roco and Rolando. Catchy music, too!Your Doodles Are Bugged(Spyn Doctor/Blitz 1up, PC)Originally released onto Xbox Live Indie Games, Your Doodles Are Bugged is a neat cross between Line Rider and Lemmings. Your aim is to rescue a group of cute bug characters by drawing lines across the screen, thereby creating platforms, stairs and bridges. Each stage has a variety of obstacles, so neat careful drawing is a must. The new version, complete with lots of extra content, is out later this year on various PC digital download services. It's developed by one-man indie studio Spyn Doctor, but the PC release is being co-handled by Blitz, through the veteran developer's1upprogramme.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Technology aided myself and Annie [Lennox] to be liberated musically, so the first piece of technology that changed my life was a drum computer and sequencer, which was the birth ofSweet Dreamsand so forth. In a way, without technology we wouldn't have been able to create Eurythmics and our whole destiny would have been different.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Yesterday, because I'd been flying to London from Los Angeles for the last 12 hours. I was writing a song with a girl called Judith Hill and we were using the computer and sampling sounds and chopping them up.What additional features would you add if you could?If I could have something to make that [drum machine] technology better, it would be great to have it the size of something like the Nokia N8. That size, but with all the sounds in it and a great screen interface that would double as your phone. Something like a studio inside a cellphone.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, it'll just get easier and simpler for the average person to be able to create sophisticated pieces of music.What always frustrates you about technology in general?When my computer crashes. And technology is never completely failsafe, so no matter how often you change things in different formats, the formats keep changing. There's some amazing trust we all have that these things work.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?The [Apple] Newton – it used to drive me mad. And all the first handwriting recognition software used to drive us all bonkers.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Technology is just a device, or a portal, into your imagination and creativity. My advice would be to just really get into one thing rather than a million of them – like if you want to use Twitter to help you run your business, then learn all about what Twitter does, and learn it back to front.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm very fortunate to be able to flit between the two. I tend to have people around me who are brilliant nerds, and sometimes I like to dive in myself, but as soon as I have a martini – at about 7 or 8 o'clock at night– I become a complete luddite.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably when I owned an apartment in Seven Dials in Covent Garden, which I set up as a studio where I recorded everybody from Bryan Ferry to Gwen Stefani. It was totally wireless, and the artists loved it.Mac or PC, and why?I tend to be a Mac user, because most musicians who work in the studio are Mac users because the look and feel – and approach to music, and all the software for music – is very appealing. For what I do, most PCs look and feel clunky, and work in a wonky way.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download?I do buy DVDs and CDs and vinyl, actually. I was recently in Nashville, and there are tons of vinyl shops with loads of blues, jazz and gospel. I tend to buy across all formats.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Perfect.What piece of technology would you most like to own?An Orgasmatron, I suppose. I wrote the musical Barbarella, and I was fascinated when they built the Orgasmatron for the set.• Dave Stewart was one half of the Eurythmics, and is currently recording a new solo album. He's also working withConspiracy for Good, a pilot project for an interactive story that empowers its audience to create positive change
The popular link-sharing websiteDiggis investigating claims that a group of the site's "influential conservative" members are systematically downgrading thousands of stories deemed to be "liberal".Online magazine AlterNetclaimedto have uncovered a group of Digg members – dubbed "Digg Patriots" – who have "censored hundreds of users, dozens of websites, and thousands of stories" from the site. Alternet alleged that the Digg Patriots, thought to number nearly 100 members, are "able to bury over 90% of articles by certain users and websites submitted within 1-3 hours".Kevin Rose, founder of Digg,said via Twitter: "We're looking into this."The six-year-old social bookmarking website ranks submitted web content by the number of times they are ranked up or down. Popular items, those receiving the most "Diggs" and least attempts to "Bury", are voted onto the Digg homepage, and can generate significant amounts of traffic for external websites. Digg had 7.6 million unique visitors in June this year,according to figuresfrom analytics firm Compete.AlterNet claimed the group of Digg Patriots, whose political affiliations are described as "conservative", work to "censor" the prominence of articles "even slightly critical of the GOP/Tea Party/FoxNews/corporations".A posting said by AlterNet to be by the alleged founder of the Digg Patriots, "phoenixtx", reads:"The more liberal stories that were buried the better chance conservative stories have to get to the front page. I'll continue to bury their submissions until they change their ways and become conservatives."An AlterNet investigation alleged that the Digg Patriots discussed censorship strategies at a Yahoo group which hassince been removed. A posting said to be by one of the group's senior strategists, said:"To all of our new group members: We are really happy you have joined us at DiggPatriots! Please remember this is a group that we are trying to keep below the radar. Please do not disclose this group's existence to anyone outside the group on Digg or elsewhere. The longer we can keep this group on the down low, the better. I know you probably already knew that, but I wanted to make sure we are all on the same page as far as the keeping this group from being exposed to the public."AlterNet also claimed "dozens of duplicate or previously banned" Digg users have set up alternate accounts.Digg, currently undergoing atransition to a new website, may be free from the coercion of groups of users when it launches its next version, a preliminary analysis by AlterNet is said to have shown.
This week'sBlackBerry press conference in New Yorkdidn't treat us to a single whisper about what could be in store for the tablet device thought to be on the horizon from manufacturer Research in Motion. But trusty Guardian readers have a knack of being on (or near) the money when it comes to foreshadowing future gadget releases.RIM is said to be releasing its rival to Apple's iPad in November this year,according to reports. Speculation about the name of the device has been spurred on by RIM's acquisition of the domain rights to blackpad.com and the expected imminent release of tablet devices from LG and Samsung.Earlier this week weput it to the people: what can we expect from a BlackBerry tablet computer? Here's what you told us:How much will it weigh?Given that the iPad weighs in at between 0.68-0.73kg, the majority of readers (43%) said the "BlackPad" (hold on to your hats, you'll see why we're calling it that in a minute) would weigh around 0.7kg – so roughly the same as an iPad. Almost 90% of readers said the BlackPad would weigh between 0.5kg and 0.9kg.How many models will there be?Just the one model, according to 55.9% of readers. A not insubstantial 44.1% said there would be more than one model. One for enterprise and one for regular users?What will be the basic model's screen size?Bit of an open one this. With the iPad's 9.7in screen and the new Kindle's tinchy six incher, the majority of readers (39%) said the BlackPad screen would be no bigger than 10.3in.Will the basic model have mobile network connectivity?It'd be a surprise if it didn't, put it that way – 84.9% of you saying it will.If there is a model with mobile network connectivity, who will be the US carrier(s)?The trio of big players – AT&amp;T, Verizon and Sprint – will all carry network on the BlackPad, so says the majority (38.7%) of readers. The rest were split almost equally between only AT&amp;T, only Verizon, or only AT&amp;T and Verizon.If there is a model with mobile network connectivity for a UK version, who will be the carrier(s)?Again, a trio of big players will all be providing network on RIM's tablet device, according to most (44.4%). Interestingly, readers don't seem to rate Orange's chances of being a sole carrier (4.8%), much less so than O2 and Vodafone.What sort of finish and colour will it have?It'll be a shiny black, say the hulking great mass (84.7%) of polled readers. Let's hope, for creativity's sake, we get a bright aluminium model as well. We're not holding our breath though.What connectivity/ports will it have?The BlackPad will definitively not have Ethernet connectivity (3.4%), say readers. Nor will it have Universal WideBand (2.8%) connectivity. What will set the device apart from rivals is a USB port (16.7%) and SD/CompactFlash card capability (13.3%).Will it support Flash?RIM has said Flash playback is coming to its BlackBerry smartphones, with an announcement in due course. There's no reason, then, we shouldn't expect Flash to be supported on its upcoming tablet device, as 86.3% of readers said. Will that prove a big enough draw away from the iPad?Will it introduce a new DRM format for electronic books, magazines and newspapers?No, say the majority (61.6%).How much will it cost in the UK, without network subsidy?The majority of readers (roughly 66%) expect the BlackPad to cost roughly the same as Apple's iPad – between £400 and £600. Almost 2% said the device will cost more than £1,201.Drumroll … what will it be called?This is the biggie, though largely spoilt by the rumbling of RIM's indiscrete purchase of a domain name. Just under half (43.5%) of polled readers think RIM's tablet device will be called BlackPad, 33.1% imagine it as BlackBerry Slate. A disappointing 1.9% said the device will be called BlackBored (the same 1.9% that imagine it will cost more than £1,201?).There we have it. If RIM's tablet device were to be true to Guardian readers' estimations, would that make it a more attractive purchase than the iPad? Samsung and LG, are you watching?
If Activision does not see a female lead in the top five games that year, they will not have a female lead. And the people that don't want a female lead will look at games like Wet and Bayonetta and use them as 'statistics' to 'prove' that female leads don't move mass units.This quote, attributed to a source within video game giant Activision, is one of the juicier elements ofa news story on Gamasutra, which alleges that the company has effectively banned female lead characters from its roster. The article points out that since 2005, the only Activision games to revolve around female leads have been within girl-centered brands such as Barbie and Dora the Explorer. It also quotes former employees of development studio Treyarch who assert that the forthcoming action adventure True Crime: Hong Kong, was originally an entirely different game entitled Black Lotus about an Asian female assassin. "Activision gave us specific direction to lose the chick," a source on the project tells the site. True Crime: Hong Kong has a male lead.Activision refutes the allegation at the end of the piece, but the comments section throws up a few interesting questions – one of which being, well, if games with female protagonists don't sell, then surely Activision is correct to rule them out of the production schedule, given that games cost tens of millions of dollars to develop these days?There are some reasonably valid arguments for the dominance of male leads. In the mainstream videogame arena, audiences are still overwhelmingly male, and as the ability to identify with the character is often an important element of the experience – especially in a narrative-driven action game – is it so weird that male gamers prefer male characters? And as one commenter on the Gamasutra piece suggests, do male characters just make a more obvious fit in the physicalised and aggressive action genre? After all, most of the great Hollywood action movies have had male actors in the main roles.It also seems that mainstream games with female leadshavestruggled in recent years. Mirror's Edge, Bayonetta and Wet are all intriguing examples – although it's certainly worth pointing out that none of these were conventional action adventure titles to begin with. It's interesting, in fact, that when designers have set out to innovate in the action sector, they've often led with female characters, almost as a symbol of their 'otherness'; we can add Jade in Beyond Good and Evil and Carla Valenti from Quantic Dreams' Fahrenheit to that list.Fascinatingly, the two games that are most often used as examples of successful contemporary female-led titles are Portal and Metroid. But with both of these, the gender of the character is essentially sidelined, in Metroid because Samus wears full-body armour and in Portal because the first-person perspective leaves Chell unseen. In these cases, if the player desires, they can project male personas into the action.Meanwhile, Lara Croft is possibly a misnomer as a successful female lead: the character, with her ridiculous breasts and tight shorts, arrived at the height of nineties lad culture, an FHM babe digitised into an interactive fantasy. If you plotted a graph that showed the diminishing sales of mags like Loaded against the diminishing critical responses to the post-Tomb Raider 2 titles, there would – apart from the odd blip – be a correlation.In Japan, the best female characters have often appeared in ensemble casts. Jill Valentine, Chun-Li, Yuna – they have all carried games to some extent, but they've had to rise from earlier titles in which they appeared alongside male protagonists. That's a strange phenomenon; it's as though female characters have to work harder to prove their worth.Of course, it's not great for mainstream video games to be so dominated by male characters, but then Activision is a business, and if the company believes that male characters are a better bet (and they dispute this), it's difficult to counter that. You just have to hope that they're proved wrong. I think as games evolve and become less reliant on Hollywood for their cultural leads, we'll see the gender divide begin to even out. Interesting new narrative games like Mass Effect and Heavy Rain are already showing that well-drawn female characters can bring added depth and resonance to the experience, while in the rising social and casual sectors things are much more healthily equal.What you want, or what youshouldwant, is the best lead for the specific game you're playing. You can't say gender shouldn't be an issue, because it always is; it's the fundamental binary decision a games designer or script writer makes about a character. The decision always means something, whether we want to acknowledge that or not. At the moment it might just mean that Activison wants to sell more games to a core audience that wants to be male.
The LA Times is reporting that film directorGuillermo del Toroisnegotiating a game deal with THQ. The Pan Labyrinth director has said he wants to produce "games that are going to be technically and narratively very interesting."With Steven Spielberg's recentforayinto videogaming and now del Toro looking likely to join him the obvious question is who is next. So, which film director would you like to see get involved in gaming? Christopher Nolan?Also, what you do think a film director can bring to a game? Is it just a better narrative or can they potentially deliver more?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Brushed steel, glass stairs, oak tables – the latest Apple retail store in London's Covent Garden has everything you'd expect from the company. Due to open on Saturday, it will be Apple's 300th store and its biggest yet, but the high-profile opening is also a welcome distraction from the recent launch of its misfiring iPhone 4.While Apple promised the new store would stock more iPhones than any shop in the world, it would not say whether the elusive white version would be available, which is widely expected to be released later this year with an improved antenna to cure the much-publicised fault, in which the devices lose their signal if held in a certain way.Apple cannot afford any more setbacks in the competitive smartphone space where, according to Nielsen, Google's Android phones have been steadily gaining market share and account for 27% of the market. Before the launch of the iPhone 4, Apple had a 23% share, Nielsen found.Senior Screen Digest analyst Dan Cryan said that trouble was brewing for Apple in the smartphone market, where Google is aggressively pushing its Android operating system for mobiles and tablet devices."The future is not without its challenges for Apple," he said. "The rise of Android is set to pose a challenge to both the iPad and iPhone lines and Apple has yet to sink its teeth into the 'cloud'. There is scope for improvement."Apple's retail strategy relies on filling its chic, spacious stores with attractive devices. The first retail outlet opened 10 years ago in Virginia, and Apple now has stores from China to Switzerland, from the iconic glass cube on New York's Fifth Avenue to the Louvre in Paris. Later this summer, new shops will open in Chicago, Paris and Shanghai, the latter featuring the largest pieces of curved glass ever manufactured.Each store is overseen by Ron Johnson, Apple's senior vice-president for retail. He said it would have more space for children, training, small business services and kit in stock than any of its other stores in the world.Apart from two small outlets in Westfield and Brent Cross, the often chaotic and crowded Regent Street store has served central London until now.Retail analysts Verdict estimate that despite the spacious layout the Regent Street shop has the highest sales density of any retailer in London, generating an average £2,000 per square foot. Consumer electronics firm Dixons generates £536 and TopShop's flagship store at Oxford Circus £1,000."For most people, what they call flagship stores, it's just for the brand and doesn't make money," said Johnson. "It was a big bet to come to Regent Street and open a store like that, and it worked."Verdict's consulting director, Neil Saunders, said the combination of higher-end products, avoiding third-party dealerships and choosing high footfall locations had been key to Apple's retail success."It has a brand people are evangelical about," he said. "Apple is a better retailer than most because it understands brand management, that retail is about selling aspirations and dreams and not just lumping products on a shelf."Not for the first time, Apple defied the analysts who predicted its retail strategy would fail because it went against the prevailing market trend. After 10 years, arch-rival Microsoft has just four retail stores in the US, while Apple has 28 in the UK alone. Retail accounted for 16.4% of Apple's revenue in the second quarter of 2010, up 78% from the previous year to $2.58bn.Johnson's interpretation of the Covent Garden project was to create a big, spacious retail space to embody the Apple brand. But without great products Apple has no retail strategy, so Johnson had better hope Apple can continue to keep its edge.• This article was amended on 6 August 2010. It originally stated that the "glass cube" Apple Store was on Wall Street; this has been corrected.
Google has dismissedreportsthat the company is in talks with US telecoms operator Verizon that could bring an end to net neutrality.Inan articlepublished yesterday, the New York Times said the two companies "are nearing an agreement that could allow Verizon to speed some online content to internet users more quickly if the content's creators are willing to pay for the privilege".Today the search giant has said it remains as committed as ever to an internet where content exists on a level playing field.A Google spokeswoman told the Guardian: "The New York Times is quite simply wrong. We have not had any conversations with Verizon about paying for carriage of Google traffic. We remain as committed as we always have been to an open internet."Verizon has also moved to dismiss the story."The NYT article regarding conversations between Google and Verizon is mistaken," the company said. "It fundamentally misunderstands our purpose. As we said in our earlier FCC filing, our goal is an internet policy framework that ensures openness and accountability, and incorporates specific FCC authority, while maintaining investment and innovation. To suggest this is a business arrangement between our companies is entirely incorrect."Manynews outletsreported Google and Verizon as edging towards a deal that could see content creators paying for internet service providers to fast-track content to consumers.Eric Schmidt, chairman and chief executive of Google,said earlier this weekthat the two internet giants had been talking for "a long time about trying to get an agreement on what the definition of net neutrality is".Such a deal could have seen providers of high-bandwidth content or applications – Google's YouTube and BBC's iPlayer, for example – having to pay the internet service provider (ISP) for its content being delivered to consumers. Google haspreviously saidit wouldn't pay for such a service.Google and Verizon are just two of the parties involved in a long-running hearing held by the US Federal Communications Commission with the aim of coming to an agreement on the future delivery of online content and services.Julius Genachowski, the FCC chair, is seeking to adopt guidelines that would ensure telecoms companies provide equal treatment of traffic travelling over the networks. The current hearing comes from a Federal Courts Appeal ruling in April this year which said that the FCC has no authority to apply net neutrality policies to ISPs in the country. ISPs are legally entitled manage the traffic on their network as they see fit.The FCC has said that it does not wish to impose strict terms and conditions on internet rates – seeking to appease concerns the agency could become more of a regulatory body – but says a consistent metric for equal access must be reached. Advocates of net neutrality argue that any impositions on content delivery would stifle innovation and the business models of many new internet companies.Gigi Sohn, president of consumer advocacy group Public Knowledge,told the New York Times: "The point of a network neutrality rule is to prevent big companies from dividing the Internet between them. The fate of the Internet is too large a matter to be decided by negotiations involving two companies, even companies as big as Verizon and Google."The reported deal that both companies were said to be nearing took many by surprise, not least because  Google'ssubmission to the FCCcalls for "a nondiscrimination principle that bans prioritising internet traffic based on the ownership (the who), the source (the what) of the content or application".
Amazon today launched itsUK Kindle Store, with more than 400,000 ebooks now available to download. The price and scope of the digitised books marks a significant point in Amazon's move towards domination in the ebooks market.Up against increasing competition in the market, Amazonlast week unveiled two more advanced versions of its Kindle e-reader.The company is looking to pick up consumers who cannot afford Apple's iPad. In the US, Amazon has slashed the price of its Kindle device to compete with the iPad, which uses the iBook store to sell ebooks.More than 80 of the 100 Nielsen UK bestsellers are available to download from the new UK store, retailing at relatively low prices. One of the new bookstore's featured authors, the late Swedish journalist Stieg Larsson, last week became the first author to sell more than 1m ebooks through Amazon.Larsson's novel The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest is currently second in theKindle store's bestsellers listand available for £2.70 to UK buyers."The Kindle Store offers the largest selection of the most popular books people want to read at low prices," said Russ Grandinetti, vice president of Kindle content at Amazon.In the US, digital books account for 6% of consumer sales. Many publishers now realise the need to follow the direction of the market.Amazon's new Kindle devices are lighter, faster and smaller than the previous generation. The Wi-Fi model costs £109 in the UK, while the model supporting both Wi-Fi and 3G will retail at £149 – both around £25 more than the US retail price.Previously, UK Kindle owners had to get their device shipped from the US, with subsequent book purchases retailed in dollars.Greg Greeley, vice president of European retail at Amazon, said: "The opening of the UK Kindle Store allows customers to buy content in pounds sterling and offers a great shopping experience including UK customer reviews, recommendations, bestseller lists and customer service."Though Amazon rarely releases definitive figures on Kindle sales, the company says the original device has sold "millions" – it has been the bestselling item on Amazon.com for two years running.Last month, the company revealed that it sold 143 Kindle ebooks for every 100 hardbacks sold in the previous three months in the US, although no figures were released about the relative proportion of paperbacks sold in this time.Amazon and Apple face investigations into their ebook retailing. The office of Richard Blumenthal, Connecticut attorney general,says that the companies could be "potentially depriving consumers of competitive prices"and that the burgeoning nature of the market "warranting [a] prompt review of the potential anti-consumer impacts."
My parents, both in their late 70s, want to get online. I think they'll only need a browser, ideally with Flash support. Is there some kind of set-top box PC that they could use through their TV that might avoid the worst of trojans/viruses etc? Or is there a better solution?Alastair YoungThis is a market that a lot of companies have tried to crack sinceWebTVwas launched in 1996 with internet-enabled set-top boxes from Philips and Sony. So far, none of them has been successful. Google plans to make the next attempt with Google TV, and it will support Adobe Flash. Sony has agreed to make Google TV sets while Logitech will make set-top boxes that can be used with existing TV sets. Unfortunately, we don't yet know when systems will be launched, when they might reach the UK, how well they might work, or how much they will cost. Under the circumstances, there's no point in waiting.If anybody knows of a television set-top box that allows real internet browsing and is currently available in the UK, please let us know.Of course, there are some very small Windows PCs that can be used with TV sets. The leading examples include theAcer Aspire Revoand theAsus Eee Box, which can be clipped to the back of a TV set. (See my comments on Windows at the end.)However, I really don't think a TV set is the best choice for web surfing. You need to be close to the screen to read the web and much further away to watch broadcast TV. This problem is being solved by the introduction ofWiDinotebooks, where WiDi is a "wireless display". In other words, the notebook uses Wi-Fi to transmit to a separate TV screen. An early example is the Lenovo ThinkPad X201i, which has just been launched in Taiwan.Apple's iPad might be an option, but it doesn't support Abode Flash and it's very expensive for what you get. This suggests, as an alternative, a similar media tablet running the Google Android operating system … but you can't buy one of those either. You could perhaps show your parents one of the larger smartphones running Android 2.2, which supports Flash 10.1. If they really like it, it might be worth waiting until Android tablets appear.There are real advantages to having a proper keyboard, especially for writing emails and playing casual games online, so the obvious alternative is a netbook or a laptop with a larger screen. A portable PC with a 15.6-inch screen will would be easier to read, and you can get one running Windows 7 for about £300. A MacBook would cost a lot more, but it depends how much you are willing to spend.If Windows sounds too risky, then theJolicloudversion of Linux looks like a good option; it's based on Ubuntu Netbook Remix. You could see how your parents might get on with Linux by running Ubuntu or a slimline version of Linux (Puppy, etc) from a USB thumbdrive. There's also Thinstation. I have not tried it, but its website says: "Thinstation supports a Microsoft Windows-only environment and requires no Unix/Linux knowledge."Some Windows netbooks and laptops come with thin versions of Linux built in. For example, Asus fits some of its machines with ExpressGate, which is a version ofSplashtop. That gets you into a browser in a few seconds without booting Windows, and it also supports Skype. However, I suspect your parents would ultimately prefer to run Windows, mainly because such a lot of online content targets Windows machines.So, of course, do almost all viruses, but there are several ways of dealing with that. Companies typically control what Windows users can do by giving them limited accounts and locking everything down using Group Policies. But it might be better to assume that everything will go wrong and just deal with it.Some cybercafes, schools, public libraries and even a few home users do this by running Microsoft's freeSteadyState 2.5software. This protects the hard drive and limits what users can do, but it doesn't matter much, because rebooting the PC returns it to the state it was in before. The drawback is that it only supports Windows XP and Vista, not Windows 7. (Microsoft had other plans for Windows 7, and failed to deliver.)One alternative would beReturnil, which loads a copy of Windows in a "virtual PC". Again, it doesn't matter if the user messes it up. When the PC is restarted, the old virtual PC is thrown away and Returnil just loads a new one. There is a Home Free version of Returnil but Home Lux ($39.95) is better. There are also Enterprise versions for business use.Another option isComodo Time Machine. There have been "roll back" programs for Windows for at least a decade, but this one's free.And if you do go for Windows, set it up so that you can log on and fix it remotely, or install one of the third-party alternatives.
The internet giants Google and Verizon are reportedly close to a deal that could bring an end to "net neutrality", allowing the telecoms company to prioritise the order and speed in which it delivers content to users.The two companies have been in talks over net neutrality – the unwritten edict of the internet which puts all content on a level playing field – for around 10 months, but a deal could be struck within days according to a sourcesaid to be closeto the negotiations by AP.Such a deal would mean the information superhighway may be about to get a lot faster for those willing to pay. YouTube, owned by Google, for example, would pay a charge to an internet service provider (ISP) in return for its content being fast-tracked to consumers.Internet users would be likely to have to pay more for premium services from ISPs looking to make a greater return on expensive investments in broadband networks.Speaking at the Mobile World Congress in February this year, Eric Schmidt, Google chairman and chief executive,appeared to rule outthe prospect of paying for priority access to consumers."Google defines net neutrality in the following way: if you have a content category like video we want to make sure that the operator does not favour one video [provider] over another because that would then allow the operator to pick winners in the category," he said. "Imagine a situation where the operator also owned a TV network and discriminated in favour of that TV programming against the other choices. That would not be seen as fair."Asked whether Google itself would pay, he replied: "The answer is, we wouldn't."The US Federal Communications Commission is holding long-running talks with major broadband providers and content creators in the US – including Google and Verizon – with the aim of coming to an agreement on the future delivery of online content and services.Julius Genachowski, the FCC chair, is seeking to adopt guidelines that would ensure telecoms companies provide equal treatment of traffic travelling over the networks.A deal between Google and Verizon could severely undermine FCC attempts at settling the issue.Google has consistently expressed a desire to keep "an open internet". Ina statementsubmitted to the FCC hearing earlier this year, the company laid down its support for "a non-discrimination principle that bans prioritising internet traffic based on the ownership (the who), the source (the what) of the content or application".Consumer advocate groups have reacted angrily to news of a potential Google–Verizon deal. Gigi Sohn, president of Public Knowledge,told the New York Times: "The point of a network neutrality rule is to prevent big companies from dividing the Internet between them. The fate of the internet is too large a matter to be decided by negotiations involving two companies, even companies as big as Verizon and Google."
Aboutthat dealFacebook announced last month with MOL Global to have the Friendster parent distribute Facebook Credits through its own network... Turns out it was part of a larger arrangement between the companies in which Facebook purchased all of Friendster's patents, including its pending patent applications,GigaOm reports. GigaOm says the overall deal, which also included cash, was valued at $40m.Photo byGianCayetanoon Flickr.Some rights reserved.There had been speculation in the past that Friendster's patents were worth more than the social network itself,which was sold to MOL Globalfor an undisclosed amount in December. One of its patents covered "a method and apparatus for calculating, displaying and acting upon relationships in a social network" and the company had said several years ago that it was considering "taking people out from a litigation standpoint," although it doesn't seem to have done so, according to GigaOm.Facebook, however, has been sued by other parties for infringing on patents, most recently in October, when Phoenix Media subsidiary Tele-Publishing, which provides dating services products to various newspaper companies,said that the social networkwas infringing on a patent it owns which covers a method for setting up personal profile pages on the web.A Facebook spokeswoman confirmed to us that the company had purchased Friendster's patents, although she wouldn't provide additional details.
Google has announced it is ending development on Wave, the cross-platform communication tool it launched with much fanfare at its I/O developer conference in May 2009.Google said in apost last nightthat "Wave has not seen the adoption we would have liked" and that elements of Wave's technology, including drag-and-drop and character-by-character live typing, are now as open source so users can "liberate their content from Wave".Like most people, you've probably heard of it but not actually tried it, which sums up the problem. What was it? The Wave idea was a centralised communications tool that combined the real-time advantages of Twitter with the aggregation of your email and chat, with collaborative documents too. Easy to dismiss as something too ambitious and far reaching, but perhaps the difficulty in describing its function was its biggest downall. Twitter managed to survive a similar fate (remember that moment of trying to describe it to a non believer?) but Wave was far more ambitious.There will be plenty of coverage today reeling off lists of Google's failures; Google Squared, Google Answers, Google Radio, Google Lively, Google Health, Google Notebook and Dodgeball among them. Those will be reliably dwarfed by Google's successes. Our European perspective might make us more critical of failure than in the US, where it is more rightly regarded as an inevitable and positive sign of productivity and innovation.Chief executive Eric Schmidt himself said of the Wave failure that it is just a symptom of trying things out. "Remember, we celebrate our failures. This is a company where it's absolutely OK to try something that's very hard, have it not be successful, and take the learning from that," hetold journalistslate yesterday.Co-founder Sergey Brin was convinced to support the Wave concept by a Google development team in Australia. "When they came and proposed this idea they said, 'We want to do something new and revolutionary, but we're not even going to tell you what it is. And we want to go back to Australia, hire a bunch of people and just work on it.' ," Brintold the Guardianshortly after Wave's launch. "That was a crazy proposal. But, having seen their success with Maps, I felt that it actually was pretty reasonable."When Wave launched at I/O, some developers werewaving their laptops in the air. It was a moment.I'd file this under ideas that were just a little ahead of their time. With refinement, a clearer proposition and better integration with existing services, it would have stood a better chance. Wave was one stab at tackling our information overload, at providing a central hub for all the information we need to deal with every day. And it will be back, in one form or another.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team•Hacker reveals how Apple artifically restricts iPhone chargers &gt;&gt; Engadget•IE 9 preview offers tantalizing look at IE's future &gt;&gt; CNET•RIM's Lazaridis: if goverments can't deal with the internet, 'they should shut it off' &gt;&gt; Engadget•Apple Can Fix the iPhone's PDF Security Exploit &gt;&gt; Mashable•Google and Verizon in Talks on Selling Internet Priority &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com•Google's Schmidt boasts 200K Android devices sold daily, waxes intellectually on society and technology &gt;&gt; Engadget•Eric Schmidt: Every 2 Days We Create As Much Information As We Did Up To 2003 &gt;&gt; TechCrunchYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Several Apple devices including the iPhone and iPad have two critical security weaknesses for which no patch exists, the German government warned last night.Users of Apple mobile devices should only use websites they deem trustworthy and refrain from opening PDF files until Apple releases a fix, Germany's federal office for information security said."This allows potential attackers access to the complete system, including administrator rights," the statement warned. "It has to be expected that hackers will soon use the weak spots for attacks."Apple said it is investigating reports of vulnerabilities affecting the iPad, iPod Touch and iPhone.The potential security flaw concerns the mobile internet browser Safari, and the way it opens PDF files in Apple's iOS software. The vulnerability arose over the weekend when US-based hackers launched JailbreakMe, a browser-based service that can unlock Apple devices from restrictions imposed by the manufacturer.Early reports suggest this system – last week ruled legal in the US, despite opposition from Apple – exploits the same shortcomings highlighted by the German government. The launch of JailbreakMe brought extensive attention to the vulnerability which security experts warn could be exploited for crime.The warning relates to iPhones using iOS versions 3.1.2-4.0.1, iPads using iOS 3.2-3.2.1 and the iPod Touch using iOS 3.1.2-4.0, though the German federal office said older versions of the mobile operating system could possibly be affected.Analysts at research firm Gartner said these fresh security worries point to more fundamental problems with the way Apple operates. Ken Dulaney, a vice president, said: "This security hole will likely be repaired by Apple in due course, but ... there is a crying need for Apple to move from a reactive mode of fixing security issues to a proactive one."I think [Apple's chief executive Steve] Jobs needs to copy what Bill Gates did when Windows was exposed in similar ways years back – he told everyone to stop what they were doing and address the issue."Since then Windows has had a much better security profile. Until then we advise our clients to be wary of using the browser until patches are applied."John Girard, analyst at Gartner, warned: "iPhone users should be cautious about browsing unknown websites until this problem is resolved. The takeaway from this situation is to remember that all devices may contain flaws that will make them vulnerable to attack. It is wise to expect that more vulnerabilities will be found in the future on phone and PC platforms."The German government warning came on the day the European Union Commission revealed it opted to supply employees with Apple iPhone devices due, in large part, to the security assurances it delivered in tests against other devices.Apple's iPhone retains a respectable 28% share of the US smartphone market, figures released by analysts Nielsen show. Apple is second only to Research In Motion's BlackBerry, which has a 35% market share.UK representatives for Apple were unable to be contacted before publication.
How should games deal with gender? Specifically, how ought they to address the fact that although the player is a man, the character they're playing might be a woman? Or, more commonly, vice versa. In many of best and most interesting console games of the past 12 months – such as Red Dead Redemption and Modern Warfare 2 – the player-character is male.Of course, for many other games, gender is irrelevant. No one asks whether the pet-owner in Nintendogs is male or female. There's no gender in Peggle. Wii games are played with your personalised Mii avatar, and role-playing games such as Fable 2 orMass Effect 2increasingly give the player the option to be either gender.Arguably, it'd be ridiculous to play as a woman in Red Dead Redemption or Modern Warfare 2. These are games set in male worlds: the wild west, and a military unit. A Jane Marston would have had a very different experience of border life in 1911 than RDR protagonist John. And many women may not care either way – when you're suspending your disbelief enough topretend to be a time-travelling assassin in medieval Italy, imagining that you're also male comes easily.But some interesting experiments are being made.Choice of Broadsidesis a charming and very replayable browser-based text game set in a Master and Commander-esque single-sex Albion Navy. It allows the player to choose whether to play as a male or female character. I played as a woman, putting me in the deliciously mind-bending position of agreeing that&nbsp;allowing delicate young men to join the Navy is a disgusting idea, and becoming part of a ship crewedentirely by women. It's hilarious, but an innovative and fascinating way of tackling gender – I'll be eagerly awaiting the company's next&nbsp;game.
America's ultra-rich are queuing to join in a grand gesture of generosity. Forty US billionaires have signed up to pledge at least half of their fortunes to charity under a philanthropic campaign kicked off by Warren Buffett and Bill Gates.In an unprecedented mass commitment, top figures includingNew York's mayor Michael Bloomberg, the hotel heirBarron Hilton, CNN mediamogul Ted Turner, and the Star Wars director George Lucas have lent their names to the "giving pledge", an initiative founded six weeks ago to encourage America's richest families to commit money to society's most pressing problems.The pledge is not a legally binding contract but is described as a moral commitment. Inspired by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation which pumps billions into fighting disease in developing countries, it does not prescribe any particular charitable causes but is a statement of principle.Buffett, the 79-year-old Nebraska stockpicker nicknamed the Sage of Omaha, who has a $47bn (£29.6bn) fortune, said the aim was to generate peer pressure encouraging billionaires to take an aggressive approach to philanthropy. "We're hoping America, which is already the most generous society on earth, becomes more generous over time," he said.To imbue team spirit, Buffett plans regular get-togethers for his fellow billionaires, kicking off with a series of dinners for 15 to 20 people at locations around the US this autumn.On the face of it, the sums involved are enormous. Among those committing to give away money are the Oracle business software tycoon Larry Ellison, whose fortune is estimated by Forbes magazine at $28bn, the banker David Rockefeller ($2.2bn), oilman Boone Pickens ($1.1bn) and private equity tycoon Pete Peterson ($2bn).Also on the list are the media entrepreneur Barry Diller and fashion designer Diane von Furstenberg, his wife. A former Citigroup banking boss, Sandy Weill, has signed up, as have fellow Wall Street names including David Rubenstein, co-founder of the Carlyle private equity group.Experts were asking how much being pledged was new money, as opposed to wealth already committed to charitable foundations."I think it's remarkable that so many people have agreed to go public with their commitments," said Stacy Palmer, the editor of the Chronicle of Philanthropy in Washington DC, which covers the nonprofit world. "But I'll be more convinced that this is truly transforming philanthropy when I see names on the list who aren't the usual suspects."Buffett and Gates have been banging the drum for the initiative by contacting billionaires, one by one, asking them to lend their names. So far, roughly half of the 70 to 80 individuals approached have agreed to pledge money, with some promising considerably more than the minimum 50% of their wealth.Bloomberg, who amassed $18bn through his eponymous financial information empire, said wealth reached a point where billionaires have so much that they simply cannot spend it. It did not make sense to leave all his money to his children so that they could become members of the "lucky sperm club"."If you really care about your family, it's best to do something to make the world a better place for your children and grandchildren, rather than just giving them money," said Bloomberg, whose charitable interests include anti-smoking campaigns and road safety.A clutch of America's top businesspeople have joined the pledge including construction tycoon Eli Broad, former Cisco electronics chairman John Morgridge and hedge fund boss Julian Robertson.There are notable absentees.Four of America's 10 wealthiest people are members of the Walton dynasty which founded the world's biggest retailer, Walmart, but none of the discount shopping heirs has signed up to the pledge. Neither have the founders of Google, Sergei Brin and Larry Page, who are worth a combined $30bn through internet search and advertising.Some are sceptical of the way Gates and Buffett are creating a highly public philanthropic elite.Pablo Eisenberg, a senior fellow at the Georgetown Public Policy Institute, at Georgetown University, Washington DC, said ultra-wealthy donors tend to give money to higher education, arts and established healthcare causes, with relatively little going to poverty reduction, disability causes or to disadvantaged ethnic minority communities. Billionaires generally gave away funds through tax advantageous foundations."These mega-foundations, which are effectively family enterprises with no accountability, are going to dictate public policy priorities for this country," said Eisenberg. "I'm not sure that tax receipts haven't done a better job, over time, of meeting the needs of our neediest people, than philanthropists."Publicly declared philanthropy is much greater in the US than Britain, where wealthy individuals tend to shy away from the public gaze.Bea Devlin, head of international policy at the Charities Aid Foundation in Kent, said the top 100 philanthropists in Britain last year gave away an estimated £3.5bn. She said she would welcome more "open champions" among Britain's super-rich to encourage philanthropy but she added: "Giving just isn't in that boastful space in the UK at this point."
The world's biggest microchip manufacturer, Intel, has agreed to tidy up its act under a settlement with US competition regulators over charges that it abused its dominance by bullying computer companies into exclusive deals.Intel struck a deal to resolve legal action brought by the US federal trade commission (FTC) by signing up to a list of requirements prohibiting unfair retaliation towards computer-makers that used chips produced by its rivals.Intel controls more than 70% of the global market for chips, the "brains" of computers, and has been dogged by accusations of using illegal tactics to squeeze rivals.There was no fine in the FTC settlement and some industry analysts suggested that Intel had escaped relatively lightly in comparison with its previous brushes with regulators. A year ago, the European commission levied fined it £900m  for "serious wrongdoing" and in November, Intel paid £787m to its main rival, Advanced Micro Devices, to end litigation between the two companies.The FTC's chairman, Jon Leibowitz, said today's deal provided certainty about the rules of the road for other businesses: "By accepting this settlement, we open the door to competition today and address Intel's anti-competitive conduct in a way that may not have been available in a final judgment years from now."California-based Intel issued a statement saying it was not admitting any violation of the law. Its general counsel, Doug Melamed, said: "This agreement provides a framework that will allow us to continue to compete and to provide our customers the best possible products at the best prices."The deal requires Intel to modify its intellectual property agreements to give competitors more freedom. The company will not be allowed to use "threats, bundled prices or other offers" to tie in customers and punish computer-makers which buy alternative chips.Brendan Furlong, a technology analyst at Miller Tabak, described the outcome as "pretty benign" for Intel: "What's positive for Intel is that the more egregious settlement the FTC was looking for in its original case has not played out."The deal does not close the book on action against Intel. New York's attorney general, Andrew Cuomo, sued Intel in November, accusing the company of using "bribery and coercion" to maintain a stranglehold on the market, to the ultimate detriment of consumers who, according to regulators, were deprived of choice and lower prices.
If you're the parent of a four-year-old child, the chances are you already know plenty about Leapster. This chunky handheld games console manufactured by Californian educational toy company, LeapFrog, was first launched in the UK in 2004, followed four years later byLeapster 2, featuring a USB port and computer connectivity. The systems have shifted over seven million units worldwide over the last six years, and there are now around 40 games available, all developed by LeapFrog itself.The company has just released a Toy Story 3 version of Leapster 2, complete with decals of Woody, Buzz and the aliens on the fascia, as well as access to a Toy Story 3 mini-game. These are modest additions to the basic green and blue model, but it's the same price, and I thought it was a good excuse to assess the system...If you've never seen a Leapster, the handheld system it most closely resembles is an old Sega Game Gear. The two-inch, 160x160 display has a reasonably limited colour palette but it's fine for the games on offer, while the touchscreen functionality is basic, and sometimes a little laggy. But the functions are well thought-out, with a '?' button for game hints as well as a 'Home' option to get players back to the start screen. And there's a chunky stylus that fits into a hole on the top of the machine when not in use (it's attached via a string too, which means you don't end up losing it every five minutes a la the DS pen.)Switch it on and you'll find a simple built-in Dragon Kingdom game, which offers a mini art package and a sort of child-friendly version of a vertically scrolling shooter (without the shooting, of course). The game cartridges are mostly Disney and cartoon licenses, combining familiar gameplay features with numeracy and literacy challenges. This year will see four new releases, a full Toy Story 3 title as well as Disney Tangled, The Penguins of Madagascar: Race for 1st place and Scooby Doo: Maths Times Two. Games are available for around £15-£20, though you'll find them cheaper on Amazon Marketplace and eBay, of course. We inherited a system from my sister's children when they outgrew it, and their favourite title was Ratatouille, based on the Pixar movie, which has fun recipe challenges – like a sort of junior Cooking Mama. My sons like Cars, a very simple racer interspersed with some mid-circuit spelling tests, but their favourite is Sonic the Hedgehog, a neat little platformer that most closely resembles a more grown-up game.I asked LeapFrog about the veracity of the educational content. The games are developed in the US, so I wondered if their approach to teaching – especially language development – would be suitable for British children. Their spokesperson told me, "We have an educational advisory board who review all of our products.  In addition, we employ UK teachers to review the curriculum and the content to ensure it is appropriate." My sister is a qualified Montessori pre-school teacher and seems happy enough with what's on offer, and I've definitely noticed that my son is gradually taking more care with the number tasks that interupt the platforming sections in Sonic (which are sort of the digital equivalent of vegetables, grudgingly consumed before you get any ice cream.)Interestingly, Leapster 2 also comes with an iTunes-like online service called LeapFrog Connect. You install the software on PC or Mac, then plug in your console via USB: your child can then access the dedicated online area where they're able to download new demos, play online games and mess around with the simple Art Studio feature.  There's also a Parents area where you can study data on what your children have been playing, for how long, and what they may have learned in the process. Okay, so you should probably know the bit about how long they've been on the console, but the info on how they've done with letter and number recognition is genuinely interesting. The service also sends out emails so you can effortlessly spy on your little gamers.There's a lot of barely disguised marketing though. With the Toy Story 3 version of Leapster 2, the package comes complete with access to a downloadable mini-game based on the film. But to get to it, you have to sign in to the complete LeapFrog Connect service – so that'll be all your personal details in their hands, then. Also, in the section where you analyse your child's progress in the games, there's a side panel entitled 'Grow my child's learning path', which is effectively an ad for other Leapster 2 games, couched in rather emotionally manipulative language. But then, this is effectively the same concept as Amazon's 'stuff you might like' system, and if you don't want corporations trying to use your data to sell you more things, you're probably best staying away from the web altogether.The question these days is, do children really need a dedicated console? With the Nintendo DS offering lots of kids games, and the App Store jammed with educational titles, do you need another chunk of plastic to eat up battery power? Well, we've found ours pretty useful; at £40 it's cheaper than the DS, and more hardy, plus even the most basic children's titles on Nintendo's machine can be too complicated for the under fives. Also, it's been invaluable on long car journeys – and I'm not sure how many parents would be willing to hand their beloved iPhones, iPads or HTC Desire smart phones into the back seat for smeary chubby hands to mess about with. I'd say though, that while LeapFrog puts the age range at 4-8, its useful life will be shorter for a lot of children. My sister's sons had grown out of it by six, and I think my four-year-old – although too young to benefit from a lot of the educational content – is already finding some of the gameplay quite limited. But then his dadisa games journalist.Some parents will, of course, wonder why children need to be introduced to gaming hardware at all. They should be outdoors in the fresh air, and not lounging on the sofa preparing themselves for a lifetime of electronic indolence. Well, if the parents don't use digital gadgets, I suppose that's a reasonable stance, but if you're sitting tapping away on your phone all day, and playing Xbox every evening, it's a little unrealistic not to expect your children to pick up on it and want to play along. Also, it's all about balance – we limit the amount of time our two boys can spend on Leapster and tend to save it for journeys. I asked my wife, a non-gamer, what she thought about the console and she said, "I actually prefer them to play on it than watch TV, because at least it's not totally passive. They're actually engaging with what they're doing."Whatever your standpoint though, one element of the Leapster experience that will be familiar to any gamer is the enforced obsolescence of the console lifecycle. Leapfrog has just launched theLeapster Explorer, an updated version of the device, complete with larger screen, a camera with video recording function, 3D visuals and an onboard memory so users can save game progress, videos and pictures. There's even an onboard virtual pet to customise and care for. It's essentially a smart phone without the phone bit. That will probably come later…So anyway, what do you think? Are you a Leapster parent, or do you make the kids stand outside playing with a hoop and a stick until they start banging on the door for mercy? Gamesblog wants to know!
With the traditional summer release lull in full swing, it's the download-only games that are making gamers pack up the BBQ and bucket and spade.The recent Deathspankwas as polished as a full-price release whilethe upcoming Lara Croft gamelooks equally promising. Both will be hard pushed to better Limbo though. Ostensibly an old-school platform game, Limbo manages to mix emotion – sadness and frustration, mainly – with stunning art design. The game sees you controlling a beautifully animated boy across a shadowy and hazardous landscape. Ultimately though, Limbo's greatest triumph is how the thing looks. Set in a monochrome world full of shadows and ambient audio, Limbo is an atmospheric triumph that succeeds in generating a sense of unease that persists throughout the game. Art house? Probably not, but Limbo certainly looks like nothing else out there.Luckily then that it plays a good game, too. In traditional platform style, you'll be jumping around some handily placed obstacles, avoiding enemies and generally heading to the right of the screen. A giant spider is one early foe, a group of shadowy child-like figures another. The real challenge, though, is the puzzles. With a judicious use of physics, the conundrums are generally pitched about right. They are not as obtuse as last year's download fave Braid, yet challenging enough to at least make you rouse the grey matter. Lateral thinking and well-timed jumps are the order of the day here.Limbo is cruel, though. The game takes a sadistic pleasure in crushing, stomping, squashing and drowning your character. Conveniently spaced restart points mean aggravation is limited, but there is a reliance on trial and error which is almost retro. Older gamers will get flashbacks to Another World on the Amiga. More important is the fact you actually care about the boy under your control – it's slightly worrying what a emotional impact a pair of bright eyes shining out in the darkness can convey.Take away the striking aesthetic and you would still be left with a solid take on the platform genre, albeit one that lacks the impact of Limbo. It may not be the longest game in the world – you can complete it in five or six hours – but Limbo will live long in the memory.
Heaven forbid, you forget your phone. You need to make a urgent call, but all you have with you is an iPod Touch. Well, now you can use your iPod to call your Facebook friends.A new mobile application enabling Facebook friends to call each other for free is being released today, and an app for the iPad is thought to be only weeks away.The app – produced by internet telephony companyVonageand available for iPhone, Android devices, and the iPod Touch (the latter only allowing outbound calls) – lets users call Facebook friends using Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), providing both parties have downloaded the app. Users will eventually be able to make calls (both incoming and outgoing) through the iPad.Vonage Mobile for Facebookis free to download, free to use and works on Wi-Fi, 3G and 4G connections. Later versions of the app are expected to include premium functions and cater for the iPad, as well as encompassing instant messaging, SMS and the ability to make calls to mobile numbers directly from the application.But the release of this new app provokes an unavoidable question: how many of your Facebook friends would you feel comfortable being able to call your mobile phone?Facebook friends: an app to make you reimagine your "friendships"?At launch, there is no way to block selected Facebook friends from calling your mobile – so, theoretically, anyone you've decided to accept as a friend on Facebook can call your phone. As we know,plenty of peopleaccept Facebook friend requests from relative strangers, or people to whom they wouldn't necessarily divulge their phone number.Michael Tempora, senior vice president of programme management and strategic initiatives at Vonage, said: "I expect that's the case [that people don't want every one of their Facebook friends being able to call their mobile phone]. Certainly you always have ability to decline a call. Incoming calls will ring your phone and users still have the option to decline or accept."Future releases will also add a call block capability. A consumer can always choose not to download the application or de-friend someone on Facebook. This app adheres to all Facebook's rights and responsibilities."In other words, your downloading of the app and accepting of Facebook friend requests are taken as double confirmation that the people you befriend online are the people you'd be happy calling your phone. Online social networking, however, isn't as straightforward. That is, of course, unless you've adopted a personal Facebook policy readying for the day when your friends would be able to call your phone. Or preparing for a day when your child's Facebook friends can call their mobile phone.I suspect we've not heard the last of this, though VoIP telephony companies moving towards social networks isnot a new thing.Usurping mobile networks?And what of the mobile networks we largely rely on to make calls to our friends? Is Vonage expecting a backlash? "It's hard for me to speculate," Tempora said. "Our customers will be delighted, Facebook users and iPhone users and Android users will be delighted."It's a paradigm changer for the consumer, and one that takes advantage of broadband networks. It's exciting for consumers and another step for us in using VoIP technology to deliver great value for consumers."Vonage advises users who don't have an unlimited data tariff to contact their provider to see what charges apply. Making a call using the app uses approximately 250kb a minute, a Vonage spokesman said, adding that the number of minutes sold on contract mobiles is going down while the amount of data sold and used is on the rise – this new app potentially warranting a data upgrade depending on usage.It's all about timing: a good day to bury bad news?The importance of this product for a company with a history of financial losses can be inferred from the launch date: the same date it will announce second quarter financial results.That said, Vonage posted a sharp increase in net income in its first quarter results, recording a jump of $8.7m (£5.4m) year-on-year to $14m. Though the short-term forecast underlying these headline figures would no doubt prove disconcerting to company bosses, recruitment of new subscribers to the Vonage World plan wasexpected to continue dropping, and loss of existing subscribers was also expected to continue."It's certainly very important to us," Tempora said. "But it's absolutely consistent with our vision that people should be able to call from anywhere they are using any broadband device that's convenient. This is an important first step for us but it's just the start, we expect in future to provide a wide range of apps."Going forward, we will expand on the launch to add additional communities – some already existing online – or social communities like family. We will also add device platforms – other mobile devices, PCs, Macs and premium services like the ability to call from Facebook to phone numbers as well as instant messaging components."
The company behind BlackBerry smartphones, Research in Motion, has rejected suggestions that it might allow the Indian government special access to its users' information.India was among the countries to warn that it could block some BlackBerry services afterthe United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia both implemented bans, citing security issues. Indian security agencies had raised concerns about the devices' encrypted email service.It was reported that, in response, RIM could strike a deal to give the Indian government access to data passed via email and instant messaging on BlackBerrys in the country. But the company has now moved to quellcustomer fearsabout the possibility of their personal data being monitored.A press statement released by the troubled phone maker said the idea that it would allow any government special access to data on customers' handsets was "unfounded".RIM said: "In recent days there has been a range of commentary, speculation, and misrepresentation regarding this solution and we want to take the opportunity to set the record straight. There is only one BlackBerry enterprise solution available to our customers around the world and it remains unchanged in all of the markets we operate in."RIM cooperates with all governments with a consistent standard and the same degree of respect. Any claims that we provide, or have ever provided, something unique to the government of one country that we have not offered to the governments of all countries, are unfounded."RIM's devices, which have proved popular among corporate customers around the world, offer data protection services different from those on most other mobile devices, encrypting data and processing it in a variety of operational centres outside local jurisdictions.The company said it could not and would not compromise the security of its customers' devices: "RIM has spent over a decade building a very strong security architecture to meet our enterprise customers' strict security requirements around the world. The BlackBerry enterprise solution was designed to preclude RIM, or any third party, from reading encrypted information under any circumstances since RIM does not store or have access to the encrypted data."RIM cannot accommodate any request for a copy of a customer's encryption key, since at no time does RIM, or any wireless network operator or any third party, ever possess a copy of the key.  This means that customers of the BlackBerry enterprise solution can maintain confidence in the integrity of the security architecture without fear of compromise."Nick Jones, an analyst at Gartner, saidthe impact of any prospective banon RIM in the Middle East would be minimal, estimating that the region accounted for less than 1% of BlackBerry sales by volume."It is more important for RIM to have a secure network than it is to buckle under government pressure," he said. "People trust BlackBerry. It is the most secure mobile consumer device you can buy. If it gave in, the impact on sales would be small and the impact on reputation would be large."
