Government plans to curb illegal filesharing received a significant boost on Wednesday, as a judicial review of the controversial Digital Economy Act failed to halt the legislation.The UK's two largest internet service providers, BT and TalkTalk, were dealt a blow as their judicial review of the DEA was thrown out of London's high court on all but one of the legal grounds they had raised.BT and TalkTalk argued the act infringed internet users' "basic rights and freedoms" and received insufficient parliamentary scrutiny.Plans to send thousands of warning letters to alleged illegal downloaders should now go ahead in the first half of next year.However, the ISPs immediately signalled they could appeal against the high court ruling. A spokesman for TalkTalk said: "We're disappointed that we were unsuccessful on most of the judicial review. On the question of the proportionality of the act, we're pleased the judge identified issues but disappointed that he felt that the evidence of the futility of the measures imposed by the act, and the cost and harm they will cause, is not sufficiently definitive enough at this stage to uphold our claim."We are reviewing this long and complex judgment and considering our options, which may include an appeal to the court of appeal, or a request that the court of appeal make a reference to European court of justice. Though we may have lost this particular battle, we will continue fighting to defend our customers' rights against this ill-judged legislation."Under the act, rights holders will collect data about people believed to be illegally downloading film and music from filesharing sites. ISPs will then match the rights holders' data against their customer database and send warning letters to those accused.Repeat copyright infringers could have their internet access slowed or even blocked under secondary measures in the act. However, this second phase is understood to be about 18 months away from being considered as part of the measures.Rights holders, including music and film industry companies and the Premier League, assert that illegal filesharing is costing UK businesses £400m a year in lost sales.The chief executive of the industry music trade body the BPI, Geoff Taylor, said: "This judgment gives the green light for action to tackle illegal downloading in the UK."It confirms that the DEA is proportionate and consistent with European law. Shareholders and customers of BT and TalkTalk might ask why so much time and money has been spent challenging the act to help reduce the illegal traffic on their networks."It is now time for BT and TalkTalk to work constructively with government and rights holders to implement the Digital Economy Act."The high court judge, Mr Justic Parker, dismissed the ISPs' argument that the previous Labour government, which rushed through the DEA in the dying days of the last parliament in April 2010, should have notified the European Commission; that it makes ISPs liable in damages for copyright infringement on their network; that it breaches data protection laws; and that it is a disproportionate response to copyright infringement.However, the ISPs' contention that the DEA is unlawful because it forces them to foot 25% of the bill of the "mass notification system" and its appeals process was upheld.The ISPs will now no longer have to pay 25% of the costs of establishing an appeals body. But they will still have to foot 25% the cost of mass letter sending to internet users, with rights holders paying the remaining 75%.Parker said: "From the point of view of both copyright owner and subscriber, the DEA represents a more efficient, focused and fair system than the current arrangements."Although it is difficult to predict the effect of measures such as those contemplated by the DEA, there are reasons for believing that such measures may well have a positive effect [on reducing illegal filesharing]."
It was an interesting idea with some decent functionality, but in the end, it was a brand extension too far. Sony Computer Entertainment has seemingly ceased production of the PSPgo, a smaller, lighter version of its PSP handheld console, which did away with providing games on physical media, requiring players to download titles from the PlayStation Store. The manufacturer has yet to confirm speculation, butaccording to VG247, a message on the company's Japanese home page yesterday simply read "shipment ended".Launched in 2009, the PSPgo was a controversial attempt to bring an iPod-style digital-only experience to dedicated games machines. Well-built with an excellent screen and nice slide-out control pad, the device offered 16GB of flash memory storage space, enough for about 15-18 games, although this could be expanded to up to 48GB. It also provided Wi-Fi access and Bluetooth connectivity.So what went wrong?The main problem was price. The device retailed at £220, putting it just shy of PS3, while game downloads were in the region of £20-£25, which angered gamers used to paying a fiver or less for smartphone digital apps. Meanwhile, retailers weren't happy that they'd be stocking a piece of hardware with no means of generating revenue from software sales.And of course, technology just overtook the machine. The irresistible rise of Android and iOS handsets tempted potential buyers away to where games were cheaper and much more plentiful.But Sony no doubt learned some valuable lessons from the PSPgo. At the very least, its sliding handset has been re-used in the Xperia Play, and the company has discovered that creating awkward hybrids between dedicated gaming and multimedia/smartphone devices is not the way – hence, the current two-pronged tactic of launching the Xperia Play alongside the forthcoming NGP dedicated gaming device.So will the PSPgo attain the longterm cult appeal of other lesser known handhelds such as the Atari Lynx, Neo Geo Pocket or Tapwave Zodiac? Well, if you're planning to hold on to one for nostalgic reasons, you'd better get online and start downloading games – you won't be able to pick up battered old carts on eBay in five years time...
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple to begin shipping new iPhone in September &gt;&gt; Reuters"Apple Inc suppliers will begin production of its next-generation iPhone in July this year, with the finished product likely to begin shipping in September, three people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday."Ask Ars: Finally upgrading to Windows 7: should I go 32- or 64-bit? &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaYou may be able to guess, but the explanation why is interesting.Cyber attack forces ORNL to shut down Internet access; experts probing Advanced Persistent Threat | Frank Munger's Atomic City Underground &gt;&gt; knoxnews.com"A highly sophisticated cyber attack -- known as Advanced Persistent Threat or APT -- forced Oak Ridge National Laboratory to shut down all Internet access and email systems over the weekend."How prevalent is malware on Windows PCs? &gt;&gt; ZDNet"The best numbers I've seen from an independent source (i.e., one that isn't trying to sell a security product) are in Microsoft's annual Security Intelligence Report. The Malware Trends section of the most recent report contains telemetry data drawn from more than 600 million Windows computers worldwide by a number of different Microsoft security tools and services, including the Malicious Software Removal Tool (which is included with automatic Windows updates every month), the free Microsoft Security Essentials and Windows Defender programs, and Microsoft's enterprise security software."The figure: between 1% and 6%. It would be interesting to know how sensitive this is at detecting botnets. But of course it won't apply to pirated versions of Windows on PCs in Asia, where most botnets take hold.Hype: Flash video is coming to iPad. Reality: Yet another streaming solution will be available for H.264 to iOS. &gt;&gt; Robert Reinhardt"The fact is that [at the NAB video conference] Adobe previewed video technology, not general Flash (or SWF) capabilities [streaming to iOS]. I'm not sure if they disclosed what kind of source video was being streamed to the iOS, but there's nothing new being revealed from a capabilities point of view."In other words, it's not Flash video, but equally Adobe isn't giving up on Flash. Adobe and Apple are still at loggerheads over this, but some Adobe clients want to get video onto the iPad and iPhone, and Adobe isn't about to leave money on the table.T-Mobile's Bobsled Is A Free, Facebook-Based, VoIP App &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"In a slightly puzzling move, T-Mobile has released a Facebook app that enables friend-to-friend voice chat"Curious. Just what is T-Mobile up to?In Toronto, PlayBook Line Stretches...Wait, Do Two People Count as a Line? | John Paczkowski | Digital Daily | AllThingsD"'As a RIM investor, I was sort of hoping there would be more customers than reporters here.'- Henry Kim, one of two customers who lined up outside Toronto's Future Shop for a BlackBerry PlayBook on Tuesday morning.The Unavoidable iPhone Nano &gt;&gt; Monday Note"Speaking of the iPhone, what is its main purpose?Is it making calls, browsing the Web, doing email, synchronizing calendars and address books? It does seem that way: the iPhone provides such services with varying degrees of felicity. (In my sample of one, during the summer of 2007, when I saw the amount of Web browsing time spent on my infant iPhone, I realized my treasured Blackberry was a goner.)"But these de rigueur, taken for granted functions are necessary but not sufficient to make an iPhone. What does make an iPhone an iPhone is its huge and still growing collection of applications served by the iTunes App Store.The iPhone is an App Phone."And given that apps are written for a particular screen size, and that you can already buy previous generations of iPhones for much less than the current one, it seems unlikely that Apple will do an 'iPhone nano', concludes (former Apple chief exec) Jean-Louis Gassée.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Wednesday again! Have you been playing Portal 2? You monsters.
Treyarch has revealed details of its second Black Ops DLC map pack, Escalation. Due out on May 3, it's the usual collection of four environments, plus 'a zombie experience' named Call of the Dead. This time the action takes in a variety of locales, from the rooftops of Havana to rural Russia, with a quick trip to the zoo chucked in.Here's a quick rundown of what to expect.HotelAccording to Treyarch, this one is set on the roof of a luxury hotel and casino in Cuba, "against the vivid backdrop of old Havana". There are interiors of a plush gambling hall and an outdoor swimming pool. Online director Dan Bunting promises lots of flank paths and neat little places to hide. There are also elevators leading to upper rooms, with clear sniping points over the pool.ConvoyWith a hint of Homefront about it, Convoy is based around a Russian invasion of the US, playing on '50s fears of communist expansionism. A US army convoy has been hit by an ambush, and the map is placed amongst the wreckage. There's a road running through the middle with sniper positions high on either side. "Delivers intense, close-quarters combat," according to Activision's press release.ZooHere we're promised, 'a wild ride' in an abandoned Soviet Russian Zoo. In the video, Bunting explains that the level contains lots of overwatch positions, with a monorail circuit running around the area. Sounds a bit like Discovery from the First Strike pack, with its long raised walkway, running the length of the map.StockpileThe most varied of the new maps, set in a remote Russian farm town, hiding secret WMD facilities with a stockpile of armaments. The building in the centre of the map has operational garage doors that players can close to protect key positions.
Apple is suing Samsung, claiming that Samsung's tablets and phones copy the "look and feel" of its iPhone and iPad.So Samsung has threatened a lawsuit in response, though by the end of Tuesday no details were forthcoming of what it would contain.However the row is not expected to disrupt the supply deal for components for the iPhone and iPad from... Samsung. In fact Apple probably buys more components from Samsung than Samsung's own device manufacturing groups, say analysts, which means that the two are reliant on each other: abandoning Samsung for Taiwanese suppliers wouldn't necessarily help Apple, and losing Apple as a customer would hurt Samsung, at least until it could find new buyers for the volumes it's selling.So why is Apple angry? Perhaps it sees Samsung as more of a threat; certainly its Nexus S and other Android phones can rival the iPhone for looks.As for iPad lookalike-ness, Samsung says that it was initially working on making the Galaxy Tab - one of the first Android tablets to be released in 2010, after the iPad - have a curved screen, but three months before starting production decided to go with a standard flat screen.Apple claims that the Samsung products copy many elements of its own, in a 373-page filing.It's perhaps surprising on the surface that Apple is choosing to go down this route, given its previous history with "look and feel" lawsuits: it tried that against Microsoft, to which it had licensed the "windows" concept and then headed over to court when Apple sued in 1985. Apple lost. And the "windows" became Windows. Und so weiter.But this is more complicated: Nilay Patel has done aspectacularly long and detailed analysis of the full lawsuit, which we commend. He points out there that this is very different from that ill-fated lawsuit. It's about "trade dress", which is how it actually looks in its physical appearance - not how something behaves on a computer screen.But thelawsuit(note: 9.7MB 373-page PDF) also reveals significant details about Apple's business that hadn't been released before in any form, given Apple's purposefully vague financial results (which don't, for example, give divisional profits or revenues, unlike most other companies).Here are a few, from the• "As of March 2011, more than 108 million iPhones had been sold worldwide"• "By March 2011, Apple had sold over 60 million (iPod touch) units"• "By March 2011, Apple sold over 19 million iPads"• Apple spent more than $2 billion advertising the iPhone, iPod touch, and iPad during its fiscal years 2007 to 2010.Those will be larger now, though the size of iPad sales will be telling: to the end of last year Apple said it had sold 14.8m, which would suggest a slowdown in iPad sales to only about 4.3m in the quarter - unless things have accelerated since then.Horace Dediu hassome analysis of what that implies about Apple's financial results, due on Wednesday at 10pm BST. His analysis: 18.1m iPhones sold in the Jan-March quarter (compared to 16.2m in the previous quarter), between 4.5m and 5m iPod Touches, and between 4.2m and 7.3m iPad sales (compared to 7.3m in the previous quarter).
Jack Chapman, who has died aged 87, was one of the most distinguished engineers of his time. He studied many high-profile structural failures including, in the 1960s, the collapses of the Ronan Point tower block in Newham, east London, and the Sea Gem offshore oil rig, in the North Sea. He also examined the sinking of the British ship the Derbyshire in the South China Sea in 1980. The results of these and other investigations led to design improvements in the next generation of structures.One of Jack's major contributions was his understanding of the complex interaction between steel and concrete in composite construction. This led to the formulation of rational design rules for shear connectors (such as headed weld studs) between the two&nbsp;materials.Jack revelled in the challenge of finding simple solutions to the most complex engineering problems. He could get to the heart of the matter quickly, devise a simple analytical model to study behaviour, verify his results experimentally, and then produce a solution which could be used in practice.His reputation led many postgraduate engineers to study under his supervision at the structures section of Imperial College London. I first encountered him 50 years ago, when I faced an interview board before securing&nbsp;a bursary to study for a postgraduate degree in structural engineering.Jack's research team was the engine room of Imperial's structural engineering research. He showed an interest in each of the team's members, guiding them through the highs and lows of training. Researchers, seeking extra attention, volunteered to join him on his daily walk, conducted at a brisk military pace, from South Kensington to Victoria station before he departed home for Haywards Heath, in West Sussex. Breathless but informed, encouraged or consoled, they would regard it as a small price to pay for a few&nbsp;minutes from his frenetic schedule.Jack was born in Essex and educated at Ilford high school. Following his early career as a captain in the Royal Engineers (1942-46), he spent the next 25 years in the civil engineering department of Imperial, where he obtained his BSc and PhD before being appointed to the staff in 1950. His output in his early years included some 150 papers and countless technical reports.Jack invited me to return to Imperial in 1968 to help with the supervision of his research team. Three years later, he left to become the director of the Constructional Steel Research and Development Organisation (Constrado), the forerunner of today's Steel Construction Institute. In 1973 he became the technical director of George Wimpey, one of the largest contractors in the UK. In this role he oversaw their extensive engineering laboratories. He improved the technical quality of their research and pioneered their expertise and involvement in offshore engineering.In 1976 he was one of the small cohort of elite engineers who founded the Fellowship of Engineering, under the patronage of the Duke of Edinburgh. This later became the Royal Academy of Engineering. When he retired from Wimpey in 1981, he set up a firm of specialist engineers and asked me to join him as a partner. Jack was never busier and, as far as one could judge, never happier than when he was working from the offices in his home.It was not long before he was invited back to Imperial as a visiting professor. He made extensive use of&nbsp;the world-class structures laboratories which he had designed and equipped a half century earlier. Jack continued his work&nbsp;of consultancy, research and publishing up to three years ago&nbsp;when&nbsp;his failing health slowed him&nbsp;down.Jack's legacy includes the structures he helped design, such as a fleet of large container ships for OCL (which later became P&amp;O); the many structures worldwide that have been shaped with the help of his rules for bridges and buildings; and the army of engineers who were inspired, nurtured and trained by him.He is survived by his wife, Judy, whom he married in 1947, his daughter, Sarah, and son, Andrew, and grandchildren Robin and Jennie.• John Clifford Chapman, structural engineer, born 21 February 1923; died 17 February 2011
The podcast team are joined in the studio this week by Tim Wright, digital storyteller, to futurecast the future of entertainment. Tim, whose work includes the web series Online Caroline and the Twitter re-telling of Romeo and Juliet as Such Tweet Sorrow, is on hand to discuss how interactive technologies are changing the ways we tell stories, and how consumers are now an essential part of the narrative.Expanding on this theme, Frank Rose, Wired editor and author of the new bookThe Art of Immersion, shares examples of some of the most innovative storytelling projects of recent years, and gives advice on what the new breed of people who wish to tell stories – for brands or just for the sake of it – should think about when creating them.The team tackle the latest news stories, including Cisco's discontinuation of the Flip camera series, the reported sale of British startup TweetDeck to microblogging service Twitter, and Spotify's new, leaner and free streaming music model. We've also got your feedback on what you think serendipity is.There are plenty of rabbit holes to fall into in this week's podcast, so have a listen and tell us what you think.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
The marriage of Prince William and Kate Middleton will be streamed live via YouTube, with royal household staff tweeting updates and posting pictures on photo-sharing site Flickr.Royal household officials on Tuesday unveiled anofficial YouTube channelthat will live stream the 29 April event so that internet users can watch it anywhere in the world.Royal wedding viewers on Google-owned YouTube will get the BBC's coverage, but without the commentary provided by Huw Edwards and the rest of the corporation's presenting team.As well as being broadcast live online royal officials will manage a live multimedia blog and augment coverage on a dedicated Twitter feed, @ClarenceHouse, as well as loading images on to Flickr."Staff at Clarence House and St James's Palace will provide a live commentary with historical information, interesting links, additional photographs and video footage as well as an integrated Twitter feed," the palace said in a statement.The royal household is encouraging technologically inclined viewers to interact on the day sending messages of congratulations via a Twitter hash tag, #rw2011, and launching an official YouTube "wedding book" where anyone can submit a video of congratulations."While millions will be in London for the big day, it's clear that people around the world have wedding fever,"YouTube announced in a blog post. "Google search trends show that in addition to the UK and the US, the top 10 countries searching for 'royal wedding' include places like Singapore and the Philippines. In response, we've been working to make as much of the big day as possible accessible to everyone."For those in different time zones that may find watching live online coverage impossible, YouTube said it will replay the footage immediately after the event concludes. It will then be available to view anytime after.Facebook users can also click an "I'm attending" button on the social networking service's The British Monarchy page to show their interest.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterat http://twitter.com/#!/mediaguardian and Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/mediaguardian
It's not everyday a developer creates a custom level for you, so thanks toBlitz Games Studiosfor this masterwork. The image depicts me as interpreted byYour Doodles Are Bugged, a charming indie puzzler created by lone coder,Johannes Hubert. Combining elements ofLine Riderand Lemmings, the game involves directing a large group of teeny bugs through a doodled landscape, using a pen to draw bridges and steps so they can navigate safetly to a golden pot of honey.The original version was released on the Xbox Indie Games service last year, but now Hubert is preparing to launch a new PC version via Steam, with the help ofBlitz 1up, the Leamington developer's admirable initiative to help small studios get their games published.Due out on April 25, the re-worked version of YDAB adds achievments, new game modes and leaderboards. But the key addition is a user-friendly editor, which lets you create and share your own doodled levels. You can either use the in-game palette, which is full of useful shapes and objects, or you can scan in your own photos and the game automatically uses the imagery to create workable stages.I'm sure that if you put in a lot of time and effort you may, justmay, be able to come up with a screenshot more beautful than the one above.
The European commission has decided against introducing legislation to protect net neutrality, saying media scrutiny and giving consumers enough information about their internet service provider will be sufficient to protect an "open and neutral" internet.Legislation to prevent telecoms companies from introducing a tiered internet, with some content arriving faster than others, has been ruled out.In a long-awaited report on its approach to net neutrality, the EU executive on Tuesday said "traffic management", or the prioritising of some packets of information over others, "is necessary to ensure the smooth flow of internet traffic, particularly at times when networks become congested".Internet service providers have long argued they should be left alone to co-ordinate the flow of data through their networks, a position the commission has decided to endorse."There is broad agreement that operators should be allowed to determine their own business models and commercial arrangements," the report continues.Commissioner Neelie Kroes, head of the EU's Digital Agenda department, said she will continue to monitor the sector for instances of ISPs blocking or throttling access to certain services, especially voice-over-internet-protocol offerings such as Skype.Brussels admits there have been some instances of unequal treatment of data by certain operators, including throttling of peer-to-peer filesharing or video-streaming in the UK and five other EU states, and blocking or charging extra for VOIP services in six other countries.But these problems were usually fixed as a result of bad press or via action by regulators, the report concludes: "Many of these issues were solved voluntarily, often through intervention by the [national regulators] or pressure created by adverse media coverage."However, the commission has asked BEREC, the European electronic communications regulatory group, to investigate the extent of the issue. If by the end of the year Brussels finds that there are persistent problems of blocking, the commission will take additional action."If I am not satisfied, I will not hesitate to come up with more stringent measures," said Kroes. These measures could include "guidance" or a law to prohibit blocking of services.But a "horizontal" bill, akin to that introduced by Chile last year, which goes beyond the problem of blocking and prevents any kind of tiered internet at all, the commission believes is unnecessary.Last June, Chile became the first jurisdiction in the world to pass net neutrality legislation, forcing ISPs to "ensure access to all types of content, services or applications available on the network and offer a service that does not distinguish content, applications or services".According to EU digital agenda spokesman Jonathan Todd, this goes too far: "The EU telecoms market is already healthily competitive. If an online service provider is confronted with extra charges for their content, they'll just tell the ISP to take a hike. It's a false debate."Digital rights advocates for their part accused Brussels of succumbing to lobbying from the telecoms industry, saying consumers are not as able to "vote with their feet" as the commission believes."This simplistic spin does not stand the test of reality. In practice, millions of users can only chose one operator to connect to the internet, either because of geographical or commercial constraints," said La Quadrature du Net, a France-based online civil liberties group."Ms Kroes is hiding behind false free-market arguments to do nothing at all," added Jérémie Zimmermann, a spokesman for the organisation. He said that infringements of net neutrality are not an abstraction but already common to most mobile internet provision."In most EU member states, mobile phone operators agree on engaging in the very same discrimination in their so-called 'mobile internet' offers. These operators simply do not offer access to the universal platform of communications we call 'the internet'."
Struggling handset maker Sony Ericsson defied analysts' gloomier predictions by posting a pretax profit of €15m (£13m) on revenues of €1.1bn, but shrinking handset sales and growing borrowings pointed to continuing problems for the company, which is also battling supply disruptions caused by Japan's earthquake and tsunami in March.All of the company's numbers were down compared to a year ago, except for the average price of a handset sold, which rose by 5% to €141. Revenues fell by 18%, while net income fell by 48%, though the previous year's figure was boosted by a tax benefit. The number of handsets sold fell to 8.1m, down 26%. The group also borrowed €375m in the quarter as it saw cash flow outward, meaning that its cash borrowings of €604m now exceed its cash holdings of €599m.The company estimated its market share for smartphones during the quarter was about 5% in units and 3% in value."The Japan earthquake made it a challenging quarter operationally and we are experiencing some disruptions to our supply chain," chief executive Bert Nordberg said in a statement.Sony Ericsson is now pinning its hopes on its Xperia Play, arc and neo smartphones – but supplies have been hit by the disruption in Japan, which has delayed launches and constrained volumes."The second quarter and possibly third will be difficult because of Japan," said Gartner analyst Carolina Milanesi.CCS Insight analyst Geoff Blaber said shipments in the past quarter had fallen "a considerable way short of expectations" adding: "This is a challenging situation for Sony Ericsson, but with lowered operating expenses and continued improvement to gross margin, it is at least in a better position to weather the storm than it was 12 to 24 months ago."Analysts claim 2011 could be a crucial year for the 10-year-old joint venture between Japan's Sony and Sweden's Ericsson, which was hit hard by the arrival of Apple's iPhone in mid-2007 and then by the proliferation of cheaper Android smartphones.Sony Ericsson has slashed costs – including cutting around 4,000 jobs – and refocused on higher margin smartphones that link to social networking sites such as Facebook. Smartphones as a percentage of sales rose to 60%, from 40% in the previous quarter. The company forecasts modest growth in total units in the global handset market for 2011.But analysts say it still takes too long for the group to bring new products to market and it has been left trailing by the likes of Apple, and Korea's Samsung and Taiwan's HTC, which make Android phones.IDC analyst Francisco Jeronimo said the group – which dropped behind HTC to ninth-largest phone maker by volume – risks remaining a niche player if it does not expand its offering beyond the top end of the market."They are not Apple. I do not see a bright future for them if they do not do more," Jeronimo said.Other global companies have also recently highlighted the impact of the earthquake. Earlier on Tuesday, Toshiba Corp said its operating profit missed forecasts due to the disaster, while chip maker Texas Instruments warned overnight of slower-than-usual quarterly sales growth as it scrambles to restart production.Japanese component factors will also be in focus in reports from Apple Inc on Wednesday and Nokia on Thursday.
The London-based lawyer at the heart of a huge row over internet piracy, Andrew Crossley, breached the solicitors code of conduct with his method of accusing people of illegal filesharing, a judge has ruled.ACS:Law, the law firm created by Crossley,sent tens of thousands of letters demanding "settlement" paymentsof about £500 from people it accused of illegal downloading.The firm apparentlyrecouped hundreds of thousands of poundsfrom the controversial "speculative invoicing" scheme before it finally brought 27 cases to court earlier this year. However, Crossley tried to halt the trial before he had to bring any evidence.Ruling in the Patents County Court in London on Monday, Judge Birss QC described ACS:Law's pursuit of illegal filesharers as "amateurish and slipshod" and said it had "brought the legal profession into disrepute".Birss said Crossley had breached the solicitors code of conduct because he was responsible for the licence agreement between Media CAT and the original copyright holders, and stood to profit from it. Thecode of conduct statesthat "you must not enter into an arrangement to receive a contingency fee for work done in prosecuting or defending any contentious proceedings" before the court.The judge said: "I am quite satisfied to the standard necessary for this stage of a wasted costs application that Mr Crossley is responsible for the basic agreements [the licence agreements between Media CAT and original copyright holders]  and has thereby acted in breach of the solicitors rule 2.04."In my judgment, the combination of Mr Crossley's revenue sharing arrangements and his service of the notices of discontinuance serves to illustrate the dangers of such a revenue sharing arrangement and has, prima facie, brought the legal profession into disrepute.  It may be better placed under the revenue sharing heading in this judgment but it is, prima facie, improper conduct in any event."Crossley is due to face the Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal later this year. A spokeswoman for the Solicitors Regulation Authority, which finalised proceedings against Crossley in March, said on Monday: "Today's judgment supports our concerns about the effects this sort of correspondence has on the public."Crossley could also now have to pay up to £100,000 in legal costs to those he accused of illegal filesharing. One solicitor representing five of the defendants says its bill is £90,000.The solicitor now has about 25 days to appeal to the high court to overturn the costs order. However, Birss on Monday refused his application to appeal.Birss said: "ACS:Law's conduct was chaotic and lamentable. Documents which plainly should have been provided [as evidence before the court] were not provided. This was not the behaviour of a solicitor advancing a normal piece of litigation."Michael Forrester, a solicitor for the law firm Ralli which represented some of the 27 defendants accused by ACS:Law, described how they "cannot possibly have uploaded or downloaded copyright protected material".In February, ACS:Law announced that it would no longer pursue copyright litigations after Crossley claimed death threats were causing an "immense hassle" to his family.ACS:Law was catapulted into the spotlight in September last year when the personal details of thousands of internet usersleaked from its websitein the aftermath of an attack on by the hacker group Anonymous. The information commissioner is still investigating the leak, and could hand ACS:Law a £500,000 fine if it is found to have stored the details insecurely.
Want your app to fly high on the iOS App Store or Android Market? You'd better make it sticky then. Both Apple and Google are thought to have tweaked their ranking algorithms to reward apps that have lots of active users, rather than just those with lots of downloads.The App Store change appears to have only just taken place. Inside Mobile Appscites chart boostsin the US for free iPhone apps including Facebook, Pandora and Netflix, with Facebook back at the top of Apple's Top Free Apps chart, having spent the last year and a half sitting between 10th and 20th spot."We've been noticing changes in the 'Top Free' rankings for at least three days now," says Peter Farago of analytics firm Flurry. "From our point of view, Apple is absolutely considering more than just downloads, which we believe is the right direction to go to measure the true popularity of an app."Apple's move follows changes made by Google in late March, which weren't noticed until US firm myYearbook spoke out about its Android app rocketing up from 63rd place in the Android "Top Free" chart to 11th."We believe the new ranking algorithm is now more complex, taking into account a measure of activity in the application and not simply new installs per day,"wrote Geoff Cookearlier this month for Business Insider. "In particular, we believe the ranking now considers either Daily Active Users (DAU) or the ratio of Daily Active Users to Monthly Active Users, which is sometimes referred to as the 'sticky factor'."Talk of DAUs and MAUs pinpoints the significance of the changes made by Apple and Google, since they are bringing their app rankings into line with the metrics that have long been used to gauge the success of social applications and games on Facebook. Getting a large base of users to sign up (or in apps' case download) may be easy enough, but keeping them? That's success.The app store changes are good news for developers and users alike. At times in the last two and a half years, it has felt like app success is as much about gaming the chart system as it is about making a great product. The changes tip the balance back towards the apps people really love – and most importantly, use regularly.So who benefits? Facebook and Twitter, obviously. Music apps such as Pandora and Spotify should enjoy a bump, as will video apps such as Netflix and the BBC's iPlayer. Games with longer shelf lives – particularly social titles such as Zombie Farm, The Smurfs' Village and the rest – will prosper, but shorter games that aren't updated regularly are likely to fall in the rankings.Meanwhile, less entertainment-focused productivity apps will also be getting more credit in the charts – although only the ones that are good enough to have become a mainstay on people's handsets. Word of mouth has always been an important factor on the app stores, but these new changes should spawn a few more slow-burning success stories.There are also important implications for the apps of newspaper and magazine publishers, who may have to refine their thinking about encouraging loyalty from their users. Think of it this way: newspaper apps (including The Daily) are by definition hoping to be opened at least once a day, so may benefit from the new algorithms.On the other hand, magazines shunting a glorified PDF on to the App Store once a month with no additional content may suffer. The changes may spur more hybrid apps from publishers, encouraging them to add in content feeds from their websites and social features in an effort to make these apps worth opening more often.Apple and Google's changes should not be presented as a revolution – they're significant tweaks to chart algorithms that could and should evolve over time. Good apps with loyal users will benefit, while bad or average apps will have to get better, even if they continue to use every promotional trick in the book to rack up downloads.But what do you think? Have you noticed changes for better or worse in your apps' rankings on the App Store or Android Market? What do you think the wider impact of the changes will be? Join the debate by posting a comment.
Bulletstorm is a really stupid game, isn't it? A 'guilty pleasure'. Something proper gamers shouldn't admit to enjoying. In it, the meat-headed mercenary Grayson Hunt spends ten hours blasting his way through a planet of mutants, kicking people into the gaping maws of man-eating plants, while wise-cracking about the smell of sun-baked arseholes. This is a game that glorifies demented slaughter; an orgy of mindless, sadistic pleasure. We can all agree on this, right?Perhaps. Perhaps not. What if, beneath the symphony of hyper-kinetic gunplay, Bulletstorm is actually a game about guilt and grief? What if it were an immense Jacobean tragedy disguised as a dim-witted hack-'em-up? And what if it were not alone in using the FPS genre to explore mental torment?Okay, you might have to bear with me on this one.Hunt, you see, is wracked with remorse. He has just spent the last few years of his career killing innocent people under the orders of General Sarrano, commander of the sinister Dead Echo galactic army. Except Hunt didn't know they were innocent people, he was told they were war criminals. Destroyed by the truth, Hunt seeks a terrible revenge, attacking Serrano's gigantic spacecraft, forcing it to crash land on the devastated pleasure planet where the rest of the game takes place. But this brings Hunt no peace – instead, his friends are killed early on in the escapade, and he's left with their deaths on his conscience too.Throughout each cutscene, amid the colourful insults, he constantly ruminates on loss. He obsesses over it. His suicidal mission to track down and murder Serrano, who has naturally survived the crash, is a search for redemption; a redemption that can only ever be realised in his own annihilation. Remorse is the emotion that hovers over the entire game. It is there, if you squint hard enough, in the very structure: seven chapters – the seven stages of grief.And interestingly, Sarrano plays up on this. Toward the end of the game, the twisted Dead Echo chief constantly reminds Hunt about his crimes, about the thousands he's killed. When you enter the stricken spacecraft and start slaughtering its guards, the general mocks Hunt over the ship's PA system –'those are honest men you're killing, they have wives and children.' Did the developer, People Can Fly, just shove that in for a laugh? Or were they querying the disposability of life in the shoot-'em-up universe? It reminds me of the classic scene in Clerks, where Randal dissects the ending of Return of the Jedi, denigrating the rebels for destroying the second Death Star while it is still being built by thousands of innocent construction workers.And Bulletstorm is not alone as an FPS carrying subtexts of loss and anguish. Dead Space 2 is about post-traumatic stress disorder: Isaac Clarke has become catastrophically unhinged by the horrors he witnessed in the original game – his life is one long hallucination of monstrous threat; the Marker is madness. Call of Duty: Black Ops revolves around paranoid schizophrenia – did Alex Mason kill Kennedy or not? He imagined a Russian ally for much of the game so anything is possible. But the question hangs and is purposely not resolved. There is ambiguity surrounding everything that happens in the game, because the game is a patchwork of cloudy, unstable memories.Ina recent post on the blog The Gwumps, the author talks about Fallout: New Vegas and about how the character Boone, a vengeful sniper looking to wipe out members of The Legion, is as much a victim of endless, pointless violence as he is a perpetrator. He symbolises what's happened to humanity in the wake of the apocalypse – deadened, scarred and unraveled. It looks like Deus Ex: Human Revolution will also explore the loss of humanity, this time through genetic and cybernetic enhancement. And Monolith's first-person horror shooter, Condemned 2: Bloodshot, provides perhaps the most nihilistic commentary on moral death and mental decline, its hero transmogrified from an FBI agent into a violent homeless alcoholic.Sure, first-person shooters are the death metal of video gaming; they revel in darkness, and the cheap hyperbole of loss and slaughter. But Bulletstorm is interesting in that it comments on and questions the killing while simultaneously encouraging players to revel in it. It exploits the fundamental strength of the genre – the lack of an onscreen lead character (at least during the action). There is a unique hotwire connection between game and player; the psychological gap is narrowed. Without an avatar to blame, we're more complicit, and the motivations become more hazy. Consequently, digital artists have regularly appropriated the FPS format to ask questions about war and consent, from Wafaa Bilal's hugely controversialVirtual Jihadito Federico Solmi'sDouche Bag City.Bulletstorm actually having meaning is a difficult sell, I know that. But then, of course, intent is only a fraction of meaning. All those silly fifties sci-fi movies about giant irradiated insects spoke volumes about nuclear dread, possibly without intending it. Did Texas Chainsaw Massacre really seek to critique post-Vietnam America or was it an accident? "Everything means something, I guess," one character famously drawls at the start of the movie.In games, where narrative is usually pushed to the sidelines, players create their own 'reality' – itself an extremely malleable concept in the virtual world. After playing Half-Life for the second or third time, I began to wonder – did the events of the game actually happen? Or did Gordon Freeman die after the resonance cascade? Maybe the whole story was conjured by the character's misfiring synapses, a last wash of complex brain chemicals to help assuage the guilt. The best shooters, like the best horror movies, are about the ambiguity that exists at the extremes of behaviour and motivation. Bulletstorm might want us to ask, "are we doing the right thing here?"Perhaps I've been playing too long. Or perhaps those who think Bulletstorm is just a shallow production line of gut-splattered set-pieces are not asking the right questions about first-person shooters, or why they enjoy them.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple Sues Samsung, Saying Galaxy Phones and Tablets Too Close To iPad and iPhone Design &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"It's no coincidence that Samsung's latest products look a lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to the user interface and even the packaging," an Apple representative told Mobilized. "This kind of blatant copying is wrong, and we need to protect Apple's intellectual property when companies steal our ideas."Is there a bidding war over TweetDeck? &gt;&gt; CNET News"But wait: Two months ago, TweetDeck was reported to have sold to UberMedia, a company that owns a portfolio of Twitter clients and related applications. Shortly thereafter, Twitter blocked UberMedia's applications, citing a variety of concerns including trademark violations and privacy issues, and then reinstated them several days later. And then earlier this month, a CNN report surfaced that claimed UberMedia was going so far as to construct a service designed to rival Twitter, suggesting that the bad blood between the two companies was even thicker than expected."First Look: Microsoft's Office 365 Will Shake up IT"A one-week examination of Office 365's beta by the CRN Test Center finds much more than just a simple, online suite of productivity tools. Microsoft (NSDQ:MSFT) has turned the heart and soul of day-to-day computing over to the cloud in a manner that every enterprise, business or government entity can access in a meaningful way."Interesting.Google: 3 Billion Android Apps Installed; Downloads Up 50 Percent From Last Quarter &gt;&gt; TechCrunch"On Google's earnings call today, Jeff Huber, Senior VP Commerce and Local, revealed that there have been over 3bn Android apps installed. And downloads of Android apps are up 50% from Q4 2010."Huber also mentioned that 350,000 Android devices are being activated per day, a data point which was revealed this past week. In terms of breaking out share by device and market, Huber said the company doesn't reveal these numbers. But he did say that with device partners, there is strength in US, Japan, Korea, and Europe specifically. He added that international is growing as a whole in terms of Android usage."To put the 3bn stat in perspective, Apple just passed 10bn app downloads in January. But thanks to the fast growth of the sale of Android phones, Google's app downloads are growing fast. The first billion installs took 20 months, the second billion installs took another 5 months, and the third billion took only 2 months. I'm guessing the 4bn mark will take less".Microsoft enters daily deals space using Sweden as testbed &gt;&gt; AllaDeals Blog"Microsoft has partnered up with Swedish business directory Lokaldelen to launch a new daily deals service called Lokaldealen. The exact circumstances surrounding this partnership is unclear, but we do however know that Microsoft will be responsible for marketing the deals on their MSN portal as well as their display ad network (Hotmail &amp; Live) while Lokaldelen will take care of sales and website administration. According to Swedish business newspaper Dagens Industri (2011-04-06), Lokaldealen already has a sales force of 300 strong lined up in 12 districts around the country."Watch out, Groupon.Android is a mess, say developers &gt;&gt; Fortune Tech"[Fred] Wilson, a venture capitalist, has been advising developers to write first for Android, predicting that the iPhone vs. Android battle will turn out to be a replay of Windows vs. Macintosh."Arment, a developer, thinks that's bad advice. He believes Android's market share gains may be illusory -- especially when the rise of the iPad is taken into account -- and that as a development environment, Google's OS has serious shortcomings."Baird's survey suggests that developers have taken Wilson's advice. 71% of respondents said they were writing apps for Android vs. 62% for iOS. (None of the other platforms drew more than 27%.)"But the survey also suggests that programmers writing for Android are finding the ecosystem to be every bit as perilous as Arment predicted."We've heard recently from a large organisation developing an Android app which ran into a big roadblock because of fragmentation. It's a real problem.Googling the Future - from the Present and the Past &gt;&gt; OUseful.Info, the blog...You can use Google to find predictions people have made. Fun. Dangerous.Where did my tax dollars go? &gt;&gt; wheredidmytaxdollarsgoWinner of a Google visualisation. We're next hoping for "where did my corporate tax payments go?"Wireless carriers and tablets: What is the opportunity? &gt;&gt; FierceWireless"As the tablet market enters its second year, the role the wireless carrier plays in the market remains somewhat cloudy. Should wireless carriers subsidize tablets? Should they stock the gadgets on their store shelves? Should they expect to generate significant revenues from the category?"Tablets are a 'medium-sized opportunity' for carriers, explained Current Analysis analyst Avi Greengart. The devices will represent an important revenue stream for wireless carriers in the coming years, but won't hold a candle to carriers' primary business selling voice and data for phones."But: of the 17m tablets sold last year, about 40% had a 3G modem - but only half were ever connected to a mobile network. Big, missed opportunity for the carriers.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Strange as it may seem to start a five-star review on a note of concern, I worry about Valve. It's not that I think the developer has put a foot wrong so far, or that its latest release won't meet the impossibly high expectations of its audience. On the whole, the titles that Valve has produced have been critically lauded and have sold very respectably.But if the history of art and entertainment has taught us one thing it is this: if you habitually make genius look easy, audiences and critics will round on you if you stumble, even more viciously than they would have done if your track record was of a mediocre quality. Valve's winning streak has to get snapped at some point, doesn't it? And if it does, the knives will be out in force.Well, thankfully, Portal 2 isn't the game that's going to cause this, which is remarkable when you consider it's arguably the sequel of 2011 with the toughest act to follow. The first Portal, released in 2007 as part of the Orange Box, was a short, ingenious puzzler wrapped up in first-person-shooter mechanics, underpinned by a darkly comic story about scientific research taken to dangerous extremes. The game seemed like lightning in a bottle and a sequel sounded unnecessary. Still, Valve has managed to go one better than what its team created before, and then built on its impressive foundations.Portal 2 kicks off with player waking up in the Aperture Laboratories, the human behaviour research facility from the first game, and finding out very quickly that things have gone haywire. Aperture is a wreck: without GlaDOS – Portal 1's female AI antagonist – to run things, the facility is in an advanced state of disrepair. Walls are crumbling, test chambers malfunction and every room the player moves through is riddled with smashed windows, natural overgrowth and broken machinery. In the opening stages of the game, players are introduced to Wheatly, a stammering, motor-mouthed droid voiced by Stephen Merchant, and reacquainted with the Portal Gun, which creates interconnecting portals capable of bending distances, and physics, in their environment.They're also soon reunited with GlaDOS, who takes umbrage at their presence and decides that a new round of potentially lethal tests is in order.While the set-up will sound incredibly familiar to Portal veterans, Portal 2 is hardly a retread of the first game. Yes, using the Portal Gun to navigate one's way through every new environment is the core premise of the game – and cubes, gun turrets, floating platforms and pressure pads all make a return. But Valve has added some mind-bending mechanics and tools to the mix.As the player advances through the Apeture Labs they're introduced to new items that the research facility has created to exercise their grey matter and potentially kill them off. There are Hard Light Bridges, which can create walkways or block off the sensors of lasers and gun turrets. There are Aerial Faith Plates, which fling the player through the air. There's Propulsion Gel, which allows them to zoom across the floor, building momentum for jumps and portal leaps. Puddles of Repulsion Gel can create areas the player can bounce on– and the higher the ledge they drop from, the higher they'll fly through the air. White Gel can be sprayed on to surfaces to make them Portal Gun-friendly. Excursion funnels are blue tubes of anti-gravity, which gently transport the player from one end of the map to the other, and they too can be redirected and repositioned with the Portal Gun. Each new item is introduced gently, to let the player become familiar with its capabilities, and then Valve starts ramping up the difficulty.The puzzle rooms are incredibly well designed in that there's no hard and fast rule with the game's difficulty curve. Once the tutorials are out of the way, it's down to every individual player's desire to break the code on each environment, which allows them to move from the entrance to the exit. Even if one player finds the solution to one particular room obvious, this doesn't mean that everyone else will, and some puzzles may take up to hour to solve. All the while GlaDOS pours scorn over the player's efforts, with a stream of insults that are petty, vindictive and immature – made more hilarious by her robotic, sing-song voice.The humour in Portal 2 is another trump card in the game's well-paced, engrossing and unsettling story. Without giving too much of the game's plot away, the player will find Portal 2 funny throughout, but also faintly spinechilling. GlaDOS and Wheatly are by turns funny and monstrous and the Aperture Labs take on an increasingly oppressive atmosphere as the player ventures deeper into the facility, learning more about its origins. Meanwhile, the unseen character from the first Portal is still lurking behind the scenes, scrawling paranoid messages and horrific cartoons on the walls.The game's main campaign is longer than in Portal 1, and arguably better too. Once that's over and done with, however, players can return to Aperture in the multiplayer. This mode is a standalone story starring two cute droids, Atlas and Peabody, who are sent testing by GlaDOS, and the series of puzzles they have to navigate depends on them working successfully as a team. While it may sound strange that a game offering such a successful solitary experience as Portal should include such a mode, it's actually delightful fun. Once again, the puzzles are well-balanced and brilliantly constructed and, GlaDOS has a new collection of insults.Valve has created a masterpiece in Portal 2. The depth of content, the mind-bending mechanics and fantastic experience are almost certain to satisfy ardent fans of the first game; and to all newcomers to the series, it's as simple as this: prepare to have your mind blown. Over and over again.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Phew, it's Tuesday.
The culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, appeared to have kicked the ball into the long grass when heasked Ofcomto review the workability of the government's controversial web blocking plans earlier this year.In fact, measures that could put some 100 alleged illegal filesharing websites behind a new internet firewall continue to move apace.Proposals are being mooted on two fronts: one could establish a new version of theInternet Watch Foundation(IWF) – the organisation which presently scours the net for illegal images of children, obscene adult content and "non-photographic child sexual abuse hosted in the UK" – to deal with illicit filesharing; the other would put Google and the government on a collision course.Proposal #1Rights holders and internet providers are understood to be roughly in favour of an industry-wide "voluntary code". This code would govern how and which filesharing sites are censored. Rights holders would likely have to satisfy a number of points – for example, how much of the site is infringing? – before a Pirate Bay-like site would appear to vanish from British screens. It would still be there, just unreachable.But that wouldn't be the end of the process. The code could establish a independent third body akin to the IWF that would implement the code and ultimately decide which filesharing sites are censored. No small feat.Detractors argue that such a newly created body would simply be too expensive and time consuming – not to mention how you decide who sits on its board.A second variant, favoured by the legal professionals, is for a judge to rule whether a site should be blockedafterthe voluntary code has been satisfied. This would quell ISPs' fears about having to paying compensation to sites that claim to have been wrongly blocked, and also negate the need for a new body.The blocking techniques involve a variety of methods. The belief is that they will be powerful and effective. But they are potentially expensive, because as the idea is not to block entire sites, but just the parts of them where there is pirated material. That's rather like the IWF, which does the same (withmixed results in the worst case), and it's very labour-intensive. Get it wrong - by banning the wrong part of a site, or the wrong site, or not banning something - and there could be no end of trouble.Proposal #2How about Ofcom's web blocking review? The first key difference with the Ofcom review is that it has been asked to do its work against the backdrop of the Digital Economy Act - in other words, this won't be voluntary, but set in a statutory context.The media regulator is expected to advise Hunt at the end of the month on the following terms:• Is it possible for access to a site to be blocked by internet service providers?• How robust would such a block be – in other words would it have the intended effect, and how easy would it be to circumvent for most site operators?• What measures might be adopted by internet service providers to prevent such circumvention?• How granular can blocking be – i.e. can specific parts of a site be blocked, how precise can this be, and how effective?• How effective are sections17and18of the Act in providing for an appropriate method of generating lists of sites to be blocked?OK. So how would blocking work in the Ofcom model? According to people consulted by Ofcom in recent weeks, the regulator is thought to be "leaning down the domain name blocking route".Although Ofcom is not expected to recommend one blocking method over another, it will spell out the pros and cons of each.Domain name blocking – or DNS blocking – makes anentiresite unavailable, not just parts of it, and is relatively inexpensive for ISPs to implement. Italy has used it to block the Pirate Bay, while parts of Scandinavia use it to censor child abuse sites.However, British internet users will be able to subvert this block simply by going to Google. The search giant offers an "alternative DNS provider", meaning any internet user can ditch the setup offered by their ISP and use Google's own.Would Google block sites like the Pirate Bay, BitTorrent or Newzbin2? We'll let that question hang.A lost cause?Whether any of this will work depends on your terms of definition. While acknowledging that the "most determined" infringers can circumvent web censors, rights holders insist that most people don't bother and it is simply to "enforce a code of behaviour". If something is on the internet, it must be legal. Right?Others argue that blocking access to filesharing sites will simply make workarounds a common currency. Asked how easy these filters are to circumvent, one prominent web blocking expert told me:"You need a reading age of about 8. You should go talk to school children and ask whether the blocks their school puts up are effective.""I don't expect ministers to be experts, but I expect them to talk to experts for a few minutes to see how it works before they open their mouth."It's a big debate, with lots at stake. Where do you stand? Do you use illicit sites, and would you still do so if they were blocked?
Match.com, one of the most popular dating websites in the world, is to begin screening to try to weed out sexual offenders after a woman using the service claimed to have been raped.The woman, a Hollywood executive, launched a legal action in Los Angeles last week against the Texas-based firm, saying that if screening had been in place, the alleged rape last year would not have happened.Match.com operates in 25 countries around the world, including the UK, and claims to have 20 million members.Its president, Mandy Ginsberg, said she had been looking at screening for years but ruled it out as unreliable. But in a statement issued to the Associated Press, she said the company would begin screening both existing and future members against the national sex offender registry."We've been advised that a combination of improved technology and an improved database now enables a sufficient degree of accuracy to move forward with this initiative, despite its continued imperfection," she said.She added: "We want to stress that while these checks may help in certain instances, they remain highly flawed, and it is critical that this effort does not provide a false sense of security to our members."The screening process should be in place in two to three months, the company said.At present, it advises those using the service to take safety precautions such as meeting for the first date in a public place, staying sober and leaving details of the date with family members or friends.The woman who launched the legal case claims she met a man through Match.com who had six convictions for sexual battery. The first date went well but she claims that on the second he followed her back to her home and raped her.A lawyer for the accused man claims it was consensual. The man has pled not guilty and is due to appear in court on April 26.The woman's legal action against Match.com asked for a temporary injunction to stop the company signing up new members until it agreed to begin screening."This horrific ordeal completely blindsided me because I had considered myself savvy about online dating safety," the woman said in a statement released through her lawyer last week and reported by Time. "Things quickly turned into a nightmare, beyond my control."After the man left, the woman went online and learned about his alleged offences in the past.
According to hisTwitter profile, Iain Dodsworth is a Formula One obsessive, husband and father. He may also be about to become a multimillionaire. The British founder ofTweetDeck, a popular computer application used by regular Twitter users, is reportedly in advanced talks to sell his firm to Twitter for $50m (£31m). Dodsworth, unlike twitterers, is keeping tight-lipped so far.The Twitter rumour,first reported by The Wall Street Journal, follows stories that Dodsworth was being courted by Bill Gross, an internet entrepreneur. Gross's UberMedia reportedly offered $30m for the firm.Among other services, TweetDeck's software allows people to manage their Twitter accounts by sorting them into favourite subject categories, or to bring in information from other social media sites such asFacebookorMySpace.The company, which has 15 employees, most in the UK, has a close relationship with Twitter. Five-year-old Twitter now has over 200m users sending messages of 140 characters or less. The company has only recently started to tap advertisers for revenue and is on track to earn $150m in this year, according to estimates from eMarketer, a research firm. Twitter sells "promoted tweets" that appear when users perform searches on Twitter and has allowed those ads to appear on TweetDeck as part of a revenue-sharing agreement.Twitter founder Biz Stone has said the company is concentrating its efforts on growing revenues and making strategic acquisitions. The firm has bought a number of tech firms over the last few years in order to round out its technology.The company itself has also been the subject of takeover rumours with bothGoogleand Facebook said to be eyeing the firm. The move on TweetDeck comes amid an increasingly frenzied appetite among investors to get in on the new generation of internet firms.In February, Facebook staff were told they could privately sell shares at a price that valued the firm at $60bn. Groupon, an online discount service for local businesses, is aiming to float on the US stock market later this year at a price of $25bn. Far smaller firms too have been attracting big sums. Color, a loss-making photo sharing app, recently raised $41m from venture capital investors. Quora, a question and answers website set up by two former Facebook employees, has been valued at $86m.
Nokia is suffering dramatic falls in market share worldwide, and RIM has seen a calamitous fall in its US sales - while the Android mobile operating system is streaking past rivals in almost every developed country to become the dominant player everywhere.New figures provided exclusively to The Guardian by Kantar WorldPanel Comtech shows Nokia's market share for smartphones dropping from 10% to just over 1% in the US over the past six months, meaning it sold only about 160,000 top-end devices there. The story is the same for the troubled Finnish phone manufacturer in every country over a 12-month or six-month period, with a collapse in market share that bodes badly ahead of its quarterly financial results due this Thursday.The story is no more encouraging for RIM, which according to Kantar has seen a huge fall in the number of sales in the US, the world's biggest smartphone market. There its share has fallen from 32.5% in June 2010 to just 10.6% in March 2011, meaning that it only sold an estimated 1.4m devices there.Apple is also being rapidly eclipsed by Android devices, though Kantar notes that the introduction in the US of its iPhone to the Verizon network provided an uplift to sales, so that it actually increased its market share there. But in other countries, notably the UK, Germany, France and Japan, the iPhone saw double-digit falls in market share - which could mean that even if it is selling more phones, it is not growing the number as quickly as the market is expanding.Meanwhile Microsoft's Windows Phone launch has made barely a ripple, with the company's share of the market falling in every country as the last of its previous-generation Windows Mobile phones are phased out. Kantar's figures suggest that only 1m Windows Phone devices were sold since they launched - around half the number that Microsoft has repeatedly said have been "shipped"."The key underlying trend is that Android is growing in every country," said Dominic Sunnebo, consumer insight director for Kantar. "Windows Phone handsets have had virtually no impact on the market; until Nokia starts to produce versions of them, I don't think that we are going to see anything, because there's no key reason why you could choose one over an iPhone or Android phone - those can already do everything you might want to do with a Windows Phone handset."Sunnebo warned that Apple faces serious dilution of its market share unless it expands its handset range quickly. "The lesson of Android is that if you release enough handsets, they are going to sell. It's hard for Apple to compete against that if they're only producing one new handset per year, especially when the growth in this market is among the low-end devices. Apple is profitable in the developed markets such as the US, but if you look into the future, at countries like Brazil, Mexico and Argentina, there's no way that they can get serious penetration there because of the import duties adding to the sheer cost of the phone. Places like that are where [Nokia's] Symbian is dominant, and that's where Android is getting to be dominant now."Rumours have circulated for some time that Apple will try to expand its iPhone offering to take in low-end buyers, as it did when it expanded into the cheaper end of the digital music player market with its iPod mini in 2004. But at that time it controlled the music player market - a situation that doesn't apply with mobile phones.RIM faces problems because the ASP (average selling price) of its handsets is falling as it tries to expand sales - which keeps revenues strong but cuts profits. "They've realised that they can't compete with Apple and they're struggling against Android," said Sunnebo.Meanwhile Windows Phone faces a difficult transition period while it waits for Nokia to make its move, announced in February, tobury Symbian on smartphones and replace it with Windows Phone. The Guardian has forecast thatNokia will not be selling any Windows Phone devices before October, when Microsoft is expected to release a substantial upgrade to the OS, codenamed "Mango", with enhanced functionality that should put it on feature parity with iOS and Android's present capabilities.Kantar produces its figures from a global consumer panel, carrying out around 1m interviews per year in Europe alone. It tracks mobile phone purchasing and other behaviour. The data provided excludes enterprise sales.Smartphone market share, by countryCountry/OS% share, Mar 2010% share, Mar 2011Change, %Total smartphones sold (million)Great Britain3.45Symbian26.111.4-14.70.39RIM1724.57.50.84iOS39.523-16.50.79Windows62-40.07Android8.63829.41.31Other2.81.1-1.70.04.Germany2.75Symbian47.325.4-21.90.7RIM43.4-0.60.09iOS35.624.4-11.20.67Windows9.43.9-5.50.11Android1.735.533.80.98Other27.45.40.2.France2.79Symbian28.715.6-13.10.44RIM9.412.12.70.34iOS46.522.6-23.90.63Windows6.11.9-4.20.05Android6.735.829.11Other2.6129.40.34.Italy1.04Symbian63.246.9-16.30.49RIM6.94.6-2.30.05iOS18.820.31.50.21Windows6.75.9-0.80.06Android1.618.6170.19Other2.83.70.90.04% share, June 2010% share, Mar 2011% changeTotal smartphones sold (million)US13.31Symbian10.11.2-8.90.16RIM32.510.6-21.91.41iOS21.127.26.13.62Windows12.84.9-7.90.65Android1954.735.77.28Other4.51.4-3.10.19.Australia0.8Symbian43.925.3-18.60.2RIM9.72.8-6.90.02iOS36.335.2-1.10.28Windows4.52.8-1.70.02Android4.229.825.60.24Other1.44.12.70.03.Japan1.97Symbian27.68.2-19.40.16RIM62.4-3.60.05iOS38.228.2-100.56Windows5.11.7-3.40.03Android22.458.335.91.15Other0.70.2-0.50source: Kotar Worldpanel ComTech global consumer panel
A spate of Google Gmail accounts have been hacked in what appears to be a coordinated effort linked tolast year's Gawker break-in.A number of high-profile writers – includingAmanda Hesser of the New York Times, Lawrence Wright and Ken Auletta of the New Yorker magazine – have had their Gmail accounts breached in recent days, anda search on Twitterturns up plenty of other apparent victims.James Fallows, the Atlantic writer,sounded the alarmon Friday after receiving spam emails from six of his friends whose accounts had been hacked.Here's the spam we got from one of our contacts over the weekend. (No, itwasn't Jack Straw this time):"I'm sorry for this sudden request, It's because things actually got out of control. I'm Madrid, Spain right now. I came down here on Vacation,i was mugged and all my belongings including cellphone and credit card were all stolen at "GUN POINT". It's such a traumatic experience for me I need your help flying back home as i am trying to raise some money to get back home."To be honest,i don't have money with me at the moment. I've made contact with my bank but the best they could do was to send me a new card in the mail which will take 2-4 working days to arrive here from New York. I need you to lend me some Money to sort my self out of this predicament, i will pay back once i get this over with because i need to make a last minute flight."Western Union or MoneyGram is the fastest option to wire funds to me. Let me know if you need my details(Full names/location) to effect a transfer. You can reach me via hotel's desk phone and  the number is, +34 [deleted]"Like us, Fallows got these emails because he happened to be in the victims' contact lists. He said: "At least anecdotally, something bigger would appear to be going on. Perhaps a new Gmail hack or password-capture system? Related to the mammoth Epsilon hack? Each sounds unlikely, but who knows."Our analysis shows that the message we received was sent via Yahoo Mail from an SBCGlobal.net account (that's Southern Bell Communications in the US, ie a long way from Spain) and that responses to the email would have been sent back to a ymail.com (Yahoo) account whose address was set up to look identical to the original sender's. But it's clear that the original Gmail account was hacked because the email was sent to contacts of the emailer, rather than sent out randomly.Similar "mugged and penniless" scams have been circulating for some time on Facebook. This doesn't mean that none of your friends will ever get mugged in a foreign country, or send you a mass email if they do; only that if that unfortunate day comes, they probably won't use a form of words that generates scores of hits on your search engine of choice.Another version doing the rounds promotes the alleged virtues of acal berries – which, judging by the email, will slim down not just your weight, but also your IQ and spelling ability.Although theEpsilon attackwas gigantic, affecting millions of people, the only details stolen were email addresses and the names of their owner – no passwords. Login details could viably be retrieved with a plausible-looking email purporting to be from your bank, but there's no evidence yet that is what's happening.Instead, experts are looking at last year's Gawker break-in, which is thought to have exposed the name, email address and password ofabout 1.3 million people.Graham Cluley, an internet security expert at Sophos, told the Guardian: "Our suspicion is that this is a Gawker-related incident. We know that people were using the same password for multiple sites and then others were trying to use the passwords against those accounts."Hundreds of thousands of Twitter accounts weresimilarly hackedin the 24 hours after the Gawker break-in. Those that fell victim used the same password for Twitter as on one of Gawker's compromised sites.Google searches for "gmail hacked" have also risen about 12% since the Gawker attack:According to Google Trends, Searches for "gmail hacked" have largely originated from inside the US, although Indian searches sawa huge spikein the first half of December. (UK searchesfor "gmail hacked" have maintained constant since December, save for a big leap in February this year.)
With Super Street Fighter IV: Arcade Edition on the way and SFIV: 3D Edition faring well on 3DS, we thought it would be a good time to invite your questions for our resident street fighting physician, Dr Ryan Hart. Hart has won dozens of SF tournaments around Europe and is now working his way into the Marvel vs Capcom scene. He's an absolute expert on Capcom fighting titles, but can even advise on Mortal Kombat.So if you're having difficulties progressing your development as a street fighter, or if you have specific questions about a key character, move or tactic, please leave your query for Ryan in the comments section below. He'll then answer as many as possible, and we'll post the results next week.Ryan can school you in areas such as:Learning the game systemsMemorising move lists and understanding how they workThe right way of thinking during a gameStrategy developmentSo, whatever your level, from beginner to competitive player, give us your questions for Ryan – the surgery is now in session!
It's time for another instalment of collated Chatterbox discussion, this time from the last week of March. Highlights include the arrival of the 3DS, a heartfelt plee forMAGplayers and the three games you'd play for the rest of your life.If that doesn't convince you to abandon whatever it is you were doing and spend the next half-an-hour catching up with the 'Box, I give up.Monday, March 28The week kicked off with discussion of the weekend just passed, missing hours and new game and hardware launches. The 3DS seemed to have attracted itself some fans already, with AKASilky leading the charge:"Had a blast on my 3DS too. Very very nice. Tried the Augmented Reality stuff too. Won't say more as I don't want to spoil it for anyone. But it's clever. Showed a couple of people in the office and they wanna buy one now. They're not even gamers."Fegbarr was also impressed:"It's bloody lovely. The 3D effect is far better than I was expecting, and the augmented reality doodawotsits are really quite fantastic fun. Spent hours fishing on the floor and then shooting people in the face while they flew at me through holes in the walls of reality."Chubster, as ever, was keen to set up a page on the Wiki for friend codes (assisted by ElQuesoDiablo), so get addinghere.Seren started the day working for some extra money on the side promoting the game, MAG: "I'm going to do the hard sell on this game – it's reduced to £11.99 in PSN Store until tomorrow. It is a brilliant game. I loved it back in the day but they have made it better... stronger. 120+ clan sides? Yes please. It runs smoothly, people communicate, it is objective-based – what's not to love?... I encourage 'boxers to consider the purchase. I hope to play with some of you."She even got several interested customers and MAG games have featured on the box since. So if you are a games publisher reading this then a) I pity you and b) I'm available for future games promotion.There was some Crysis 2 talk, generally people were enjoying it and commenting on how nice it looked. Things stayed in the shooter vein as SirGiggedy continued to spout Killzone 3 wisdom to those that would listen.An incident at Tim's office involving some rather offensive comments towards his assistant got the blogs attention. "Tim has an assistant?" enquired HappySocks to the blogs confusion. "I assumed that he'd spelt carer incorrectly," interjected HenryPootle, and all was right with the world once again. Some did however focus on the incident itself, Fantomex was in a forgiving mood: "If I was your boss, I'd fire her. Out of a cannon. Into the sun."New poster Loading introduced himself in the afternoon, as the owner of a gaming shop/bar he seemed to know how to appeal to the blog's sensibilities: "We are always happy to sort people cheap drinks or a gaming cocktail – 'Earthworm Gin'?" This lead to other gaming cocktail suggestions, the few notables being Deus Ex on the Beach (Cunning) and Q*Bert Libre (Discobox), but I don't think RivaldoRules suggestion of: "Snake? Snake? SNAKE? Snnnnnnnnnnnaaaaaaaaaaaakkkkkkkkkkkkeeeeeeeeeeebite?' will ever really catch on.Quotes of the day"I'm not racist but I do love boardgames."Glad we cleared that up CunningStunt."Thank you to Worv for the hilarity that was TW2 multiplayer on Friday night. We ran around in our dressing gowns and poked at skeletons with our rhythm sticks."SerenVikity… Uhh, what?TuesdayApparently SerenVikity's propagandising for MAG the previous day had the required effect, as several bloggers claimed to have bought it, and some even joined up online to take NaN's own brand of glorious incompetence into another distinct online FPS. Things started off well as a couple of bloggers couldn't even get the game to install, whereas Kingpin had started the initial download but then forgot to leave the grill on, so it hadn't finished. Excellent work chaps, that's definitely the NaN way.A surprisingly good question from Simian eased us into the afternoon:"If you could only have three games to last you for the rest of your life, what would they be &amp; why? They can be past/present or future releases but, if you can, go for one of each, system is irrelevant."This prompted much discussion about desert islands and how you could power a television and games console with no electricity, despite neither deserts nor islands being mentioned in the original question. Those who did get around to answering the question itself managed quite a list of games that seem to be able to captivate bloggers from all walks of life. Battlefield Bad Company 2 multiplayer garnered a fair number of votes for the game of choice of the present, whilst upcoming Elder Scrolls game Skyrim was the most anticipated from the future, along with a potential new GTA title.As is his way, HereComesTreble managed to miss the point of the question entirely, opting for: "three games I'd never played before, so I wouldn't get bored of them as quick." Meanwhile, RustyJames concentrated more on the nonexistent desert island aspect of the question, "I'd take a big knife, a snorkelling kit and a Zippo." Adding later once the lack of island was pointed out to him, "Even if it's not a desert island I'd still have a big knife, a snorkelling kit and a Zippo. Hours of fun."WeeCooper seemed indecisive, "I couldn't pick just three games to last a lifetime. I just couldn't. Three records I could probably do, three pairs of underpants I could definitely do, three adult-rated movies would maybe be doable but three games? Nope." This only leads me to believe he has a lack of choice when it comes to records, underwear and porn, rather than too many games to play. Sheep2 managed to be a lot more concise, "Three games? Civilisation 2, with two extra copies just to be on the safe side."[Civ 2, Battlefield 1942, GTA 5 – Keef]Finally on Tuesday, the People's Republic of Chatterbox exercised its democratic process as we debated the merits of The Question and its worth to welcoming newcomers into the box. Some felt that it encourages anyone delurking to get involved in the conversation and also provides valuable insight into their mindset [One of us. One of us. One of us…] Others quite rightly, felt that it encouraged a clique-like behavior as anyone appearing for the first time was often asked to answer The Question, with no reference to what The Question might be.Once it was agreed that as long as it wasn't just referred to as The Question and instead was stated in full, it lived up to its original purpose and only an absolute Terry would still insist on calling it The Question. Also, once it was realised that LazyBones had been one of the main proponents for its removal, votes were soon passed for its quick reinstatement, with HumOfEvil not even waiting for the official count before springing it on the next newcomer to pass through the Box's revolving door.Quote of the Day"James Cracknell was the guest speaker at my work do yesterday. In Athens his crew had an emergency plan if things were going badly. This involved someone shouting 'Crank it', and then each stroke would be pulled harder than the previous one. This got called in the final when the Canadians overtook them. I couldn't help thinking that if winning gold just involved cranking for 90 seconds then there would be a few Olympic champions on here."Angryman finds precedent for the Box's favourite pastime to be included as an Olympic sport.WednesdayA very 'on topic' discussion was kicked off by a return to playing MAG and this comment from SerenVikity: "Online multiplayer FPSs do not start and end with BFBC2." This was swiftly followed up by HappySocks: "[BFBC2] set the benchmark for squad based tactics." A whole raft of shoot downs followed, various games were touted as pre-dating BFBC2 for squad tactics including Killzone 2, Battlefield 2 and Operation Flashpoint.Before things got far too games-related, HereComesTreble input in usual style: "FPS games – They're all a bit odd really. They seem to attract the worst kind of people. No offence, I don't mean any of you lot, just in general. I'm generalising here. This is the internet."Much discussion came forth towards the end of the day about the existence of Soulmates. Is the blog growing up and discussing weighty matters? I'm sure someone will bring down that illusion. Touching truth from Elquesodiablo:"I don't think they happen, especially not in a movie-type way, but I live in hope. My father and stepmother are a good example of this. Personally, I just want someone at least half as geeky as me. And I do realise these days that's pretty damn geeky."Props to Discobox for both being insightful and amusing: "I believe you make your own soulmate. You don't actually build him/her, though. That would be hideous." CrispyCrumb drew the discussion to a close in classy fashion "Soulmates blog - The rot set in when women were given the vote, let alone when they were allowed on to the gamesblog"Have we all grown as people form this indepth chat? Well no, but it made a nice change from some of the less interesting chats such as the merits of (or lack thereof) brown shoes? Sadly yes. Also see: Pogs &amp; Keira Knightly.Conversational exchange of the daytimthemonkey:I suffer from an uncanny ability to fall to pieces in front of pretty girls &amp; usually end up putting my foot in it. I think it's a genetic flaw.SerenVikity:Tim, Can I suggest something – look up.ThursdayIn an effort to bring some innovation, nay, visualisation to proceedings (and because wading through 500+ entries is a dull job) if you look here there is a wordle of the days entries[Ah, no there isn't because I received no link – Keef]. What does this tell us? Well in a shocking turn of events, the biggest word is actually not some expletive nor relates to cheese or dice or anything like that. It is 'Game'. An encouraging start. And look, signs of intelligent life are shown by the other prominent words, 'think', 'like' and 'good'. Evidence of higher brain functions…The most frequent contributor seems to be RustyJames, so what did he talk about? It started with filmblog on Nil By Mouth and online Poker it seems. The writer is not too sure what this means, but it certainly sounds impressive:"Don't play turbo SnG's as they become an all-in multi shove too quickly."What of actual games, do they get a look in? Killzone 3, Blood Bowl / BB, Crysis, Fallout, golf are all mentioned. This is not unusual for the blog at the moment – gaming talk is dominated by Bloodbowl, with notable mentions for the Mass Effect 2, Killzone 3, Topspin 4, MAG and more besides. However Supersmashin brought the realities of life back into sharp relief, with the following words:"When I was a kid, I used to dream of breaking the Guinness World Record for tipping dominos. At 37, I realise I'm never going to be able to achieve that dream. Another of life's disappointments."It's almost like everyone has been listening to HereComesTreble... this is an alarming state of affairs, spreading to EnglishRed by the afternoon:"I have a theory on life (it's not that original) that only a small percentage of the people you meet and interact with are actually fully formed people, the rest are some sort of robot or shape-changing lizards. it helps me understand the lack of thought or empathy the majority of the human race exhibit."From here, things got a little serious, with deep and meaningful conversations on the nature of sandbox games, whether people do or do not complete main storylines or even play past them, RPGs v. World of Warcraft... Fortunately, there was talk of golf holidays, weddings in Bali, cat neutering, Mars bars, schools and sweatshops to bring us back off topic to end the day.None of which has anything to do with the wordle, making that an utterly pointless yet strangely satisfying exercise. And that is a lovely way to summarise the Chatterbox itself.FridayApril Fools and who better to kick off the day's hilarity than HereComesTreble:"Rang up one of the interviewers this morning pretending to be my dad and told them I was tragically stabbed to death last night by some local youths in a street mugging gone bad. I can't wait to see their faces when I show up."Luckily the Chatterboxers are a sharp bunch and none of the media's hoax stories were getting past us. Some bloggers were even verging on the paranoid.RustyJames:"I actually thought it was April Fools yesterday. I read about that Gorbachev event and assumed it was a joke. Mel C, the Scorpions and Sharon Stone aren't the first people to spring to mind when you think of Gorbachev."What little games discussion there was on Friday centred on the clan's foray into Killzone 3 the previous evening. A full NaN compliment was out in force for one of the first times and it sounded as though normal service had been resumed.UncleBen:"I do things like squashing three of my own team [in the crusher] for one of the enemy (probably on deathmatch). I didn't even know that was possible at the moment!"SirGiggidyMMVIII:"First weekend of KZ3 I crushed onedave in there by mistake. 'What does this button do? Oh!' C-Squad had arrived."Excitement levels were beginning to build ahead the screening of HBO's new drama, Game of Thrones. When CunningStunt pointed out that it was based on "The War of the Roses with a bit of magic and dragons thrown in" people seized the opportunity to start Fantasybookblog. This old favourite formed the meat of the afternoon's chat before inevitably evolving into Comicbookblog.Mendozalives:"To sue Peter Parker for this under negligence in English Tort law you would first need to establish a duty of care. I think it would be quite difficult to argue that a teenager owes his adult legal guardian a duty of care rather than the other way round."Special mentions for commitment to the Chatterbox need to go out to two bloggers:"The ladies are at the beauty salon, giving me a small window in which to post here."Chubster continues to provide on-topic chat even during his wedding celebrations in Bali."Wakey, wakey, rise and shine. Talk to me about Blood Bowl people."Discobox decides post at 5.58am on SaturdayQuote of the day"When I was reading The Satanic Verses my Mum made me cover the book in wrapping paper in case someone stabbed me on the tube."Mendozalives getting a taste of what Rushdie has endured for the past three decades.End gameJoin theofficial Gamesblog spotify listand share your own favourite tunes. Last addition – 'Fun For Me' by Moloko.Check theGamesblog wikifor everyone's game tags and more!This week's 'Best of' was edited by Pic, who refused – or simply forgot – to name his sources.
Make sure you're in front of your computer for Nintendo's E3 press conference in June: it now looks almost certain that company president Satoru Iwata will be unveiling a successor to the hugely successful Wii console  - with a 2012 launch to follow.Rumours have been bubbling under for several weeks now, but on Friday, a posting on the games forum NeoGaf translated a piece from French news site01 Net(picked up by Develop) anda story on US news site Gamer Informertook things up a notch.A succession of other reports swiftly followed. Edgeclaimsthat publishers such as EA, Ubisoft and Activision have had development kits 'for months', and that the console may have a different name in a bid to appeal more to Western audiences. The term 'Project Cafe' has been bandied about as the working title, although this is likely to be a placeholder.As well as all this, a glance at the Wii release schedule for next year shows a scarcity of major Triple A titles – a sure sign that the industry knows a follow-up is on the way. Furthermore, an expected price cut (at least in the US) set for May 15, suggests that Nintendo is looking to clear out stocks to make way for a new hardware launch.Anyway, here's what we can apparently expect from the forthcoming machine:Hardware comparable to, or more powerful than, the Xbox 360 and PS3This surely means HD visuals at last, but what else? The NeoGaf posting hints at a few tech specs: "CPU is custom IBM PowerPC with three cores, GPU should be an ATI from the R700 family, with a shader unit at version 4.1. Ram should be at least 512 MB."IGN is more general: "Our sources have said the console is significantly more powerful than the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, and that Nintendo's intent is to recapture the hardcore market. Another source said it is capable of 1080p resolutions. This aligns with an anonymous industry quote used in the Game Informer piece: "Nintendo is doing this one right. [It's] not a gimmick like the Wii."A motion controller with built-in displayThis is the most fascinating element. According to multiple sources, the joypad will feature a six-inch touchscreen display, capable of HD or near-HD quality visuals (sources are still arguing over this, butIGN positsthat a true-HD screen will mean that a device with a 720p HD screen will have to market at $80 or above). It's likely that the display will show extra game content, rather like the lower screen on the DS, but this won't be the end of its capabilities. If its multi-touch, it could also provide custom controls for certain titles. Some are speculating that the device will double as a discreet games player, able to operate apart from the main console.How it'll connect to the main machine is another source of debate, but there are plenty of wireless standards available for HD content, includingWirelessHDand alternatives from theWireless Gigabit Allianceand theWireless Home Digital Interface.The 01 Net reports indicates that the pad, won't be touch input only – ascompiled by VG247, it'll also feature, "a front camera which acts as a Wii sensor bar, two d-pads, two bumpers, and possibly more than two triggers." Rumours suggest Wii-style motion controls that are "better than Move", making for extremely accurate movement inputs.Backwards compatibilityThere are suggestions of backwards compatibility with Wii titles and peripherals, which would make sense if Nintendo is looking to court its current casual user-base as well as 'lapsed' hardcore fans of its N64 and Gamecube machines. Speaking of Gamecube, there have even been suggestions of some sort of compatibility with Nintendo's box-like old-timer.So, we can expect a machine with innards that closely resemble the Xbox 360 (great for developers, who are used to working on the architecture), but with the characteristic motion controls of Wii, plus a new Nintendo-style gimmick in the form of a touchscreen controller.Almost everyone agrees that E3 2011 is the right time to show it off, with a 2012 release date.Wii sales are falling, and its defining technology has now been copied by Sony and Microsoft. Notoriously reliable industry analyst Michael Pachtertold Eurogamer:"I think the right time for the console was in front of Kinect and Move, and think that Nintendo has forever lost one customer for each Kinect and Move unit sold. That means they should have launched the Wii 2 in Fall 2009, and at the latest in Fall 2010, so a launch in 2011 is late."With that said, it's never 'too' late, since they can retain the lion's share of the market by inducing current Wii owners to upgrade, and by capturing undecided consumers who have either not yet purchased a console or who have not yet bought Kinect or Move."Quite aside from timing, this is truly zeitgeist-friendly proposition from Nintendo. The company has noticed how families now interact with living room technology: the TV now fulfils many roles as linear content provider, games screen and PVR viewer, and more importantly, a lot of us now watch with a laptop or tablet PC on our laps, interacting with both simultaneously. If the new 'Project Cafe' can exploit this new idea of inter-functionality, if it can allow game content to transfer seamlessly from handheld device to big screen as and when needed, it is getting in on the expected new era of, gulp, transmedia entertainment.Roll on E3!
Since you're wondering, the answer is: no. Zumba Fitness is still there at the top, rocking out the Wii (and a few Xboxers).In fact it's a very quiet week on the charts: there isn't a single new entrant in the top 10. Crysis 2 and Lego Star Wars III swapped places at 2 and 3, while Fifa 11 moved up – but otherwise, very steady.UK top ten games, week ending 16 April 2011PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Zumba Fitness (3+)Wii (90)Xbox 360 (10)32 (3)Lego Star Wars Iii: The Clone Wars(7+)Wii (25)Xbox 360 (23)DS (23)PS3 (17)43 (2)Crysis 2(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (33)44 (12)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (30)DS (7)PSP (6)295 (4)Tiger Woods Pga Tour 12: The Masters(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (43)Wii (7)36 (6)Homefront(15+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (38)PC (2)57 (8)Pokemon Black Version(3+)DS (100)78 (9)Pokemon White Version(3+)DS (100)79 (13)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (37)Wii (7)PC (5)2210 (5)Shift 2: Unleashed(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (43)PC (2)3UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
BlackBerry users in the United Arab Emirates will soon be unable to send emails and messages without fear of government snooping, under tighter restrictions on internet communication in the Gulf state.The UAE is to ban individuals and small businesses from using the most secure BlackBerry settings – for email, web browsing and BlackBerry Messenger – as part of security fears sweeping the Middle East. Only companies with more than 20 BlackBerry accounts will be able to access the encrypted BlackBerry service, which is favoured by corporate users and government agencies.Authorities in India, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia and Lebanon have beenpushing for greater accessto data transmitted between BlackBerry smartphones for months, citing security fears at the level of encryption employed on the devices.Seven months ago, the UAE dropped the threat of atotal blackouton the country's 500,000 BlackBerry users after a standoff lasted months between parent company Research In Motion and government authorities.However, RIM said on Sunday the tighter restrictions would apply to all phone makers in the country, including Apple and Motorola."The UAE [Telecommunications Regulatory Authority] has confirmed to RIM that any potential policy regarding enterprise services in the UAE would be an industry-wide policy (not specific to BlackBerry) applying equally to all enterprise solution providers and with the intent of avoiding any impact on legitimate enterprise customers," the Canadian company said.The UAE, like India and Saudi Arabia, has voiced concerns over its inability to access emails and messages sent using BlackBerry's Enterprise service, largely used by businesses and high-ranking civil servants.Government authorities can already legally intercept communication sent by BlackBerry customers using the less-secure BlackBerry Internet Service. Mobile security fears were heightened by reports the Mumbai terrorists used secure BlackBerrys to plot their attacks in 2008.BlackBerry Messenger (BBM), the smartphone's instant messenger service, has proved popular with young Emiratis in the Gulf nation. Like a social network, BBM allows users to send messages to many people at once, making it an efficient way to organise large groups of people.Although the UAE has so far been immune from the Arab spring protests that have unseated neighbouring governments, authorities have detained at least three activists calling for democratic reforms in the past two weeks.
The ongoing debate around the business models and design of iPad apps for newspapers and magazines has a not-so-hidden backchannel: the emergence of news aggregation apps that aim to put a fresh tablet-friendly spin on RSS, often making social a core feature too.Flipboard, Pulse, FLUD and others have all received media attention in the last year, while thecease-and-desist letterssent to another startup in this area, Zite, shows the disruptive potential of personalised news apps has not gone unnoticed by publishers. That said, the deals signed by several with Flipboard also shows that they are alive to the potential benefits too.Taptuis another startup focusing on personalised, aggregated news, having pivoted last year from its original focus on mobile search. Chief executive Mitch Lazar, formerly of Yahoo and Time Warner, says search technology remains the core of Taptu's 'next generation news service'."We anchor our whole platform around the stream model, and we think that's where media consumption is going," he says. "We think content is a continuum, rather than something that has a front page, a back page and a middle. We want to allow people to crawl the stuff they want and build an experience around their passions and interests."Taptu launched its iPhone and Android apps in November 2010, but relaunched them in April 2011 with a new iPad version that benefits from the larger screen size. Users can choose from a range of blog and website sources, then flip through their streams story by story. A feature called "DJ Your News" enables these sources to be mixed together, and Lazar says there are now 60,000 user-created streams complementing the 15,000 curated by Taptu."The iPad experience is so much more compelling and engaging," says Lazar. However, Taptu faces stiff competition from the startups listed earlier, with Flipboard having just announced a$50m (£30.7m) funding round, and rivals continuing to develop new features regularly."There are so many people out there besides Flipboard, Pulse and FLUD, but nobody is looking at the overall solution for the problem we want to solve: information overload and filter failure," says Lazar, undaunted."Most of them have beautiful presentation layers but are only gateways to RSS. Flipboard has gorgeous presentation but it's really a gateway to Twitter and Facebook which has now started adding new functionality. But what we're trying to look at is solving through search functionality the big issue: how do I get what I want?"Taptu chief Mitch LazarLazar says Taptu is also working hard to ensure its app continues to appeal to power users – the kind of people who are spending a lot of time creating mashed-up streams of content around specific topics – and more casual users who just want an easy way to browse the news. It's clear he sees the "DJ" aspect as Taptu's biggest strength against well-funded rivals though. "Flipboard can build your magazine from a single source, but it can't build 'the indie rock magazine' by merging sources together," he says.How is Taptu dealing with the publishers of the news content that its users are merrily mashing up, though? Or to be more blunt, how does it ensure it becomes a Flipboard in their eyes – a potential partner – rather than a Zite?Taptu started by only providing 200 characters for any news story before forcing users to tap through to the original site, but now it offers up whatever content a site makes available – "Some let you have it all like Huffington Post, and others hold back like the BBC". But there is an innovative feature in the way Taptu's social aspects work."When you tweet or Facebook share a story from Taptu, we use the URL from the original source," explains Lazar. "So what people see is a page-view from the site itself, and they then go directly to the publisher. So we're giving them broader distribution. When I show this to corporate media guys, nobody says 'stop what you're doing!' – they all want to figure out how to work with us. We're innovative faster than they can on their side, so it's better to have a discussion as opposed to cease-and-desist letters."He adds that Taptu is investigating ways to serve publishers' own advertisements around their content, to head off any more fears that its app will be cannibalising their existing revenues.Advertising is one potential revenue stream for Taptu, as are in-app payments. Lazar sees a parallel with the cable and satellite TV industries, where users may in the future pay for "packages" of content streams. He also hopes to work with small-to-medium businesses including retailers to create their own streams, including mobile coupons.The final notable aspect of Taptu has been its decision to develop in parallel for iOS and Android from the start, rather than just iOS as many rivals. "We always felt Android would be an important platform," he says. Taptu is already available for Android smartphones, but the company is putting the finishing touches to an update catering for Android tablets too."350,000 Android devices are activated every single day, and those people have never heard of us or our competitors – the whole playing field is there to play for. If you talk to Android users and look at the Android community, they're so passionate about it. If you serve up something high quality and be loyal to this audience, they'll reward you."He's already looking beyond these two operating systems though, to four or even five important platforms in the months and years to come."No 1 is Apple, second is Android, and third is Nokia/Microsoft – we can't dismiss the power of that alliance, it'll just take a little bit of time," he says. "Fourth is BlackBerry, which is the No 1 smartphone in Europe still. And the fifth area is ereaders like Kindle and Nook. None of them have an experience like Taptu on them yet."
A quick burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAnalysis: Google's Page and Wall Street: Who needs who? &gt;&gt; Reuters"Investors had hoped to hear Page sketch out his vision during a Thursday post-earnings conference call. Instead, Page came on the line for a few minutes, expressed his optimism in the company, then signed off without entertaining questions on a stunning 54 percent cost spike."RIM makes a play for its future &gt;&gt; The Globe and Mail"RIM's obsession with security comes at a cost. It's one reason developers make fewer apps for its devices, for instance. But it also carries one major advantage. Unlike almost every other tablet developer, RIM has a ready-made audience for the PlayBook: corporate IT departments...."The early adopters include Sun Life Financial, which designed one of the very first PlayBook apps, and plans to purchase between 500 and 1,000 RIM tablets."'It's really a powerful unit,' says Thomas Reid, senior vice president of group retirement services at Sun Life. 'I'll be using it for my e-mail and for doing presentations with clients and things like that. That's just going to be the standard that we use from a technology perspective ... rather than lugging a laptop into the boardroom or wherever we go to do a presentation.'"BlackBerry PlayBook tablet lacks all the right moves &gt;&gt;Wired.com"Any tablet debuting more than a year after the Apple's market-dominating iPad needs an edge. For the PlayBook, that edge is support for Adobe Flash, a feature that the iPad is famously lacking. RIM says it took over two years of working with Adobe to bring Flash to its tablet."Two years may not have been enough. During a round of Plants vs. Zombies, gameplay bogged down whenever the animation got intense. Every time I tried to access a Flash game on Facebook, the browser crashed. Yes, every single time. Say goodbye to your well-tended crops, Farmvillians."Likely to say less about the PlayBook than Flash generally, we suspect.Kinect for Windows SDK means business &gt;&gt; CNET News"Microsoft had some fun while offering up details of the software development kit for Kinect for Windows. A technology evangelist named Clint Rutkas jury-rigged a lounge chair with wheels, wiring, and a Kinect motion-sensing controller for the company's Xbox 360 game console. Then, using just hand gestures, he drove the chair onto the stage at Mix11, Microsoft's annual Web and mobile phone developer conference.The Kinect SDK, though, may wind up leading to a business that's anything but trivial..."Think about running a meeting and moving through presentation with hand gestures, instead of a handheld clicker. Or maybe a device for conference video calls that knows to shift camera angles for different speakers. And there's little doubt Microsoft will come up with applications inside products such as Office."If - big if - the Office team supports it. They didn't (still don't) with tablets. Can Steve Ballmer persuade them to?Which analysts are the biggest sandbaggers - charted &gt;&gt; Deagol's AAPL modelWith Apple's financial results coming up this week, bloggers tracking Apple's numbers do far better than professional analysts; Deagol is one of the best."It's amazing to me that such a highly regarded analyst as Gene Munster, and considered by many the most bullish on Apple, has managed to underestimate EPS by a whole 5 bucks and a half over less than 3 years. That's a whole $100 worth on AAPL if you price it at an 18x multiple. And that's our bullish guy. Mr. McCourt on the other hand, managed to misplace almost 5 bucks in only a year and a half. Give it another year and he'll easily be 8 bucks behind, or near $150 on the stock by a conservative multiple. But he'll go on giving interviews on CNBC and such."Mobile device OS upgrades: How hard can it be? &gt;&gt; asymco"The problem of upgrade failure is a symptom of a deeper dysfunction inherent in immature modular business architectures. It's not just that the brightest at Microsoft or Nokia or Google can't make an upgrade stick. It's that the upgrade is not universally beneficial to the value chain. To remedy this, licensors have to resort to contractual obligations to ensure upgrades, but enforcement is non-trivial and can lead to aggravated relationships."Fahrenheit - weather and temperature on your iPhone home screen &gt;&gt; HunchInteresting: uses iOS's badging system to show information that isn't an alert on the home screen. Clever. (And shows the faults in Apple's present notification system.)Microsoft Data Center GM Timmons Heads to Apple &gt;&gt; Data Center Knowledge"Kevin Timmons, who helped build the data centers that power Microsoft's global cloud computing operation, has left the company and is expected to take a leadership position at Apple. The move strongly hints that Apple is stepping up its plans for an expansion of its data center infrastructure beyond its huge new facility in North Carolina."In confirming Timmons' departure, Microsoft made no mention of his destination."Intel Betting Against Windows With Android Move &gt;&gt; Business Insider"Investors aren't the only ones betting on the decline of Microsoft Windows: Intel is working with Google and hardware partners to get its chips into a bunch of Android tablets this year."PC makers like Asus had already said they were building Android tablets based on Atom, Intel's low-powered chip for portable devices."But earlier this week, an Intel exec confirmed that its newest version of Atom -- previously codenamed Oak Trail -- will show up in tablets running Android 3.0 (Honeycomb) later this year."MeeGo sees interest from others after Nokia shift &gt;&gt; Reuters"Technology firms such as LG Electronics are moving toward adopting the Linux-based MeeGo operating system after Nokia abandoned it, one of the project's leaders said."ZTE and China Mobile are already having a play.Sorry Playbook, but it's just not fair... &gt;&gt; Joy of TechOh, dear, Mike Lazaridis's bad mood when interviewed by the BBC isn't going to go away. Possibly ever.FAQ &gt;&gt; Flock Browser"Q: Why is Flock shutting down?"A: The Flock team joined Zynga in January, 2011 and is now working to assist Zynga in achieving their goal of building the most fun, social games available to anyone, anytime -- on any platform."Translation: we got jobs. Last one to use the browser, turn the light out, OK? You can keep the lightbulb.Before you install Windows Home Server 2011, RTFM (seriously) &gt;&gt; ZDNet"In a yellow box, under the bold heading Important, you'll find these instructions:"'Before you install Windows Home Server 2011, set your BIOS clock to match the time and date for the Pacific Time Zone (PST) regardless of where you are located in the world. After successfully installing Windows Home Server 2011 and joining client computers, do not reset the time, date, and time zone on the Dashboard for another day."'If you do not set your server time to PST, you should not use the server or connect computers to it until the number of hours pass that equals the difference between your time and PST.'"Besides the final bit rating only average on the "huh?" scale of confusing Windows instructions, we want to know what happens if you *don't* do what it says. At your own risk, obviously.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Monday - what could possibly go wrong?
A software patent case in which Microsoft was accused of wilfully infringing a patent on XML - and forced to suspend sales of Word and Office - reaches the US Supreme Court on Monday afternoon UK time and could have a wide-ranging effect on future litigation.Microsoft has brought the case to the US Supreme Court, where it is asking the court to lower the standard of proof required for challenges to the validity of a properly issued patent. At present, the company looking to overturn a patent has to be able to show "clear and convincing" evidence; Microsoft wants to shift that in favour of the overturning complainant, to a "preponderance" of evidence.If Microsoft wins, it could weaken the use of software patents in a number of cases. Loudon Owen, the chairman of i4i, says it is "patent law at a crossroads" and that "the implications affect every consumer in every business at every level".Microsoft contends that it is too hard to overturn a software patent granted in error by the US Patent Office. "Innovation is one of the great drivers, one of the bright spots of our economy," said Andy Culbert, associate general counsel for Microsoft. "If you have a really bad patent that shouldn't have been issued, what happens? It stops innovation."i4i however says that weakening the standard of proof to overturn patents would deter companies and inventors from being innovative. Presently, about half of patent lawsuits end with the patent being ruled invalid. If Microsoft (which itself owns a large number of patents, including software patents) prevails, that proportion will rise.At i4i, Owen argues: "What it really means for consumers is there's going to be a lot less investment in pharmaceuticals, in biotechnology, in green tech … because without patents, there is no certainty and the system won't function."Speaking to the Seattle PI blog, Henry Sneath, a Pittsburgh-based patent lawyer, wondered why and when Microsoft had become so keen on the "preponderance" rather than the "clear and convincing" standard for proof:"I've never heard of any great cry for changing the standard and I don't remember anything written about it," said Sneath, who spoke as an officer of DRI, the nation's largest organization of civil litigation lawyers. "So you have to wonder why it's suddenly a big deal. Now that Microsoft has made a stink about it? It's almost like they manufactured the issue."The dispute between Microsoft andi4iis a long-running one. i4i is a Canadian software company which told the Guardian in 2010 that its aim is to become "the [database company] Oracle of unstructured data", and rebuffed claims that it was engaged in "patent trolling" - enforcing patents that it happens to hold but doesn't otherwise use - in suing Microsoft.In March 2007, i4i sued Microsoft for willful infringement of its patent on the use of XML (Extensible Markup Language, a superset of markup languages such as the Web's HTML) in Word for custom applications. That led to a ban on the sale in the US of Word 2003, the version of Microsoft's program judged to be directly infringing. (Later versions did not.)The key element of the i4i XML product is that it takes large amounts of unstructured data, and then wraps it in XML to make it more usable and useful. Among its users are the US Patent Office, US Air Force and number of pharmaceutical companies, including Bayer and Novo Nordisk.i4i accused Microsoft of "wilfully" infringing the patent, after the two companies had had talks in 2000-2001 about XML and custom XML. ""We had extensive dealings with Microsoft over the course of several years about the possibility of working together," Owentold me in January 2010. Soon after, Microsoft began talking about XML schemas in forthcoming versions of Word, which then shipped in Word 2003 - adversely affecting i4i's business, the company said.On 20 May 2009, a jury found i4i's patent to have been willfully infringed, and Microsoft was instructed to pay damages to i4i. On 11 August 2009, a final judgment against Microsoft was issued that included an award of more than $290m of damages to i4i (including enhanced damages, interest and post-verdict damages), and a permanent injunction, which took effect on January 11, 2010.Microsoft unsuccessfully appealed to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals in late 2009, and also unsuccessfully sought a rehearing in early 2010.  This was the largest patent infringement judgment ever upheld by the Federal Circuit.The chief justice of the US Supreme Court has withdrawn from the case, which will be heard only by eight judges, meaning that Microsoft has to get 5 of the 8 to back its case, rather than 5 of 9.A total of 24 amicus briefs - supporting the position - have been filed for i4i, including one by the US government.
Not so long ago car salesmen used to call Britain "Treasure Island", because they could charge much higher prices here than on the continent. It wasn't because the cars needed right-hand drive; Japan drove on the left too but had nothing like the price disparity. No, Britain was just a special case of us handing over our money to, mostly, foreign carmakers.And so with Google. The UK really is its Treasure Island. Almost from the moment it started selling advertising space on its search engine here, the revenues generated have been more than 10% of its total – the only country in the world where that's the case. You&nbsp;can find out for yourself onGoogle's financials page, which goes back to 2004 (when it first began detailing results). For&nbsp;the most recent quarter, announced last week, the UK made up 11% of revenue; the US was only 47%.That amazing concentration of internet activity here meansGoogle UK will easily overtake ITV as the biggest recipient of advertising expenditure this year; it's on course to be worth much more than £2.4bn at current growth rates. Not that ITV is hanging about, but our analysis – which includes the confounding element of "traffic acquisition costs" (TAC), or how much it costs Google to get the adverts or how much it has to pay partners – already allows for that.TAC, by the way, is a large part of why Microsoft is losing money hand over fist with its Bing search engine: last year it wasspending roughly $1 for every $1 of advertising it got. Google, by contrast, has pushed TAC down to 25 cents per $1. That might be partly why Microsoft loses roughly $500m every quarter on Bing, while Google is cruising past $2bn per quarter.Even better for Google is that this sceptred isle is probably much more profitable for it than the US operation: it doesn't have a huge headquarters with endlessly circulating electric buses (though it does have two nice offices near London's Victoria station) and it doesn't require server farms to work across huge distances as in the US. We're&nbsp;a high-spending, highly connected country with a lot of people who speak the same language as its home country. Perhaps the surprise is that we'reonly11% of its revenue.But there are signs of trouble in paradise. The Daily Mail's Alex Brummerpenned an extraordinary 2,000-word rantagainst, well, the fact that Google is, you know, a very big company which lets you search for things, and claimed that "One only has to switch on the computer, call up the Google search engine and type in the name of a star like Adele to understand why the digital channel is such a threat to the UK's performers, and for that matter our whole creative industry. Nine out of the first 10 websites which pop up on Google's search engine are run by pirates who have downloaded Adele's output and offer it online far more cheaply than official copyrighted sites and high street retailers." Hmm. When I typed "Adele" into Google UK's search box (and for that matter into Bing's), I got her official website and variations on it.Brummer though also offered background grumbling about the fact No&nbsp;10's strategist Steve Hilton is married to Rachel Whetstone, Google's UK head of communications. And that Google has told David Cameron it couldn't have set up in the UK because of our copyright laws. Certainly the famous paper "Anatomy of a Large-Scale Hypertextual Web Search Engine" explaining Google's original design contained the bold claim they had downloaded the internet on to a desktop machine ("The repository contains the full HTML of every web page"). True, it was compressed, and it was only 1997, but the obvious gigantic infringement would have given British lawyers the vapours. Youcopiedtheinternet?Still, if the Daily Mail is running bizarrely anti-Google pieces, something must be up with middle England. Maybe they have an inkling of its enigmatic power. The mood won't have been lightened among those it would want to call its friends on British technology websites such as Pocket Lint, Electric Pig, TechEye, Techradar, and many others who woke up on Wednesday to findGoogle's engineers had tweaked its algorithms in its "Panda" update – and effectively killed their search traffic, often a major source of income. Did&nbsp;Google offer any clues about why they'd been downgraded? No.It was a stark reminder of who wields the power online. ITV may be thought of by some as a dinosaur, unable to change. But Google can be worse: mysterious, gnomic. Treasure Island we may be. But we'd hoped the treasure would be buried here, not taken away.
You always seemed like a capable broad to me, Cher (@Cher). Any woman who can belt out a soft-rock anthem while straddling a ship's cannon and wearing a thong/fishnet combo is usually in possession  of a "can do" attitude.Twitter, however, seems to be the exception to the rule. Yours  is a twitter feed brimming with despair, technological loathing and BIZARRELY plAced CAPITAL letters: "Ok I've got to fix this!  I'm So lame I have NO IDEA HOW THIS WORKS!"Last week, you tweeted: "Where is twitter Angel when u need 1." I'm here, Cher, and we can sort this mess out. Believe.Who you gonna tweet?The chaotic nature of your Twitter ("Where's Spanky &gt;^#^+F=¥£&gt;U&gt; *€Ft)@C€*&gt;*¥?&lt;%~K$(?") is a big concern, but it could be explained by the state of your mobile phone. The moment you tweeted "My iPhone is Fkn possessed!" and "Fk-IT Even PICTURES R HAUNTED!" it became clear that you needed the sort of assistance that a nerd at the Apple Store was  not able to provide. Luckily, help is at hand. Speak to@ghostbusters, Cher. They ain't afraid of no haunted iPhones. It says so on the business cards.Tap into the Twitter hive mindBeing "Cher" is a time-consuming business. The amount of heavy-duty bikini waxing it takes to wear those leotards alone must leave you with very little time  for newspapers. Never  fear! Your 192,000 followers will be only too keen to keep you up to date. Asking "Who or what is Cher Lloyd?" was a good start. Now if you could just find out what a  "Jedward" and  a "Peter Andre" is, you will be fully up to speed.Art attackIt was about time someone tried  to inject a bit of culture into Twitter and I am glad it was you. Your photoshopped pictures of you as famous paintings have been a joy. TheCher with the Pearl EarringandFrid-Cher Kahlowere  a good start. I, and the BBC's Culture Show, await the  Mona Lis-Cher and  Girl in a Cher-mise with  bated breath.Haters gonna hate"I must b very naive cause I still don't understand why people who don't like me come here? Seems mean 4 no reason." Welcome to the arse-end of the internet, Cher. A place where angry, bug-eyed virgins enjoy firing badly spelled abuse at people who have done nothing to deserve it. There is a brilliant button you can use to block them. Use it. Don't let them ruin the fun times.Lots of love,@scouserachel
"Mawwidge is what bwwings us togevva today," says Peter Cook's vicar inThe Princess Brideto the unhappy royal couple and their wedding guests. And, yes,royal nuptialsinspire this fortnight'sUntangling the Webtopic: Love.This is a biggie: it covers everything from the nature of online relationships to how we know who to trust to the reported rise of online infidelity to the scams that we fall for in pursuit of our own personal fairy tales. I'm interested in the evolution of our search for The One, and what our interactions over the Web have changed about what we expect in offline relationships.Love is too weak a word for what I feel - I luuurve you, you know, I  loave you, I luff you, two F's, yes I have to invent, of course I - I  do, don't you think I do?Alvy Singer toAnnie HallHave you fallen in love online? Or do you eschew online dating? How long should a relationship stay online before it gravitates into meatspace? Doessextingconstitute an affair?For the record, I'll be avoiding writing about online sex; cynic that I am,I tackled that subject for Valentine's Day.Send your thoughts on online love to me@alekskoraleks.krotoski.freelance@guardian.co.uk, or post your comments below.It's springtime. There's a wedding on. Love is in the air. Let's get some.
Way back in 1996, the distinguished American journalist James Fallows publishedBreaking the News: How the Media Undermine American Democracy, a remarkable study of the pernicious effects of broadcast television on democracy.Among the phenomena he examined were the relentless trivialisation implicit in soundbite politics, the obsessive insistence that every political issue – no matter how complex – has only two sides and the tendency to treat every political controversy as if it were a football game and every election a horse race. But, en passant, Fallows also highlighted an equally disturbing trend – towards market-driven news: that is, news agendas that are driven not by some professional assessment of what's important and relevant, but by research into what viewers like and respond to. Put crudely, such an approach leads to news programming that plays down politics and economics in favour of coverage of crime, celebrity and sport. News-U-Like, as it were.Earlier this month, Fallows decided to revisit this territory by embarking on a study of contemporary online news media. His findings are summarised in a sobering article in theAtlanticentitled "Learning to Love the (Shallow, Divisive, Unreliable) New Media". He began by visiting Nick Denton, an expatriate Brit who is the founder and CEO of a clutch of websites known collectively as Gawker Media. Fallows was intrigued by Denton as "the Fleet Street rogue [he grew up in London and went to Oxford] willing to tart up and shake up stuffy American newsrooms, with something entirely new: the most refined tools ever created for knowing exactly what an audience wants to see and read, as opposed to someone's opinion of what it should want or 'needs' to know".Gawker, in other words, is "a distillation of the model toward which the news business is trending". Cut to Gawker's open-plan office in New York. It is dominated by a huge screen, the top part of which shows live views of the home pages of the main Gawker sites. They bring in 32 million unique visitors a month, about the same as theNew York Times. On-screen meters provide a live display of traffic to each site. The lower part of the screen lists specific stories from each site, ranked by how many people are viewing them at each moment. "As you watch," Fallows reports, "the stories switch places on the screen, each with a green arrow if it's trending up or a red arrow if it's heading down."When I arrived, 'Your Horoscope May Have Changed' still led the chart for all sites but was heading down, while 'The Horrible Life of a Disney Employee' was in second place and on the way up." Fallows asked some of the Gawker journalists how they decided what to write. "I just try to figure out," replied one, "if I were to go to a party, what would everyone want to talk about? That is what I'd want to write."At this point, anyone who works in an online newsroom will grimace, because somewhere in their fancy open-plan offices is a guy who is watching the second-by-second audience for every page on the site. He's the chap who knows what's "trending" now and if your stories aren't figuring then – depending on the editorial culture – you may eventually feel the heat of managerial disapproval. And this is all a product of the same technology that drives online advertising by giving advertisers instant feedback on which messages are working.The pressures facing online journalists are illustrated by a slide from a leaked AOL presentation that the media commentator Frédéric Filloux posted last week. Under the heading "Decide What Topics to Cover", the slide lists four factors to be considered. They are: Traffic Potential ("How many page views will this content generate?"); Revenue/Profit ("What CPM [cost per thousand impressions, a measure of online advertising effectiveness] will this content earn?"); Turnaround Time ("How long will it take to produce?"); and finally Editorial Integrity ("Will this content conform to AOL's editorial standards?"). In that order.The relative importance attached to each of these factors will vary with the prevailing editorial culture of different news organisations. But in a fiercely competitive world, the ability of the technology to deliver such compelling measures of effectiveness dramatically changes the atmosphere in which journalism is done.The success of Gawker shows that one path to profitability lies in a relentless attention to the whims and vagaries of a fickle online audience. Nick Denton is a leader because he follows where his audience goes. And if you were thinking of registering the domain newsulike.com, forget it. It's already taken.
Price £59,300MPG 40.1Top speed 155mphClinging to the fells of Cumbria, Sedbergh school (motto: Dura Virum Nutrix – A Stern Nurse of Men) has been scrubbing up the red-cheeked offspring of land owners and industrialists since 1525. The place is all about mental rigour built on physical endurance, and its school song includes the ominous refrain: "We laugh at pain."Perhaps the perfect expression of&nbsp;that pain is its annual Wilson run. Reputed to be the hardest school run in the world, it is a 10.4-mile orgy of mud, vertical slopes and self-harm. The event has been held at the end of the spring term along the same route every year since 1881 – except for the odd foot-and-mouth epidemic – and yet here I am at the start line to this year's race, shivering in a vest, pimply shoulders purpling in the cold, with two friends, Alan and Tom (an Old Sedbergian) who decided it would be "such fun" to return to his alma mater and do "the 10".Marvellous. But first there was the small issue of getting to the start – a&nbsp;mere 275-mile haul from London. This is where Jaguar and its revamped flagship, the XJ, came into its own. There are few other cars better suited to a long hard run. Sleek, sophisticated and yet also sporty, the mighty XJ has spent its past incarnations looking like the car time forgot, a bloated throwback to the glory days of the 60s and 70s when a polo-necked Gareth Hunt would step out of the driver's seat and crunch across the gravel to the golf club. But not any longer. Jaguar's head of design, Ian Callum, has been working his way up through the historic marque's line-up, revitalising first the XK, then the XF, and now finally the XJ.The first thing that strikes you about the big cat is its size. We drove the short-wheelbase version, which is still almost 5m long. But despite its colossal bulk the XJ is in no way daunting to drive. Like a well-cut suit disguising a middle-aged paunch, its long lines and elegant curves hide all signs of rich living. Its low roofline also helps the car slip through the air; it is the most aerodynamic car Jaguar has ever produced. This all means the big XJ is remarkably agile. The handling is exceptional and it feels light on its toes – whichin factit is thanks to a&nbsp;gossamer-light aluminium frame. This also helps make it more fuel efficient. We drove 600 miles in two days at an average of 40.7mpg – higher than the official figure. It's also made of 50% recycled material which Jaguar says saves 3.3 tonnes of CO2in the construction of each bodyshell.Of course, the point of the XJ is not to drive it at all. This is a chauffeur's car. The back seat is where the car should be judged from. With Alan at the wheel and Tom riding bodyguard (I should have made them wear matching caps) I was able to sprawl in the back and reflect on the primal brutality of the Wilson run from its perfect antithesis – an upholstered cocoon of tasteful calm and total luxury. Everywhere was marshmallow-soft leather, chrome detailing and piano-black surfaces. TV screens were embedded in the head rests and a 1,200W Bowers &amp; Wilkins system was good enough to have made even Sedbergh's song sound rousing…In all, the XJ made wonderfully light work of its long school run. We fared less well – a shade under 1hr 45m – and not so much laughing at pain as feeling a&nbsp;little hysterical.
As developers continue to flock to the AppStore, it can be all too easy for games to get lost in the crowd. Capybara's ingenious ploy to promote its arty adventure allows players to Tweet various achievements as they progress; shortly after launch, as the #sworcery hashtag spread virally across Twitter, the game was propelled to the upper echelons of Apple's top 10.Yet there's more to recommend about this clever little curio than social networking savvy. A blend of puzzles, combat and quiet exploration, it has a hazy, dreamlike quality. Its beautifully stylised pixel art is presented in muted tones, while its dialogue mixes olde worlde language with contemporary observations, to amusing effect.Enemy encounters see the player hold the iPad vertically, tapping sword or shield icons with good timing to strike and repel. Puzzles rarely involve more than touching objects in the right order, but then the focal points are the art and the music, as your character moves from lush forests and dark caves to dream worlds and, bizarrely, a rock concert. It occasionally tilts towards pretentiousness, but otherwise it is well worth downloading.
Microsoft's Kinect may not yet be able to cope with hugely complex movements and graphics, but the hardware is already proving perfect for a younger audience.Fantastic Petsmakes excellent use of the system's strengths by letting kids explore virtual worlds free from the controllers and wires that constrain imaginations.Fantastic Petsoffers a choice of buddies from a selection of animals including cats, dogs, lizards and ponies. Whereupon there is much fun to be had styling, feeding, washing and training your pet, who quickly learns to respond to voice commands.For aspiring "professional pet trainers", however, there are mini-games and talent shows to exhibit more complex skills. A simple game of fetch, for example, becomes a challenge to knock over buildings like skittles to collect points, but the game's highlight is in Kinect's "augmented reality" feature. It allows the pet to join in with real-life actions, on screen. Unconstrained by a controller it will run around the room and mimic your movements, adding a level of interactive verisimilitude that really brings each pet to life. Great fun, especially for the intended age group, and considerably less messy than the real thing.
Two years ago,The Conduitattracted attention from the gaming press simply for being an original first-person shooter on a format that offered precious little competition in the genre. That developer High Voltage Software loudly suggested its game was pushing the Wii to its graphical limits ensured a level of expectation which it could never live up to. Decent if hardly spectacular looks and superb controls weren't enough to compensate for the slightly lacklustre action.Conduit 2may well benefit from lowered expectations; certainly, this is a more accomplished release than its predecessor. It's a globetrotting adventure that sees gruff, cyber-suited agent Michael Ford once again tackle the mysterious Trust organisation and its extraterrestrial army. Ford can use the titular portals to hop between locations and has the ability to revisit earlier levels with upgrades and weapons gained from later stages. It's a more substantial campaign than you'll find in recent shooters such asHomefront, with additional missions and secrets adding replay value and a certain self-awareness that was lacking from the rather humourless original.Although some of Ford's enemies suggest that if there is life out there, it's not necessarily intelligent, most demonstrate more of a survival instinct than their suicidal counterparts from the original game. During fierce indoor skirmishes, they'll flip tables over to use as cover and attack from all angles in the more expansive outdoor areas. What the game lacks in sophistication, it makes up for with intensity, as muculent sacs spit out more alien foes to be taken down with Ford's arsenal of powerful and satisfying weapons.Beginners may initially find the controls a little twitchy, though they can be fully customised, and there's welcome support for Nintendo's MotionPlus device, which allows for finer, subtler motion recognition. It's a convincing reminder of how well-suited the Wii's unique controllers are for the shooter genre.Those who wield the remote and nunchuk most efficiently may be tempted to dive straight into the multiplayer modes, of which there is a bewildering array. High Voltage certainly hasn't skimped on the content – offering split-screen as well as online play across all game types – though at times it does feel as if quantity was a greater concern than quality. That said, the fast-paced action is rarely less than entertaining, makingConduit 2a solid addition to the relatively slim line-up of shooters on Nintendo's console.
I remember several years ago, when the virtual world Second Life wasthething on the web, wandering in the embodiment of my avatar through a most extraordinary representation of a cathedral. The frescoes, stained glass and flying buttresses were replicated to a degree that would make even the most cynical architect weep. Also enjoying the experience were 30 other virtual people from around the world, dressed in all manner of outerwear, from 1950s party dresses to slinky black outfits with impossible heels to squirrel costumes. They, as it turned out, were gathered in this cyber-place to celebrate a religious service.I watched from the safe distance of a back-of-the-nave pew, listening to the officiant lead his digital flock through a very traditional Catholic ceremony. I left after transubstantiation, just as they were processing in a typically sombre way to receive the Eucharist.The concept of religious ritual is so deeply embedded in our social fabric that it is natural for it to have made the leap to virtuality. And it hasn't just reared its head in worlds such as Second Life. Social networks, including Facebook, have active and close-knit communities of religious followers of all creeds, gathering in what science writer Margaret Wertheim described in her 1999 book,The Pearly Gates of Cyberspace, as "a new kind of realm for the mind". Perhaps, depending on your attitude to religion, it's more apt to describe these digital collectives in science fiction author William Gibson's words: a "consensual hallucination".Online, contrary to Nietzsche's allegation, God is most certainly not dead. The web is littered with sacred spaces and, if anything, He (or She or It) has been released from traditional&nbsp;doctrine to become everything to everybody."On the web, you're more easily able to find your tribe," explains Professor Heidi Campbell, a researcher at Texas A&amp;M University, whose most recent book,When Religion Meets New Media, looks at how Christian, Muslim, Hindu and Jewish communities engage with the web. "The distinctions and differences are amplified online."The importance of the web in everyday life – from banking to shopping to socialising – means that religious organisations must migrate their churches and temples to virtual real estate in order to stay relevant and to be where the people are. Religious leaders have websites, blogs and Twitter feeds, there are email prayer lines and online confessionals, social networks for yogis and apps that call the faithful to prayer. "Being web-savvy should be a required skill for religious leaders in general," says Sister Catherine Wybourne, prioress of the Holy Trinity Monastery in Oxfordshire, and @Digitalnun on Twitter.But, argues Dr Paul Teusner from RMIT University, Melbourne, the technology itself is not value-free. "It is presented to religious societies wrapped with cultural values that compliment, challenge or repel religious attitudes," he says. This has unsurprisingly affected how organised religion engages with the new "mission field", as the Vatican has described it. Evangelicals, who have historically been keen to get out their message via whatever communication conduit available, were the first organised religious groups to embrace the web, and non-traditional or sidelined religious movements made early moves online to get their version of "the word" out. In contrast, Islam and Catholicism, which both place an emphasis on shared place in their rituals and view the technology as a mode of logic that could take them in its value direction, have been the most hesitant. "The web may have encouraged a lowest-common-denominator eclecticism and turned us into consumers of religion," argues Wybourne.There's another potentially destabilising force at work: what has traditionally been behind closed doors in ecclesiastical councils is now online, challenging the control that leaders once had over doctrine and their flocks. Just as the Reformation was ushered in by the printing press in the 16th century, allowing people to access the texts for themselves and distribute their interpretations widely, the web has helped proliferate different interpretations and articulations of religions and we have witnessed the emergence of new communities and faiths. Individuals now have a much more autonomous role in deciding whom to approach as a source. "Those people may have official, traditional credentials or they may be Rabbi Google," says Prof Campbell."Religious leaders will have to get used to the idea of being more accountable and transparent in their dealings and of having to engage, on equal terms, with those who stand outside the traditional hierarchies," says Wybourne.Yet the web has not de facto increased inter-faith communication. Campbell has observed that the internet is not being used for inter-religious dialogue or diversity. "If you want to do that, you need intensively to create that community." The impulse to specialise because of the volume of information online means that people seeking answers are drawn to flocks of birds that match their feathers. "Unless you're looking for diversity, you're not going to find it online," says Campbell.The search for answers is part of our social narrative and so it is unsurprising that we have gone to the web to ask the questions. There, we are finding our communities, whether they are organised under a traditional doctrine with well-established rituals, or are evolutions that have been produced by people who feel they have seen the light. The greatest danger of the web is not that it will kill or change religion, but that, as Campbell argues, we will see the differences in our  faiths because of our desire to find our own kind.
Michael Jackson: The Experience, Xbox 360 Kinect, DS, Wii, PSP &amp; PS3One truth about Michael Jackson you'll learn the hard way while playing The Experience is that, despite apparently being hepped-up on intravenous pain killers, he was physically fit in the way that most are not.You discover this by performing the dance moves to just about any song with a tempo above "ballad" and finding yourself soused in sweat and heaving for breath. Try and add singing to that mix and you've got a challenge worthy of considerable practise if not systematic professional coaching. Training videos demonstrate moves and you can also repeat individual sections of each song to perfect both words and dance moves before moving on to a full run through. There are some classic Jacko tunes, and you'll see a sparkly Kinect-enabled version of yourself perform between backing dancers. Another player can also join in, on the off-chance that your room is big enough to take in two concurrent Michael Jackson dance routines.Ubisoft, £39.99Kitty's Tattoo, iPad, iPhone &amp; iPod TouchKitty's Tattoo.The unusual subject matter of Kitty's Tattoo is only brought into sharper relief by the game's content, which involves etching designs on to the skins of a procession of colourful punters. Start by tracing the design, a cheerful buzzing sound emitting from your iPad as your finger becomes the needle, then drag over faint lines to draw it in, soliciting screams of agony if you stray from the pattern. Once sketched, it's time to ink, with more detailed tattoos giving you a longer time limit and earning more reputation points in exchange for more involved artistry. Even with the sound muted, you'll draw enquiring glances on public transport as you carve angry red lines on to expanses of raw, virtual skin. It's fair to say that Kitty's Tattoo has a novelty value that outweighs any pretensions towards long-term entertainment, but this shouldn't put you off what is one of the most original releases of the year so far.PAN Vision, £1.79-£2.79Pokémon Global Link, OnlinePokémon Global Link.In keeping with longstanding tradition, the recently launched Pokémon Black and White are two complementary versions of the same game that share some of the same monsters, while also having their own exclusives. The point is to encourage trading among players – you can't "catch 'em all" without finding someone with the other edition of the game to help. The freshly arrived Pokémon Global Link website gives players even more avenues for amassing Pokémon by discovering new ones in Dream World, a place you can go after "tucking in" a monster on your DS, then syncing it with the website. Pokémon discovered in this fashion can be transferred back to your handheld and trained in the normal way. You can also interact with other trainers and see how your achievements compare with the world. Nintendo promises plenty of special items and one-off presents throughout the year.pokemon.co.uk;pokemon-gl.com
I read an interesting thing about the ix20 on Channel 5'sFifth Gearwebsite – that Hyundai was so eager to get it right for the UK market that it actually built a&nbsp;section of UK road in Korea, in order to mimic the conditions over here over there. Ha! I hope they really went to town with it, brought in big red buses, black taxis, white vans and appropriate drivers – rude men with tattoos to hang out of their windows, trading obscenities and saliva. Then, in search of total authenticity, they probably imported gangs of feral hooded kids and pit bull terriers to hang out menacingly on the pavements. We know what happened to the dogs when the experiment was over...Oh, it's not true. Not just the pit bulls, the hoodies and the cabbies, but none of it. Or all of it, made up. The car was tested in the UK, no road was built over there, says the nice lady in the Hyundai press office (I thought I had better check, before plagiarising someone else's research). Damn, my favourite fact about the ix20 turns out to be&nbsp;fiction.Which leaves the dull stuff. The ix20 is a brilliant compact people carrier (meaning a people carrier that is compact rather than one that carries compact people). It is versatile, roomy, practical and economical. I drove the diesel model from London to Dorset and back again, and achieved impressive fuel consumption figures.Around town it doesn't feel too big,&nbsp;on the motorway it doesn't feel too small. I gave a lift to two men, and there was loads of room for all&nbsp;our stuff. The one in the back had&nbsp;plenty of room, he said, even though he wasn't a specially compact&nbsp;person. The kit list is impressive (air conditioning, iPod&nbsp;compatibility, etc) for a car of this price.In fact, possibly the only thing it lacks is a personality. If you're not really interested in cars, you just want one that is good value and practical, this could be the one for you. If you want one that makes you go, "Hello car, I really love you" when you walk out of your house in the morning, it probably isn't.I recently drove the Hyundai ix20's sister car with which it shares a lot of DNA, theKia "Arsène" Venga, and I'm really struggling to tell them apart. The Kia is a bit cheaper, and has a longer warranty. This one is better equipped, and the ride is better (which is why I was ready to believe the road story). Otherwise it really boils down to whether you want your Korean car to share a name with the French manager of an English football club, or with two Dutch football clubs. No? The HyundaiAjaxTwente...Hyundai ix20 1.4 CRDi Active 5 dr ManualPrice£14,395Top speed104mphAcceleration0-62 in 14.5 secondsAverageconsumption65.7mpgCO2 emissions114g/kmEco rating7/10AtthewheelSteve McClaren
Taiwan's Digitimesis reportingthat a number of companies have delayed their rollouts of Android tablets due to concerns about component shortages caused by the Japan earthquake and concerns over low sales of non-Apple products.Sales of Motorola's Xoom -estimated by one analyst at around 100,000 in its first six weeks- have been respectable but not outstanding. That, say the writers at Digitimes, has led to concerns among other companies including Asus and HTC that demand is not strong enough to make it worthwhile for them to compete.That is allied to problems with supply. Earlier this week the Guardian revealed thatApple, HTC, Huawei and Samsung had secured supplies of essential componentsfollowing the Japan earthquake in March, but that other companies were now facing constraints for smartphone elements. That seems to have been extended to tablet components, probably including batteries.Asus has put samples of its Eee Pad Transformer tablets into the hands of reviewers, including the Guardian, though UK release dates have slipped by a few weeks to late April, and further in Taiwan itself. HTC is reportedly putting off volume production of its Flyer tablet computers after losing out in the race to get larger touch panels.Paradoxically, the absence of strong competitors to the iPad could be a problem for Apple, which is trying to carve out a new market in "media tablets", as analysts have dubbed devices such as the iPad and Xoom. If there are no effective rivals then the tablet market could turn into a niche - just as they quickly became after Microsoft first launched its versions in 2001.[Note: Digitimes links expire after a few days and go behind a paywall.]
After the sinking of the Derbyshire with all hands in the Pacific Ocean in 1980, there was much speculation, as well as formal inquiry, into what had befallen the carrier – at 91,655 gross tons, the largest British ship to have been lost at sea. Even when, 14 years later, its wreckage was located on the seabed, the&nbsp;photographic evidence was insufficient to substantiate hypotheses that a major structural failure of the hull had occurred, or that water entering the ship via ventilators had been the primary causes of foundering.Douglas Faulkner, who has died aged 81, was appointed as an assessor toLord Donaldson of Lymington'sinquiry in 2000, and put forward the now widely accepted view that the ship, trapped for several hours in a&nbsp;severe typhoon, had encountered such exceptional waves that they broke directly on to the hatches, which were not designed to withstand such loads. Douglas's opinion, backed by formidable research and analysis, has had a significant impact on ship design and the regulations to which naval architects must work.Coming towards the end of a&nbsp;distinguished career in marine architecture, this episode encapsulated those principal elements in Douglas's work for which he achieved international renown – his concern to find better ways of establishing the true strength and survivability of&nbsp;marine artefacts – ships, submersibles and offshore structures – and by also developing more scientific ways of&nbsp;predicting the extreme conditions to which such artefacts might be subjected, thus ensuring that the risk of loss of life and property could be made acceptably small. His 40-year output of papers and reports, and his many contributions at national and international levels, have ensured his place in the annals of marine science and technology.Born in Gibraltar, Douglas spent his boyhood in various overseas outposts, mainly in the far east, as&nbsp;his father's naval duties required. Back in Britain, he&nbsp;attended Sutton high school, Plymouth, followed by his introduction to naval architecture via an&nbsp;apprenticeship at Devonport dockyard. From there, he was one of&nbsp;the very few selected annually for study at the Royal Naval College, Greenwich, to enter the Royal Corps of&nbsp;Naval Constructors – at that time (1954) one&nbsp;of the foremost groups of warship designers in the world.Subsequent appointments gave him experience in aircraft carrier design and ship production engineering. He&nbsp;spent four influential years (1959-63) at the Admiralty's Naval Construction Research Establishment at Dunfermline, which stimulated his growing interest in finding better ways to design structures, especially of novel ships, that stretched conventional methods to – and beyond – their limits.At Dunfermline, and later at the warship design headquarters in Bath, Douglas became deeply involved in&nbsp;the design of the first British nuclear submarine, HMS Dreadnought. He designed and supervised the tests on Dreadnought's structure during its first deep dive in 1962. After three years as assistant professor at the Royal Naval College, he became structural adviser at Bath.It was during those Greenwich years in the early 1960s that Douglas and I worked together, focusing in particular on the analysis, design and safety of ship structures, which led to some pioneering tests to find the ultimate strength of stiffened plate elements – the basic building blocks of&nbsp;all marine structures. His subsequent appointment to the staff of the British embassy in Washington, followed by a&nbsp;year (1970-71) as defence fellow at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, brought Douglas into fruitful contact with the rapidly developing technology associated with offshore resource recovery. Conception and creation of&nbsp;the novel structures – rigs, platforms, submersibles – required for increasingly deep and more hostile waters, provided fertile ground for "design from first principles", in which Douglas's more scientific methods could flourish.Whereas the process of design of&nbsp;conventional ships has developed over centuries, and was, even in the 1970s, still something of a mixture of&nbsp;traditional art and emerging science, there was no such background of&nbsp;experience with the new ocean structures, for which reliable design procedures were needed urgently. Douglas's opportunity to develop and apply his ideas and methods to these new ventures came with his appointment in 1973 to the John Elder chair of naval architecture at Glasgow University.Shipbuilding in Britain, and not least on Clydeside, had been in such steep decline that naval architecture, with its traditional role in ship design, was no longer attractive to young people, and the annual intake of undergraduates to Glasgow's department of naval architecture had declined almost to zero. But Douglas recognised that naval architecture should now broaden into marine architecture, and by embracing ocean engineering into its title, teaching and especially research, he ensured the&nbsp;survival and enhanced reputation of&nbsp;the department.Until and beyond his retirement in 1995, Douglas and his team at Glasgow made outstanding contributions to reliability-based design methods for marine structures. His early student interest in hydrodynamics was rekindled by the Derbyshire experience and led him into a study of freak waves, for which he became the senior adviser to a major collaborative European research project. The many honours and&nbsp;distinctions conferred on him included election in 1981 to the Royal Academy of Engineering and honorary degrees from the universities of Gdansk and Lisbon, as well as the most prestigious medals to be awarded by marine institutions in Britain and America.During our time in Greenwich, Douglas and I discovered mutual interests in many things, as did our families. With Jenifer, his wife, and their three girls, Wendy, Karelia and Alison, we with our two boys shared their enjoyment, especially in outdoor activities, in which Douglas's adventurous spirit found expression in energetic pursuits such as rope-climbing and mountaineering. He regarded any difficult rock-face or unusually tall tree as a competitive challenge, and was equally adept at a variety of games – croquet, chess and Go being particular favourites. A&nbsp;fierce but fair competitor in play and&nbsp;at&nbsp;work, Douglas was always good and stimulating company.His first marriage ended in divorce, and his work came to a premature end after a stroke late in 2003. But, thanks to the devoted care of his second wife, Isobel, and his daughters, all of whom survive him, in his final years at his home in Milngavie, Douglas was still able to find enjoyment in classical music, and in visits with his daughters to the Western Highlands – a&nbsp;quiet coda to a full and vigorous life.• Douglas Faulkner, naval and marine architect, born 29 December 1929; died&nbsp;13&nbsp;February 2011
Nokia CEO Stephen Elop made waves earlier this year with aninternal memowarning that Nokia faced an urgent 'burning platform' problem. Now mobile analytics firm Flurry claims that Nintendo is facing the same issues in the handheld gaming market, thanks to the rise of iPhone, iPad and Android.The company has published a report today digging into US video game software revenues for 2009 and 2010. The handheld market comes in for particular scrutiny. Flurry's figures show that Nintendo's DS accounted for 70% of portable game software revenues in the US in 2009, with Apple's iOS accounting for 19% and Sony's PSP the remaining 11%.In 2010, however, Flurry claims that DS's share of software revenues fell to 57%, while PSP's fell to 9%. It now bundles iOS and Android revenues together, claiming that they took a 34% share of the market in 2010. "Allegorically, despite Nintendo CEO Satoru Iwata's stated concern that 'these [mobile] platforms have no motivation to maintain the value of gaming' during his keynote at the most recent GDC conference, Nintendo may also be struggling with its own burning platform: Nintendo DS," suggests Flurry in itsblog post.What data is Flurry using for this analysis? The software revenues from DS and PSP come from publicly available data from NPD Group and other industry sources, but the iOS and Android revenues are based on Flurry's own estimations, drawn from data provided by its analytics tools that are being used in tens of thousands of games and apps.Flurry thinks that iOS and Android game revenues in 2010 were more than $800 million, but makes it clear this is an informed guess, rather than hard sales figures. Another important caveat to note is that its figures do not include 'online digital game sales' - a small but growing market on DS and PSP.Flurry also suggests that the overall value of the US handheld gaming market has fallen from $2.7 billion in 2009 to $2.4 billion in 2010, which is unsurprising given that those iOS and Android games are considerably cheaper than the titles on PSP and DS. However, it's the implications for Nintendo that Flurry chooses to focus on. "As iOS and Android continue to change the paradigm of casual gaming, the battle between Nintendo against platforms such as iOS and Android will intensify. Mario may indeed be standing on a burning platform."Flurry's new study also seeks to set iOS and Android games within the context of the overall US video game software market beyond handheld. It claims that iOS and Android took an 8% share of overall game revenues in 2010, with console accounting for 76% and portable 16%. Flurry estimates that overall revenues climbed from $10.4 billion to $10.7 billion between 2009 and 2010.
The arrival of 3D technology into cinemas and now our homes is one of the most controversial aspects of popular entertainment. Some see it as a massive creative leap forward, the equivalent of Renaissance painters discovering perspective; others dismiss it as a gimmick, a means of selling ever more expensive movie tickets and TVs to gullible thrill-seekers. And now, at the heart of this whole debate, is the games industry.All three of the major console manufacturers are backing 3D as a concept (some more than others, but we'll get on to that in a bit) and most game publishers, too, are supporting 3D with their main titles. There's now an interesting range of games available, showcasing the potential for 3D in the interactive sphere, and several massive examples are due out later in 2011.Arguably, it is in games where the tech could really make a difference. While seeing stuff flying out of the screen can certainly enliven films, the ability to perceive depth might actually make a palpable impact on the very nature of game design, leading to environments of greater immersion and a more intuitive navigation experience. Anyone who's ever tried to leap from one platform to another in a polygonal world, like Assassin's Creed or Super Mario 64, will know what I mean.So what do you need to play 3D games at home, and what titles should you try first? With the significant help of James Rivington fromTechRadar,here's our quick guide to 3D entertainment for the interested console owner…What you needA 3D capable televisionThere are basically two types of 3D technology for the home: passive and active. The former requires those cheap plastic glasses you get in the cinema, and the latter uses battery-powered LCD specs. "The advantage of active 3D is that it supports full 1080-line high resolution," says James. "Passive only supports 540-line half-resolution 3D; so active is obviously the better option in most cases." However, if you're also planning on watching a lot of 3D TV and movies with your whole family, then a TV that employs passive 3D tech might work out cheaper.But should you go for an LCD TV or plasma screen? "Plasma is popular with home cinema buffs, because the contrast ratio you can achieve on a high-end plasma is still beyond even the best LCD TVs with LED backlighting," says James. "But LCD TVs have always been very popular amongst gamers because of the added brightness you get from an LCD panel. Plasmas have traditionally had the advantage when it came to smooth motion but LCDs produce a hell of a lot more light, which can make for a more clear and vivid picture with brighter colours – and that in turn can give you the edge as a gamer."However, 3D plasmas do still have a few ninja skills in their 3D closet. 3D TVs suffer from a phenomenon called crosstalk where the left and right images bleed into each other, creating a sort of ghosting effect. The cheaper 3D TVs tend to exhibit this behaviour a bit more than the high end ones but as a rule, plasma TVs have so far been more successful at keeping crosstalk to a minimum."If you've just started saving up for a new TV, keep an eye on the latest models as new features are being added regularly. LG is making grand claims for its "flicker-free"CinemaTVdisplays, which use cheaper passive glasses. "It's worth looking at Samsung's new 3D TVs, which feature improved lightweight active glasses using a version of Bluetooth rather than infrared for signal synchronisation," says James. "And of course we can expect to see more glasses-free 3D TVs this year and next – so far, models have been small, expensive and ineffective, but that's bound to change in time."LG, Sony and Toshiba all showed off glasses-free models at this year's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas and Toshibaclaims it'll launcha range in the UK next year; with the first batch of prototypes the viewing angle is very narrow (you've tried the Nintendo 3DS, right? Same thing) but then that was also the case with the first generation of 2D LCD televisions. We might have to wait five years before displays are big, affordable and viewable from all around the living room.For now, here are three of our favourite models:Sony KDL-40NX713 (£1,000):Converts 2D to 3D, and can be upgraded to full 3D with a TMR-BR100 emitter and TDG-BR100 glasses.Philips 46PFL9705H (£2,500):Does a good job of overcoming the "ghosting" typical of LCD/LED 3D TVs.Samsung UE65C8000 (£5,000):The world's largest 3D LED TV, with a stunning, thin, 29mm titanium-finish frame.Some sets also "upscale" 2D footage to 3D via a process I'm not even going to pretend to understand. Of course, it's more subtle than "proper" 3D, but it works reasonably well on my Sony HX8.If you're not sure, go to a decent electronics shop and try all of this out before you buy.An HDMI 1.4 cable"HDMI 1.4 supports various types of signal switching data which allow 3D Blu-ray players, multi-channel amplifiers and TVs to talk to each other and select the correct modes automatically," says James. "You will probably be able to get a system working with HDMI 1.3 cables, but you may have to do some manual switching – not a major issue really."You can pick up basic cables for less than a tenner, and these will usually do the trick (ThatCable hasan award-winning HDMI 1.3 optionfor a fiver). For high-end 1.4 cabling you might want to opt for theWireWorld Chroma 6or aChord Active(both about £50).But is it worth spending extra on a fancy product, with hi-tech insulation and super-shielding? "A home cinema expert will tell you that it's always worth investing money in quality cables," says James. "Not only is it possible that a cheap cable may degrade general video and audio performance, it may also fail to carry the system data which is needed to keep HDMI-based equipment and 3D systems running smoothly. That said, the majority of casual gamers could pick up a cheap cable and not encounter any problems at all."A surround sound set-upSure, you can play a 3D game without a big home theatre set-up, but you're losing some of the immersive nature of the medium. There are dozens of sound systems on the market, which offer seven channels plus a bass subwoofer. For standards, look out for products that supportDolby Digital Plusor better yet,Dolby TrueHD(7.1). Alternatively, there'sDTS-ES(6.1) andDTS-HD Master Audio(DTS-HD MA)."Many manufacturers are also working on adding an extra dimension of movement to the front-channel speakers," adds James. "So sound could move up and down, as well as left and right. There are two ways to do this; by adding two more actual speakers, or by using psycho-acoustic processing. Samsung, for instance, will offer both techniques in their forthcoming range of home theatre systems..."PC gamers can also listen out for theDolby Axontechnology, which offers spatial 3D to in-game voice chatting. This makes other players sound like they're really in the environment, shouting from a distance, rather than sitting right in your head.The games machinesHere are your 3D options on different gaming platforms.The PlayStation 3If you want to experience 3D games on a big TV in your living room, right now, PS3 is certainly the way to go. Sony is heavily backing the technology (see its dedicated 3D websitehere), which is unsurprising considering it manufactures hardware all the way down the 3D pipeline, from filmmaking equipment, to displays, to consoles. The company has an expert team in the UK dedicated to evangalising 3D to developers; one member of that team, senior engineer Ian Bickerstaff, gave a fascinating lectureat last year's Bradford Animation festivalexplaining the art and science of 3D entertainment and how Sony is helping studios to exploit the technology.Setting up the machine for 3D is simple. Just head to the Settings section of the XMB, select Video Output Settings, then HDMI and finally Automatic – the system will now check your TV and ensure the 3D signal is compatible. Make sure you've also selected the 3D option on your TV, and that your TV is connected to your PS3 via an HDMI cable. Most 3D compatible PS3 titles have a 3D option on the menu – hit that, and you're away.There is already a reasonable selection of games to try. Here is pretty much everything that's been released so far:• Auditorium (PSN)• Call of Duty: Black Ops• Crysis 2• de Blob 2: Underground• Dungeon Defenders (PSN)• Enslaved: Odyssey to the West• EyePet• The Fight: Lights Out• Ghost Recon: Future Soldier• Gran Turismo 5• High Velocity Bowling• Hustle Kings (PSN)• James Cameron's Avatar: The Game• Killzone 3• MLB 11: The Show• MotorStorm Apocalypse• MotorStorm: 3D Rift (PSN)• NBA 2K11• PAIN (PSN)• Prince of Persia Trilogy (PSN)• The Sly Collection• SOCOM 4: U.S. Navy SEALs• Super Stardust HD (PSN)• Swords and Soldiers• Top Spin 4• TRON: Evolution• Tumble (PSN)• WipEout HD (PSN)Coming soon...• Cars 2• Ico and Shadow of the Colossus Collection• Mortal Kombat• Ratchet &amp; Clank: All 4 One• Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception• Virtua Tennis 4We'll follow this feature with a list of the best titles, but for now I'd recommend Killzone 3, the gritty sci-fi shooter that makes effective use of 3D technology – there are times it genuinely helps with the experience, especially in sections where you're sniping distant enemies; the extra depth information really helps to pick them out from the scenery.I'm also enjoying the insane futuristic offroad racer Motorstorm: Apocalypse, which regularly splatters your screen with muddy water and sends buildings crashing to the ground around you. There are some marvellous effects and the game's frantic, explosion-filled gameplay provides a better showcase for the tech than the more austere Gran Turismo 5.And, of course, the PS3 features a Blu-ray player that can play a whole range of 3D movie titles.Xbox 360Although technically 3D capable, Microsoft is holding off on supporting the technology for now. In a statement last year, the company noted: "It's projected that less than one half of 1% of all TVs in the US this year will be 3DTVs. And 3DTVs will make up only 5% of the TV installed base three years from now."There are, however, a few third-party titles that let Xbox owners experience stereoscopic visuals: Call of Duty: Black Ops; Enslaved: Odyssey to the West; Crysis 2; and the XBLA title Invincible Tiger.Nintendo 3DSNintendo's dual-screen console is currently the only gaming system to offer glasses-free 3D. It uses "parallax barrier" technology to send a different version of the image to each eye, creating a stereoscopic effect. The device also features a 3D camera, and comes with several fascinating augmented reality demos that overlay computer graphics on to the real world as viewed through the LCD screen.It's easy to set up and use (you charge it up, switch it on and, hey presto, autostereoscopic fun!), but the console has to be held in a steady position directly in front of the player; the effect is easily lost if you move just centimeters from the hotspot. Also, some purchasers have complained of dizziness and headaches when playing for too long, but most people won't have a problem. The 3D effect can be turned down, and even off, using a slider control on the side.The launch line-up wasn't great, with Super Street Fighter IV, Nintendogs + Cats, Pilotwings: Resort, Ridge Racer, Ghost Recon: Shadow Wars and Pro Evolution Soccer proving the best of a distinctly half-hearted bunch.There are some promising titles on the way though – even if most of them are based on very familiar brands. Nintendo has the submarine sim Steel Diver in May (much better than it sounds) and then The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D the month after. Animal Crossing 3DS, Kid Icarus, Paper Mario 3D, Super Mario, Mario Kart and Star Fox are also on the way this year. From third-party developers we can expect Resident Evil: Revelations, Metal Gear Solid: Snake Eater, Pacman &amp; Galaga Dimensions and Harvest Moon: The Tale of Two Towns. Still no absolute killer apps in there, but a crowd-pleasing bunch.PC3D gaming has been a reality on PC for a couple of years. The most popular solution is Nvidia's 3D Vision, which provides a pair of 3D glasses and all the drivers you need to get the system working on your PC, which has to be running Vista or Windows 7. You'll also need a 3D monitor and a compatible Nvidia graphics card – most of the GeForce products are fine. The company reckons that more than 500 titles are compatible with its technology, including Call of Duty: Black Ops, Starcraft 2, Left 4 Dead and Far Cry 2.Bigpoint, a publisher of free-to-play online games, is also set to support 3D, with two titles, ToonRacer and Ruined Online, arriving this spring.We can also expect a range of glasses-free PC laptops, with Dell, Asus and Toshiba all unveiling models this year.SmartphoneOver the past few years, Japan has seen several mobile phones using the same glasses-free 3D technology as the 3DS, but these haven't made it over to the West. That's all about to change. Two major new Android handsets will feature autostereoscopic displays: the LG Optimus 3D and the HTC Evo 3D. Even more intriguing though are the glasses-free 3D tablet PCs that manufacturers are developing. Toshiba has beenshowing offa 12.1-inch model, complete with an accelerometer that works in conjunction with the stereoscopic display, allowing users to manipulate and effectively peer around the objects on screen.
It almost made sense. After Heavy Rain was a hit last year, and its quick-time event sex scene wasn't a humiliation for everyone involved, there was a feeling that games could do adult content now. Maybe that was what inspired Ubisoft to get behind (fnarr) "adult-oriented party game" We Dare – one of the shonkiest, most ill-advised products to be offered to gamers ... well, ever.For most of us,it started with the trailer, which appeared on YouTube on 24 February. (Theoriginal linkis now marked as private.) Four blandly pretty 20-something models – two men, two women – cavort awkwardly to a clunking sex-funk soundtrack. In just over a minute, every joke you've ever heard about motion controllers looking like sex toys was realised, as the cast pulled their most strained smiles to convey the enjoyment they experienced as they took part in We Dare's cartoon swingers' game. The girls mashed their faces against either side of a dangling controller, almost as if – ooh! – they might accidentally kiss. A boy spanked a girl in order to propel a cherub flying on screen. Then another girl stepped in. It was horrifyingly awkward and deeply unsexy.Not unsexy enough to avoid the inevitable act two, of course, in whichoutraged moral guardiansdemanded to know why a spanking game was being marketed to children. The Mail even found a red-faced father to say, "This sort of computer game will only serve to fuel sexual tensions and, in a worse-case scenario, sexual touching or assault." Normally, Gamesblog would be dead against the moral guardians, but in this case they sort of had a point.Not about We Dare fuelling sexual tensions, of course. I've played the game, and I've had saucier romps in Green Hill Zone. It's a terribly boring, mostly broken mini-game collection, squeezed into a leopard-print thong and told to look sexy. By the time you've been through the tedious menus (you can't search for individual games, but have to navigate through mysterious categories such as "Adventurous") and tolerated the drab bits of smut-related trivia (did you know the first bra was made of hankies and ribbon? Phwoar!), you'll be seriously looking into celibacy. The bobble-headed cartoon characters who guide you through the awkward gyrations of miming dancing or stripping might as well have your mum's face on them, for all the encouragement to eroticism they are.But the marketing was clearly disastrous. Because We Dare's content is as tame as a neutered puppy, it received child-friendly ratings – PEGI 12 in Europe, and PG in Australia. Which left it in a thoroughly non-erotic bind. People looking for console-based sexytimes (even people who like disgracefully feeble mini-games) aren't likely to be impressed with a 12 rating, while publishers (even publishers of disgracefully feeble mini-games) would probably rather not be seen to push erotica onto the kid market.Within weeks, the game's release was cancelled in the UK (it was never intended for release in the US, according to Ubisoft). After all, this was shortly afterFox News had accused Bulletstorm of inciting rapewith sexually suggestive kill names – it's no surprise if a publisher would rather not be the next target for outrage. Does that and the fiasco of We Dare mean that games should keep their hands clean of the sex stuff from now on? No – and with Rockstar's grown-up crime drama L.A. Noire and Mass Effect 3 on their way, there's no likelihood of games putting on a promise ring anytime soon. But hopefully it'll be a long, long time before anyone tries to foist another tarted up box of Just Dance knock-offs and weak Buzz!-alike quizzes on to easily aroused console owners.
Google co-founders Larry Page, left, and Sergey Brin are seen at their company's headquarters 15 January 2004, in Mountain View, California. Photograph: Ben Margot/APA quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Tragic Death of the Flip &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"The most plausible reason is that Cisco wants the technology in the Flip more than it wants the business. Cisco is, after all, in the videoconferencing business, and the Flip's video quality--for its size and price--was amazing. Maybe, in fact, that was Cisco's plan all along. Buy the beloved Flip for its technology, then shut it down and fire 550 people."Google Profit Misses Estimates on Hiring, Marketing Costs; Shares Decline &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"Google Inc. (GOOG), the largest Internet- search company, reported profit that missed estimates after spending more on hiring and marketing amid mounting competition with Facebook Inc. and Apple Inc. (AAPL) The shares fell 5.2 percent."Snide Remarks - Leaving in a Huff &gt;&gt; Eric D. SniderVery funny writeup of the shenanigans at AOL's sites Moviefone and Cinematical.PlayBook: A Tablet With a Case Of Codependency &gt;&gt; Walt Mossberg"RIM also plans to release this summer special players or emulators that will allow the PlayBook to run BlackBerry apps and even Android apps. But the latter, while numerous, will be apps designed for the smartphone versions of Android, not the newer tablet version. It's too early to say how these apps will perform via the special player."I got the strong impression RIM is scrambling to get the product to market, and that it will be adding other features already offered on competing devices for months, through software patches."For instance, although the PlayBook has very nice front and rear cameras, it comes without video-chatting software. That will be added soon after launch, RIM says. The same goes for a video store, even though the screen renders videos beautifully and a built-in connector outputs gorgeous high-definition video to a TV over a cable."On the plus side: he likes the interface, and says it handles Flash very well. Battery life: about six hours.IP Drought begins today in Asia-Pacific &gt;&gt; Andy Davidson"That's it - the Asia Pacific region is the first to run out of IPv4 addresses."This happened following an assignment of around half a million addresses to support the users at the Chinanet Fujian Province Network."Awaiting the arrival of the black market in 5..4..3..Bing's Marketshare Keeps On Increasing - But Not At Google's Expense &gt;&gt; paidContent"The latest comScore figures show that Bing now controls 13.9% of the search market, up from 13.6% in February, and 8% in May 2009, when Bing was still known as Live Search. One problem: Microsoft is still taking market share from partner Yahoo and not from Google."Details, details.Beefing up goo.gl with new features &gt;&gt; Official Google BlogMore tweaks, basically trying to approach the utility of bit.ly. Why does Google want a shortener? So it can track what people are clicking on within social networks that it doesn't own or have access to.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Friday, I'm in love! Worst Cure single ever.
