Software rightsLast week you said that it would be OK to install on a new computer a boxed copy of Microsoft Publisher that had previously been installed on an older computer running Windows XP. I would also like to do this, but always thought that it was illegal.John WatkinsJS:A program normally comes with a end-user licence agreement – or EULA – and the same program may well be offered with different rights at different prices. For example, some programs are free for home but not business use, or free for a 30-day trial, or whatever. You can only find out by reading the specific EULA, to which you will usually have agreed (by clicking "I agree") when installing the software. Sometimes, software houses sell products via PC manufacturers at heavily discounted prices. They may try to protect their main markets by locking them to the PC with which they are shipped, and by forbidding their resale. These programs may be provided without discs or manuals. Sometimes the idea is that you will buy a full (unrestricted) retail copy when you buy a new PC. With retail packages, the usual assumption is that you have bought the right to run it on one PC, and the right to uninstall it and run it on a different PC. The full version of Microsoft Office allows you to install it on two PCs, usually a desktop and a laptop, with the assumption that you will not be using both at once. The cheap Home and Student version of Microsoft Office allows you to install it on three PCs, which can all be used at the same time. Of course, very few people actually read licence agreements. This probably doesn't matter unless the program requires activation against an online server. If so, the program will either activate or not, and if it doesn't, you may be asked to make a phone call to complete the process. Keep going until you get to talk to a person. If you are civil and have evidence that you did actually buy the program – such as a receipt and/or a credit card reference – then usually the call centre operator will activate the program.Forgetful Vista foldersWhen I open a program in Vista Home Premium, I like it to start maximised. Nothing I do seems to achieve this.Peter JohnsonJS:Vista Forums has a good tutorial on this problem,How to Reset Windows Explorer Folder View Settings to Make Vista Remember, along with 41 pages of discussion. If you follow the tutorial precisely then you may have some success, but as it says: "The exact cause of Vista losing its memory on your folder view settings has not been found yet." However, applyingService Pack 2does seem to help.File overloadWhat's the maximum number of files that can be stored in a folder? I know someone with an 8GB flash drive with 22,000 small JPGs in the root folder and it's giving problems!Jonathan MackJS:There hasn't been a limit on the number of files in a root directory since the FAT32 system was introduced with the second release of Windows 95. However, the FAT file system gets progressively slower as the number of files grows larger, and Windows Explorer is not particularly good at handling large directories, especially if you use very long file names. (It's sorting files, calculating directory sizes etc.) For speed and reliability with FAT file systems, it's better to divide files into subdirectories. I try to keep the number of files in each folder under 1,000, and 500 is better. It might also be worth your friend trying an alternative to Windows Explorer, such asthe free version of xplorer²(zabkat.com/x2lite) – you can decline the bundled toolbar – orTotal Commander.Backchat• Stephen Gell wanted to connect his laptop to his hi-fi to listen to BBC iPlayer radio stations. Adrian Lucas adds: "Another alternative is to use an external USB sound card which has a line level output (usually two phono sockets) to connect to the audio system. Technically this should give better results than using a headphone output but you may not be able to hear the difference." On the Ask Jack blog, paddydog takes the same line, using aLindy USB 2.0 Audio Adaptor.• Mark Ottaway had been considering changing the hard drive in his Dell Inspiron laptop, until HDD Health told him it was fine. However, Peter Johnson says: "If you try to replace the hard drive with a larger one you will come up against a limitDell puts on the maximum hard drive size. This applies to systems pre-installed with MediaDirect versions 1 and 2, which have a "Host-Protected Area" (HPA) on the hard drive.• Roy Bennett writes: "Like Tim Heeley (Ask Jack, 30 July) I also am missing my monthly fix from Personal Computer World. I have gone down the digital route and now subscribe toPC World. Instead of paying £23.80 per quarter I am now paying £12.23 per year for 117 pages of good technical information. I have accepted the electronic delivery of the magazine usingZinio Reader. The downside of reading on screen is counterbalanced by the search and highlight facility, ability to email articles to friends, and the ready access to an archive library." PC World is a US magazine with a digital edition: it is not related to Personal Computer World.
The Ashes and Madden NFL are taking up some of my gaming time – the latter really is a massive improvement on '09, although beginners may struggle with the increased difficulty that ends the era of throw and hope – butShadow Complexis the real winner.  Available to download today from Xbox Live Arcade, Shadow Complex is an old-school side-scrolling 2-D adventure/platform game – think Castlevania, Super Metroid etc – with enough graphical beauty to fend off any retro accusations.I'm a few hours in and thoroughly enjoying it. Maybe it's an age thing but crawling through ventilation shafts, finding secret areas and blasting increasingly tough enemies feels almost timeless. The use of the torch to find hidden sections is a nice touch too, although Super Metroid veterans may find it a little too signposted. There's plenty of combat too - unlike movement which is strictly 2D, guns can actually be shot into the screen – but the real fun here is seeing what's next.Shadow Complex would feel right at home on something like the PSP but don't let that put you off playing it on the big screen.But it's not just the on-screen action that is important. Weighing in at 800 MB, Shadow Complex is a long way from the early days of Xbox Live Arcade where 50 MB size limits were imposed. In comparison an average retail game is normally sized at several GB. Shadow Complex sits firmly in the middle ground for both size and content – far bigger than most casual games but not enough meat for a full price retail release.  Could this be a new trend, potentially cashing in on gamers who want a deeper gaming experience but don't have the time for 10-20 hours of a Call of Duty or Gears of War? Will Shadow Complex be the only such "midcore" title? Or will there be a host of similarly sized download games that offer greater depth than the average casual puzzle game but lack the longevity to warrant a full retail release?And then there is the gameplay. Could Shadow Complex herald a return to theMetroidvaniaretro action of the 90s? Or will it be a summer blip, forgotten about when then blockbusters return this Autumn?Shadow Complex then? Bought already? And if so was it worth the download?
Computer art, one of the wonders of the digital age, can be traced back at least to the 1950s when Dr Desmond Paul Henry experimented with a Sperry bombsight computer bought in an army surplus store in Manchester. Encouraged by the famous Salford painter LS Lowry, he produced innovative art spun out of a computer. Since then, the digital revolution has propelled art into new and often controversial areas.You can now view almost every painting in a public gallery in the world instantaneously using a search engine. We take it for granted, but it is amazing. You can buy and sell art through virtual galleries such as Saatchi, read a daily magazine (artdaily.org), or create and alter designs using Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator, which have transformed the graphics industry. It has long been possible to "paint" on a computer screen or tablet using a stylus or a mouse but new applications, led by Brushes on the Apple iPhone, promise a game-changing approach to painting. They enable anyone to "paint" with their fingers on the touchscreen of a smartphone to produce art which, viewed on a screen, is difficult to distinguish from oils, watercolour or acrylics, thereby passing a kind ofTuring test.If the much-rumoured Mac device with a 10in touchscreen includes apps such as Brushes, it could become one of the most popular ways of painting. I have been playing around with Brushes and am surprised how even people with limited natural ability can produce passable stuff. You can expand the size of the screen image eight times so you can paint detail, and there is an "undo" key so you can erase previous brush strokes as often as you like until you get it right. It is the painterly equivalent of a monkey writing Shakespeare.All this is grist to the mill of those who wonder what art really is. It has been claimed that the advent of photography killed painting as a reproductive process, but now that photography has become manipulable thanks to Photoshop and so on, painting is making a comeback as a way of seeing the world as it is, or as it is through the eyes of the viewer. Either way, people 100 years hence may find it difficult to find what the world really looked like today as most photographic images will have been manipulated in some way.The web is awash with people experimenting with new forms, from street art – such as Brian Eno's 77 million paintings , not to mention his Bloom app for the iPhone – to art created in virtual worlds such asSecond Life, where you have to be in the world to get the full immersive experience. What will emerge as lasting art out of all this activity, only time will tell.With painters and photographers we more or less know the provenance. But who should get the credit for art produced by algorithms or random means? The software program, the programmer, the computer or the person who pressed the button to start the program, or whoever had the original idea? Does the fact that you can endlessly change what you paint with Brushes make it any less a work of art than a traditional painting, which may have had lots of layers added before the artist was satisfied? Maybe, as Oscar Wilde said, art never expresses anything but itself. Interestingly, the digital revolution in art has been a largely bloodless one. On the whole it has not displaced existing art – it is likely that more people paint in the traditional way than ever before – but it offers opportunities for anyone to explore. It doesn't have to stay on a computer since you can publish it in limited editions, as David Hockney has done with his Brushes experiments on the iPhone. Or, as is starting to happen, you can print it out on a canvas, thereby making the art revolution turn full circle.twitter.com/vickeegan
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday 31 August 2009In the article below we said that an inventor's prototype for a home wind turbine produced "the equivalent of 1kWh continuous power" in initial tests in his mother's garden. The kilowatt hour is a serial offender in this column: it is not a unit of power, but of energy – the equivalent of 1kW being generated for one hour. In the case of this turbine, what we should have said was, "on average, the equivalent of 1kW continuous power".Professor John Gregg at the University of Oxford is an international expert in the fields of spin electronics, spintronics and magnetic instrumentation. But he has designed and built something for homeowners facing high energy costs: a new-generation wind turbine. He is testing the turbine, which features a standard induction motor as a generator, in his mother's garden in Ireland.It all started thanks to rising energy prices. "About five years ago, the prices got so bad that we agreed we needed a wind turbine to heat the water for the shower," says Gregg. He was "knocked sideways" to find he would have to pay ¤38,000 (£33,000), giving an unrealistic 50-year payback time.One problem, of course, is the wind. Velocities drop dramatically as you come down in height, and planning laws – though thanks to Irish MP Dick Roche, Ireland has good exemptions for domestic wind turbines – make it difficult to erect tall wind turbines in gardens. The high costs are attributable to custom-built generators, invertors, storage batteries and complex circuitry.Question timeAlthough he had initially dismissed wind turbines, an Oxford student's question three years ago led to a rethink. Gregg teaches an electrical power and machines option, including a study of "induction machines" (a class of electric motors).The student's question was this: how can an induction motor work as a generator? Do it with an ordinary motor and you will get out the right voltage and frequency. If you turn an induction motor's rotor expecting to induce a current in the primary windings (normally energised to power the rotor), what you get out varies with the speed."So, pride suitably dented, I spent a long time puzzling out the answer for him," says Gregg. In doing so, he was able to spot a novel – and very cheap – method of using an induction motor (found in everything from domestic appliances to industrial machines) for wind turbines.The electricity generated by using an AC induction motor as a generator doesn't appear at the mechanical speed like an ordinary motor. Instead, the electricity appears at the frequency which would make the total impedance of the generator plus its load equal to zero. All you do is connect a load, correctly switch the primary windings, and turn."Then you'll see a voltage appear on the load and the harder you wind, the bigger that voltage gets," says Gregg. "The bigger the load you put on, the lower the voltage you get for given wind conditions."Wind turbines came back on Gregg's agenda when he realised that hot-water tank heater elements don't mind variable voltages or frequencies. "That's why we can make it cheaply and why it performs well because we are not handcuffed by the necessity to deliver 240V 50Hz," he says.To make the new turbine work efficiently, Gregg designed a patented electronic control method, which draws inspiration from Swiss locomotives. "There is no mechanical gearbox but as the train pulls out of a station, you can feel it 'changing gear' electrically as the field windings on the motor are switched to give maximum acceleration at all speeds. Well, our generator works in a similar fashion."And that is the big advantage here. "Because the generator is configured as a constant power source and acts effectively as a generator and a continuously variable electronic gearbox, the turbine aerofoils operate on the peak of their performance curves at all times, and all the power they deliver is harvested and channelled to the load. So, the diminished wind power that you get at low altitude is used to maximum effect."The wind turbine (which has six-metre diameter blades and a standard 7.5kW induction motor used as a generator) in his mother's garden provides electricity for a heat exchanger tank, which in turn feeds the domestic hot-water tank. "On windy days, the hot tank is pre-fed with hot water so less mains electricity is used. The heat exchanger tank also has a heat exchanger coil that ploughs surplus heat into the domestic central heating system, so saving on heating oil," says Gregg.His early results already show the equivalent of 1kWh continuous power — a useful reduction in his mother's electricity bill. By combining a large diameter blade with an inexpensive generator system, the wind turbine is expected to pay for itself in three to seven years.With his co-inventor Dr Mazhar Bari, Gregg is now proposing a spinout company, Renewox, through Isis Innovation, the technology transfer company of the University of Oxford.Wind of changeAbuBakr Bahaj, professor of sustainable energy at the University of Southampton, has been undertaking the data analysis work for the UK national micro-wind trials funded by theEnergy Saving Trust. A key issue for prospective wind turbine users is understanding their resources."Regardless of whether the wind turbine produces electricity or heat, if the wind resource is poor, the device will perform inadequately," he says. "It is important to consider for a realistically sited micro-wind turbine what the wind resource is, rather than considering performance at for example a 12m/s wind speed [how commercial large-scale turbines are rated] – this is very misleading for micro-wind."It also comes down to the user's usual source of energy. For example, the home heating oil used in rural areas is more expensive than gas, with 60% of the domestic energy budget being consumed by heating."I assume that the market for this device is housing which is not on the national gas network," says Bahaj. "This obviously helps the economics because the heating costs are much higher than normal."As the world invests in renewable resources, every little counts.
Google's ambition to create the largest body of human knowledge on the internet by scanning millions of library books and turning them into a massive digital publishing venture is prompting growing opposition from authors and legal experts who object to its scope and copyright implications.Opponents and supporters of Google's plans are lining up for a showdown that will come to a head on 4 September, the deadline for submissions to be lodged with a Manhattan court that is reviewing the scheme, known as Google Book Search.The court is considering whether or not to give the go-ahead to the settlement of a class-action suit that Google reached with key publisher and writers' groups last October. The settlement, approved by the Authors Guild and the Association of American Publishers, provides for a pot of $125m (£75m) that Google has agreed to pay to cover copyright infringements it had already committed by scanning books online.The settlement would also give writers and publishers the equivalent of 63% of future revenues generated by sales of digital books and other income, while Google would keep the remaining 37%.But several groups and individuals are continuing to protest about the deal, saying that it rides roughshod over authors' rights and awards Google a monopoly over a huge body of work.The latest objection, filed with the Manhattan court today, comes from a Washington-based lawyer and writer who specialises in class-action law and monopolies. In his 47-page complaint, Scott Gant argues that potentially millions of authors in America and around the world are being coerced into accepting the deal without being fully informed about its implications."Anyone taking part in this project should be doing so as a conscious choice to participate knowing fully what they are doing. In fact, people are being forced to hand over to Google some of their intellectual property often with no understanding of what that means," Gant said.Under US class-action law, authors and publishers who do not specifically opt out of the settlement are deemed to have signed up to it. But Gant points out that as an author himself — he wrote a book on the digital information revolution called We're All Journalists Now: The Transformation of the Press and Reshaping of the Law in the Internet Age — he has never received any legal notice about the case.Google announced its plans five years ago, arguing that the project to build up an online archive of millions of books that are out of print was part of its mission to "organise the world's information". It has already scanned at least 7m books, using cameras able to convert up to 1,000 pages an hour.Most of the books, which must have been published before 5 January this year, have come from libraries and publishers in the US. Google has so far struck partnerships with 29 of the world's biggest libraries, including those of Harvard and Stanford and the Bodleian in Oxford.Other opponents of the deal include the National Writers Union and the American Society of Journalists and Authors. Eighteen professors within the University of California system have also written to the court objecting that the settlement fails to protect the interests of academic authors and puts profit before the public's right to information.But the Association of American Publishers, which originally sued Google in 2005 for breach of its members' copyright but has since signed up to the settlement, argues the deal is good for publishers, authors and the public."This will allow the public to become familiar with millions of books that have been out of print and unknown to them or unavailable," said the association's Allan Adler.He said that groups still holding out objections were making a fundamental misreading of the deal. Writers and publishers will still have the right to decide whether or not to participate.The mass of conflicting opinions will be drawn together in the New York court ahead of a hearing on the settlement in October. The US justice department is also looking into the Google scheme to see whether it is in breach of competition laws.A Google spokeswoman said last night: "We're excited about the groundbreaking agreement we reached with authors and publishers last year. If approved by the court, this settlement stands to unlock access to millions of books in the US while giving authors and publishers new ways to distribute their work."Google was founded on the principle of making information more accessible to more people. From the beginning, we've envisioned a future where students, researchers, and book lovers could all discover and access the world's books online.  We believe that this agreement represents a giant step toward realizing that vision."
Bringing together the technological do-it-yourself ethos ofMake magazinewith the emerging development culture in Africa, Ghana played host to the continent's firstMaker Faire, a grassroots innovation conference.Make magazine is from technology publisher O'Reilly, and it focuses on DIY projects with computers, electronics and robotics, with the odd bit of carpentry and metalworking thrown in. It's like a paper version of all the quirky do-it-yourself tech projects that you stumble upon while web surfing or find on Digg. In 2006 the magazine held its first Maker Faire, a DIY arts, crafts and technology festival, in the Bay area of California. The first UK faire was held in Newcastle earlier this year.Practical thinkingThe faire brings hardware hackers and art technologists together to create useful and whimsical projects. The Maker Faire in Ghana was practically focused with Africans from across the continent showing their inventions, including a low-power radio station, a bicycle-powered saw and a simple corn planter.They even managed to solve some of their most pressing problems with little more than a few plastic bags.If you want to get a glimpse into Africa's do-it-yourself development culture, the best place to start isthe blog AfriGadget. Launched in 2006 by Erik Hersman, who grew up in Kenya and Sudan, the site chronicles projects that solve "everyday problems with African ingenuity".Hersman and the other bloggers at AfriGadget have highlighted hundreds of projects. One that caught my eye was awater distillation processthat the Masai had created by placing pipes over the volcanic steam vents near Mount Suswa in the Rift Valley, Kenya. Water condenses on the pipes and then flows into drums. The simple set-up provides clean water for several hundred people and their cattle.Ironically, one of Hersman's first posts highlighted Make magazine, which he described as the US version of AfriGadget. However, he also pointed to the differences between the American and African approaches to DIY gadgets. "What's different about African mechanics and gadgetry is that it's generally made with much fewer, and more basic, materials. Where you might find a story on how to make hi-tech robots at home in Make, its counterpart in Africa might be how to create a bicycle out of wood. No less ingenuity needed, but far more useful for an African's everyday life," he wrote.Bushpunk technologyThe Maker Faire in Ghana helped combine the African and American visions of gadgetry. Conference organisers hoped to answer the question: what happens when you put the drivers of ingenious concepts from across the African continent together and add resources to the mix? The answer is instead of steampunk technology, you get bushpunk low-fi tech.Shamsudeen Napara, from the north of Ghana, showed off the simple but excellent projects he builds in his metal shop. A $10 corn planter based on a pill dispenser helped speed up crop planting, while he also makes an inexpensive roaster for shea nuts — an important cash crop.&nbsp; Bernard Kiwia is a bicycle mechanic from Arusha, Tanzania. He has created windmills, water pumps, mobile phone chargers and pedal-powered hacksaws, all from old bike parts.Some of the projects looked very similar to other faires, such as a low-power radio station set up by Hayford Bempong, David Celestin and Michael Amankwanor from Accra Polytechnic. They built a power inverter from scrap electronic parts and made an antenna from copper pipe.A presentation from theAfroboticsteam was to inspire more African students to pursue studies in engineering, science and technology, andAfrican computer programmers working with the open-source MozillaFoundation — creators of Firefox and open-source email client Thunderbird — came to promote their projects (http.The faire was timed to coincide with theInternational Development Design Summit. Normally atMITin the US, the summit came to Ghana to bring technologists closer to "potential end users of the projects". Some projects from the summit highlighted at the faire includeda method for producing chlorine from salt waterand other readily available materials. The chlorine can be used to purify water, and the summit also showed a simple system to purify large amounts of water. Using locally available materials and no moving parts, it's practical and robust.They also created low-cost batteries from aluminium cans and plastic water bottles. Using salt water as an electrolyte, the battery generates electricity from the oxidation of aluminium and the reduction of water. It will save people money and reduce waste from commercial batteries.Amy Smith of MITthrew down a challengeto teams of attendees. In 30 minutes, what problem could they solve with five plastic water bags? One team thought of using bags in a micro-hydroelectric project. Another suggested collecting the bags to create a pillow. Several thought the bags could be used for drip irrigation or to protect phones from the rain.The faire also worked with the inventors to help them share and spread their technology ideas and to commercialise projects. It's a new take on development, one focused on helping local people solve local problems, and also build a livelihood with their ingenuity.
Things happen quickly on the internet, but even by the online world's lightning-fast standards, the past week has been something of a whirlwind for Facebook. First it spent an estimated $50m (£30m) buying Silicon Valley startup FriendFeed, and then it struck a deal with news website the Huffington Post to create a "social news" site. Along the way it also finished a new iPhone application, a stripped-down "Lite" version and a new real-time search tool.For the staff at the company's offices in Palo Alto, California, things must be a blur.While the sudden frenzy might seem de rigeur for a household name that is rarely out of the headlines, this flurry of announcements is not just business as usual. In fact, it betrays what is really happening at Facebook: that the world's biggest social networking site is trying to take itself to the next level.Some of the company's actions are more prosaic than they may first appear. The Huffington Post, for example, is popular but not particularly mainstream – and it has been using Facebook's Connect service for some time.Similarly, while immediate reaction to the FriendFeed deal largely focused on the eyebrow-raising rivalry with Twitter, those close to the deal suggest it was actually about bolstering Facebook's engineering team with some heavy hitters (the quartet who founded the site are former Google employees responsible for launching widely respected products such as Gmail and Google Maps).Instead, the development that reveals most about Facebook's current mindset was not a splashy acquisition or a media deal: it was the accidental emergence of Facebook Lite – a leaner version of the site that is currently being tested in some countries.Thinking biggerWhen eagle-eyed users spotted the experimental interface and passed on details of its stripped-down look, the headlines again began to crow – almost inevitably – that the move was a rearguard action against Twitter. But while competition may certainly have a role to play, the company suggested it was actually an attempt to build a version of the site for users with slower internet connections.That idea may seem irrelevant to those of us who live a broadband lifestyle, but Justin Smith – who tracks the company's movements on the Inside Facebook blog – says that it makes perfect sense."Facebook, in its traditional version, is not a very light service," he says. "It's a complex code base and there are a lot of things happening behind the scenes every time you pull up a page.""I think that for a lot of users, the cost is actually on the consumption side – either they happen to live in a place with really slow connections, or in some cases they pay by the amount of data they consume. For those reasons, Facebook basically wanted to try and slim things down to make it easier to deliver and cheaper to consume. It makes a lot of sense to make it easier for those users for whom it is a hurdle – in the west it's not a very common one, except maybe on a mobile phone."The focus on users in emerging markets is yet another signal that the site – already surging forward with more than 250 million users – is thinking bigger still.Currently, most of those users are based in Europe or America, but while it is still growing strongly in countries such as the US and Britain — about a third of adults in the UK are now active on Facebook — it is clear that the numbers will hit a ceiling at some point.To counteract this future slowdown, the company is putting more effort into grabbing other opportunities in countries such as India, Brazil and Russia, which present huge new audiences that could keep the site growing even when users elsewhere get Facebooked out.So far, it has all the hallmarks of a big push. Earlier this year the company took out a $100m loan from a Californian financing group to build new server farms, while Moscow-based investor Digital Sky Technologies has pumped $300m into the company in recent months, betting that it can have a big impact in Russia.And two weeks ago, the company's young founder, Mark Zuckerberg, took some time out of a holiday in the jungles of the Amazon to spend time talking to Brazilian audiences. Alongside him was Javier Olivan, the company's international manager and one of those tasked with bringing Facebook to millions more people around the world. He suggests that the Brazilian visit was typical of Facebook's activities when it sees a chance to expand."We're trying to do things in countries where we start seeing traction," he says. "For example in Brazil, where the number of users doubled in the past three months, we want to make sure people understand what Facebook's all about. That's why Mark spent some time there visiting some of the partners and doing some press."The site is also seeing rapid expansion in Asia, with significant growth in the Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand and elsewhere. Growth in China (which has an estimated 400,000 Facebook users) is hampered because the site is largely blocked by the government – but in India there are already 3.75 million users, up 388% in the past year.Already the dominant player across most of the world, the site is now making significant ground where rivals – such as Friendster, Hi-5 and Google's Orkut – have traditionally been stronger.Having such large audiences to pilfer presents Facebook with a massive chance to keep its momentum up, but staff soon discovered that they were turned off by the difficulty of using the site over dial-up connections.Securing a future"The Facebook Lite idea actually came up from just observing how users were using the product in those countries where the majority of people have very slow connections," says Olivan."We thought the levels of activity when they are using the site were so much lower compared with other places – then we realised, by testing the product from the market, that it's just sometimes not as fast as in from other places."It is not the only effort that Facebook is making – there are significant marketing and partnerships taking place, as well as the effort to translate the site into more than 60 languages. But it is indicative that Facebook's executives are taking their future seriously.For them, aiming for the next 250 million users is not just a hubristic gamble to become the world's biggest website – it is an attempt to secure a future for Facebook that lasts beyond the mayfly lifespan of most social networking sites.With profitability still somewhere beyond the horizon, and the notoriously mercurial history of many big websites at the front of their minds, Zuckerberg and his team are hoping that they can build Facebook so big that it becomes part of the fabric of the web – and that means being anywhere and everywhere in the world that they can."Facebook wants to be the pipes that you use to share information with your friends, no matter where you are," says Justin Smith. "If they're able to become that across a majority of sites, that's a pretty powerful place to be: then they'll start being the No 1 generator of traffic – and potentially commerce – to a variety of companies."
Well, the use of magnetic induction currently looks as though it will get some serious commercial use. In this case, we're talking about near-field coupling where a device is charged by resting it on a pad. Beaming power to devices across several feet of empty airspace – which seems to be one of MIT's pet projects – looks a bit further away from commercial realisation.Wireless charging has been a sci-fi dream for several years without looking like making an impact on everyday life. But times are changing. TheWireless Power Consortiumhas just released version 0.95 of its standard spec for review, and it's planning to host some interoperability testing at its next meeting in Eindhoven, in the Netherlands, next month.Perhaps even more importantly, the WPC has announced a logo: Qi, pronounced "chi". It means "energy flow", though perhaps not in quite the same sense as it's used in The Analects of Confucius.The WPC is following the strategy made famous by the Wi-Fi Alliance. For about two decades there were lots of incompatible wireless networking systems, often sold under confusing names. Eventually, a group of manufacturers got together to sell IEEE 802.11a/b with a consumer-friendly name. They agreed on a logo, had some "plug fests" to ensure their products worked together, and Wi-Fi swept the world.Whether Qi will be as successful remains to be seen. However, the backers include Duracell, Fulton Innovation (which developed the eCoupled system), Olympus, Philips, Samsung, ST-Ericsson and Texas Instruments. Between them, they cover a fair chunk of the global consumer marketplace.Products range from the Palm Touchstone charging dock to the wonderful-sounding Electronic Warm Shoes from Fu Da Tong Technology in Taiwan. There is also a clutch of gadgets from Philips – also based in Eindhoven. Take your pick from LED candles, the eSpring water treatment system, a Sonicare toothbrush, and  his-and-hersDual Sensual Massagers.There are also products you will find on the market that are not compatible with the draft standard, which is why training consumers to look for the Qi logo could be vital to the WPC's prospects of success.And Qi's prospects seem quite good. Consumers are certainly not in love with chargers for mobile phones, MP3 players, digital cameras and similar gadgets. Almost all today's devices seem to come with their own charger, and it almost never fits anything else.The idea of replacing chargers with pads that can recharge multiple gadgets wirelessly is therefore attractive.Hans Christian Ørsted, who started this particular branch of progress in 1820 would surely be pleased.
There are few things more satisfying in life than levelling up. That, after all, is what games are all about. As a long-time player, I have a tendency to look at the world through console-coloured glasses. Recently, I had one of those mini-boosts in XP when I was on a train. I had quite happily, furiously, been scribbling in the margins of a document, drawing spaghetti arrows from one end to the other and back again, jotting down incomprehensible notes for myself and scratching out passages of text, when out of the blue my pen ran out of ink. It wasn't blocked, it hadn't dried up: I had used the entire charge of red in my ballpoint pen, from the moment it was first de-capped through to its final stroke. When I realised just what had happened, I heard that telltale little "ding" and knew I had a new trophy for my achievements shelf.Yes, I had managed to avoid the common Ballpoint Challenge pitfalls, like dropping the pen down a drain (lose a life), losing it at the bottom of my bag and half-completing another pen instead, only to rediscover the original pen much later after the ink had dried up (lose a life), and – by far the most common – loaning it to someone for a second, who then runs away with it and keeps it for their own challenge (forfeit game). Instead I had successfully achieved the maximum points possible in that round and had moved on up to the next level.Of course, that was an incidental levelling up, kind of like the experience you get from surfing the web in the Passively Multiplayer Online Game, which distributes points for browsing and awards special badges for using certain sites in clever ways. There are also those compelling life-levelling experiences that you actively work for, that dangle on a stick in front of you, that keep you going to the next stage.Last week I levelled up big time: after an impressive four-and-a-half years of leaping over chasms of theory, dodging methodological concerns and, in a series of epic clashes, defeating the members of the university ethics committee, I finally delivered my PhD thesis to the last keymaster who will unlock my final quest in the Doctorate Game. Although I made it through an unbelievably difficult boss battle, I haven't won quite yet; I still have one more perilous task before I can see credits rolling over the final celebration screen.But before I dive headlong into that one, I'm going to hit pause for a few minutes and make myself a cup of tea. Maybe I'll draw a map of the final dungeon with the new pen I got after beating my last game. After all, the nicest thing about life is that all the little challenges are intertwined.
Just a last piece of business from Sony's Gamescom press conference last night (there was also the unveiling of a PS3 video-on-demand service, of course, but as we should have had that in Europeages ago, I won't be blogging about it)... Sony announced a new range of 'minis' - downloadable PSP games, each of which comes in at under 100mb ensuring superfast download and installation. The first batch will be downloadable from PlayStation Store on October 1. From the press release:"Fifteen games will be available initially, across a wide variety of genres including arcade-style games, racers, parlour games – and a few that defy categorisation! – with more than 50 games on offer by the end of the year in Europe and the PAL territories."Although key publishers are set to provide games for the service (EA is developing Tetris and Sudoku, imaginatively enough), Sony's aim is apparently to encourage smaller scale studios and offbeat concepts. That press release again:"The minis development process has been designed to open the door to a broad range of developers to encourage new talent and creative ideas to PSP.  minis are being developed  by some of  the most creative studios from across the globe from GameShasta, a medium-sized development team based in India, to HoneySlug a three-man team in Camden, London. Some developers, such as Creat, have already created content for PlayStation Network; others, such as Subatomic Studios. are bringing their experience in the mobile phone market to PSP."So then, it's a sort of cross between the DSi Store, the Xbox Live Community section, and App Store? Well, Sony has always - in its own modest way, been a staunch supporter of small studios and grassroots development, from the Yaroze project to thePSN development fund. But will we just see loads of iPhone/mobile-style Tower Defense and Bejeweled knock-offs?
If you ruled Albion, the land that forms the setting of the Fable adventures, would you be a benevolent ruler or a psychotic despot, laying waste to villages and enslaving the population? This, apparently, is the question behind Fable III, which has just been announced at the Gamescom event. From the press release:In the epic story of Fable III, the journey to rule the throne of Albion begins five decades after the events of the last chapter, and you play as the child of your hero from Fable II. As you rule your kingdom as king or queen, you will be called upon to make choices and sacrifices that will test your morality and can affect your entire kingdom. Themes of heroism, leadership and consequence are taken to a grand scale as you fight to unite a divided people."We've spent a lot of time at Lionhead thinking about how we can innovate the gameplay and progress the world of the 'Fable' games for its third chapter, and we're confident that players won't second-guess what we have planned for Fable III," said Molyneux at the event. "Though I can't give too much away right now, players should expect to have to make much tougher choices with far wider consequences than ever before in Albion — and with many more interactive adventure elements."It was also announced that Fable II is set to be re-released as an episodic XBLA download.The first instalment will be available forfreefrom September 29. The download version will boast full compatibility with Knothole Island and See the Future add-ons. It'll also feature the cooperative play element.This is an interesting new use of the Games on Demand concept, and could well represent the next step on from the whole demo concept: get a section of the game for free, then sign up for the rest. For older games, it's also an intriguing way to combat the whole pre-owned market; why buy a scuffed old disc of a back catalogue title, when you can download the code at a reduced price from the publisher?
DNA has quickly become the bedrock of modern law enforcement - as anyone who's watched CSI will know. It's enough to make up the minds of the courts, and to convince the British government to putmillions of people into its database.Suddenly things look a lot shakier, however, after scientistsdiscoveredways to fabricate saliva and blood samples - and even DNA evidence itself, given the right information. TheNew York Timesreports research into falsified results, which appear staggeringly easy - particularly for those with access to an original record (even if not genetic material).The killer quote, from the paper's co-author, Dan Frumkin:"You can just engineer a crime scene... any biology undergraduate could perform this".It's certainly not enough to destroy DNA evidence entirely, but you can bet that thousands of defence lawyers are rubbing their hands at the chance to discredit crime scene evidence in front of juries around the globe.
When United Airlines allegedly broke the guitar of the Canadian country and western singer Dave Carroll,he took revengein a YouTube music video that became a huge hit this summer. The song,United Breaks Guitars, has been viewed nearly 5 million times on YouTube.Carroll wrote the song after claiming United broke his Taylor guitar in 2008. The airline succumbed to pressure, offering to pay to repair the guitar as well as giving Carroll flight vouchers, butin another YouTube videohe asked the airline to donate the money to charity. In that video he defends Ms Irlweg, the United Airline customer services worker who dealt with his case (and whose intransigence he pilloried in the first song), who had apparently become something of a hate figure for over-zealous viewers.Now he's back with the second song of what he says will be a musical trilogy based on his experience.United Breaks Guitars Song 2is a lament to Irlweg about what could have been, had she not been forced to adhere to United's policies. "United sees no need to make anything right, oh Ms Irlweg, we don't need to fight... We could be best buddies, but our friendship has been muddied," he sings.The video shows Carroll, who usually performs with his brother Don as the bandSons of Maxwell, befriending a woman and enjoying a picnic and three-legged race.On his personal website, Carroll says it was a "much bigger production" than the first. It was written in February and filmed behind a fire station in Waverley, Nova Scotia, on 5 August. Fans have been given no indication yet as to the release date of United: Song 3.
Day after day, week after week, we publish plenty of stories, blog posts, reviews, podcasts and videos for your enjoyment. Most of the time it's so busy that it becomes pretty hard for us to take much time to get things in perspective. Sometimes, though it's just nice to take a step back and look at what's going on.In that spirit, I thought I'd take a moment to say how excited I have been recently to read through some seriously quality conversations taking place here on the blog. Although Guardian Tech has had its share of arguments in the past - a few doozies about PC v Mac come to mind, as well as the current "we hate Twitter" meme - the quality of discussion here recently has (I think, at least) improved a lot. I'm not going to point to specific examples, because there have been plenty. But it's enough to warm the cockles of my sometimes-cynical heart.So I just wanted to say thanks, we really appreciate it - and I'm sure you do too.And we're always looking for ways to make things better. How can we do that?Well, for starters, I'd like to talk more directly with you lot and hear what it is you've seen or heard. Of course, you can always leave a comment here, but what if we don't see it? Well, you can ping us on Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts). Or you can email us with tips and links (the convention is firstname.lastname@guardian.co.uk). Or you canshare links with us on Delicious.But how else could we improve things? Would you like to share more stuff with other readers and commenters? Over on theGamesblogthere's a daily Chatterbox open thread. Would you appreciate something similar? Would you enjoy a regular live chat with the team, asking questions of us directly?Give us your thoughts and ideas in the comments below, and we'll see what we can do.
You probably associate the search for alternative energy sources with windmill-loving liberals rather than those chaps at the Pentagon. That could all change now that theUS Navy is trying to create jet fuel from sea water, according toNew Scientist. Through processing and refining, experts are trying to extract the carbon dioxide from the sea and use it to  (here's the paper).
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Yes, Sonyfinallydid it - announcing acheaper, smaller PlayStation 3 model. Given how much it costs Sony to make the PS3, no doubt as soon as it is released in September somebody will do a teardown to find out how much it costs to make. Is it less than the $805 iSuppli suggested it cost in 2006, or the$448 it cost last year?&bull; Remember that decision by a court in Texas tostop Microsoft selling Word after a patent dispute? Quelle surprise -Microsoft is asking for a stay on the injunctionafter filing an emergency motion, reportsCNet.&bull; Earlier this weekTechCrunchbroke the news thatMySpace was looking to buy iLike- an online music service that hooks into Facebook, among others. It's not finalised -AllThingsDreports thatthe deal could be on the rocks- but regardless, rumours of a $20m sale are unlikely to please investors, who had pumped $16.5m into the startup. Are the widgets coming home to roost?You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday 20 August 2009Ralph Marra is the acting US attorney, or chief federal prosecutor, for the state of New Jersey, not the acting US attorney general.US companies and law enforcement agencies are facing fresh questions today about the ease with which hackers can penetrate their defences and make off with vital data about consumers,following the arrest and charging of a Miami manfor what is allegedly the biggest credit card scam in history.Albert Gonzalez, a 28-year-old former informant for the US secret service who helped the authorities track hackers, was charged with conspiring to steal the details of 130m credit cards. The charge sheet detailed a complex history of online skulduggery in which Gonzalez used three internet aliases: segvec, soupnazi and j4guar17, each marking different stages in his life.The alleged fraud was perpetrated through devices that could penetrate computer networks, steal card data and send it to servers in the US and Europe, prosecutors say. The acting US attorney general, Ralph Marra, praised the investigators "in tracking down cutting edge hacking schemes committed by hackers working together across the globe".But computer security experts suggested that the ruse allegedly devised by Gonzalez and two other accused men from eastern Europe was actually relatively simple and that the real question was the failure of the big US companies involved to properly defend their computer systems."None of this is revolutionary or the work of rocket scientists - it's the kind of thing we see every day," said Graham Cluley, a consultant with hi-tech security company Sophos. He added: "It seems to me that there was a concerted effort to target major retailers, and there is egg on the face of these large corporations for failing to protect their data adequately."The charge sheet says that Gonzalez, along with two others who "resided in or near Russia", in December 2007 injected "structured query language", a computer programming language designed to retrieve and manage data, into the computers of companies such as Heartland, one of the world's biggest credit and debit card payment processing companies."Malware", malicious computer software, was used to identify, sort and export information.Other companies alleged to have been attacked include 7-Eleven and Hannaford Brothers, a supermarket chain.The charge sheet says Gonzalez "would identify potential corporate victims by, among other methods, reviewing a list of Fortune 500 companies". He would also "travel to retail stores of potential corporate victims, both to identify the payment processing systems that the would-be victims used at their point of sale terminals [eg checkout computers] and to understand the potential vulnerabilities of those systems".If convicted, Gonzalez faces 25 years in jail. He had already been in jail after being charged last year in New York for allegedly hacking into a national restaurant chain.The charge sheet relating to the 130m credit cards does not say if any have actually been used illegally. But Linda Foley, founder of US consumer group the Identity Theft Resource Centre, suggested criminals may have auctioned off some of the data, and the true scope of the attack might only emerge over time, with the potential to drag in financial institutions, as well as other retailers, as more details become available."Things may go quiet for six months, but the fear is that when the heat is off, they could start using the information again," she warned.Gonzalez, a Cuban-American, was brought up in Coral Gables, near Miami. He avoided a conviction for credit card theft in 2003 by turning informant for the US secret service, but then allegedly resumed a life of crime.Online magazine Wiredsaid Gonzalez, who is alleged to have amassed about $1.6m (£965,000), had been a big spender, including $75,000 on a birthday party.The trial is due to begin next month.
Sony is bringing a new digital reader platform to its PSP handheld console. Launching in the US and in key European territories including the UK this December (other PAL areas to follow next year), the first element of the service, 'Digital Comics', will allow gamers to download hundreds of new and classic comics from PlayStation Store to the console, via Wi-Fi connection. Sony has set up deals with the likes of Marvel, IDW Publishing (which publishes Star Trek and Transformers comics) and iVerse Media, but is promising further content including indie and underground publications.Here's what the press release says about the UI:"The intuitive Autoflow feature allows you to zoom in and move from frame to frame on each digital page, mimicking the way your eyes would move across a print page from left to right. It's straightforward and simple to use, and thanks to PSP's high contrast LCD screen, your comics will be looking better than ever as the stunning graphics leap out from the screen."Of course, this is not the first time PSP users have been able to read comics on their machine...Konami released aMetal Gear Solid graphic novelon the platform three years ago, while several comic publishers have made PSP-friendly digital versions of their wares available over the last few years - mostly for free.No pricing details have been mentioned for the new reader service, and no other content has been mentioned. Surely a literary classics collection along the lines of Nintendo's100 Classic Book Collectionwill be in order?Meanwhile, Sony has also announced two new PSP colours set to be available from November. Are you ready?Turquoise Green and Blossom Pink! They'll be available as stand-alone machines or in game bundles. Sony has mentioned that the Turquoise will couple up with LittleBigPlanet, but no word on the blossom machine's software partner - we're hoping it'll be Need For Speed: Shift. Or Silent Hill: Shattered Memories.
Beleaguered electronics giant Sony is trying to stimulate sales of its flagship PlayStation 3 console with a slimmer, cheaper version that it hopes will appeal to hard-pressed buyers.The Japanese company confirmed today that the new model will go on sale in the first week of September at the new price of £249 – a significant reduction from the current £299 retail price. Sony also said that it would be slashing the price of remaining full-size PlayStation 3 units, although it did not confirm how low the price would go.The new slimline PS3 – which had been the subject of rumours for months – will be around a third smaller and lighter and consume less energy than its predecessor. It will also sport a 120GB hard drive, but will not be able to play old games from earlier console models.PlayStation chief Kazuo Hirai made the announcement at the GamesCom conference in Cologne, in a move widely seen as an attempt to regain momentum in the battle against rivals Nintendo and Microsoft.Although the PlayStation 3 has sold more than 24 million units worldwide, it has not lived up to the expectations of the company's leaders or its legion of fans.After gaining a huge lead over its competitors with the PlayStation and PlayStation 2, Sony saw the PS3 eclipsed by Nintendo's Wii – which has sold more than 50 million units since it went on the market in 2006. Microsoft, meanwhile, has continued investing heavily in its Xbox console in an attempt to unseat Sony.The machine has traditionally struggled thanks to its high price, despite the fact that every console – which originally went on sale for £425 in 2007 – actually loses Sony money. In the past the Japanese company has heavily discounted the cost of the PS3 in the hope that it can regain the lost revenue through the purchase of individual games, a move criticised by some who think it should have produced a less expensive games console instead.The company also said that the PSP Go, an updated version of its handheld console, will cost £225 when it goes on sale in October.
As predicted, Sony has used this evening's press conference on the eve of the giant Gamescom event in Cologne to unveil the new PS3 Slim. The refreshed machine, which launches in the US and Europe on September 1 is 32 percent smaller, 36 percent lighter and consumes 33 percent less power that the original console. The retail price will be 299 euros, likely to become £250 in the UK (unless Sony plays fast and loose with the conversion thanks to the pound's fluctuating value).PS3 Slim will also feature a 120GB hard drive, and will come with the new Version 3.0 firmware. From the press release:"The update adds various user-friendly features such as the "What's New" screen, where users can quickly browse the new items available in PlayStation Store as well as their recently played games directly on the XMB™ (XrossMediaBar), with short cuts to each piece of content."Here's how Sony's press release describes the machine:"The form factor of the new PS3 system features a new meticulous design with textured surface finish, giving an all new impression and a casual look. With the compact body and casual appearance, the newly introduced model will appeal to a wider audience who are looking to buy the best entertainment system for their home."There's a rather telling emphasis here on 'casual' users (did you spot that?), although it's likely that the price cut, rather than the swish new look, will be what tempts more families onto the PS3 wagon. One element that might not please more hardcore users; the "Install Other OS" feature has been removed, so you won't be running Linux on the slimmed down console.Meanwhile, as the recent Asda price drop suggested, the RRP of the current 80GB model will be reduced to the same amount - £250 - from tomorrow.UPDATE:As mentioned in the comments section, there's no re-introduction of backwards compatibility to PS2 or PSone software.
Ok, it wasn't a massive surprise given all the leaks but Sonyhas officially unveiledthe PS3 Slim. The new iteration of the PS3 launches in the "1st week of September" for 299 Euros/Dollars. Or around 250 pounds in the UK. The console comes with a 120gb hard drive and - Sony stat alert! - is apparently 32% smaller, 36% lighter, and has 34% less power consumption. Will it boost sales by similar figures? But it wasn't just the PS3 Slim. The new download only version of the PSP - PSPGo - was also shown off.The biggest Go announcement concerned Gran Turismo PSP. The long awaited racer will be available for a free download to anyone who registers their new PSP Go before Oct 10th. Yes, this is clearly designed to fend off criticism of the handheld's price point but it is good news nonetheless.  The PSP will also see the launch of "mini" download games limited to 100mb in size - think Tetris etc - that are clearly designed to attract more casual gamers and, presumably, those used to buying similar sized games for their iPhone.What else? Retailers and gamers unwilling or too young to have a credit card will be pleased to hear news that PSN cards (20 and 50 euros) will be available. Sony also announced that the BBC iPlayer will appear on the XMB of UK PS3's very soon.What do you think then? Will the Slim tempt you to get a PS3? Will the Go reinvigorate the PSP?
Kicking off for the first time tomorrow morning, Gamescom is Europe's (latest) answer to the annual industry shindig, E3. Taking place at Cologne's Koelnmesse, it's a huge four-day videogame extravaganza attracting all the giants of the industry, keen to show off their Christmas wares before the insane scramble of the festive season begins.As a heads-up, here are eight games likely to figure heavily on the show floor – minus Modern Warfare 2 which is so obvious it's not worth going over again (until Activision provide me or Greg with hands-on code, of course). We'll also be bringing you news of Sony's press conference, scheduled for later this evening, as well as updates and announcements throughout the week.For now though, the current stars of the show...Tony Hawk: Ride (Activision)The latest title in the long-running skate series will be on display, complete with its motion-sensing skateboard controller, which looks like a sort of wobbly Wii Balance Board. Hawk himself will be at the event giving a live demonstration of the game on Friday afternoon.Tekken 6 (Namco)Here's another long-in-the-tooth series looking for rejuvenation on the current-gen consoles. Number six is the first in the beat-'em-up lineage to hit multiple platforms, and looks lovely. With Street Fighter IV proving there's life in the fighting game genre yet, this could be a popular presence in Cologne.Dark Void (Capcom)An interesting third-person sci-fi shooter, pitching a jetpack-wearing pilot against alien invaders. In the Bermuda Triangle. The interesting bit, is the vertical combat system which gives full 3D manourverbility within the environment, sort of like Gears of War mixed with a flight sim. Capom are bringing a 'Dark Void Body Flying Machine' to the event, allowing show-goers to, 'literally blast off in a vertical orientated airstream at 180km/h'. Sounds messy.Battlefield: Bad Company 2 (EA)The follow-up to DICE's successful squad-based shooter adds more vehicles, weapons and environmental destruction to the well-trodden WWII mix. EA is also bringing it's God of War-alike Dante's Inferno and the critically favoured rock adventure, Brutal Legend. Not a startling line-up then, so expect further announcements at this afternoon's press briefing.Final Fantasy XIV (Square Enix)The granddaddy of the RPG scene returns, and like FFXI, the latest iteration is going to be a massively multiplayer online adventure. Set in the vast war-ravaged realm of realm of Eorzea, it's due on PS3 and PC next year with an Xbox 360 version possible.Assassin's Creed II (Ubisoft)Sure, Ubisoft has its Avatar tie-in and the genuinely promising Splinter Cell Conviction on display, but Assassin's looks just as astonishing as its predecessors and hopefully this time most of the gameplay glitches have been well and truly stomped on. Sure, our interest has waned a little since Danny Wallace was announced as the voice of a new character, but we can always turn the volume down.Lego Rock Band (Warner Bros)Two of the world's most financially reliable videogame franchises combine into one mightily intriguing package. Build your own rock group, manager and roadies then rock out to a series of classic numbers from the likes of Blur, Foo Fighters and Europe. Bound to be the unmmissable family party hit of the winter, and the kids will be //all over// this at the event.Uncharted 2 (Sony)There are those who think Naughty Dog's original Romancing the Stone-inspired romp is the finest third-person action game available on PS3, so the sequel is picking up plenty of interest. This time, treasure hunter Nathan Drake is on the look-out for Marco Polo's lost fleet accompanied by his new love interest Chloe Frazer, and tweaked combat and free-climbing mechanics.
Bobbie Johnson stands in once again for Aleks Krotoski while she takes a well deserved break after handing in her PhD thesis as the long struggle to become Dr Krotoski comes to an end.So this week in hot seat, Bobbie catches up with some of the interesting people in the heartland of the hi-tech industry: including one man who is attempting toturn the entire web into your playground, and another who wants totake online maps to the next level.On top of that we hear the latest news - including details ofWikipedia's three millionth entryandthe first mobile phone with Welsh predictive text, and weget back into the lift with James Proud ofgiglocator.comfor another Elevator Pitch.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
What the experience of price comparison siteFoundemtells us aboutthe way Google works.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; After a series of rumours, it's clear: Apple is definitely holding a product launch event in early September - as mentioned in a previous briefing. Expect iPods, not tablets. Meanwhile there's plenty of other stuff going on on the Apple front, not least thenews that the company did not wanttheSunday Timesto publishthis long profile of Steve Jobs(unsurprising given the attention it pays to his personal affairs - not new information, but still not flattering). More intriguing isthis chat between Leander Kahney and Rich Miller(author ofCult of MacandData Center Knowledgerespectively) which examines Apple's possible interest in cloud computing.&bull; According to ComScore figures reported bySilicon Alley Insider, Microsoft'sBing search engine climbed another half a percent in July, at least in the American market. It seems that Redmond's $10m advertising war chest went somewhere after all.&bull; And after thesaga of URL shortener tr.im deciding to close down, it turns out it will instead turn itself over to the community.In a post on the tr.im blog, founder Eric Woodward fires yet another broadside at competitor bit.ly and says that although his company, Nambu, wasn't willing to fund the short links business, he "will personally guarantee any shortfall in tr.im's operating expenses, indefinitely". Huh.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
The government looks ready to ditch controversial plans to tax phone lines to pay for next-generation broadband internet.Labour MPs are concerned about levying the £6-a-year tax on consumers so close to a general election, while parliamentary convention means the government would require support for the measures before putting them in the pre-election budget. The Conservatives, however, have little appetite for a so-called broadband tax.Dumping the plan would be one of Stephen Timms's first moves as the new minister in charge of the Digital Britain ideas announced in June. "When you face a general election you tend to have a short finance bill before the election and a longer one afterwards. It [the levy] is unlikely to make it through the short finance bill without Opposition support and that does not look likely … In that case, it would have to wait until after the election," he said.Asked if that meant the levy was unlikely to happen, he said: "Possibly, yes."The idea of levying 50p a month on every UK phone line to pay for new super-fast broadband surprised many in the industry when it was proposed in Lord Carter's final Digital Britain report in June.When Timms replaced Carter, executives hoped that as he was retaining his place in the Treasury, while also taking up a role within the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, meant he would push hard for the levy. But the fact that the government now seems to have abandoned its plan means that Britain is likely to lag far behind many of its competitors. Other countries such as Australia have proposed using government cash to help build super-fast networks.Adam Marshall, of the British Chambers of Commerce, said: "Both political parties need to find a consensus about how the next generation of broadband will be delivered, regardless of who is in Downing Street. Businesses need sustained, efficient infrastructure investment in place to deliver growth and jobs."Clive Davenport, of the Federation of Small Businesses, said: "The government must secure funding to ensure the next generation of broadband speeds is put in place … This is vital if we want the country to be internationally competitive."Virgin Media and BT have been introducing super-fast networks that allow consumers to download music tracks in seconds and DVD-quality movies in minutes. But there is little economic case to push this expensive infrastructure into rural areas – the broadband tax would have provided several billion pounds for this.Under the Digital Britain plan, these networks would have been open to any company that wanted to use them. The fact that the levy appears dead in the water means that most rural areas are likely to have to wait many years before they see anything other than a basic service.The Country Land &amp; Business Association said: "If the promised 50p-a-month levy is not implemented quickly, the digital divide between urban areas and the countryside will become even greater."The Tories, however, have no desire to support a new tax before an election. They believe BT should open the ducts that house local phone lines so rivals can install their fibre-optic cables. Industry experts do not believe this will be sufficient to push super-fast networks much beyond the half of the country that is already served by Virgin Media and will be served by BT in the next few years.
It's being described as a limited offer, but Asda was today offering an 80GB PS3 and two-game bundle for £250. Sony is almost certain to announce an official price cut for the machine tomorrow atGamescom, a major gaming event in Cologne; the company has a press briefing scheduled to start at 6pm, and according to the show's press site, is factoring in athree-hourpresentation. With rumours that Sony will be introducing a new 'slim' version of PS3, perhaps Asda's 'limited' offer is a means of clearing out old stock in preparation for a whole bunch of new skinny PlayStations.So what will Sony do with the other two hours and fifty minutes of its press briefing? Some think the company will announce a December release date forGran Turismo 5, others foresee a refresh of PlayStation Network, possibly including a European version of the US 'Video Store', a video-on-demand service. We're also sure to find out more about the new motion controller - the announcement of which was ratherover-shadowedby Microsoft's Natal revelation at this year's E3.
Along with Blood Bowl,Monster Hunterhas become a defining RPG-themed pastime of the summer for Gamesblog readers. The co-operative Pokemon-style adventure is almost as popular among Chatterbox contributors as it is on the streets and in the public parks of Tokyo.Last week, a bunch of 'box veterans headed down to the Gathering Hall, a temporary meeting place in London's West End, where Monster Hunters can gather, play and swap tactics. Set up by Capcom in July, the venue is shutting down soon, but it's been an interesting experiment in creating a Japanese-style micro-culture, based around a single game title. There was also free beer.We'd like to see more of this sort of thing. Now that publishers are pushing the community element of their games, it's time they came out from behind their server admins and community managers, and met gamers face to face. There should be FIFA, Rock Band and even Wii Fit hang-outs around the country - and surely theRockstar Social Clubshould mean more than just an online leaderboard.Anyway, regular 'Best of' editor OfficePest, kindly emailed in a report of the Gamesblog Gathering Hall invasion. For those interested in the extra-curricular activities of other readers - or the formative community experiments of modern videogame publishers - here's what they all got up to..."Thursday 13th August was a momentous day – the geekfest known as The Guardian Gamesblog Monster Hunter Gathering Hall Meet Up.Crispycrumb was first to arrive and sat in the window of the Royal George quaffing a pint, swiftly followed by OfficePest, Henrypootle, Lazybones, CommodoreSchmidlapp, Chubster, Smellavision and CunningStunt.  A special mention goes to Lazybones for actually waving a copy of The Guardian in our faces!  The others just sidled up muttering things like "blog" and "Guardian" and then looked very relieved when it turned out to be the right group.After the awkward introductions, several beers were consumed over conversations surrounding such topics as stolen 360s, GWX[A Gamesblog regular and fanatical Nintendo fan - Keith], drunken gaming and CunningStunt's trousers. Then we all wandered over to the Gathering Hall to find another blogger waiting for us – RustyJames!Crispycrumb was the bravest of us and approached the desk admitting that we were, "The Guardian Gamesblog lot".  Thanks go to Capcom for letting us all in, despite only about half of us actually owning PSPs!We all signed in at reception and admired the art on the walls – huge cut-out pictures of the weapons from Monster Hunter.  Apparently they will be giving them away, along with the bean bags, when they close at the end of August – so if you want one, get along there!We then wandered upstairs into the Gathering Hall proper. It's situated over two floors, which are basically big open halls with bean bags strewn everywhere and power points around the walls for those who need a charge up.  Leo [Tan] – the Capcom PR guy was on the top floor, so we headed that way.Leo was a top fella – very friendly and willing to help out the top hunters or the newbies.  We split into two groups and hit the bean bags and started doing some missions together.  Crispycrumb, Leo and I helping out the new bods.Then Crispycrumb and I deserted the newbies and got Leo to help out with some higher level missions.  The rest of the bloggers gave up on the whole gaming idea and just stuck to drinking.  I like to think we helped reduce their stock of beer and wine, ready for closing night.There were several groups hanging around the hall doing missions together, but it was still quite quiet in there – particularly as it got closer to closing time.  Apparently on the first few nights it was open, there was barely any floor space left!  Hopefully it'll be something similar for the closing night as well.We all left the Gathering Hall at 10pm (kick-out time) and Leo suggested we head to a local pub to carry on the gaming.  Unfortunately us bloggers were all far too wasted at that point and just stuck to drinking. Leo escaped at about 11pm with a good few handshakes and thanks from the bloggers!  The rest of us slipped away over the next hour.  CunningStunt's train went the wrong way though.  The state of the underground nowadays, eh?"
A British husband and wife team have been waging a three-year battle to get their price comparison website recognised by Google in a saga that sheds new light on the power of the world's largest search engineFoundem.co.uk directs shoppers to online deals for goods such as TVs or flights, but has struggled since one day it suddenly disappeared from Google search results for these categories.There is no evidence that Google is in any way being dishonest or unfair in the way that it ranks such websites, but Foundem's fight to discover what happened has highlighted the ever-growing influence of its mysterious search algorithms.Many consumers believe Google's search engine works on a formula that was created by founders Sergey Brin and Larry Page and that was that: they set it running and the rest is history. In fact, as those in the internet industry know, Google carries out regular "tweaks" of its algorithm. About 450 a year in fact. When they are made, the sheer scale of Google – it has an estimated 90% market share in Britain – means these can have huge and often unintended consequences.Another example occurred about the time Foundem saw its traffic from the site drop off, when Google stopped returning results for Amazon.com for more than a day. The internet retailer is a household name, so not appearing in Google's results for a time is not the end of the world. However, for a start-up company, getting into Google's results is a question of survival."A typical website in the UK receives around two in every five visits from search engines and obviously, the vast majority of those come via Google," according to Robin Goad, research director at Hitwise UK. "For a site that is selling things like Moneysupermarket or Foundem then it is up to 60% to 70% of their traffic that comes from Google. It is definitely true that if you fall foul of the rules ... it can have a massive impact on your business."Exactly what those rules are is far from clear because Google does not want to give too much information away in order to avoid web developers "gaming" the system and promoting sites that are not, in fact, relevant to users. That would lead users to try other search engines and affect its traffic. Trying to find out why exactly your site has dropped off is difficult. You can fill out an online reconsideration request, but its wording makes it quite clear that Google assumes you have done something untoward and tried to game its system.Foundem's Shivaun Raff explains: "We sent reconsideration requests then started sending emails to as many people as we could find, expecting each time that this was just a failure of process, expecting that once our case was in front of people with the power to do something it would get fixed."But Google insists its search rankings are only ever driven by a desire to make results useful. "We can't comment on individual cases," said a spokesman. "But our systems are designed to produce the most relevant and useful results for the people who use Google search."Where sites are adding little value or original content, they are likely to fall in our ranking. Surveys of our users show that what they most dislike when they search is to receive multiple results from sites showing the same or very similar content."Foundem has been able to make revenues for the operation – which consists of just the two of them and a computer programmer friend – by offering their technology to other web publishers. Foundem, for instance, currently runs the shopping comparison service for the website of Bauer Media's Motorcycle News.To become more well known and achieve a higher position on Google, as more people link to you, of course, takes advertising, but again the might of Google dominates the online advertising market in the UK, which is why the changes that happened in the summer of 2006 to Foundem's scores within Google AdWords platform were so worrying for the company.AdWords allows web users to buy keywords in an online auction environment. When the keyword is used in a search by a Google user, that auction decides which advert appears either alongside or above Google's "natural" search results. It is, however, not quite as simple as that. A web owner could, in fact, outbid everyone else for a keyword and still not appear on Google if it does not have a high enough "quality score" (see below).What suddenly happened to Foundem a few weeks after it disappeared from Google's search results was its quality scores on Adwords dropped dramatically. "Overnight all our quality scores went from excellent or very good to poor and very poor, and our cost per click went from 5p to £5," according to Shivaun.Google's search team had alerted the AdWords team to the fact that Foundem was a poor quality website. As AdWords is the part of Google that has to deal with paying customers, its processes for dealing with potential problems is far more straightforward than in search. Foundem contacted the AdWords team and was eventually able to persuade them that its website was relevant to Google's users. It took a year and then suddenly its quality scores went back up."Google uses algorithmic approaches to evaluate the site quality of AdWords landing pages," explained a Google spokesman. "No algorithm is perfect, so we have systems in place for the review of penalties based on human judgment and user feedback when appropriate. All of our algorithms and decisions are focused on improving user experience."However, it is odd that the fact that the Google AdWords team thinks a site is relevant to Google users has no bearing on whether its search business does. The connection only works the other way: if the search team does not think a website is relevant to users, they alert AdWords. Google maintains that this one-way street is critical: "One of the core principles underpinning Google's web search has always been that natural search rankings [are] made independently of whether a website advertises with us. Both natural search and AdWords make automatic quality assessments to help the ranking process, but each system looks primarily at different signals, which we publish in our guidelines."Exactly how AdWords operates is to be tested in the US courts by a company called TradeComet.com, owner of search engine SourceTool.com, which has accused Google of "engaging in predatory conduct to block search traffic by imposing massive, unjustified price increases" through the system.That case, and now the three-year saga of Foundem are likely to raise concerns about the power of Google, something already worrying politicians in Britain."There is a real risk that Google, entirely unintentionally, could limit innovation simply because of its dominance," according to Peter Luff, the Conservative chairman of the Business and Enterprise Committee."I don't ... believe that the organisation ever seeks to behave in anything but the most socially responsible way – but monopolies will always act in their own best interests, and those interests may not coincide with those of the rest of us."Google is just too dominant for any of us to feel entirely comfortable."Algorithm and blues: How to win with GoogleGoogle's search algorithm relies on more than 200 individual signals to decide what sorts of site are relevant to its web searchers. These start with PageRank, the breakthrough bearing the surname of Google's co-founder Larry Page that measures a website's relevance by the number of other sites linked to it, and extend to measures of the unique content on the site itself and whether the text on the page is replicated – either on other parts of the site or elsewhere on the web – and even whether it is spelt correctly.One problem faced by Foundem is that as a price comparison service its raison d'etre is to pull in information from elsewhere on the web so a lot of the text – such as product descriptions – will be replicated. Google says its users do not want to be presented with a list of options on the site they visit, while the Foundem pair point out that is, in essence, all that Google itself does. Meanwhile, Foundem results are appearing relatively highly on Yahoo and Bing – Microsoft's search engine .Relevance is also crucial for Google's AdWords platform. It assigns a quality score for each bid for a keyword – the word used in a user's search query that will trigger an advert. A high-quality score means a lower cost per keyword. That, plus a high click-through rate, will get the advert placed higher on the Google page than other adverts even though those rival advertisers may have spent more on their keywords. Working out what works with Adwords is very complex and like Google's search system has spawned an industry of people who claim to know exactly how to place advertisers high on Google's results.
The saga of Cyxymu, the Georgian blogger who was at the heart of therecent spate of attacks on major websites, continues with a piece of intriguing spin from Google.Blogger product manager Rick Klau has released a public statement which points out the political nature of the attacks - but also seems to suggest that Google's main objective in repelling the attacks was defending the right to freedom of expression."Google collaborated with the other targeted services... to help identify the origins of the attacks and minimise their impact," he writeson the Google Public Policy Blog. "While Blogger was able to withstand the attack this time around, we hope that governments and companies will recognize the threats to free expression that exist today and will work together to ensure that the internet continues to provide many safe havens for dissidents."While I am a fierce advocate of everyone's right to say what they want, I am interested in the way the company's presenting this story as a successful defence of liberty - and not a more straightforward business decision to keep a valuable service up and running.For Twitter, Facebook and LiveJournal (which did suffer during the attacks) the cost is more likely to be measured more in terms of lost revenue or inconvenience to other users than how successful in defending right to free expression.Am I misreading Google's intentions with the post? Possibly, possibly not. Certainly Evgeny Morozov, the researcher who weinterviewed on Tech Weeklyabout Cyxymu and is referenced by Google, sees it as a presentation of Google's"good corporate citizenship".Is Google being genuine? Is it just presenting a kinder side? Does liberty trump prosperity for any public company?
To those who enjoy the otherwise unfathomable intricacies of NFL, there's always been one franchise worth waiting for and now it's back.Madden NFL 10 is the closest thing to "real" TV sports you can find on a console, complete with sponsorship stings for the likes of Snickers and Sprint so beloved of US networks. This one is the best of the bunch so far, with so much happening in cutaways (from brawling refs to coaches yelling from the sidelines) that it's easy to temporarily lose focus on the plays themselves, which would be a crying shame given how very impressive they are.Graphically, Madden 10 is something to behold; fast, fluidly animated and almost broadcast quality on PS3. Technically, there's plenty to get to grips with, including the new Pro-Tackling system, designed to show off massive pile-ups and gang tackles while allowing your quarterback to shimmy round tackles or pass the ball right up to the moment of sacking. There's even a mini-game for when two players simultaneously dive for control of the same ball.All this combined with improved offensive AI (although there's still a few quibbles in defence), excellent online modes and an improved Franchise Mode that positively blitzes you with content; from team news, injuries and star signings to dealing with the media, setting salary caps and designing whole new stadia. Not every change yields a clear improvement, however. You can't schedule practice sessions before a game in Franchise mode and what you can arrange involves the same plays repeated over and over with no corresponding improvement in stats. Arguably, this may also be truer to real life but it's hardly satisfying if you're stuck with anything less than star players.The new two-joystick control for ducking out of tackles is also unlikely to please existing fans when it's still easier to use left joystick and right trigger to pass while retaining control of the ball. And like the recent Tiger Woods game, audio commentary is still repetitive and disappointingly random – fast becoming a trademark of recent EA sports sims. So no, Madden 10 isn't perfect, but there's so much in there that is genuinely jaw-dropping you have to give credit where it's due. Crisp, photo-realistic animation, better balanced player stats and PSP support for planning plays offline make Madden 10 possibly the best reason yet to take time out to master the intricacies but considerable rewards of NFL.
When Epic unveiled Shadow complex, there was a universal raising of eyebrows, as it was a very different beast than the company's usual fare of cutting-edge first-person shooters like Gears of War and Unreal Tournament.Shadow Complex, instead, is a side-scrolling third-person shooter that looks three-dimensional but operates like the old 2D shooters from the arcade era. It's very much a homage – particularly to the old sprite-based Metroid games – but avails itself of modern technology and contains some interesting new ideas. You play Jason, out in the woods with girlfriend Claire for a spot of relaxing pot-holing. But Claire, impetuously descending into a cave, is kidnapped by a shadowy paramilitary organisation that occupies a vast underground complex. As he searches for Claire, he acquires abilities such as shooting and grenade-lobbing, and encounters increasing numbers of enemies.There are, in the grand retro tradition, boss battles and navigational puzzles to solve – including one involving a mine-cart which nods towards Donkey Kong Country. Emphasising the game's modernity, Jason has a torch, apparently de rigueur these days (Alone In The Dark featured one, as will Alan Wake), which allows him to spot passages that can be opened with grenades, bullets and even foam from fire extinguishers. Rigorously, you would describe Shadow Complex as a 2.5D game: Jason can't move into and out of the screen, but can shoot into it, thanks to an unusual targeting system which adds a laser-sight to your gun (like Resident Evil) and is controlled by pointing the right-stick. This feels counter-intuitive initially, but your brain soon readjusts, and it proves effective.Jason levels up throughout the game, RPG-style, and acquires things like a jump-assisting compressed-air pack. By Xbox Live Arcade standards, Shadow Complex is a big, meaty game – at over 800Mb, it takes several hours to download. If its aim was to evoke the uncomplicated yet satisfying gameplay of the classic side-scrolling shooters, yet add modern physics and production values, then it succeeds admirably. The Twitter generation may look at its apparently old-fashioned nature and sneer, but if they play it, they will find it amazingly addictive.
Shooting Nazis and/or mutants – and, indeed, mutant Nazis – has become a staple of the FPS. There's a reason for this. It's fun. Nazis, as even Quentin Tarantino has realised, are the perfect enemy: evil in obviously human form.The makers of the Wolfenstein franchise were basically the first to realise this and, for this long-awaited sequel/next-gen revamp, they've stuck to that winning formula. The catch, of course, is that so many imitators have popped up in the meantime. Even the last Call of Duty threw in some Nazi zombies in an incredibly popular postscript to the main game. There's a danger then that many will be disappointed with Wolfenstein's steadfast adherence to their proven formula – super-soldier BJ Blazkowicz single-handedly destroys Hitler's SS Paranormal Division – and yes, the likes of CoD, Gears of War or BioShock have stolen some of the thunder.It is not a game that pushes the envelope; it's more the embodiment of "if it ain't broke ..." While there's a slight twist – a Prince of Persia-esque medallion that allows you to slow time, deflect bullets, see secret paths etc – this is still basically see Nazi, get Nazi, flee. This time round, the SS Paranormal Division has opened a parallel dimension known as The Veil, and is attempting to harness its incredible "Black Sun" power into a weapon that will wipe out the allied forces at a single stroke. With the help of the Resistance – including black marketeers who'll sell you weapon upgrades – BJ must stop them. Yada yada yada indeed.But as one of the games that created the whole FPS genre, Wolfenstein will always have a place in this cynical heart. Besides, there's more to this revamp than just a sense of nostalgia. It's tough. The missions are genuinely challenging, wide-ranging and add some enjoyable depth to the standard central plot. The return to Resistance strongholds – to chat to allies, get upgrades, get new orders, etc – offers some respite from the trigger-pulling mayhem, too. Some will undoubtedly claim it slows the game but, after a few hours of fighting enemies that are very capable of picking you off from a distance, lurking in the shadows and attacking en masse, you may welcome the break.I'll also take that "if it ain't broke" philosophy over "unnecessary changes for the sake of change" any day, when it means Return To Castle Wolfenstein's nigh-legendary multiplayer options remain pretty much intact for this incarnation. The only change? You now get to play with "occult-enhanced firepower" as well as the usual second world war weapons. Paradigm-shifting? Not a bit of it. Good, bloody fun? Hell yes.
Sat nav makerTomTomhas launched a turn-by-turn navigation app for Apple's iPhone.The company haddemoed the software and a car kit at Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference in June. This is not a 99p impulse-buy app. The application with maps covering the UK and Ireland will set you back £59.99 and the application with maps for western Europe costs £79.99. I n comparison, the CoPilot Live GPS application for the UK costs £25.99. The cost of the TomTom app also doesn't include the car kit.They also aren't small applications, but one wouldn't expect them to be with the maps data. The UK and Ireland app weighs in at 241 MB. The US and Canada app will take up 1.21 GB of space.However, the app is less than TomTom's own devices that start at about £100.This isn't the first turn-by-turn navigation app for the iPhone, and TomTom has long made its software available for Nokia smart phones running its S60 operating system and also for Windows Mobile devices.TomTom says that the application will not work on the original iPhone or the iPod touch. However, Tom Tom is working on bringing it to those devices.Andrew Lim  at recombu.com took the app for a spin with a home-made tape car kit keeping the iPhone hung precariously from his dash. One small complaint. If you've got an incoming call, the app turns off, but comes back after the call is done. However, we all know that driving and chatting don't mix. (File that in the do as I say, not what I do category.)
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Researchers have found a way to create a new generation of tiny microchips that use DNA - rather than traditional silicon - to achieve potentially revolutionary advances in computing.A team based at IBM's Alamaden research facility in San Jose, California, has found a method for building chips that they believe could eventually replace the current standards for creating electrical circuits using silicon wafers.The technique, which was developed in conjunction with the California Institute of Technology, creates tiny microchips using strands of DNA and carbon nanotubes – microscopic cylinders constructed from carbon molecules.In a paperpublished in the Nature Nanotechnology journal, the team describes a method that uses so-called "DNA origami" – pieces of genetic material which can be arranged into patterns similar to those used in the microchips common in computers and other electronic devices.After creating a scaffold of DNA, nanotubes are then inserted into the design to build a microchip that is several times smaller – and therefore faster – than anything that today's most advanced techniques can achieve.According to the paper, the procedure can produce chips with gaps as small as 6 nanometers. Most chips produced commercially currently operate at the 45nm scale, while cutting edge techniques are able to produce chips that operate at the 22 nanometer level."This is the first demonstration of using biological molecules to help with processing in the semiconductor industry," IBM research manager Spike Narayantold Reuters."Basically, this is telling us that biological structures like DNA actually offer some very reproducible, repetitive kinds of patterns that we can actually leverage in semiconductor processes."With traditional chip manufacturing under pressure – not only from the increasing difficulty of shrinking circuits to keep up the pace of development, but also fromgrowing financial concernsover the high price of producing chips – companies are looking for new ways to advance the procedure.But those expecting a computer revolution will need to wait: IBM says the techniques it is developing are still at least 10 years from becoming commonplace.
It has taken more than eight years and the work of vast numbers of people around the world, but the English version of Wikipedia has finally amassed more than three million articles.The site broke through the 3 million barrier early on Monday morning UK time, with the honours taken by a short article about Norwegian actorBeate Eriksen- a 48-year-old cast member of a popular local soap opera.Although the latest milestone was reached without much fanfare - a short announcement on the site's homepage was one of the few mentions of the breakthrough - it still marks a significant achievement for a project which says its aim is to collect the sum of all human knowledge.The three million articles have emerged through the contributions of more than 10 million registered users, who have in turn created more than 17 million pages and performed more than 326 million edits on the English Wikipedia's database.And while the English version of Wikipedia remains the largest, attempts in other languages continue to expand. The French Wikipedia now has more than 800,000 articles, while the Japanese, Polish and Italian sites have around 600,000 each. The German version of the site, meanwhile, is closing in on the 1 million article landmark.However, growth on the English Wikipedia has steadied since it first exploded between 2004 and 2007 - with research suggesting that it isharder for new users to make inroads with the site's powerful group of administrators.Founded in 2001 by a team including web entrepreneur Jimmy Wales and philosopher Larry Sanger, Wikipedia has courted controversy over the years - including when science journal Nature said it wasabout as accurate as the Encyclopaedia Brittanica, when it was discovered that the site was beingroutinely manipulated by corporate and political operatives,  and claims of censorship amidaccusations that it hosted child pornography.Despite its issues, though, Wikipedia remains one of the most popular sites on the web and has proved an inspiration to other projects hoping to harness the knowledge of large groups of people, such as OpenStreetMap.
&bull; You may have heard of the venture firmY Combinator, which offers small amounts of early-stage funding to budding entrepreneurs - names that have passed through its incubator-style scheme include Reddit, Justin.tv and Loopt. Now founderPaul Grahamis planning to go a step furtherby assembling teams to create made-to-order startups. The first project?The future of journalism, which YC picked because "Newspapers and magazines are in trouble. We think they will mostly die, because we think we know what will replace them, and it is too far from their current model for them to reach it in time".&bull; The result of America's highest-profile prosecution for illegal filesharing - the$1.92m fine dished out to Jammie Thomas- Rassethas been given the blessing of the US Department of Justice, according toCNet. A legal brief filed by the DoJ suggests that thefine was not unconstitutional&bull; If you've ever spent too long surfingFAIL BlogorLOL Cats, you might be interested in thisTimeprofile ofthe company behind it all.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
OneNewsPage.com, the online news service backed by Barrie Newton, the founder of stockbrokers Rowan Dartington, will start offering website owners and bloggers the facility to create live news feeds from the service and put them on their sites. Its "news widget" allows developers to customise their rolling  news feeds – so, for example, the owner of a car auction site could have a live "automotive news" feed. UK-based OneNewsPage last week raised £100,000 in seed capital. OneNewsPage displays 20,000 headlines a day, drawn from 1,200 news sources around the world.
The pressures of rhyming while simultaneously maintaining one's own position as a superior specimen of the human race has led many a rapper into a ridiculous, nonsensical corner. This blog, named after Jay-Z's line in Hey Papi ("No room service just snacks and shit") is dedicated to exposing the most ludicrous offenders and examining their words in literal fashion. Authors Chris and Chris ridicule the obsession DMX has with dog analogies, Snoop's basic lack of geography ("coast to coast, LA to Chicago"), Eminem's neverending use of the word "pee-pee" and encounter new terminology (although it's uncertain who "breasticles" belong to). Amid stiff competition there is also the worst chat-up line possible: "You a big fine horse", which only works if you're addressing a horse.
To most of us, the year 2012 means the London Olympics, but the date always held significance for those who believe that the ancient Mayan civilisation predicted that the world would end around the winter solstice in three years' time. As well as inspiring countless organisations predicting mankind's doom, the prophecy is also the basis of an upcoming sci-fi disaster movie and an excellent excuse for lots of explosions and tsunamis gushing over New York. 2012, out in November, is being marketed via a bunch of websites mimicking the real doomsayers and pseudo scientists. Chief among them is This Is The End, a highly convincing video blog and Twitter account featuring Woody Harrelson in his role as Charlie Frost - a hippy professor attempting to enlighten the planet about the fast-approaching apocolypse.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?It's probably my laptop – a Macbook Pro. It's the second laptop I've ever owned – the first was also a Mac. Going from having an Atari to a laptop changed everything. It allows me to work anywhere I want and send my work home – I can work anywhere in the world.When was the last time you used it, and what for?It's on right in front of me now – it's not doing what I want it to do. I'm trying to connect to the internet and it won't allow me to. It's open every day of my life. I used to think of this thing as being my crack.What additional features would you add if you could?To be honest, there's nothing extra I really want now. I could probably take things away from it, actually. Mostly I'd like to take the weight off it.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?My laptop, absolutely – it will be obslete next year. It was probably obsolete as soon as I bought it.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Partly the fact that as soon as you buy it, it's obsolete, but I think one of the biggest frustrations is that I need it – the dependency issue is frightening.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?My cell phones. I think I have this field around me that makes electronics work bad. It's not like an entropy thing, it happens very quickly.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Wait for a bunch of other people to buy it and use it and make it better. I waited until about a month ago to get an iPhone, for example – and I've already broken it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Wouldn't you have to be a nerd to know what a luddite is?What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I've never bought a car for more than $2,000. I bought this Linhoff Master Technica view camera for like $4,000 – that's probably the most expensive.Mac or PC, and why?Mac. I think the only reason people use PCs is because they have to. Mac is the most streamlined computer there is. I started using the Mac in college because I was doing editing, and they were the only computers we could use to do that.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do buy DVDs still. My last purchase was called Essene, one of Frederick Wiseman's documentaries. Basically a bunch of my friends and I started a club where we're buying every Wiseman documentary and share them.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Are we talking Bicentennial Man here? Am I going to have Robin Willians in my house? I have these plants in my house that are dying, so having a robot butler to water them when I'm away would be pretty handy.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A machine with which to be able to clone myself and feel the experiences of all versions, because I would learn other things – like how to cobble or something. It's not an ego thing, it's just mega-multitasking, so that one version would be sitting at home playing Xbox 360, another version would be writing. Another would be eating, another would be travelling and so on. And one version would be watering my plants.•Cary Fukunaga'sSin Nombreis now showing
With Samsung and Orange launching the UK's first Welsh language predictive text messaging phone on 1 September, Rightmobilephone.co.uk has created "a handyEnglish-Welsh txtspk guide" covering 10 popular abbreviations.It seems you can use OFN (O fy nuw) instead of OMG (Oh My God), and CYU (Chwerthin yn uchel) instead of LOL (Laugh Out Loud).If you want to LMAO, that's CFHYN (Chwerthin fy hun yn wirion), apparently.What they do with numbers (L8R, F2F, B4) is anyone's guess.Presumably other languages have their own abbreviations, just as the French have MDR (mort de rire) for LMAO. In fact, French novelist Phil Marso wrote a whole book in txtspk:Pa SAge A TaBa : Vo SMSDoes anyone know of a multilingual txtspk dictionary? Or fancy starting one?
This month sees the release of Batman: Arkham Asylum, the hugely promising noir adventure that may well put the 'super' back into the super hero videogame. For years we've had to suffer mediocre movie tie-ins, with the Watchmen, Fantastic Four and Spider-Man 3 all proving as useless as the films they were based on. The only truly bright spots (that I can instantly recall at 21.30 on a Thursday evening) have been Neversoft's original Spider-Man title on PlayStation and Capcom's series of Marvel-themed fighting games. I have great hopes for DC Universe Online, but that's several months away.So anyway, with Arkham Asylum on the way and super hero movies crowding the box office charts, which comic book heroes should have their own games, and who should make them? I've come up with a few to get you started; some of these may have made the odd cameo appearance in the distant past, but none have stood astride the current consoles.Excelsior! And all that...DaredevilOkay, so Marvel's blind vigilante exists in a similar milieu to Spider-Man (New York, King Pin, endless neuroses, etc), but image what fun developers could have in simulating his heightened sense of hearing, as well as giving us occasional radar-like impressions of how the cityscape is viewed through his eyes. Also, Elektra. Enough said.Developer:Maybe Epic or Ubisoft Montreal for that Sam Fisher vibe.Swamp ThingAlan Moore's version, of course. The vegetative warrior could be rendered in luscious organic detail on modern consoles, while his ecological battles against the corrupt Sunderland Corporation are so zeitgeist-friendly it's ridiculous. Sort of Resident Evil meets a Green Peace advergame.Developer: Shinji Mikami, Fumito Ueda or perhaps Naughty Dog who've shown their flair for forest environments with Uncharted.Emma FrostThe telepathic mutant who first fought then joined the X-Men. Has enjoyed a colourful biography throughout the series, with plenty of juicy abilities (and glamorous costumes) to build a videogame around. Well, it was either this or Wonder Woman...Developer: Sucker Punch or Radical Entertainment who handled offbeat, but powerful super powers well in inFamous and Prototype respectively.SandmanNeil Gaiman's series of dreamy metaphysical adventures would work brilliantly as a surreal open-world adventure. Each mythological domain could be depicted as an ever-shifting psychological landscape, in which Morpheus must battle demons, serial killers and gods.Developer:Irrational Games (aka 2K Boston) or Bethesda Softworks's Fallout team.Dr StrangeMarvel's cosmic magician employs a range of supernatural abilities and bizarre artefacts to battle pan-dimensional bad guys - frankly it's a crime that he's never enjoyed more than the odd videogame cameo. Just think of what a modern graphics processor could do with Steve Ditko's psychedelic visuals.Developer:Monolith Productions (F.E.A.R) or for the surreal twist Platinum Games, the chaps behind Mad World and Bayonetta.
Probably not even the physics geeks remember much aboutHans Christian Ørsted, although Google's Doodle logo illustrates his key discovery. That is, if you run a current through a wire – in this case, from the battery at the front – then the electricity creates a magnetic field, which will deflect a compass needle.Thus the study of electromagnetism was born, and it's the basis of a lot of modern life: it led to the development of electricity generators and transformers. Remember that next time you flick a light switch.As with many great discoveries, it happened by accident. In 1820, Ørsted, a professor of natural philosophy at the University of Copenhagen, was preparing an evening lecture when he noticed that a compass needle moved away from magnetic north and pointed to the wire whenever current flowed from the battery.Perhaps even more surprisingly, the compass needle pointed in the opposite direction when you flipped the battery round.With an invisible current creating an invisible field that moved a physical needle, this caused quite a stir at the time. In London, the Royal Society gave him a medal, and he was also made a knight of the Prussian Order of Merit, of the French Legion of Honor, and the Danish Order of the Dannebrog. On his death in Copenhagen in 1851, he was given a state funeral.Today, thanks to the wonder of the internet, you canre-enact the experiment onlinein the Magnet Lab at Florida State University.To honour Ørsted, the scientific community named the unit of magnetic induction after him, in what we now call the CGS (centimetre-gram-second) system. Sadly for him, people no longer measure things in oersteds, because nowadays we use an international metric system (SI) that honours people such as Ampere, Ohm, Hertz, James Prescott Joule, James Watt and Michael Faraday instead.We're more likely to remember another great Dane whose life overlapped with Ørsted's, and whose literary efforts Ørsted is reported to have encouraged: Hans Christian Andersen. And while there's nothing wrong with fairy stories, they haven't contributed much to the development of electric motors.
Bearing in mind that the joy of videogames resides in their ability to let you fulfil dreams and fantasies, it's easy to see why the 9 September arrival of The Beatles Rock Band is a cause for genuine excitement.For what it offers is the chance vicariously to experience what it must have been like to be a member of the greatest band ever. Even if you're eternally cursed by an utter lack of musical ability. At the very least, it will let us form Beatles tribute bands in our own front rooms.Over the years, the Beatles' unparalleled musical legacy has been jealously guarded by the still-extant Apple Corps, with the publishing rights to their songs famously pinging around various owners. But all of a sudden, Beatles Glasnost reigns – The Beatles Rock Band will arrive on the same day as a lovingly remastered version of every single album that they made. So is the whole thing a big marketing exercise?Hands-on experience of The Beatles Rock Band strongly suggests that it's not. It is, of course, merely a version of a very familiar, albeit much-loved, party game, but it has clearly had much more attention lavished upon it than any of its peers.The first obvious thing that confronts you is the quality of the instruments: high-quality plastic reconstructions of Paul's Hofner Violin bass, John's Rickenbacker 325, George's Gretsch Duo Jet and Ringo's Ludwig drumkit, with his signature pearl finish (and a fake kick-drum head bearing the Beatles logo). They all look so seductive that you want to lick them; the bass, too, is longer than guitar-controllers usually are, lending an extra air of authenticity.The likes of Rock Band and Guitar Hero habitually receive gentle, incremental yearly updates, but The Beatles Rock Band brings several new features to the party. The most significant is vocal harmonies – this is the first time that they've been supported in such a game.There's a sub-game which teaches you the basics of harmonising, and up to three singers are supported, which means that along with bass, guitar and drums, six people can play at once. Sadly, you can't have two guitarists and a bassist strumming away concurrently (unlike the real Beatles) – there just wasn't enough room on the screen.Visually, The Beatles Rock Band absolutely marmalises previous versions of Rock Band and Guitar Hero: it looks lush. There are visual evocations of the Cavern Club, the US tour which took in the Ed Sullivan Show and Shea Stadium and the rooftop gig, and then things take a more psychedelic bent with Yellow Submarine, Sgt Pepper and so on. The game is split into two distinct parts: the early touring years, then the sessions in Abbey Road's Studio 2 which changed the face of pop music irrevocably.It's an unbridled joy to play, of course: it's the first such game to come with a mic stand, which is handy because everyone's familiarity with the Beatles' lyrics means playing a guitar line and singing along (which requires looking at two parts of the screen at once) becomes practical. Plenty of bells, whistles and rewards lurk within, such as in-studio chatter and Dreamscapes, which add appropriately trippy dream-visuals to many of the later songs. The software includes 45 songs, but vast swathes of the rest of the back catalogue will become available via download. All You Need Is Love will be an Xbox 360 download exclusive, with proceeds benefiting the charity Doctors Without Borders.In short, it's a Beatlemaniac's dream. But let's hope that the moptops' most fanatical fans haven't been credit-crunched, because it will be fearsomely expensive for completists. A £179 bundle will include bass, drums, software, microphone and stand; standalone guitars will be £89.99 each.There is good news, though: it's the first such game that will work with both Rock Band and Guitar Hero controllers. One fancies that a full faux-Beatles lineup will become something of a status-symbol. In my childhood, Beatles singalongs with my dad on the piano were a much-loved form of family entertainment. The Beatles Rock Band will bring such joys to a generation previously unaware of their existence.•The Beatles Rock Bandwil be available for Xbox 360, PS3 and Wii from 9 September
