There's a cliche that when you have a hammer, everything looks like a nail. The latest iteration of the"Wikia Search"project might be summed up as "when you have a Wikipedia, everything looks like an edit". Wikia Search is an effort to apply many of the ideas that underpin Wikipedia to the task of building a search engine; irreverently, ideas such as relying on large amounts of unpaid labour to attempt quality assurance and fight spam.It's important to keep in mind the distinction between the startup company Wikia Inc, with $14m (&pound;7m) of venture capital, and the nonprofit Wikimedia Foundation that runs Wikipedia. Wikia was created by several high-level people involved in Wikipedia to commercialise similar concepts. But there is no significant financial connection between the for-profit Wikia and the charity that is the Wikimedia Foundation. However, Wikia benefits enormously from a "halo effect" due to Wikipedia's prominence and name recognition.The launch of Wikia Search in January was poorly received. In a recent update, many features have been added to allow users to alter the results returned by a search. Items can be rated, added, removed, edited and so on. As systems which aggregate user actions are the grand fetish of a certain kind of data-mining business, this release of Wikia Search was more warmly received. But the ability to manipulate results is not much in the way of innovation for searching.By now it's a standard caution on Wikia Search that it's competing against an incumbent (Google) which is an overwhelming world leader, and very powerful second-tier rivals (Yahoo, Microsoft). With this in mind, it's worth remembering that many other initiatives hyped by Wikia have ended in failure. "OpenServing", a hosting service where site creators kept advertising revenues, has beenabandoned. A political website,"Campaigns Wikia", now demonstrates apathy. An effort to develop a "Blogger's Code Of Conduct" died as soon as the corresponding story faded away (Accusations of sex and violence were bound to grab the headlines, Guardian April 2007).The most successful Wikia sites, their digital sharecropping electronic plantations, tend to be like what can be found on Wikipedia, but with a higher emphasis on material from popular culture (eg, TV shows, movies, videogames).The point here is to note how little success Wikia has had outside of its own niche and area of expertise, which is the near-cloning of Wikipedia for hits and (potential) profit. The operating model is extremely fragile and not readily applicable apart from very narrow confines. But search engines require very specialised skill, which commands a high price. So not only is Wikia competing with entrenched companies for users, it's also competing for talent.One of the drivers of Wikipedia is that skill at writing passable encyclopedia articles is common, and not restricted to a tiny academic elite. And people can be induced to work for free with the thought that they are then like those academics. But that trick doesn't work for search engines, as expertise at writing a decent search engine is rare. The problems Wikipedia has, with incentives for people to slant its articles, pale in comparison to the financial rewards that can accrue to a site which has the top spot in a search on a lucrative term. Compare the amount of money devoted to search engine optimisation with the much smaller field of public relations with Wikipedia.In general, we are poorly served by slogans such as the "wisdom of crowds", which often stand for nothing beyond finding a few popular selections by various types of polling. It may work well for entertainment sites, and business owners are enthused at how consumers can be led to volunteer to undertake part of the process of determining what to sell to a target market. But the idea that these simple systems can be applied to deep value-laden social problems, of politics, or even relevant search results, is like trying to use a hammer to turn screws on the basis that it works so well to hit nails.sethf.com/infothought/blog
Being able to make your own decisions and hold your own views without interference; controlling information about yourself; and being in charge of your personal space - these basic elements of privacy are under threat, according to a new book, The Spy in the Coffee Machine: The End of Privacy As We Know It, by Kieron O'Hara and Nigel Shadbolt, two computer scientists at the University of Southampton.While our offline activities are tracked by CCTV cameras, Oyster cards and RFID tags, the details of our online searches and purchases accumulate in databases that know more about us than we'd tell our closest friends. Many of us also broadcast our lives through blogs and social networking sites. "When one's self as a social entity, with history, with transactions, is all out there, then privacy is not the same old notion," says Shadbolt, who is professor of artificial intelligence at Southampton and one of the leading scientists shaping the protocols for the future internet.As he and O'Hara point out, our attitude to privacy may stem from a lack of understanding that in the online world, the memory of an action will outlast the moment, and that the audience is much wider than your friends and family. Part of the reason for this complacency in the UK is that, historically, our data has never been misused by governments in terrible ways, says O'Hara. "We're far more worried about being beaten up by drunken thugs on the street on a Friday night. We're also quite cynical, and most of us have a sense, for instance, that CCTV data is probably completely useless 90% of the time." (His assertion was confirmed this week when a senior policeman said that only 3% of street robberies are solved using CCTV.)The end of privacy?The authors' concerns are backed up by Privacy International's 2007 survey, which showed a worsening of privacy protection throughout the world. The UK fared badly, with the lowest privacy ranking in the EU - putting it in the "endemic surveillance" category with Russia and Singapore.The power of computers makes it easy to share and amalgamate databases to reveal obscure information. Websites in the US use geographical information mashed with registers of convicted sex offenders to produce maps with markers locating the homes and crimes of any notified rapist or paedophile.A couple of years ago, the hacker Tom Owadcombined Amazon book wishlists with Google Earth data, filtering to leave only "subversive" literature. The result: a world map of would-be readers of subversive books. Clicking on the location of the would-be reader would reveal a high-resolution satellite image of his or her house.When the internet goes fully semantic - and machines can read and understand all those scattered documents rather than just storing them - the potential for computers to define us, undermine our privacy and demarcate our freedom of action will be even greater.Shadbolt is chief technology officer of the digital identity startup Garlik, which is using such semantic search methods to give individuals more power over their information by offering a service for tracking sensitive personal data that can easily be found in the digital world. Garlik has also developed a rather engaging free measure of digital identity,QDOS. The QDOS algorithm looks at multiple presences of an individual on the web to produce a numerical score and a graphic illustration of how networked that person is, how digitally active and how much impact they have.The potential, suggests Shadbolt, is for a new kind of digital psychometric. "People have to be aware of their digital footprint," he says. If you were rejected for a job on the basis of such an assessment, could you prove it? And what if your digital "shape" showed something suspicious?In the US, the Department of Homeland Security has been using similar techniques to visually display data patterns that show links between people, places and events. Last year, it had to suspend the activity, called ADVISE (Analysis, Dissemination, Visualisation, Insight and Semantic Enhancement) on the grounds that it violated federal privacy standards.Nothing to fear?Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs' (HMRC) did us all a favour, in the authors' view, by last year losing two discs containing all of the child benefit database. With half the UK population left contemplating how criminals might use such data to plunder bank accounts or steal identities, it became clear that the "nothing to hide, nothing to fear" line used to reassure us about the merits of the database state doesn't stand up.Shadbolt says the risks of data spillage are greater than we're led to believe: '"If you keep within the law, and the government keeps within the law, and its employees keep within the law, and the computer holding the database doesn't screw up, and the system is carefully designed according to well-understood software engineering principles and maintained properly, and the government doesn't scrimp on the outlay and all the data are entered carefully and the police are adequately trained to use the system and the system isn't hacked into, and your identity isn't stolen, and the local hardware functions, well, you have nothing to fear."But Shadbolt and O'Hara explain 19th century philosopher John Stuart Mill's view that society was capable of applying so much pressure that citizens might be prevented from making sensible or moral choices. Privacy is associated with the autonomy that Mill felt we needed because it enables us to make choices freely. If we value this freedom, say the authors, we will all have to play a much more active role in keeping privacy in place.&#183;The Spy in the Coffee Machine: The End of Privacy as We Know It by Kieron O'Hara and Nigel Shadbolt (Oneworld Publications, &pound;9.99)
In Microsoft's case, range around all the companies it has wooed in the past few years to see whether they would like a tieup; in Yahoo's case, try to placate angry shareholders, who have lost out on what could have been a very good payday. At the last moment, Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, increased the per-share offer from $31 (&pound;16) to $34 - but was told by Jerry Yang, co-founder of Yahoo, that only $37 would be enough.That would have valued the company at $51.62bn, rather than Microsoft's $47.5bn. At the time of writing, Yahoo's shares are trading around the $26 mark - better than they were before Microsoft's offer at the end of January, but below most of its 52-week range, which peaked at $33.63 at the end of October.Microsoft is already reported to be wooing AOL (in which Google already has a 5% stake, bought in December 2005, when it fought off Microsoft), and might use its mighty cash mountain to acquire all or a slice of other web properties such as Facebook or MySpace.Meanwhile Yahoo, and especially Yang, will have to come up with a very convincing reason for turning down Microsoft's offer. This will be difficult, since after Microsoft's offer the open market share price never rose above $30. That means its bid was always at a premium on the shares. And Yang, in common with the other Yahoo directors, has a duty to "increase shareholder value", all the time. How can turning down a premium-laden offer do that?As the lawsuits from angry shareholders begin to arrive, Yang will have to argue that the Microsoft deal would have gone badly wrong. It was half cash, half Microsoft shares, so at the $31 bid those Yahoo shares would have been replaced with $15.50 in cash and $15.50 worth of Microsoft shares. Strip away all the empty keyword bingo talk ("we will be able to focus all of our energies on executing the most important transition in our history so that we can maximise our potential to the benefit of our shareholders, employees, partners and users"); the fact is that Yang's only way to avoid being booted out by pitchfork-wielding shareholders such as Bill Miller, portfolio manager for Legg Mason, which owns 7% of Yahoo (and is its second-biggest shareholder), is to demonstrate somehow that on taking over Yahoo, Microsoft's shares would have fallen in value so much that former Yahoo stockholders would have been out of pocket.We'll await that Powerpoint presentation with great interest.Meanwhile, Ballmer's position isn't strong either. Why start something you aren't prepared to finish? If Yahoo was worth $47.5bn, why not $4bn (or 8%) more - an amount of cash Microsoft has generated since lodging its bid? Neither company looks strong: both look adrift, searching for an online strategy. Expect at least one of Ballmer and Yang to be gone by year-end.
When 3G phones started in Japan in 2001, a BBC report waxed lyrically about how users of "this revolutionary phone will be able to see pictures of the people they are talking to". They reached Britain a few years later, but I have to admit that not only have I never seen anyone using the video facility - the only unique feature of a 3G phone - but I don't even know anyone who has. Is this proof that videophoning is just one of those technologies that is constantly predicted but never arrives?Actually, no. Videoconferencing is now coming at us from every direction except the mobile, thanks to routing calls through the internet - which is free if you have a broadband connection. The most successful net-telephony system is Skype, and if your computer has a built-in web camera you can see and talk to anyone in the world similarly equipped - for nothing. Like so much else on the net we take it for granted, but for me it is still one of the wonders of the world. A few days ago I had a videoconference with someone in Hanoi for nearly an hour - for nothing. Some multiplayer games or virtual worlds such as Second Life also have their own free web phone facility, not to mention eBay - which owns Skype - or community videoconferencing services such as the fascinatingseesmic.com. It probably won't be long before all the social networks such as Facebook, Bebo and MySpace have free videoconferencing as well. Who would want to be a conventional telephone operator then?Corporations, however, prefer high-quality secure networks for sensitive company business. Last week I had a go with WebEx, which claims 61% of the web conferencing market with 100,000 meetings a day. It enables up to six people around the world to be on at once (with their heads showing on the screen). The group leader can, say, put a spreadsheet up which covers the screen, enabling participants to work on it live. It was impressive - it ought to be as Boeing uses it to design parts of the 787 - but then at $375 (&pound;190) a month it is definitely for corporations not individuals, who should look instead to a new generation of startups such asdimdim.comwhich enable you to share pictures, videos and documents for nothing as part of a videoconference. It uses open source, operates entirely on the web and there is nothing to download to your desktop as with Skype. I tried it a few months ago and found it surprisingly easy to use. There is a paid-for enterprise version to help investors to get their money back.But the Rolls-Royce of this market is so grand it is called telepresence rather than videoconferencing. There are a number of players including Tandberg, HP and Sky's Easynet but I decided to ask Cisco for a demo. I found myself in a room with a large oval table. A button was pressed and suddenly people appeared on two out of the three adjacent screens situated on the opposite side of the table, life-sized in high-definition with no lag, as if we were in the same room - so no movement or gesture went undetected. Skype it is not.Their voices were less loud if they were seated further away and, eerily, when I caught someone's eye there was a frisson of embarrassment, as in real life. Spreadsheets and documents can be worked on in a window below the desk. At $299,000 for a basic 3-screen kit, it is not a giveaway but it is clearly attractive to corporations. Cisco claims that in-house use has already saved it $60m in reduced travel and hotel costs etc, thereby reducing its carbon footprint. There are hopes that soon as high-definition television arrives and screens get larger then a similar experience will be available cheaply at home through a set-top box. Doubtless, by then, someone will produce a free version. Maybe there will even be a mobile phone version - but I wouldn't bet on it.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Looking for longevityHow long is the lifetime of DVDs, and what options are there to back up documentaries and films?Chris SzejnmannJS:Commercial DVDs are expected to last more than 50 years, assuming they are pressed correctly on good quality media, and then stored in a cool, dark, dry place. Heat, humidity, handling and atmospheric pollution are all believed to reduce the life of optical disks, based on accelerated ageing tests, but nobody really knows. DVDs that are burned separately, perhaps as backups, could last anything from 20 years to 200 years. However, read-write (RW) discs should never be used for archiving: they are not as stable and many may not last 15 years. According to a study by America's National Institute of Standards (NIST) and the Library of Congress, some could last only two years. There's a summary at The X-Lab:Optical media longevity. Optical media are very variable, but Digital FAQ has published abrand media guide.Discs made by Taiyo Yuden in Japan are generally reckoned to be about the best, along with Hitachi Maxell, Sony and TDK. Some firms offer DVD blanks designed for archival storage. For example, Delkin Devices sells a 300-yearArchival Gold discand MAM-A has aGold Archive DVD-R. Obviously, you should still store your archival DVDs vertically in jewel cases orspecial boxesin a cool, dry place. You should also avoid writing on them, sticking anything on them, or touching their surfaces. MAM-A has aPDFof handling instructions. Even then, someone maintaining a serious archive would want to check sample discs every five years or so, and consider re-copying discs to fresh media.Under the circumstances, the cheapest and best backup of a commercial DVD is probably another commercial copy, stored archivally. Either way, bear in mind that DVD is a heavily compressed, low-resolution, error-prone format, and there might be 80GB or more original data squidged down to less than 5GB. A DVD movie is not equivalent to a master tape. It's just a cheap format that works well for replaying movies on domestic TV sets.Registry cleaningCan you suggest some software to maintain the registry on our PC with XP SP2 installed? Ideally, I'd like to remove any non-essential entries to speed up the performance of the machine.Greg BartonJS:I'm not convinced that cleaning the registry makes any practical difference to Windows XP SP2, and I wouldn't expect it to make much, if any, difference to the speed. The only cleaner I now use with SP2 isCCleaner, which includes a registry cleaner, among other things. It's a free download, but watch out that it doesn't install the Yahoo toolbar as well.Cheap e-reader wantedI'm going to Canada for four weeks. I thought about getting an ebook reader as an easy way of carrying a lot of books, but the Iliad reader is ridiculously expensive.Allan CochraneJS:You can use almost any handheld computer, PDA or smart phone as an ebook reader, so you may already have something suitable. If not, the PDA section on eBay has hundreds of old Pocket PCs, Palms, Psions and similar machines, many of them going very cheaply. I've used an HP Jornada CE machine (one with a decent keyboard) and a Dell Axim mainly for Pocket PC street maps, word processing and email, but the ebook Reader software works reasonably well on a small screen, using Microsoft's ClearType. Also, eReader works well on Palm OS, while there's TomeRaider for Psions and other devices.But first, see what kind of books you might want, as not every ebook is available in every format. Lots of books are available in plain text and other common formats from sites such asProject Gutenbergand theUniversity of Virginia.Fictionwisesupports 12 formats including Microsoft Reader (LIT) for PCs and Pocket PC devices, and Mobipocket (PRC) for Palm, Pocket PC, BlackBerry and Symbian. The main copy-protected formats areMobipocket,Microsoft Readerand PalmeReader.Text Libraryhas lots of useful links.AVG: still freeI've had a message from AVG saying that they are ending their free anti-virus software at the end of May. Can you recommend a free alternative?Rev Julian DunnJS:Yes, you can now download AVG Free 8.0, which was released on April 24. The latest free version is always atfree.grisoft.com. It's free for home/non-commercial use.Satnav or GPS?All the satnavs I've seen allow you to search by postcode or address. However, many organisations provide grid references. Do any satnav devices allow you to search for these?Gren JonesJS:I don't know of any, but satnavs seem to be aimed at drivers who don't want to read maps. By contrast, handheld GPS systems are more attractive to people who do use maps, often of the paper variety. Obviously you could convert grid references into "points of interest" (POIs) and load them into a satnav.There are also lots of sites that let you downloadfree POIs, though you may find it hard to get the places you want. There's a useful conversion site atnearby.org.uk. One solution might be a Pocket PC that can run satnav (eg TomTom) and other software, and also accept aplugin GPS. Does anybody have a better idea?BackchatH Johnson tried Ubuntu but couldn't find a single version of Linux that would run on all his old PCs, due to hardware incompatibilities.Tomas Rawlings says: "I have had good successes with older machines usingDamn Small Linux. It's a 50MB version of the OS that can boot from a live CD or USB drive."Andrew Healy says he's found SuSE Linux 9.3 works well with older processors.&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
This is a really, really beautiful little browser game that will bring a big cheesy grin of recognition to the haggard faces of any 8bit veterans who love blocky sprites and horizontal scrolling.Dino RunfromPixelJamis a sort of racer-cum-platformer, where you control a dinosaur running away from an impending extinction event. You must collect eggs to boost your abilities, while navigating a terrain filled with enemy critters and other hazards. There's a multiplayer online mode as well.The visuals recall the likes of Forbidden Forest, Drop Zone and Gribbly's Day Out. The music, too, is pure SID chip-style magic. Wonderful.
Okay, okay, I'll stop posting about GTA IV after this, but I thought you might like to be kept up to date with the latest cutting edge commentary on the game. Here's CNN presenter Glenn Beck, doing his best to whip up some right-wing fervour by essentially blaming videogames for the collapse of western civilisation. Amazingly insightful - I especially enjoyed the silly faces he pulls as his guest (co-author of the book, Grand Theft Childhood) attempts to address his paranoid, deeply unoriginal world view."By Christmas it's expected to sell nine million copies... The perfect gift to celebrate the birth of our lord," he suggests with pious irony, before pointing out that the game "features nudity, prostitution, cop-killing and murder." Well, the bible has three of those covered, but also adds, for example, incest, decapitation, torture and infanticide. Rockstar has little in its armoury to compete with that.
Just in case you've been too busy playing GTA IV to keep up to date with sales news, here are the figures: the game shifted 3.6 million units on its opening day and six million in the first week, pistol-whipping all previous records to the ground. The estimated retail value so far? $500 million. That's $100 million better than Pirates of Caribbean 3. In your face, Disney family entertainment!Microsoft has muscled in on the GTA IV stat fun claiming that the Xbox 360 version of the game has sold over 100,000 more copies than the PS3 version in the UK. From the gloating press release:Data released by ELSPA/Chart-Track shows Xbox 360 Week One sales at 514,000 copies sold in the UK. PLAYSTATION 3 version of the game sold only 413,000 copies, clearly demonstrating that gamers prefer the Xbox 360 version. Xbox 360 console sales jumped 125% reflecting the popularity of this franchise on the platform.The release goes on to claim that 9.7 million hours of Grand Theft Auto IV online multiplayer have been played over Xbox LIVE, while 31 million hours have been spent playing the game overall.Meanwhile, on the UK game charts, guess what's shot to number one this week... That's right, it's Iron Man: The Official Videogame! No wait, GTA IV.
One thing that struck me at yesterday's Playstation Day event - other than Sony'sincreasingly justified optimismsurrounding the PS3 - was how the PSP has suddenly become increasingly vital. Often overshadowed as a pure games machine by the innovation of the DS, Sony's handheld seems to have finally come of age. There was a stack of interesting stuff of PSP stuff on show. The gaming side was well catered for - the innovative Echocrome was a highlight - but it is in the wider entertainment area that the PSP really shines.First up was confirmation ofGo View, Sony's tie-up with Sky, which launches in the UK on June 30th. The service allows anyone in the UK - no Sky subscription necessary - to download films/sport/TV to their PC's before transferring over to the PSP to watch. Exact content and - crucially - pricing have yet to be finalised and obviously these will make or break the service. But keep it cheap, and flexible, and Go View could be huge.Similarly interesting was PlayTV. Yes technically this is a bit of kit for the PS3 - it turns your console into a freeview PVR - but the apparent ease of exporting your saved TV to your PSP makes this just as much about the handheld. PlayTV will launch in September for 99 euros - which will probably be 99 quid the way exchange rates are going.And there was Go Explore, the PSP's sat-nav system, which launches in June. A quick play on the show floor suggested this could be a viable - and potentially cheaper, though again prices remain unconfirmed - way to get satnav.Finally the announcement that older PSP games will soon be available for download to memory stick will be welcomed by anyone who hates those UMD loading times. So there we go. Connectivity with the PS3 and a host of exciting software services - the PSP has suddenly become very interesting indeed. Sold? Or sticking with your DS?
The odds are not good. Nine out of every 10 internet startups that pitch to Ido Sarig leave empty-handed. Even those that make it to a second interview are unlikely to persuade him to provide funding. He estimates that just 1% have a product that makes him want to invest.If it's tough for US internet companies to get buy-in from people like Sarig – whose Intercept Ventures plans to invest around $170m over the next four years – it's even harder for firms from Britain, where such venture capitalists are hard to find. After all, Silicon Valley investors get to hear about the next big thing while playing golf in Palo Alto: why should they cross the Atlantic to look for talent?"If I was working there I would think all the good stuff happens there," says David Courtier-Dutton, a British internet entrepreneur. "How many UK companies have made more than a ripple? Friends Reunited, Bebo …" He pauses. "I'm running out now."Since the moneymen have no need to look abroad for talent, Courtier-Dutton and the owners of 19 other British startups brought their wares to California in a trip dubbed Web Mission 2008. If Highway 101 – the Silicon Valley freeway that connects firms like Google and Facebook – really is paved with gold then this was their chance to grab a piece.Hub of the web"It doesn't take a genius to work out that the valley is the hub of the web," says Oli Barrett, who organised the trip using funding from the Foreign Office, sponsors and the startups themselves.Among them was Oxford graduate David Langer, who startedGroupspacesafter becoming frustrated with the lack of good online tools to support university clubs. His site, founded with fellow graduate Andy Young, aims to make life simple for club owners. It manages lists of members, handles invites to events and meshes with social networks such as Facebook.In jeans and a slightly crumpled white shirt, Langer looked very much the recent graduate as he stood up to pitch. Most of the entrepreneurs used buzzword-laden presentations and reeled off the list of awards their site had won. Young mentioned his table tennis experience (he represented England at junior level).But his relative lack of business knowhow did not seem to matter much. Young and Langer had already secured initial funding back home, but received two investment offers worth hundreds of thousands of dollars during Web Mission.Courtier-Dutton's music siteSlicethepiealso attracted attention. Bands who sign up to the site have their music reviewed by users, who can then choose to buy shares in groups they like. For unsigned bands, it's a way of raising money. For fans, those shares can turn a profit if a record company decides to sign the band.Slicethepie was one of the more mature sites on the trip, having already secured over £1m in funding from British investors. But Courtier-Dutton says he had offers of more during the week he was in California and, equally importantly, got to meet key people behind social networking sites.Halo effectHe attributes that in part to the "halo" effect created by Jim Buckmaster, CEO of Craigslist, one of Web Mission's high-profile supporters.Buckmaster invited the entrepreneurs, as well as potential investors, to brunch the day after they arrived. One side of his house looks out across San Francisco's historic Alamo Square and out back is a view across the city up to Haight and Ashbury, the centre of the famous sixties hippy scene. It's not a bad setting in which to make a pitch.Michael Birch, who as founder of the social networking site Bebo has the relaxed air of someone who is about to cash in, added more Silicon Valley glamour to the trip. His company is often touted as a symbol of British web success, but while Birch is a Brit, he developed Bebo from an attic office of a building close to Buckmaster's.Nonetheless, the reflected glow from a man who is in the process of selling his company for a reported $850m helped cast the other site owners in a flattering light. It also motivated them."What happened with Bebo is unbelievable," says Peter Ward, director ofWhere Are You Now?, a travel-themed social networking site. "Can you tell me any other way of earning millions of pounds in three years?"Still, despite the attentions of some of the Valley's most wanted, the Web Mission entrepreneurs had their work cut out.Sarig, who says he hears five pitches a week, left before half of the firms had a chance to make their five-minute presentations. Afterwards he was lukewarm with his praise, describing some of the companies as "interesting" and others as "ho-hum".
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
A feast for the ears (if your ears eat): the latest Tech Weekly podcast is up, and comes from Edinburgh, where the sun always shines and everything is perfect. Can't think why we (well, Jemima and Aleks) didn't go before. There are people who can play the saw with a violin. Beat that, Jimmy Page!Go to the page and listen or download it... We also looked at the question of what next for Yahoo, and especially Jerry Yang. Can he hold on? Is Microsoft off the hook?·The podcast feed URL·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·Visit our Facebook group·The Tech Weekly archives
QXL(pron. "quick sell" - geddit?) has announced that it's shutting its UK site as of May 30, and will not accept any more listings after May 9; your last day to bid or buy will be May 19.And so draws to an end 11 years of the dream that had been fostered - that a British-built company might be able to take on the rest of the dot-com world. Founded in 1997, just as everyone was hearing about this "internet" thing, by the FT and former Independent journalist Tim Jackson, QXL had a meteoric rise to fame, partly because journalists like writing about other journalists, but also because it was having a tussle with eBay (which had been founded two years earlier, in September 1995), even though the latter didn't appear in the UK until October 1999. (eBay dates drawn fromWikipedia, since eBay's own history doesn't seem to rank high enough to appear in Google's results. But I got a nice bid on a historic chest of drawers.)Ah, those were the days - when Hugh Scully (yes, him) could be part of a "£3m deal" in whichjoined the internet auction house QXL.com to host their website.The £3m deal will see Scully, who has fronted the popular BBC programme Antiques Roadshow alone since Arthur Negus retired 1983, help launch the cyber firm's new valuation service.Just as on his Sunday night slot, Scully will oversee antiques experts offering their opinions on a range of heirlooms and bric a brac.(We just aren't sure how much of the £3m Hugh saw, that's all. Enlighten us in the comments, Hugh.)QXL floated on the stock exchange, was briefly worth £2bn - making Jackson worth (on paper) £272m. (This led to the mostastonishingpredictable outbreak of envy among every journalist who had ever known Jackson, as though they could all have had the idea if they'd only been given a few hours' respite from writing stories.)The arrival of eBay was bad news for QXL, which tried to eke out a niche but couldn't win the mindshare - or clickshare. And after the dot-com crash, when its shares joined the "99% club" (they lost 99% of their value and became almost impossible to trade), there was a complex back-and-forth ofacquisitions and management hassles. The shares actually recovered well in 2005, until in December 2007 it was sold for £946m - that is, £18 per share (which would have made Jackson's earlier share worth £130m or so) to to Naspers, a subsidiary of a media company based in South Africa, and changed its name toTradus.Still, Tradus is still busy, operating in (deep breath) Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark, Hungary, Norway, Romania, Russia, Poland, Slovakia, Switzerland and Ukraine. In March, Tradus also acquired Moonfish Media, which operates online auction and classified businesses in Estonia and Lithuania. So that's the eastern European and Scandinavian markets spoken for.And why is QXL/Tradus/whichever withdrawing from the UK? No explanation in the message; it just is. One might guess though that "difficult trading conditions" caused by the near-monopoly of a rival American site had something to do with it.
One of the themes that emerged atGameCamp08this weekend in London was how inspiration from new and unusual places could be incorporated into game design. There wasGobion Rowlands' andMargaret Robertson's talk about incorporating religion and religious themes into games (see the Mormon-orientedDogs in the Vineyard*), andTom Armitage's presentation about whya Massively Multiplayer Online Game based on Jane Austen could work.We have discussed this at length before on this blog, from taking inspiration in thepoetry of Emily Dickinsonto transformingour favourite readsinto interactive entertainments. It's good to hear that others are thinking about it too. A game based upon the songs of Elvis Presley is surely only around the corner.On a related note, Hugh Hancock from machinima-makersStrange Companyhas dropped a line to announce his latest project,When We Two Parted, a film based on theByronpoem.*cheers for the heads-up,Ren!
Microsoft has announced a new freeSave as Daisy XMLadd-in for Word 2007, Word 2003 and Word XP, to support theDaisystandard for creating texts for blind and partially-sighted users.Daisy stands forDigitalAccessibleInformationSYstem. It lets you: produce a structured Digital Talking Book; synchronize an electronic text file with an audio file; generate an electronic braille version; and create a digital text that can be read using a Daisy player with a braille display or speech synthesizer. A Daisy player could be a PC or, if you have a recorded text, a suitableportable CD player. (Anybody who needs something useful to do could work on the shockingly inadequateWikipedia page.)Books in theRNIB's Talking Book Servicelibrary are in Daisy format.Microsoft also provides free Daisy Pipeline software, which converts a Daisy XML file to the Digital Talking Book (DTB) format.The Daisy XML converter is open source, and available fromhttp://www.openxmlcommunity.org/daisy/(Well, the code is atSourceForge.)One of the key reasons for moving from closed binary Microsoft Office formats to XML formats is that it makes this kind of machine reprocessing far easier....A Daisy Player from techready.co.uk
Welcome to the future: a wire-free world of sensors and hi-tech cars, according to research published today by media regulator Ofcom.The report, called Tomorrow's Wireless World, outlines a number of areas in health and transport where wireless technology could have a decisive impact.In healthcare, for example, the report suggests the mainstream adoption of so-called Body Area Networks (BANs) - batches of sensors arranged on an individual which can monitor vital changes in the body and feed back information to hospitals or doctors.And in transport, Ofcom envisions the widespread deployment of in-flight broadband services, as well as the use of new wireless technologies on trains, buses and cars. Among those proposed for imminent arrival is the intelligent transport system, a long-promised technology which allows cars talk to each other to improve safety."This technology allows cars to communicate wireless and seamlessly with each other to automatically alert a vehicle of sudden braking to help avoid collisions - some could even include automatic braking in the future," said the report. "This technology is currently being developed by many of the major car manufacturers around the world and could be fitted to vehicles by 2015."The report also predicts the continued growth and increasing complexity of RFID cards, such as the Oyster transport card used by travellers in London. It suggests that such systems will spread elsewhere and eventually provide greater amounts of information for passengers.Many of the technologies mentioned in the report have already been deployed, but some have gone even further. Engineers at IBM have worked on a system which uses the body itselfas a conduit for data, and General Motors - the US car giant - is working with researchers at Carnegie Mellon University todevelop a fully-automated car, nicknamed The Boss."This report demonstrates the many creative ways the radio spectrum can be used for the benefit of UK citizens and consumers," said Peter Ingram, Ofcom's chief technology officer.
For Jerry Yang, July 3 will loom very large in his diary. That is the date that Yahoo, the online giant he co-founded 14 years ago, has set for its annual shareholder meeting and he will face investors dismayed and angry at the weekend's rejection of a last-minute $47.5bn (&pound;24bn) offer from Microsoft.The next eight weeks are crucial. If Yang arrives at the meeting without a deal with another player, a concrete plan for reviving the firm's fortunes or at least a promise to hand some of the firm's cash back to shareholders, Wall Street will "flay him alive" according to one industry insider yesterday.Yang may even be facing a direct challenge to his leadership of the business. Under Yahoo's bylaws, nominations to the board of directors must be received by May 15 and at least one group of activist investors is looking to mount a fight.Eric Jackson, a Florida-based fund manager who is waging a grassroots investor campaign against Yang, said yesterday he was aware of the deadline and in "active discussions" with other investors.Wall Street analysts were yesterday poring over the future of Yahoo and coming up with a limited range of options for the company. These break down into: buying or forming a partnership with another major online player to increase audience reach and advertising revenues; sweating it out and focusing hard on the tough three-year goals Yang set the business during the three-month bid battle; and getting back into talks with Microsoft.Top of many investors' lists yesterday was the latter option. Yang has made it plain since Saturday's fateful meeting with Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer in Seattle, at which he rejected the firm's increased $33-a-share bid, that he had "mixed feelings" about the ending of talks and he is not opposed to a deal with anyone at the right price. Having plunged 15% on Monday, shares in Yahoo were up more than 4% yesterday on hopes the two sides would get back together.But Jean-Philippe Courtois, president of Microsoft International, seemed to shoot down the possibility of the software group returning when he said the collapse of talks was "the end of the story". Some of the bankers involved in the deal, however, have been suggesting that the talks collapsed purely because of the personalities involved and not the financial realities of the situation.In the lucrative online search advertising market, Google is the dominant player and there is no other company that either Microsoft or Yahoo can work with - other than each other - that will provide them with enough scale to compete. And Google is getting more powerful as time goes on.In March last year, Google had 53.7% of all internet searches in the US and Yahoo secured 21.8%. In the same month this year, Google had gained share - to 58.7% - while Yahoo had gone backwards - to 18.1% - according to Nielsen Online. Microsoft gained share over the same period, but is very firmly in third place, with 12% this year compared with 10.1%.Yahoo's position within the market has been weakened by the fact that it has spent much of the past two years focusing on technology, building its Panama platform, which enables advertisers to bid on search terms, while Google has been steadily building its share of internet users.But having pumped well over $150m into its technology, Yahoo is now looking to get out of search altogether, if Ballmer's letter of rejection sent to Yang on Saturday is to be believed. Yahoo carried out small-scale trials of Google's technology on its Yahoo.com page last month and, in his letter, Ballmer raised concerns about Yang's apparent desire to widen that trial into "the outsourcing to Google of key paid internet search terms" on Yahoo.Analysts reckon that because Google gets more money for its search terms than its rivals, such a deal, if it ever got past the regulators, would add up to $1bn to Yahoo's revenues.But it would be a mammoth U-turn and leave Yahoo's advertising business focused on the online display advertising market and its core Yahoo online property, which is still one of the web's most popular content destinations.That may go some way to explaining why Yahoo is still looking for alternatives, including buying up other online properties whose traffic it can monetise either through search or display advertising. But doing a deal may not be easy.Having snapped up online photo sharing site Flickr and bookmarking service Del.icio.us over the past few years, Yahoo has moved to increase the size of its online audience. But it is also understood to have held talks with Time Warner about buying AOL, which would give it a larger slice of the pie. Microsoft is also believed to be interested in AOL and its search advertising is already supplied by Google. AOL also owns Bebo, which used to be one of Yahoo's advertising partners.Yahoo has also held talks with News Corp about a deal to get hold of its social networking site MySpace, but again Microsoft has held similar discussions and again Google is involved, as the site's search advertising provider.Yahoo has tried over the past two years to buy Facebook, which has emerged as a major competitor to MySpace, but has been rebuffed. It could try again, according to Wall Street insiders. The site has yet to sign up a search advertising partner, but Microsoft is desperate to do a deal with the company, having snapped up a small stake in it last year.If no deal can be pulled from the hat, Yang will have to focus hard on his promise to double operating cash flow over the next three years from $1.9bn to $3.7bn in the face of a softening global economy. It is unlikely that the first tangible results of this plan will be there for investors to see in July so he may need to sweeten them with a return of some of the $2.3bn Yahoo has in the bank. That is likely to be the cost of the space Yang needs to turn around Yahoo's fortunes.Rift valleyAt the height of the dotcom boom Yahoo came close to a merger with auction houseeBay. Terms were written, the price agreed - all that needed to be thrashed out was the senior management structure. That is where everything collapsed, over egos. "What you have to realise is this isnot the real worldof business," said a former Yahoo executive yesterday as he drew a parallel with the collapsed negotiations between Microsoft and Yahoo, "this is Silicon Valley." Some in the Microsoft camp believe thatJerry Yang, who founded the business with fellow Stanford University graduate David Filo in 1994, let hispersonal attachmentget in the way. One Microsoft aide has been quoted as describing the handling of the situation by his boss Steve Ballmer as"amateur hour". Personalities figure heavily in the rarified air of US technology firms. When Yang took back the reins last June he wrote on his own blog: "The time for me is right. The time is now." Shareholders, however, are not so sure.
I'm just back from Sony's Playstation Day event in London. I'll stick some impressions up tomorrow - early playable code of Killzone and Motorstorm 2 were shown, along with a stack of PSP stuff - but Sony's big announcement was sales related. Yes, the PS3 has now outsold the 360 in Europe. Sony's David Reeves credited this success to the quality of software. Hmm. Did the solid, yet unspectacular likes of Resistance and Motorstorm really drive those sales? Unlikely. If you wanted the best games in 2007 you bought a 360. No, clearly Blu-ray and European brand loyalty were the main drivers. Oh, and the fact the PS3 doesn't suffer from thered ring of deathwas probably quite important too. So considering the paucity of must-have PS3 games to date - certainly in comparision to the 360 - the PS3 Euro sales success must be a worry for Microsoft.Of course, the one sales figure Reeves didn't touch on was Nintendo's Wii - the console that has outsold both 360 and PS3. In fact you got the impression that Sony didn't even see Nintendo as a competitor anymore - a huge turnaround from only a couple of years ago when Sony press conferences were littered with Xbox and Gamecube comparison graphs. Anyway, PS3 - why did you buy? For the games? For Blu-ray? For the brand? Do tell.
Hidden Flow: The rising tide of European e-waste, from DanwatchFrom our "In case you missed it" department, today's paper has a piece by Richard Wray onBreeding toxins from dead PCs. Briefly:Thousands of discarded computers from western Europe and the US arrive in the ports of west Africa every day, ending up in massive toxic dumps where children burn and pull them apart to extract metals for cash.Some are shipped as "donations" but many of them don't work. And the volumes are large: according to the video, something like half a million waste PCs arrive in Lagos every month.Apart from anything else, this isn't helping legitimate supplier of second-hand computers to the developing world, such as Computer Aid International.
Abrief article in the Miami Herald, the daily paper down in Miami where Psystar (remember them?Wannabe Mac clone makers?) are based, talks briefly to the two Pedraza brothers, who are busy making Mac clones as fast as they can."It's like our Boston Tea Party of computing," Rudy Pedraza said, looking a little like Matt Damon as he walks around his company's office/ assembly line. "We are challenging the establishment to make the market better for everyone else."The Pedrazas - single, homegrown guys who like to play shoot-'em-up computer games like Quake 4 - are confident to the point of cockiness about their clones."It's never crashed on me, and that's not something I can say about any Mac or PC I've ever used," said Robert, the younger of the two who sports a face full of scruff and slicked-back hair.He and his brother grew up tinkering with computers. Their parents run a computer and IT business and helped with the money the brothers needed for their startup, said family friend and lawyer Jose Quiñon.Rudy, who also dresses the part of tech entrepreneur in jeans and a graphic T-shirt or three-buttons-open collared shirt, takes the lead on business decisions and media interviews. He's already talking about selling their clones in retail chains and investing in a bigger headquarters.But he's unwilling to pull back too much of the curtain yet, declining to talk about sales figures or legal implications. There's even a sign on the company's front door informing visitors they're not welcome to come in.The interesting point isstillthe fact that Apple has not come after them, even though their computers arein the hands of end-users. One has to wonder what, precisely, Apple is doing. Have all its lawyers been on holiday? Are they just checking that the End User Licence Agreement doesn't say "You may not install OS X on non-Apple equipmentunless your surname is Pedraza and you live in Miami"? The mystery deepens.Regrettably, ladies and interested gents, we have no pictorial evidence to explain why the (apparently male) reporter reckons Rudy Pedraza looks "a little" like Matt Damon. Two legs, two arms, face at the top with nose? Permanent frown? Tendency to solve complicated maths problems? Tendency to run around convinced some Big Organisation is after him? Actually, the latter might be true. But we're still waiting..
The 12th Webby Awards have just been announced with an entertainingpress release, and on thesite. Well done the BBC, which picked up another three awards, same as last year. Alas, the Guardian didn't.Multiple award winners this year were NYTimes.com (8); The Onion (7); PostSecret (4); National Geographic (4); Apple.com (4); Hometown Baghdad (3); "You Suck at Photoshop" (3), Flickr (3); FactCheck.org (3); BBC (3); TED.com (3); ESPN.com (3); and CondeNet (3).I am, of course, aPostSecretfan andserial plugger. I was also delighted to see that Here Comes another Bubble, much discussed on this blog (below), got the Viral Video award from the judges, though the People's Choice was Chocolate Rain.The 12th Annual Webby Awards will be presented in New York on June 10, giving winners plenty of time to hone their pithy 5-word acceptance speeches. Or in our case, not.
I was distracted by theFuturesonicconference last week, throwing four talks together over the three days I was in Manchester, and so was unable toannouncethe newest adventure in game development,Spaceship!Yes, the wikigame team has been hard at work devising new methods of game development, and this time we have a three-month deadline and a framework that's absolutely guaranteed to work. Oh yeah.What's the story, morning glory?Your spaceship's broken. Fix it or die. Devised by our own PhilWal.I like spaceships. I don't want to die. How can I help secure the future of the captain of the ship?You can contribute to the story by adding your thoughts to theplot description, and you can get him out of the rough patches your fellow wiki-developersland him in.Golly that sounds amazing! But I don't have time. I have a life/a job/a family/seven hours of volleyball training per night. How can I contribute on an interstitial basis?Glad you asked. One of the mechanics of the previous wikigame which worked really well was to ask you folks to help out with descriptions by contributing the much-needed colour. To wit, we've now got a section called 'Quick Help' which calls for people to help with the little essential things that can be done in under five minutes. These tasks will change every week.This week we're asking people to transform the standard computer-generated responsesinto the Spaceship theme. So the default response to 'Kiss' if there's nothing around to kiss is changed from 'Keep your mind on the game' into 'You bend forward planting your lips on the inside of your helmet'. Geddit? Go go go!Or, we're also looking for a few good people to describe theCaptain's En-Suite. What is in a ship's loo? Feel you have the capacity? Sure you do!Three months. Let's do it.
Dilbert may be the first cartoon strip to move into the brave new world of Web 2.0 by introducing concepts such as mashups and "user-generated content".The new site, currently in beta, encourages you to participate by voting, commenting, sharing strips, and by writing your own punchlines. With the next version, due this month, you'll be able to write whole strips.As Dilbert's creator Scott Adams recognises, people have been doing this for years. The strip parodies real life in North America's "cubicle farms", where micromanagers and IT departments make it almost impossible for engineers like Dilbert to get any work done. Sometimes it only takes a small tweak to convert a cartoon intended for global consumption into one that fits a local situation, and that is easily done with Tippex and a pen, or a graphics program such as Adobe Photoshop.You can't stop people doing it, so why not exploit it?Until recently, these user-generated jokes would only have had a limited circulation via leaving cards, circulars or PowerPoint presentations. But now people can share their witticisms with a global audience of Dilbert fans. Indeed, it almost turns writing punchlines into a competitive sport.Last month, the new site got off to a slow start – literally. As Adams wrote on his blog: "We used way too much Flash, the servers slowed to a crawl, the navigation of strips was clunky, and so on. We plan to fix all of that in the next week or two."The good news was that "traffic on Dilbert.com doubled".Pointy-haired bossAmong the nay-sayers, the most vocal were the Linux users – who are most like Dilbert himself. There wasoutrage on Slashdot, the "news for nerds" site, where the redesign was ascribed to a PHB (pointy-haired boss) and his consultants. As one poster said: "It was probably some outside consultant that convinced them of the perceived need to produce a 'competitive' web-site in today's market, and only this garbage will do. Don't these PHB clowns realize that it's content that draws people to a site, and excessive bandwidth, insecure plug-ins required, inane registration requirements, and slow downloads that drive them away again."Adams noted that "the use of Flash offended them on some deep emotional level," but added: "Your numbers are small but your power is mighty. Just for you, we're working on a bare bones page with only the strips, text navigation, and not much else." That's now available athttp://www.dilbert.com/fast. Of course, this misses out on all the Web 2.0 fun.One remaining concern is whether the new Dilbert site can keep its friendly and wholesome atmosphere. If users can write strips, some of them are going to write rude ones, though there is an "obscenity filter" to convert certain words to comic book versions (#*&amp;% etc). Another is that a few people will, inevitably, post insults and abuse, or try to vandalise the site.Inviting users to participate is a good thing. Surviving the consequences can be somewhat harder.
The Guardian today covered the expected fall in Yahoo's share price, inYahoo shares feel heat of investor anger over rejected Microsoft. This reports some shareholder complaints and says:Lawyers said investors could have a case against Yahoo for neglecting its fiduciary duty. Stuart Grant, managing director of law firm Grant &amp; Eisenhofer, said: "I think it's pretty hard for the Yahoo board to turn down $33 when they've shown no ability to turn around their stock price."But Yahoo shares actually did better than I expected. When I posted yesterday,Yahoo shares down 19% by 1pm, I expected them to go lower. In fact, they went higher. As the graph above shows, they climbed above $24 in US trading, and managed to stay there. They recovered from being about 22% down, and at the end of the day, they only lost about 15%.They're still higher than they were when Microsoft launched its bid.The shares are now back where they were about four years ago, which isn't impressive. But then, Microsoft shares haven't done any better, so it's impossible to portray Steve Ballmer as some sort of salvation for Yahoo shareholders - except for pocketing his $33 bid.
How splendid to see a Guardian leaderIn praise of ... TED! I didn't write it, but I did write in praise of TED in a recent Netbytes column,Everybody loves TED, published on Guardian Unlimited on April 28, so you can read a bit more about it.Netbytes appears every Monday (or if not, it isn't my fault!*), and you can always browse anindexof the series.The basic idea is to cover an interesting site a week in 500 words, until I've done the whole Web. The aim isnotto find and publicise new sites, which I did for a decade in myWebwatchcolumn. (Originally it was calledNetwatch, as there wasn't much of a Web to watch.)* Update: This week's column, delayed by the holiday, is now available for your reading pleasure:Write witty punchline here ...
Photograph byTorchondoon Flickr, used under CC licenseFor those of you who use RSS to keep up with this blog, there could be a few changes coming. After a long period of discussion, we've decided to experiment with a full-fat feed that incorporates some advertising, rather than the ad-free partial feeds we use at the moment.Basically you will soon be getting the text of every post, rather than a short synopsis and link to the original post on the Guardian website. We're doing this as a short trial on the Technology blog, and I'm not entirely sure how many ads there will be, or how they'll work (I've not seen the screenshots yet) but it will be dropping soon.In doing this we're essentially going over an argument that's well-rehearsed, on both sides, all over the net. From an editorial point of view, it's better to get as many people as possible to read what's on your site. Commercially, however, RSS is still a sensitive issue: does it reduce the number of visits to a website? Does it reduce the amount of money we can make in order to pay for the journalism that we put out? This is a particularly important consideration for our technology articles, since readers like you are more likely to use RSS.It's something we've discussed many times with the Guardian's commercial bods, and I've argued that what's best for you is what's best for us (I'm not a fan of partial feeds on other sites, even if I understand the reasoning behind them, so I've never been satisfied with our own partial approach).So let's see how it goes. Over the next few days you might see a few odd little things happening as the new feed settles down, but soon it should be working fine. To start with, this is just going to be on the Technology blog - but if it turns out that it works commercially as well as editorially (the big unproven), we might think about doing it elsewhere too. Which is why we need your feedback.Do you think it's a good idea? Will it make a difference to you? Are you prepared to see advertising in your RSS feed?We'll keep track of your comments and then come back to the subject in a few weeks to see what you think of it in operation.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
One of the most-attended talks at theGameCampevent I ranthis weekendwas by Matt Biddulph - CTO ofDopplrby day, fervent Arduino hacker by night. Matt showed everybody how easy it is to make your game controllers do new stuff with a bit of soldering and software.Here's a video from IBM'sRoo Reynoldsof Matt showing how to use a Wiimote as a MIDI controller:Yesterday my friend Tom introduced me to an incredibly clever piece of research from Carnegie Mellon which originally did the rounds about six months ago, but that somehow I'd missed. It's 3D visualisation using Wiimote sensors attached to the head of the player. Fantastic stuff.
Tech Weekly leaves the studio to visit the Scottish capital, which is a hotbed of technological talent.Aleks KrotoskiandJemima Kissask Richard O'Connor from We-Entrepreneurs and Brian Baglow of scottishgames.biz what makes Edinburgh so great.We also hear from the people who attended our Tech Weekly coffee morning – folks involved in all sorts of other web businesses and tech companies. There'll be more from our coffee morning in the podcast over the coming weeks ...There's an Elevator Pitch from Simon Montford of Snocat, who tells us how he's a kind of Pete Best of eBay (listen to find out how), and we discover the best Scottish blogs.We also take a look at the top news this week, with Jemima and Charles discussing the outlook for Jerry Yang following the collapse ofMicrosoft's Yahoo takeover bid.• Tell us what you think by calling ourSkype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme ...•Join our Facebook group
A backlash among Yahoo's shareholders prompted the internet firm's shares to plummet 15% yesterday as its management struggled to soothe discontent on Wall Street over the collapse of takeover talks with Microsoft.With the $47.5bn deal off the table, Yahoo and Microsoft are both under pressure to seek alternative tie-ups. The on-line search specialist Google has emerged as the sole winner from the debacle as it no longer faces the prospect of an enlarged competitor.By midday in New York, shares in Yahoo had dived $4.06 to $24.60 - well below the $33 offered by Microsoft. The internet firm's founders, Jerry Yang and David Filo, are expected to face a flurry of lawsuits filed by investors unhappy with their refusal to sell the business.On a company blog, Yang said a lot of "nonsense and misinformation" was circulating about the failure of the deal, which foundered after face-to-face talks with Microsoft's boss, Steve Ballmer, at Seattle airport on Saturday."No one is celebrating about the outcome of these past three months - and no one should," Yang wrote. "We live and work in a competitive world and the web is only going to get more competitive."Analysts have been highly critical of Yahoo's performance as an independent company and of the firm's handling of negotiations.Stockbroker Canaccord Adams cut its rating to sell and reduced its price target to $21. Merrill Lynch said it continued to believe a Microsoft deal was the "best option" for Yahoo shareholders.Yahoo's second-largest shareholder, Legg Mason, called on the company to compensate investors by using its $2.3bn cash resources to buy back shares."It would be almost incoherent not to do so," Legg Mason's portfolio manager, Bill Miller, told the New York Times. "You can't maintain that $33 undervalues your company, have your stock trade below that and not buy back stock."Lawyers said investors could have a case against Yahoo for neglecting its fiduciary duty. Stuart Grant, managing director of law firm Grant &amp; Eisenhofer, said: "I think it's pretty hard for the Yahoo board to turn down $33 when they've shown no ability to turn around their stock price."Without a takeover, Yahoo's strategic options include broadening a tentative trial to use Google's advertising technology on its website, which would be an effective surrender of primacy in searches. Or it could pursue a pact with AOL, which is reportedly already talking to Microsoft about a deal.A Florida-based fund manager, Eric Jackson, is launching a grassroots campaign of small investors against Yahoo's management. Jackson says his dissident group, Plan B, speaks for about 140 investors who own 2m shares."The bottom line is that shareholders need some new representation," Jackson said. "Shareholders didn't even get a chance to vote on the deal but the board negotiated on our behalf and not in good faith."Microsoft faces problems of its own in pressing ahead without Yahoo. Its shares edged up 1.2% yesterday but critics say the software empire will need to find an alternative way to drive online traffic towards its products.Microsoft ranks poorly on the web and analysts believe that alternative acquisition targets to bolster its presence could include Facebook, in which it has a minority stake, or even making a play for News Corporation's MySpace."It's likely Microsoft will start to look at a variety of secondary targets," Katherine Egbert, of stockbroker Jefferies &amp; Co, wrote in a note to clients. "However, it is clear that no one property, outside of Yahoo, will fit Microsoft's goals of building an online platform and improving its search relative to Google."BackstoryFor the Stanford graduates who created Yahoo in a caravan in 1995, it was a considerable personal sacrifice to refuse Microsoft's money. Jerry Yang, 39, and David Filo, 42, the "chief Yahoos", would have received $1.4bn and $2.6bn respectively by selling their stock to Microsoft. Initially a list of their favourite web pages, the site was a distraction from completing their doctoral studies named with a jokey acronym - Yet Another Hierarchical Officious Oracle. Yang, the public face of the firm, recently donated $75m to his alma mater. He enjoys some of the trappings of wealth - the San Francisco Chronicle recently reported that he was spotted drinking a $1,000 bottle of wine in a Pebble Beach bar.
So far (and it's a holiday in the UK), Yahoo's shares have fallen 19.22% to 14.63 euros in open-market trading, at 1pm, according toAFP in Frankfurt.At the time of writing (2pm) they are down 21.45%.
Xobni (Inbox backwards) has opened apublic betaof software that adds features to the Microsoft Outlook inbox (see video). These include some social networking features.According toThe New York Times:This year, Microsoft and Xobni held preliminary talks about Microsoft acquiring the startup. But negotiations broke down over price, the future independence of the company inside Microsoft and the willingness of Xobni employees to move to Seattle.The long-term plan is to add the same features to other email services:Xobni now has ambitions that extend well beyond Microsoft Outlook. Jeff Bonforte, a 35-year-old former Yahoo vice president, joined Xobni as chief executive in February. He plans to expand Xobni's reach to various e-mail programs, like the popular Web-based services Yahoo Mail, Google's Gmail and Microsoft's Hotmail as well as social networks like Facebook and Linkedin.There's more coverage atVenture Beat,Read Write Web,TG Dailyand other places.
According toThe New York Times(with my emphasis):People close to Yahoo said that the chief executive, Jerry Yang, and his team, who told Microsoft they would not sell for less than $37 a share, greeted Microsoft's decision as a victory.High-fives were exchanged Saturday afternoon when they learned Microsoft was backing down.Hmm, does that sound like they were really interested in doing a deal?On the other hand, there were plenty of "virtual high-fives" on the Mini-Microsoft blog, following a post headedMicrosoft Walks On By -- Yahoo!Sample comments include:It's a great day to be a Microsoftie....I've never been so happy that a deal didn't go through....Happy, happy day! Now I doubt the company will change for the better tomorrow, but at least it isn't going to get worse.Thank you Steve. We've all put down our pitch forks and torches. They'll be pleny of happy drinking for softies everywhere tonight!!!None of which disguises the fact that Microsoft has spent five years trying to turn around MSN Search and Live Search and got less than nowhere, and it's a Mini-Microsoft staple that the company is mismanaged (by Ballmer in particular) and overstaffed. As one comment puts it:SteveB was a dumb ass for making an offer in the first place. Yahoo and Filo have however proven to be even bigger morons by turning MS down. The only thing I now need to make my day even better is a mail from SteveB saying "after many years, Kevin and I have decided we needed to spend more time with our families....."
A British start-up that has developed technology that prevents people snooping on calls from fixed-line and mobile phones even if made from abroad is looking to raise several million pounds as it closes in on key deals with multinational companies and the British government.Cellcrypt, founded only three years ago, is run by Claes Bergstedt, a former sales head of the British electronic organiser firm Psion. It has been operating in "stealth mode" while it perfects its technology and gains security clearance from the UK and US authorities. Having raised initial financing from Porton Capital, the company, which has only a dozen staff in London and Woking, Surrey, is in talks with investors about raising more cash to launch its sales and marketing efforts.The security of phone calls has become a major concern not just for governments but also for multinational companies whose staff travel the world. Traditionally, firms that want to secure their communications have bought new hardware, such as the secure mobile devices sold by the US technology giant General Dynamics. But these devices can be expensive.Other companies have developed ways of encrypting voice calls so they cannot be intercepted. The US-based Koolspan has developed an encryption device that can be plugged into a mobile phone's memory card slot. The company last month raised more than $7m (&pound;3.5m) from investors.Cellcrypt's technology, however, encrypts calls that use the cheaper voice over internet protocol (VoIP) technology. VoIP uses a mobile phone data connection to set up a call over the internet, rather than utilising the traditional voice part of the mobile phone signal. Mobile phones can also access wi-fi networks that make use of public wireless internet access hot spots around the world to make unlimited international calls far more cheaply.Cellcrypt allows users to make secure VoIP calls by installing software on their mobile phone. Bergstedt said people were increasingly worried about the security of telephone calls. "If you access your bank online it's safe but if you use your phone it seems to be fair game," he said. "Why should people treat the call differently?"
We don't have room inprint for all your letters and blog pingbacks, but we do here. Free data, Microsoft's cloud, and why is doesn't Google Earth show you staring at your screen now?MAP THE GENOME&gt;&gt; In theory this opens the door to all sort of eugenicists' wet dreams. Using the results to prevent children being born with certain congenital conditions is the benign possibility, but the darker possibilities are to 'breed out' certain characteristics deemed to be unwanted or try to encourage other characteristics. While I don't think we are going to produce a government that wants to do that sort of thing I wouldn't have the same confidence in all the various governments of the world.skuds.orgWII FIT: ARE YOU?&gt;&gt; I gave it an initial spin last night, although I would recommend not trying it with a stomach full of beer and pizza. One thing I noticed right away is that I am completely inflexible.thenunchuk.wordpress.comMICROSOFT'S CLOUD&gt;&gt; Nowhere is it mentioned that an essential prerequisite for creating huge server farms to keep the clouds afloat is free software: if Google or Amazon had to use proprietary software, paying for each instance clouds would never, er, get off the ground. Just as the open source LAMP stack created the current wave of Web 2.0 companies, so free software will run the magic machinery keeping clouds aloft.opendotdotdot.blogspot.comBPI VS ISPS&gt;&gt; what will happen next? Could ISPs have their services shut down, or (if they choose instead to cooperate) will this be the beginning of an escalating battle between filters and infringers?ipkitten.blogspot.comFREE (REGISTRY) DATAA very interesting article in today's Guardian about how companies might use government data. It's good stuff.www.tom-watson.co.uk&gt;&gt; It took me about 5 minutes to come up with these ideas, but I'm sure if I sat down with the rest of my team for just an hour we could think of hundreds more. The point is that there are an infinite number of innovative uses for our data that are just waiting to be built, but they will only be realised if the data is made free and open. These ideas will create new businesses, new jobs, and therefore boost our economy.pyrosoft.co.uk&gt;&gt; I suspect that this [using Met Office data] only seems plausible to people with a very limited knowledge of numerical weather prediction and data assimilation. For if, as the article seems to suppose, generating a forecast is simply a case of having the right set of starting observations, why then do governments and organisations around the world spend quite so much on supercomputing resources?sawyl.livejournal.comWORLD.TV - YOU'RE ON&gt;&gt; We had a real lift during the afternoon with the news that the Guardian newspaper had run a major article on us and that it was complimentary. Some hurried calls back home to get people to pick up copies were followed by the realization that we had a critical *bug* with the main subject of the article - our live mobile phone video integration. As we like to say round here... something from the 'bad news department'.worldtv.comHELLO, HULU&gt;&gt; This is looking like a very good business move and one I can see succeeding.curiouslypersistent.wordpress.comGOOGLE EARTHI understood that Google Earth gave current satellite images of everywhere in its purview. Not so. At least where we live in Manchester. All it shows of our house and street are still is a still photo of the view of about six or so years ago (different garden layout, different colour car on a drive that was remodelled 5 years ago). Nor can I see any signs of moving Human Life in the streets of central Manchester. If it doesn't give current satellite shots of reality, what is the point of Google Earth? (PS I'd like to ask them myself but they are notoriously clever at hiding their "Contact us" details. George Hastings, ManchesterLICENSINGThe item on sneaky software licences last week misses that fact that the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 cover most of these problems. Under these a term is unfair "if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations arising under the contract, to the detriment of the consumer". The case of a warning sign put inside an hotel wardrobe would nowadays be decided in favour of the guest. John Illingworth, Bradford&gt;&gt; All contracts in English law require consideration, which is the technical term for saying you cannot just make a wild promise - you cannot receive something for nothing. This means a contract made between A and B for A to sell his car to B would only be valid if B gave something to A in return. This does not have to be adequate e.g. it could just be £1, so long as something is given. Alternatively, the contract could be signed as a deed, but that is slightly different and the only exception to the rule. As you can see, it's quite technical. But considering how common it is now for these agreements to be used - when you buy a new Mac and run it for the first time, when children buy games and install them on a PC, when you install a new browser, and so on - it is too complex. So what is being done? Indeed, that is a good question. There are no cases to test the enforceability of these agreements and until one arises, it will be an area of uncertainty.mytton.netGREEN DABBLINGI have been considering replacing my portable FM/LW radio with a DAB one &amp; reading the reviews. All makes seem to have one thing in common. The batteries in my analogue radio which I use disconnected for perhaps an hour a day last for months. All the DAB reviews for portables refer to batteries lasting not months, not weeks, not even days but just a few hours. 20 is a big deal. It seems you'd need to take spares for a day listening to TMS at a test match, at least for day 2. Many recommend rechargeables because they get through batteries so quick, sometimes with expensive add-on packs. Not only does this make the running costs of DAB portables much higher (as well as them being bulkier) but think what that implies for mains-powered DAB sets too. They must also be making significantly bigger demands on electricity supplies. Does the same apply to TV? On top of the drain of unnecessary stand-by modes. So what is the total increase in carbon footprint impact of the digital switch-over? Should we change our minds to put reducing global warming above listening &amp; viewing pleasure? I think I'll be sticking to an FM/LW portable for some time to come on economics and portability grounds, never mind being green. Apparantly FM is higher quality anyway. David Greenwood, CobhamFASTER BROADBAND?You should look at the fact that most web sites are not transmitting at more than 1 megabyte/sec in most cases. When I download on podcasts in most cases they are not transmitting at 1 meg which I have and it can take spikes. A number of times they go up to one meg and then drop to 50 to 60K in transmission. The Guardian is only one that maintains the one meg transmission in most cases when they transmit the podcasts. So most people are paying for speed that they don't need and never really need in their operation. The ISPs know this is happening. I sometimes monitor the speed of the transmission by a program on my computer Tautology Bandwidth Meter. You can look up on Google. It measures the speed thru the nic card of your computer. Why they cry about the P2P is that it may coming in at faster then the 1 meg figure and it is going up to what the person is paying for. I am on fixed wireless in my area that is bigger than size of the State of Massachusetts or about one quarter of the UK size which my ISP is giving service in rural Arizona. This is by wireless in which everyone get what they pay for. They don't say you will get up to this bandwidth most of the time but is what what you will get. This is no matter where you are even in the middle of desert or small rural community. If you think we can get good service as my jitter figure for my connection is 1. I like to see any ISP say they give jitter of 1 on service. There are ways to do it but they don't want to spend the money and also put in equipment that will give service. I am on 1 meg as I went from 512 as video was coming in badly and so I raise and now have no problem. To answer you most ISPs say that give megs of speed but no web sites are transmitting at that speed and they know it. So they are just making money for not giving you anything plus they haven't put in the equipment to really handle it. If they did then they would not have the bandwidth they complain about. If you think that I am wrong just put that program on your computer and you will be surprised what is really happening. I am not talking about a speed test program but actual what is happening as data is coming in. On my ISP it shows if they take pride in what they do then you can get very good Internet service. It may not be the high numbers we hear about but it is basically what most websites are transmitting at. Marvin George, Sierra Vista, Arizona
Lenovo, from China, has just released its own ultraportable PC, the U110, which is definitely not a ThinkPad. The most surprising thing is that it doesn't come with a pair of sunglasses. The resolution is pretty good: 1,366 x 768 on an 11.1-inch LED. The battery life seems to be dreadful -- not much over an hour unless you use the extended battery. Engadget has had a first look (Lenovo IdeaPad U110 overview and video) including the video posted above.Lenovo's web site has full specs and shows both the red and black versions, so you cancustomise and buy. With the red version, it's only the lid that's red.
GameCamp crowd, by Justin Hall onMatt Jones' Flickr stream, used under CC licenseWe came, we saw, we played.More than 100 people gathered yesterday in Spitalfields for our free mixer to discuss games of all types. There were designers, makers, programmers, thinkers, writers, hackers, players and many more. Most streams of gaming were represented.The photos are starting to stream onto on Flickr -several hundred here already, and they give you a bit of a flavour of what took place. I'd rather let other people say exactly what happened and what ideas were thrown around - but there's not much on the blogs yet, but given that I'm nursing a hangover I imagine many other people might be in the same position. I'll be keeping an eye out and pointing you in their direction when the news starts to roll in.Update:Richard Bartle, one of our more illustrious guests (and a man who likes to speak his mind, has posted some thoughts onhis blog:"The point for me wasn't so much the talks, but the interaction with the smart people who were at the talks (which did include the speakers in most cases, too). This was what made the whole event work. I just wish I could have stayed longer. I'll be first in line for a ticket for the next one!".Praise indeed!More thoughts fromSteve Dempsey: "Today was an excellent day";Rachel Clarke,Robin Clarke,Ste Curran,Philip Trippenbach,Kieron GillenandKaty Lindemann.We played around a little with the traditional BarCamp process - most of all, there wasn't any camping - but from my position as organiser, GameCamp 08 seemed to be a resounding success. One attendee told me it was the best day out she'd had in ages, and I only have to hope that says more about us than them.The celebratory booze has been quaffed - all that's left is for me to thank everyone else who made it happen:Rachel Clarke,The Dave Green(who I think I forgot to thank on stage, sorry Dave!), Dan and Adrian Hon ofSix to Startand our own Aleks. And, in supporting roles, Chris Mac Morrison did a sterling job with the logo (including distributing Moo stickers for all and sundry), plus Francesca Ropelato from Guardian events who helped me sort out some final bits and bobs like the T-shirts we gave away.Massivethanks have to go to the kind people at Sony, who provided not only the astoundingly cool venue but also a lovely lunch and helped things go so smoothly. Thanks to Harmonix, who provided us with a copy of Rock Band, which proved hugely entertaining, and shouts out to Nintendo and Microsoft too, who loaned us some consoles for the day.But most of all to the people who turned up - they dictated the agenda, and brought along their ideas and enthusiasm. I think we'll be doing more of this in the future...
Microsoft's attempt to buy internet company Yahoo has collapsed after the software firm refused to meet Yahoo's asking price.Announcing he was pulling out of the purchase, Microsoft's chiefexecutive, Steve Ballmer, said in a letter to his Yahoo counterpart,Jerry Yang, that Microsoft had raised its offer to $47.5bn or $33 per share but was unprepared to meet the $53bn Yahoo wanted. That would havebeen nearly double Yahoo's share price of $19.18 at the time Microsoftdeclared its interest three months ago.Microsoft wanted to buy Yahoo to enable it to compete with Google in the lucrative market for internet advertising, worth $40bn in 2007 and predicted to double in value by 2010.Ballmer said: "Despite our best efforts, including raising our bid by roughly $5bn, Yahoo has not moved toward accepting our offer.""After careful consideration, we believe the economics demanded byYahoo do not make sense for us and it is in the best interests ofMicrosoft stockholders, employees and other stakeholders, to withdrawour proposal."Many analysts had predicted Microsoft would go direct to shareholdersin order to secure Yahoo.Microsoft's approach came a year after the two companies held talksover a possible tie-up to challenge search engine Google, althoughYahoo rejected those proposals because it hoped to reap benefits froman overhaul of the business.The software giant hoped the latest move would offer greater choice toadvertisers, increased research and development spending and a routeto removing overhead costs.Ballmer admitted this weekend that a deal with Yahoo would haveaccelerated the company's strategy, but said Microsoft still hadthe tools to move forward.He said: "We have a talented team in place and a compelling plan togrow our business through innovative new services and strategictransactions with other business partners."The company could renew its bid later this year if Yahoo continues tostruggle and its share price remains under pressure.Yang said: "With the distraction of Microsoft's unsolicited proposal now behind us, we will be able to focus all of our energies on executing the most important transition in our history so that we can maximise our potential to the benefit of our shareholders, employees, partners and users."He has projected that Yahoo's revenues will rise by 25% in 2009 and2010, helped by an expanded internet advertising network and moresophisticated tools to target consumers.
After Yahoo failed to move on price (below), let alone meet Microsoft half way, the deal is off. Microsoft hasreleased a statement and the text of the letterfrom Steve Ballmer, chief executive officer of Microsoft. He says:"Despite our best efforts, including raising our bid by roughly $5 billion, Yahoo! has not moved toward accepting our offer. After careful consideration, we believe the economics demanded by Yahoo! do not make sense for us, and it is in the best interests of Microsoft stockholders, employees and other stakeholders to withdraw our proposal."So now we wait to see whether Yahoo's management can survive the fall-out*. Yahoo's shares will now fall, and Microsoft's will rise. The only question for Yahoo is how low they go.I suspect not many shareholders are going to watch their money vanishing and conclude: "Hey, that Yang guy is great: he saved the company." There will be some who want his head on a stick, and they may well try to get it.But it's an ill wind, as they say. The uglier it gets, the more money there is for lawyers, and the more stories there are for journalists.*Update: It's not just the money. I expect Yahoo shareholder lawsuits to argue along similar lines to Mike Arrington at TechCrunch, who described Yahoo's actions as a"scorched earth policy". On April 10, he wrote:Yahoo has put costly severance plans in place to both retain employees and make themselves a less attractive acquisition candidate. But top talent has left anyway, and just about everyone at Yahoo seems to be looking for a job (even execs I've spoken with). Meanwhile, the Google deal shows they would rather give up the search marketing game, their biggest asset, than become part of Microsoft. . Their actions, which appear to be based on destroying their market value as a counter to the Microsoft bid, benefit neither their stockholders nor their employees. And by setting up Google as the only real option in search marketing, they are disrupting what little market balance and competition exists in that space today.So the question is whether Yang and his board have acted out of pride and prejudice or whether they have acted in the best interests of shareholders, which they are supposed to do. (Yahoo's official response ishere.) Now, how many Yahoo shareholders will think they are better off if they have Yahoo shares worth, say, $16.50 each than if they'd traded them to Microsoft for $33?Of course, Yahoo shares could also go up. They start trading again on Monday....
Peter Conrad, Observer writer and academicAs a non-driver who hardly remembers being a teenager, I don't belong to the demographic category targeted by video games. But I agreed to man the console of Grand Theft Auto IV because I'm curious about the future. Can it be true that this geekmobile will have more customers than Hollywood's noisiest, flashiest blockbuster? Industrial spies report that the movies may soon vanish into the gadget I was gripping, with its fiddly gearsticks and handbrakes, its zoom control and directional pad: technology is being developed that will enable you both to direct and to perform in the film you're watching.I spent an afternoon hijacking cars and totalling a satisfactory number of pedestrians. My alter ego at the wheel was a granite-visaged eastern European thug called Niko, sent to ferry his mobster cousin's cronies around New York. I realised - once I got over the lethal joy of running red lights and skidding on to the pavement - that I had signed on as that dreariest of nocturnal drudges, a minicab driver. But I soon gave up asking where I was going, or why. The plot is an excuse for motion: cinema is kinesis, and I'm happy enough to watch John Wayne riding or Steve McQueen driving or Matt Damon running. Hitchcock once likened his films to rollercoasters, and interestingly GTA IV skirts the derelict funfair at Coney Island in Brooklyn. Hitchcock knew that he was programming sensations, infecting audiences with motion sickness as his characters struggle to control runaway cars; smirking sadist that he was, he would have liked the way video games place us in the driver's seat and allow us to crash and burn.GTA IV is about the revved-up tempo and suicidal trajectory of our mechanised lives. But it has a more reflective dimension: games like this dramatise the interplay of fate and chance, or destiny and contingency. Niko's cousin asks what he's doing in America. 'What's anyone doing?' he shrugs. 'I'm just trying to make the right decisions.' That's also the gamester's occupation. Do I go left or right? Forwards or in reverse? Do I return the call in which the slinky Michelle begs for another date? Such decisions are quickly, unthinkingly made, but their consequences unfurl peripherally in a nuclear chain reaction. 'This is fucking chaos,' someone says during a highway snarl-up. In fact, it is chaos theory: I began as a fluttering butterfly an hour ago, and the result of my impromptu thumb-twiddling was this thunderstorm of concertinaed metal and squirting gore.Although GTA IV takes place in a mythically sombre America, its producers are based in Edinburgh, and I suspect they have designed a satire on the self-destructive superpower across the ocean. Liberty City (which is what they call their version of New York) enshrines the glutted liberality of capitalism, but the freedom it offers - to turn this way or that, to drink Patriot beer or the imported brew called Pisswasser, to go bowling or lap-dancing - deludes us with variants of the same thing. All routes lead to a dead end. 'You got capitalism,' snarls a voice on the car radio, admonishing the Americanised Russians in a cabaret called Perestroika. 'Now enjoy what you asked for.' In the game's guidebook, an ad for a grease-clogged burger rants against the liberal obsession with healthy eating and asks: 'What are you doing to us, America?' The designers may be voicing the same complaint, which is why they create a virtual realm and goad us to sabotage it. 'Is your best friend a terrorist?' a shock jock  on the car radio asks as I dry-hump the competition on a freeway. If I could have seen my face in the rearview mirror, I might have winced. With the console in my hands, I was indeed a terrorist. A minute later, the screen faded to black. Had the X-Box 360 malfunctioned? No, it was my fault: I was dead, though I had the satisfaction of taking several fire hydrants, lamp posts and letter boxes with me. Not quite the World Trade Centre, I know, but I am a beginner. Is this a game, or a holy war conducted by other means?Bidisha, author and criticIt's a long, hard, bitter task filling the shoes of Niko, the avatar-protagonist of Grand Theft Auto IV. Cursed with a chunky, clenched-bottomed running style and stilted right hook, labouring under the weight of a massive racist stereotype, garbling unfunny puns in a comedy Balkan accent, Niko acts as a gofer for his greasy cousin Roman's syndicate of lowlifes, hustlers, skanks and shysters and their ethnically cliched associates. There's the jive-talking Rasta dealer, the timid and inarticulate Oriental shopkeeper and the Serb thugs.Liberty City, the sarcastically named venue for this obvious trawl, is an expansive, pixel-speckled wasteland of tenement buildings, dead ends, wafting litter, chicken wire and trees that look like yellow and green cotton buds. It's not arcane enough to create any frisson of otherness (as the epic, mythic games Halo and Assassin's Creed do) and not realistic enough for you to imagine that you're in an actual metropolis with its own infrastructure. Still, there are neat details such as the chinked glass of a shattered windscreen, sunlight filtering into an underpass, the chunky matt grey of a discarded bullet. Niko's small, dead eyes, thick skull and broken nose bear poignant witness to his brutalised biography: Tiny Tim goes techno.Visually this is a basic arena in which bored, boring men engage in lumpy mutual rucks scripted with bad guy-on-guy thug porn in mind. Peripherally, though, it's witty. There's the Memory Lane bowling alley, the hijacked car that has asinine sat nav droning in the background, the hyper radio advert that crows, 'For too long TV game shows have been the province of women clucking over things they know nothing about,' and promotes 'The Men's Room, bringing masculinity back to television'. Another radio phone-in listener bawls, 'I blame the blacks and the Jews!' while a woman touts 'a Ukrainian delicacy: chocolate-covered pig fat'. In Roman's office the boss is ribbed for his aftershave: 'What's it called? Sex Pest?'Whoever scripted these incidentals should call HBO and pitch a show, leaving the rest of the team to design more hit-and-runs. When I was done I went home and happily played my Dungeons &amp; Dragons board game by myself.Laura Cumming, Observer art criticHow artful is GTA IV? Let me count the ways. It is better to look at than to play. Forget the main game, which essentially involves mass destruction for the unresisting gamer round the clock, what's destroyed is so beautifully crafted you could almost regret the speed at which the images shoot by.In Liberty City - aka New York - steam rising from manhole covers flares and dissolves as the cars sweep through. Twilight falls in a glow repeated in every puddle; sunlight rakes the backstreets and plazas, sparkling on the Hudson River at exactly the frequency of life, not animation. Even the price racking up on the gas station metre is exorbitantly right for our times. Everything looks so real - at first sight.Then you notice the way that a couple of nighthawks in a diner appear to be re-enacting the famous Edward Hopper painting; or that the struts of Brooklyn Bridge, through mist, resemble an Alfred Stieglitz photograph. It is true that New York has a tendency to look like the art that it inspires any hour of the day, but the references here feel fairly conscious.Some of it is just camp. The Statue of Liberty holding a giant styrofoam coffee cup is straight out of the Chapman brothers' consumer-fetishist phase. And the comfy furnishings in the antihero's rented flat (don't forget that the creators are British) are pure Wallace and Gromit. Peering through an apartment window I even thought I glimpsed someone playing Grand Theft Auto though I may have imagined it; still, it would hardly have been a hair's-breadth from reality.It is no more than cliche to say that the real star here isn't Niko Bellic but Liberty City itself. Swoop through its dark canyons by helicopter, watch the brownstones blaze red in the heat, witness the lights coming on like fireflies at dusk. But even the figures have a perverse attraction. Bellic is a coarse, hirsute edition of ER's Goran Visnjic (who is of course Croatian, not Serbian, but let's not get into the game's feckless disregard for Balkan politics) and he walks, despite his thuggishness, with an actor's grace.Almost the most impressive thing about GTA IV is in fact its depiction of motion. The Euphoria physics engine the makers used means you can shove an enemy out of a window and watch him dangle by the fingertips just plausibly long enough before dropping, or make Bellic yawn so languidly you start feeling drowsy yourself.But nobody looks quite real in the end. They are all as weightless as Bambi. And while proliferation - dubious gift of computer-generated art - means you can wander all over without seeing the same person twice, it's only in the service of keeping the gamer fixated on the console. Fixated on the chance to vary the narrative themes of violence, depravity and murder; and, in the case of New Yorkers themselves, the chance to clock their local deli before torching it.
Today, in a story headlinedMicrosoft, Yahoo Try to Make Nice, The Wall Street Journal, Microsoft and Yahoo spent Friday trying to agree "a last-ditch friendly deal with a sweetened Microsoft offer, according to people familiar with the matter."Actually, nothing much seems to have changed since Thursday (below), when Microsoft leaked the idea that it would raise its offer from $29 to $33.So Microsoft has moved, but it seems Yahoo hasn't: it is still holding out for $35-37. That's roughly $3 billion more -- and $3 billion would probably buy half a dozen more useful Web 2.0 companies than Yahoo.But the WSJ article ends:Despite the back-and-forth, many analysts and investors still say the two companies are moving toward an eventual deal. "As you get toward the final stages, the headlines and the negotiation tactics get more intense, but I don't think this is that out of the band of the normal," said Mark Mahaney, an Internet analyst at Citigroup Global Markets Inc.By far the most interesting commentary on the current situation isExamining Microsoft's and Yahoo's unspoken concerns, on Marc Andreessen's blog, pmarca. He points out that a deal could be agreed and then fail to go through, for a variety of reasons. One of the risks is (lack of) government approval, where pmarca notes:If the entire merger could be approved and closed before the new US president takes office in January 2009, that would be wonderful for Microsoft.As he explains:The Bush administration is known to be quite friendly to large companies, large mergers, and Microsoft. Any Democratic administration would probably be notably more hostile to this kind of merger than the current regime.Though actually this may not matter, because as he's noted earlier:Microsoft and Yahoo will also, as global companies, presumably need to get approval in other jurisdictions -- certainly the European Union. The EU is currently harsher on these issues, and on Microsoft in particular, than the US government. If the EU refuses to approve the merger, or imposes various adverse conditions on it, the deal could collapse.It seems very unlikely thatDolores Umbridgein the European Commission'sDepartment for Trying to Kill Microsoftwould not try to derail the deal. The huge overlap between Yahoo and Microsoft's net-based offerings -- particularly email and search -- certainly provides enough material to justify an investigation... though you'd assume that Steve Ballmer had already thought of this, wouldn't you?
Phew. It's hot here in east London, where we're getting on with the serious business of games atGameCamp.The basic idea: get a bunch of people who love games into a room and see what happens. So far, we've had dozens of sessions from people with some great ideas. I've been running around in a mild panic all day, so I've been flitting from talk to talk.Upstairs there's a serious amount of Wii Sports and Rock Band action going on, while downstairs there's a lot of earnest chatting and laughing. I even heard a round of applause somewhere in there.My grand plan to cover things live hasslightlycollapsed - there's only so much one man can cope with. But I hope there will be plenty of other people blogging, photographing and talking about the event online. There's definitely a lot oftwitteringalready.Let's see where things end up...
To start, a confession. I bought my first iPod only a matter of months ago, having long believed that stripping music of its context via shuffling was the stuff of true evil, and the iPod's shiny perfection (Paul Weller once famously said that it looked like "a mini-fridge with no fucking beers in it") was a crystallisation of its threat to render music clinical and soulless. I am now cured and, as with my BlackBerry, the fact that I quickly learned to work it - and iTunes - without going near any kind of manual spoke volumes about the peerless brilliance at work. For some reason, people keep coming up with alleged competitors, but really, what's the point?Take, for example, Samsung's YP-T10 (from &pound;95; 0870 726 7864). It's a flimsy-looking MP3 and video carrier endowed with 8GB of memory that looks very like the old rectangular iPod Nano. It runs in tandem with a less-than-satisfactory application called Samsung Media Studio, which suggests a version of iTunes invented by people whose minds were trained in communist eastern Europe - but that's only one of many horrors. Worst of all is the fact that the T10's signature graphics are based around animations of a cartoon dog called Sammy, briefly known in our house as Crap Snoopy. He/she can gyrate to the music you play in a variety of settings, as I discovered when - after two hours of trying - I managed to load two songs from Radiohead's OK  Computer. As I listened to Airbag, a song in which Thom Yorke narrowly avoids death in a motorway pile-up, Crap Snoopy popped up on a surfboard, but the contradictions between music and visuals were obviously too much, and the T10 promptly died on me.Not nearly as annoying, but still hardly an example of design genius, is the Serenata (from &pound;860; Samsung, as before), the product of a joint venture between Bang &amp; Olufsen and Samsung, with some help from Vodafone. An odd-looking object constructed around an iPod-esque aluminium dial, it works as a 4GB MP3 player and mobile phone, and seems to fancy itself as a threat to the iPhone. If so, its makers should probably forget it: although there is something appealing about its stripped-down simplicity (you simply plug it into your computer and drag MP3 files on to it), its readout looks like that of a microcomputer circa 1984, and you have to use a Bluetooth earpiece to make it work as a phone. And, get this: calling people involves staring at an image of an old-school telephone dial, and rotating and clicking the wheel accordingly. It's a titanic pain in the bum.Just as I had given up on it, a revelatory penny dropped. Manipulating the back of the Serenata reveals a speaker, which looks farty beyond belief, but delivers surprisingly impressive output. Certainly, what I chose to put through it - Captain Beefheart and Beastie Boys - suggested a technological breakthrough which, once someone has bowed to the inevitable and combined it with a keypad, will doubtless become a standard feature of similar kit. One thought, though: won't phones-cum-music-boxes-with-oomph-ish-speakers be simply a gift to the kind of young toughs who use tinnily mediated dance tunes to ruin other people's train journeys?And so to Creative's insanely tiny ZEN Stone (&pound;24.99/1GB, &pound;29.99/2GB), an answer to the iPod Shuffle with yet another in-built speaker, which allows for more "tweet" than "woof", though I still quite like it. By way of a slightly smug exercise in musical incongruity, I used its just-about-satisfactory version of iTunes to load it up with the complete works of the prewar blues icon Robert Johnson, which came out sounding surprisingly clear. Given that I was raised in the 70s, it pleasingly put me in mind of a transistor radio, only smaller.Unfortunately, no sooner had I gone to the shops with Johnson's Phonograph Blues blaring from my pocket than I returned home - and there was my shiny iPod, ready to be loaded with music and artwork and taken on my imminent holiday. As Sinead O'Connor used to sing, while weeping, nothing compares.
Using a satellite navigation system is rather like undergoing a modern, scalpel-free lobotomy. It requires so little brain power that most people simply put their neurons on sleep mode - and only fire up them up again when their lorry gets stuck down a cul-de-sac and they can only turn around by taking big chunks of the village green with them.Interesting, then, that this week brought news of a novel way of using a satnav, which seems to encourage drivers to engage with their surroundings rather than simply tell them how to get from A to B and let them daydream (metaphorically, of course) through anything in between.Called 230 Miles of Love, it is billed as the world's first "satcom" - a free series of comedy sketches you can download to your satnav or GPS mobile phone, which automatically play at relevant points along the M6. It was made using a programme called Geovative, which allows users to plot a GPS tour that can contain audio, images and text. Though it sounds complicated, it is just a step up from the programme many satnav owners use to alert them to the location of speed cameras.When the first skit kicked in around Catthorpe, just after junction one of the M6, it was quite a shock - partially because I didn't think it would work, but mostly because I had the volume turned up to horse-scaring volume, lest I miss anything. After a shaky start, the satcom first made me laugh after junction three near Birmingham, when drivers are weighing up whether to pay the &pound;4.50 for a speedy toll road. Ever the cheapskate, I plumped for the free road, and just as my heart was sinking after spying a sea of brake lights ahead, another sketch kicked in telling me what a terrible choice I had made.The site-specific gags were always the best - passing a service station I particularly enjoyed an argument about how to pronounce Ginsters (does the "gin" rhyme with bin?).It was no more of a distraction than listening to a radio play, apart from the odd unexpected squeak and a sketch that seemed to be referring to a sign that I just couldn't see, even when I craned my neck and scared the car behind.Though 230 Miles of Love (named after the length of the M6 and available at230milesoflove.com) is apparently the first attempt at using satnavs for art, it is not the first example of someone using the systems for more than speed camera warnings and route planning.Last year amateur historian Daniel Taylor launchedroadtour.co.uk, offering history guides that drivers could download to their satnavs for information on 600 castles, parklands, battlefields, monuments and stately homes.The Good Pub Guide has produced a satnav version, which alerts drivers to the best watering holes nearby, and on the TomTom website, users can log in and share their own routes and recommendations, for example the best greasy spoon cafes in the north-west, or the most accommodating hotels for bikers.All are examples of "locative media", ideas which aim to exploit developments in "locative technologies" - GPS standalone systems, GPS mobile phones, wireless networks and satnavs.Hi-tech storytellingRider SpokeBlast Theory's interactive theatre piece, at the Brighton Festival from May 8 to 11, combines cycling, hide and seek and WiFi technology. The audience cycles around while equipped with a handheld computer to answer questions.blasttheory.co.uk/bt/work_rider_spoke.htmlWe Tell StoriesPenguin has teamed up with virtual-reality experts Six To Start to take their back catalogue to the digital age. Modern authors, including Charles Cummings and Toby Litt, retell the classics with the help of modern technology.wetellstories.co.uk'Ere be the DragonsA virtual reality game controlled by your heartbeat. The game's virtual world responds to the physical activity of the players, measured by heart-rate monitors.lansdown.mdx.ac.uk/dragons
I bought a new iPod nano but didn't read the small print - it requires a more recent version of Mac OS X than I have. I'm very disappointed. What can I do?This unpleasant surprise has upset many Mac owners who discover they suddenly require the 10.4.8 version of the Apple operating system. In the past it has been possible to downgrade the iPod's software to work around this. That's no longer the case, however: Apple says your only options are buying a software upgrade (&pound;85) or getting a refund. The official reasoning? New iPods make use of special features in the most recent versions of OS X. That's unlikely to stop you feeling forced into spending more, however.We want a radio which lets you listen to recorded programmes while falling asleep. Some radios record onto cards, but don't play back when you hit the 'sleep' button.According to the radio maker Pure, its new Evoke-3 model (around &pound;160,Amazon.co.uk) can do just this. Not only does it record and play back shows, it also has compatible sleep function so you can programme it to switch off recorded shows up to 90 minutes after you press the sleep button.Email your problems to:gadget.clinic@guardian.co.uk
What do you make of the jump-out colour-combo on this new Saab 9-3 convertible? Is the tan top together with the black bodywork ferociously happening for you? Or are you, like, "Ew!"?I don't know what to think. Part of me says, well, you wouldn't wear black shoes with a brown suit, now, would you? But then, fashion moves so fast, maybe you would.Also, on first sight, my feeling was that, in its frank twinning of brown and black, the car couldn't have looked more 70s if you'd opened the boot and found the guitarist from Mud playing the riff from Tiger Feet. Since then, though, I've seen a version of the 9-3 where the brown roof is twinned with a white body, a combination that jaw-droppingly out-retros the model here by a factor of at least 17. White and brown? It would be like driving around in one of Joan Collins' handbags.By the way, I've just checked and the roof pictured is neither brown nor tan. The official, Saab-approved term for this particular shade is "sand". It's important to get these things right. The black is, however, "black", or possibly "jet black", which is like black, only blacker.But what I can say confidently about the roof/body colour divide is that it seems to run directly counter to some of the most persuasive things that Saab tends to say about its convertibles - namely, that a drop-top Saab isn't just a hastily adapted saloon, but a whole car unto itself.The theory is that when you buy a Saab convertible, you're not getting just an established hard-top model with its roof sawn off and replaced by some canvas. You're treating yourself, rather, to a standalone Scandinavian fun machine, carefully engineered to drive rigidly, despite the absence of important overhead hardware, and designed to look good all round on its own terms.Which, of course, would be just blather if it wasn't so emphatically borne out by the car. Most soft-top four-seaters appear to some extent compromised - or sometimes plain weird - with their tops on, and need the roof to come off before the lines start to make sense. The 9-3 looks natural in either state. The roof has been lined and stretched so that, from inside, it performs a convincing impression of a conventional hard roof. It is also startlingly well sound-proofed. Add in the smoothness and stability of the ride and it's like driving a premium saloon car whose top just happens to sling back in 20 seconds at the touch of a button.Incidentally, warn your passengers in the rear that there's a potentially alarming moment during the opening procedure when the concertinaed roof dips and briefly occupies what they might legitimately regard as their personal space. The phase is, as I say, momentary - but it's a moment in which passengers of a more nervous disposition may become convinced that they, too, are about to be gathered up, crisply folded and stowed in the boot, and you may find it convenient to calm them in advance with well-chosen words of encouragement, such as "duck".Given the thousands of Swedish man-hours that must have gone into harmonising the 9-3 convertible, how odd it was to drive one deliberately coloured to emphasise the roof's separateness. But that was me. You, of course, don't have to. Black suit, black shoes. Brown suit, brown shoes. You can't go wrong.Saab 9-3 Convertible 2.0TPrice:£32,030Top speed:143mphAcceleration:0-62 in 7.7 secondsConsumption:31.7mpgC02 emissions:213g/kmEco rating:5/10At the wheel:Bjorn UlvaeusBound for:StockholmIn a word:Integrated
MondayHold onto your hats: it's Games Week!Crash, Spore and PoPTuesdayDoes GTA live up to the hype?Games Week: GTA takes overFinal GTA post of the dayWednesdayMolyneux, WoW and moreThursdayGTAIV - Xbox 360 outselling PS3Daily Show does GTA IVBloody hellNotes on the future of broadbandFridayThe most surreal games in historyBank holiday gaming
Hewlett-Packard is giving away 31 prize bundles based on itsHDX Dragon entertainment notebook PCwith a novel twist: 31 blogs are taking part, each one on a different day from May 9 to June 8.Participating sites include arstechnica.com, jkontherun.com, geekstogo.com, slashdotreview.com, neowin.net, gottabemobile.com and lockergnome.com, There's a full list with links at31daysofthedragon.com.The Dragon runs Microsoft Windows Vista Ultimate (64-bit) and comes with Microsoft Office, Corel PaintShop Pro X2, Corel Painter Essentials, Corel Ulead Video Studio Plus 11.5, Symantec Norton Internet Security, Microsoft's Viva Piñata, Microsoft Flight Sim, Microsoft Flight Sim Expansion Pack, and Gears of War. Since it features a Blu-ray drive, it also comes with three Pirates of the Caribbean movies.You'd expect this kind of competition to be US-only, and it certainly looks that way from the blogs chosen to participate. However, theAbsolute Vistaannouncement says: "The contest is open to all sapient human inhabitants of Sol-3**, and is totally free to enter. You live on Earth?" I wouldn't bet on there being any non-US winners, but we'll see....
The latest BusinessWeek has discovered that catnip for bloggers, a big cover story about Apple - suggesting thatit's making progress into businesses. It starts out with Juniper Networks, which has 6,100 people and is letting 600 use Macs (running OSX, one assumes, though perhaps they'll do Windows via Parallels or Boot Camp), and thinks that up to a quarter might use them if they were allowed to. IBM and Cisco are also considering letting Macs through the door (gasp!). From memory, a number of FBI white hat hackers use Macs when outside their offices.Interesting. It's always worth noting whatDavid Sobotta- who had the unenviable position of being the government sales chief for Apple, and so only one rung above being the enterprise sales chief for Apple in terms of how much Steve Jobs didn't rank his job - thinks on this. While he hasn't posted on this (at the time of writing), he is now an estate agent (realtor, in US parlance; perhaps Apple government sales is looking more attractive right now), where some jobs justhaveto be done on Windows because of the tools that are available.HenotesthatWhile Macs are easy to use and generally reliable, they do on occasion have problems. Sometimes Apple can or will help, but often you turn to the user community for a solution. If you have been in the Mac world, that is a normal thing. In fact it is often easier to get a good solution out of the user community than it is out of Apple.What I have noticed among my Windows using friends is that they want tech support to do the work. They will wait days for an expert to come try to solve their problems rather than reach out to the user community and ask for help.The BW story notes that the move towards offices hasn't happened through any effort by Apple.It's a people's revolution, of sorts, with workers increasingly pressing their employers to let them use Macs in the office. In a survey of 250 diverse companies that has yet to be released, the market research firm Yankee Group found that 87% now have at least some Apple computers in their offices, up from 48% two years ago.The reluctance to let Macs in partly stems from not wanting to have to hire someone to do the tech support, it seems. However, when it comes to choices about tech support...Apple is getting help from an unlikely rival: Microsoft. Vista, the latest version of the software giant's Windows operating system, looks like it could turn out to be one of the great missteps in tech history. Not only does it lack compelling new features, but analysts say Vista requires companies to buy more expensive PCs, incur hefty training costs, and to deal with maddening glitches. About 90% of office workers still use its previous operating system, XP. "Microsoft has let this happen," says David B. Yoffie, a Harvard Business School professor and Intel board member. "They've created a huge opening for Apple."For the record, back when OS X was released, I was asked (in the context of an interview where I was asking most of the questions) what I thought Apple should do to expand its market. I suggested playing up its Unix underpinnings - since that would interest scientists, who need to do that sort of processing. Certainly, Apple's share of the scientific market has grown since OS X came along, and it did take out some ads in Nature (I'm not claiming to have provided any great insight - if Apple's taking my advice on this stuff, it's either in trouble or needs to fire some marketing people). What's intriguing is that marketing to enterprises never came up.Question is, will Apple be able to exploit this opening? And does it want to? Enterprises are surly beasts, used to special treatment for the huge amounts of money they lavish. It would certainly change Apple if it had to give out product roadmaps in the detail that enterprises would demand for any large-scale, long-term purchasing.
