Activision has announced the US pricing details of its Call of Duty: Elite service, a social networking and content distribution system for the Call of Duty titles. Subscribers to the premium version will pay $49.99 a year – this will provide access to over 20 pieces of downloadable content a year, including maps, new game features and missions for the Spec Ops mode. Although much of the DLC will still be available to buy without subscribing to the service, Elite subscribers will get that content first. Purchasers of the special 'Hardened' edition of MW3 will get a year's Premium Elite subscription as part of that package.As for other benefits, paying users will also be able to enter daily competitions for both in-game and real-world prizes including cars and gadgets. Expert online analysis of every map and weapon in the game is also included, along with the ability to plan Clan schedules. "Elite members will get to level up their clans by competing together in tournaments and competitions," explained Eric Hirshberg, CEO of Activision Publishing. Everything you love about levelling up as an individual player, Premium Elite members can do as a clan. It's like your own fantasy football team inside Call of Duty: Elite except the players you're counting on are your own friends."Subscribers are set to get access to Elite TV, an online channel of Call of Duty episodic content produced by well-known film and TV names. Activision announced two weekly shows set to air later this year, produced by Arrested Development stars (and CoD fans) Jason Bateman and Will Arnett, and Ridley and Tony Scott. One show named Friday Night Fights will feature online bouts between real-life sets of rivals – Hirshberg mentions examples such as firemen vs cops, fans of different sports teams and democrats vs republicans. It's filming this autumn. Another show named Noobtube will feature smack talk videos sent in by players and compared by Jason Bateman and Will Arnott.The social connectivity features of the service look set to be free to all purchasers of Modern Warfare 3 (and will have limited functionality with last year's Call of Duty: Black Ops). Players will be able to use Elite to locate friends who are playing the game, as well as compare achievements and leaderboard standings, and organise game sessions. Activision has added Facebook support so gamers will be able to see when their Facebook friends are playing the game, making it easier to arrange online get-togethers.The system also features a searchable grouping system, allowing people with similar interests to choose to play together. So if you only want to play against, say, football fans, the menu will find some for you. You can also locate players who went to the same school as you, and people of a similar political persuasion. It's also possible to limit online games to players in your geographic vicinity. The aim is, to make public multiplayer matches more friendly and approachable.Interestingly, Elite developer Beachhead is also creating mobile apps for iOS and Android devices which will allow players to access Elite on the move. Users will be able to view the stats and 'heat maps' of any recent online bouts they've played, as well as tweak their custom classes and load-outs – these will all be saved online and recalled when you get home and switch your console on.
Activision certainly knows how to work a room – or in this case, an aircraft hangar. The company chose itsCoD XPfan event in Los Angeles to reveal key details of Modern Warfare 3's multiplayer mode to 300 members of the world's press. Housed within the mammoth complex at LA's Hercules Campus, built by Howard Hughes to facilitate his Spruce Goose project, it was a noisy and confident briefing with tantalising glimpses at the future of the franchise's vital online component.It seems the key concern with multiplayer this time round is balance. Over-powered elements such as One Man Army, game-ending nukes, shotguns as secondary weapons and the Commando and Last Stand perks have all been removed. Killstreaks, too, have been replaced. "When we examined objective modes like Capture the Flag, Domination and Search and Destroy the best players were focusing on their team objectives instead of just racking up kills," said Infinity Ward's creative strategist, Robert Bowling. "But it became clear that Killstreaks were optimised for one game type and that was Team Deathmatch."Now, there are 'pointstreaks' in which players rack up rewards, not just for kills, but for assists and for meeting objectives – capturing flags, for example. The system is divided into three selectable 'strike packages', each optimised for different play styles. With the Assault strike package, players earn in a familiar way, through kills and destroying equipment and vehicles. They then get to select from a range of streak rewards including access to a 'strafe run' feature at nine kills and a heavily armoured Juggernaut suit at 15 kills, as well as attack drones. Players opting for the Support strike package earn points through meeting objectives and crucially these points rack up even after deaths. These can then be blown on rewards like ballistic vests, airdrop traps, recon drones, counter-UAVs and the ability to call in a recon juggernaut.Finally, the Specialist package is aimed at elite players and opens up additional perks with every new kill threshold. Users will be able to gain up to three extra perks alongside the standard three options – although for balance, players are unable to call in air strikes or gain tactical support from their team. "We think this is the greatest test of individual skill ever included in a Modern Warfare game," concluded Bowling. Apparently, there are 28 different pointstreak rewards in total.And of course, the Perk list has been updated and added to. With 'Recon', explosive damage paints the target on the player's mini map, while 'Blind Eye' makes you undetectable by air support or sentries, and 'Assassin' renders you invisible to UAVs and portable radars. 'Quickdraw' provides faster aiming, 'Stalker' lets you move faster while aiming, and 'Marksman' identified targets at longer range.Explaining these alterations, Bowling declared, "We think this is the deepest experience we've ever created. We've made more profound additions and changes to the core multiplayer experience in MW3 than we have in any other chapter. We're supporting a larger variety of play styles than ever before.  This is the most balanced multiplayer experience than we've ever done."Another new addition in MW3 is the weapon progression system –  in essence, a replacement for the currency system in Black Ops. As you build experience with a particular gun, it gains its own XP, which can then be spent on upgrades such as attachments, reticules and camo designs. However, you can also unlock and select different 'weapons proficiencies' which act like gun-specific perks. For example, 'Kick' provides reduced recoil when firing, 'Attachments' lets you add two attachments on your primary weapon, 'Focus' reduces the flinch reflex when hit by enemy fire and 'Stability' reduces the sway of the weapon when you're shooting on the move.Attachments, meanwhile, include holographic sights and a dual scopes providing both close and long-range optics. According to Infinity Ward producer Mark Rubin, there are different versions of the dual scope for different classes: the assault version has a holographic sight and a magnifier, while an LMG and SMG version has a hammer sight – an ACOG-style magnifier and a red dot on top, which you can switch between.In terms of classes, we now have five options. Judging by the Team Deathmatch session I played, the grenadier is the standard assault option, with a Heckler &amp; Koch G36c assault rifle as primary. Then there's 'First Recon' with a Heckler &amp; Koch UMP SMG and an MP-412 revolver. The burly Overwatch class has an MK46 LMG and Mark 153 SMAW rocket launcher, while the Scout Sniper gets a .50 cal Barrett sniper rifle. Lastly, there's the interesting Riot Control option, wielding the nightmarish Armsel Striker, a shotgun with a 12-round rotary cylinder. In real-life, it's apparently slow to reload, but the in-game animation has you whizzing cartridges in at impressive speed.Of the 40 weapons in the game, there are some other intriguing new additions. Rubin spoke about the XM25 20mm grenade launcher which lets you use the left stick to mark your distance via a laser sight; then you can shoot a grenade through a window. The projectile will air burst a metre into the room. "It's a smaller grenade than the 203 but it's a fun tool to use to get people out of cover," said Rubin.16 maps will be included with Modern Warfare 3 on release. At the demo event last night, I played through a tense, claustrophobic map based in the winding back alleys of Paris. I also tried Village, set throughout a ragtag collection of huts on an African savannah, and the visually arresting Underground, set in and around a blast-damaged tube station, complete with burned out trains, and – outside on ground level – police cars with their lights flashing, and iconic red buses abandoned on empty, eerie streets. More on those later.Two interesting new play modes were announced. In Kill Confirmed you have to collect the dogtags that appear above downed enemies in order to gain the points from a kill. However, if a teammate of your foe gets to the tags first, the kill is cancelled. I played this mode in the Village setting and it's already spawned an intriguing gang tactic where groups of players roam the map together, often lobbing concussion grenades and flash bangs ahead of them. The other newcomer is Team Defender in which two sides fight to gain possession of a single flag and then gain points for keeping hold of it.Elsewhere, private matches will allow participants to mix and match different elements, settings and features to create user-generated game modes. Elite subscribers will be able to submit their creations to online votes and the best will be made available to the public. There are also several Private game mode templates including 'Drop Zone' where you must hold the zone for team points and care packages; 'Infection' in which the infected team kills opposing team members to bring them across to the sick side; and 'Juggernaut' in which players must kill the Juggernaut and then take on the role themselves. Infinity Ward has also brought over the fun 'One in the Chamber' and 'Gun Game' options from the Black Ops wager matches.Activision also clarified details of the co-op Spec Ops mode. There will be two options: the Survival mode, seen at E3, in which two players face increasingly tough waves of enemies, earning cash to spend on weapons, equipment and airstrikes. Then there's the return of the Mission mode giving players16 new time-trial and objective-based missions to play through with a friend. The Spec Ops modes will also come with a separate ranking and progression system.Other reveals included a Universal Player Card, which apparently collates and rewards all your achievements from every Call of Duty game you've played on your machine, with attendant loyalty rewards. There is also a special Prestige Shop which provides a range of in-game rewards every time a player prestiges – this looks to include things like double weapon XP, but it flashed past rather quickly on the screen so I'll be checking that out again later. And of course there will be support for dedicated servers on PC, with players able to browse, filter, favourite and join any server they like as well as setting up their own servers and admins with controls over rules, setup and ban lists.It was a comprehensive unveiling, then, of a multiplayer system that's been subtly re-worked and re-engineered to be more inviting to a wider range of players, as well as rewarding those who have reached higher levels of competency. The releasing of the streak reward system from kills may well prove the most important upgrade in terms of the online playing field, though the social networking and group definition elements brought in by Elite could well bring about a shining new era in which players on public servers never again need face the barrage of slurs and insults from let's say 'over-enthusiastic' teenagers. That in itself could be the revolution that more reserved and thoughtful Call of Duty fanatics have been waiting for.Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 is released on 8 November for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
An executive at Android tablet maker Lenovo claims that Samsung sold only 20,000 of the 1m tablets that it shipped last year as it tried to "buy share" from market leader Apple.The dramatically low figure suggests that Samsung's efforts with its first 7-inch tablet,launched exactly a year ago, fell far short of targets.Andrew Barrow, director of consumer products and pricing for Lenovo Western Europe, told the Guardian that the problem with trying to substantially undercut the price of the Apple iPad, of which around 30m have so far been sold, was that "any [manufacturer] would be giving money away."Samsung said at the end of 2010 that it had shipped 1m of its 7-inch Galaxy devices, which were seen as the first real Android competitors to Apple's iPad. However, according to Barrow, Samsung only sold 20,000 of the tablets. Samsung had not returned a request for comment on Barrow's claim by the time of publication.Samsung has never given details of the actual sales it has made in the tablet market. In an earnings call at the end of January, Samsung executives admitted that the company had shipped far more tablets than had actually been sold,sayingthat the latter figure was "quite smooth" – a puzzling phrase that was never explained.Lenovo announced its own entry into the Android tablet market at the IFA technology show in Berlin on Thursday, with the IdeaPad K1. Asked whether the K1, which will launch in mid-September with a starting price of £349, should be much cheaper than the market-leading iPad 2, priced from £399, Barrow told The Guardian that "at that price, any [manufacturer] would be giving money away".He added: "We don't feel the need to buy share from Apple. If the product sells, it sells." He said that Lenovo is being "tentative with [its] first volume", unlike certain other manufacturers. When pressed, Barrow said the Galaxy Tab "sold 20,000 out [of shops], and Samsung claimed a million shipments in [to shops]", thereby making a huge loss but becoming known as a major Android tablet manufacturer.Rob Bamforth, a mobile analyst with Quocirca, told the Guardian that sales of 20,000 would be surprisingly low. "It's certainly plausible that sales into the channel are going to be significantly higher than sales out. The question is by how much, and that does sound like an awful lot," Bamforth said. "When you walk the streets and take the train you see iPads. Certainly the [Android] figures will be relatively poor. Whether they're that poor, I don't know."Bamforth noted that if the claim was true, Samsung would have been engaging in an activity known as "channel stuffing", in which manufacturers can claim large shipments of products in order to rev up publicity. However, as resellers can generally return large amounts of stock if sales are particularly poor, manufacturers such as Samsung tend to have an incentive not to stuff the channel."These things tend not to emerge immediately, but if it was that bad three or six months in, you'd expect grumblings from various channel partners and I haven't seen significant grumblings," Bamforth said, adding that if sales were that low he would also expect to have seen more discounting of the device.Since the original Galaxy Tab, Samsung has launched a series of successors in a variety of sizes. Its flagship model, the Galaxy Tab 10.1, has a similar screen size to that of the iPad 2 and is currently banned in Germany and Australia due to ongoing litigation with Apple. Apple claims Samsung has copied the look of the iPad in its Android tablets, along with certain elements of functionality.Many manufacturers are now trying to sell Android tablets, and some recent iterations of such devices have become viable alternatives to the ubiquitous iPad. Samsung's new Galaxy Tab 7.7, a direct upgrade of the original, offers a faster processor than the iPad's, along with an impressive screen. The range of tablet-optimised Android apps has also grown significantly since the original Galaxy Tab launched at IFA 2010.Barrow refused to say how big Lenovo's "tentative" first run of Android tablets actually was. Asked what would happen if it was not a hit, he said the company has "other products in the pipeline", with possible enhancements in terms of resolution, battery life, weight and size, as well as connectivity types.Lenovo also has a business-oriented ThinkPad Tablet which is already available through IT suppliers across western Europe. That device is slightly pricier than the K1 due to its enterprise features, and is not being positioned a direct competitor to the iPad and the many consumer-oriented Android contenders.
On Saturday 10 March 1956, Peter Twiss, who has died aged 90, took a Fairey&nbsp;Delta&nbsp;2 jet through two 15km runs, seven and a half miles above camera sites at a Chichester sewage farm and at Ford naval air station, West Sussex. Averaging 1,132.2mph, he broke the world air-speed record, exceeding the previous benchmark by more than 300mph, and so became the first jet pilot officially past 1,000mph.The following afternoon, Fleet Street descended on the aviator. By Monday morning, "1,132" was the most famous number in the country, and Twiss was a hero. The then Manchester Guardian pointed out that he could have flown from London to Manchester in under 10 minutes, while smoking just one cigarette. The New Elizabethan mirage, glimpsed at the time of the 1953 coronation, fleetingly reappeared. Yet as the last British pilot to hold the record, the 34-year-old's triumph also symbolised the end of an era when Britain's military technology, like its foreign policy, enjoyed significant independence from the US.The following year Twiss became Fairey's chief test pilot and was appointed OBE. However, any hopes the company cherished that the FD2 would metamorphose into a warplane, the FD3 – and thus a lucrative contract – vanished with the Conservative minister Duncan Sandys's cost-cutting defence white paper. The future lay with missiles, predicted Sandys, cancelling all fighter projects apart from the P1&nbsp;Lightning.In October 1957 the Soviet Union launched its first satellite, and the space age dawned. Two years later, Fairey, swallowed by Westland, vanished into&nbsp;history.The Delta, as Twiss called it, had been born into a different age. It was commissioned by the government in 1949 and Twiss first flew it in October 1954. On his 14th outing, faced with a defective fuel system, and thus a dead engine, he took six minutes to glide from 30,000ft to a forced landing at Boscombe Down, Wiltshire.In October 1955 the FD2 went supersonic. Fairey's chief test pilot, Gordon Slade, and Twiss had conceived the idea of a record attempt, and the latter proposed the plan to Sir Richard Fairey at a shooting party on his Hampshire estate. Thus developed a familiar plotline of scientists, airmen, bureaucrats and (state-funded) private entrepreneurs. Sir Richard, described by Twiss as "six foot seven inches of aristocratic aeronautical history", said yes. But the Ministry of Supply was deeply unenthusiastic.One of the many ironies surrounding the FD2 was that as the height of the cold war neared, the Fairey team's secrecy blackout over Operation Metrical was not directed towards the Soviet Union, but against their real rivals, the US. Since 1945 there had been four British speed record holders and nine Americans. The latest was the USAF's Horace "Dude" Hanes, who had flown an F-100C Super Sabre at 822.13mph in August 1955.That Saturday in 1956 was the fifth day of Twiss's attempt on the record, and even after his triumph there were 24 hours when, thanks to a camera glitch, the record hung, agonisingly, in the balance. So Twiss went off alone to an RAF mess for a beer and a slice of veal and ham pie.Confirmation, acclamation and, soon after that, recrimination ensued. By 6 April the ministry was announcing that 30 claims for damage – caused by the FD2's sonic boom – had been received in the Worthing area. Supersonic flight over Britain was effectively banned. Twiss, on £3,000 a year, was also being pursued by the Inland Revenue.On 19 April 1956 the USAF's Colonel Chuck Yeager, the first man through the sound barrier (in 1947), told the Royal Aeronautical Society that there were at least three US aircraft that could break the FD2's record. On 12 December 1957 the USAF's Major Adrian E Drew proved it, flying a F101-A Voodoo at 1,207.63mph. From then on, until the record shrivelled into irrelevance, it was taken by six US and three Soviet pilots.Twiss was born in Lindfield, near Haywards Heath, West Sussex, the grandson of an admiral and the younger of two sons of an army officer and his wife. The marriage of his parents, on the hoof around imperial outposts, had broken up by the early 1930s. In 1931 Twiss's future stepfather introduced him to George Stainforth. The pilot let the 10-year-old climb on to a float of his Supermarine S6b seaplane, in which Stainforth had just hit 407.49mph – and broken the world air-speed record. But the boy remained unimpressed.Educated at Sherborne school in Dorset, Twiss was good with his hands, good with detail, loved the countryside, made trouble, trained falcons, hated cricket and learned self-reliance, because there was no one, he wrote, to whom he could run home. He did not see his father from 1937 until 1959, at the Farnborough air show. The family life he treasured came from the Salisbury farming family with whom he convalesced from pneumonia as a teenager.By 1938 Twiss was a City-based Brooke Bond apprentice tea-taster, before fleeing back to the farm. The following year he was turned down for the Fleet Air Arm, but with the second world war under way he was accepted, as a naval airman second class. Qualifying as a pilot, he transferred to Yeovilton, Somerset. His only connection with the Battle of Britain was that the RAF took his unit's only Spitfire away. "We grieved about this," he recalled wryly. The fighter had made them feel important.Between 1941 and 1943 Twiss served on catapult ships – where Hawker Hurricanes, on one-way sorties, were rocketed off merchant ships to intercept Luftwaffe long-range reconnaissance bombers. By 1942 he was flying Fairey Fulmars on convoy escort through "bomb alley", between Sicily and north Africa. Awarded the DSC at 21, he retrained on Seafires, and won a bar to the medal in 1943, covering Operation Torch, the Anglo-American north African landings of 1942.Back at Ford, then doubling as an operational research unit, Twiss flew missions over occupied Europe. Putting the unit's theory into night-time practice in Beaufighters and Mosquitoes, he developed an interest in test flying. In 1944 he was seconded to America, and once back in Britain served in the Empire Test Pilots' School at Boscombe Down until 1946, when he joined Fairey as a test pilot.The FD2 aside, the planes Twiss tested included the Gannet anti-submarine aircraft and the Rotodyne helicopter. In 1956, after the world air-speed record, and with the ban on supersonic flight over Britain, Fairey accepted an offer for Twiss to test the FD2 at the Cazaux airbase in south-west France. There its perfomance was witnessed by Dassault Aviation technologists, who had been working on their own delta for some time.Soon after, Dassault began testing the Mirage III. It sold in large numbers and was to become one of Europe's most successful postwar fighters. Bearing a striking resemblance to the FD2, it was central to Israel's victory in the 1967 six-day war and in 1982 was flown by Argentina's air force over the Falklands.The British, observed Marcel Dassault, had a clumsy way of doing things. Twiss did not fly the FD2 after 1958, but, revamped as the BAC221, it was used for the Concorde test programme – the airliner sharing its "droop snoot" nose.Twiss meanwhile joined Fairey Marine at Hamble, Hampshire. As detailed in his autobiography, Faster Than the Sun (1963, revised 2005), much of his life was centred on the Solent, where he had made history. In 1963 he appeared as a villain, firing at Sean Connery from a Fairey speedboat, in the James Bond movie From Russia With Love. An enthusiastic powerboat racer, Twiss also took up gliding. His work as a marine consultant led to directorships of Fairey Marine (1968-78) and Hamble Point Marina (1978-88).Twiss's first three marriages ended in divorce. His fourth wife, Heather Danby, died in 1988. He is survived by his fifth wife, Jane de Lucey, two daughters and a number of stepchildren. Another daughter predeceased him.• Lionel Peter Twiss, test pilot and marine consultant, born 23 July 1921; died 31 August 2011
Dyson is set to launch its first major new product since theAir Multiplier fanin 2009 – but isn't saying what it is.A representative at the UK engineering firm's stand at the IFA technology show in Berlin on Friday was prepared to say what it would not be – a vacuum cleaner, a hand dryer or a fan – the categories in which Dyson has so far made its name.The device will be unveiled in two weeks.The denial of it being a vacuum cleaner would rule out the project that has simmered for years inside Dyson, where it has been trying to build a robot device able to clean rooms without human intervention. Numerous designs have been tried but Dyson's engineers have not been satisfied with results.The product is apparently responsible for the delayed launch in the UK of Dyson's latest vacuum cleaner, the DC37, which was itself launched at IFA on Friday. The DC37 is a cylinder vacuum cleaner with Dyson's patented "Ball" technology, which first appeared in 2005. It will launch in Europe in October, and a mini version has already been released in Japan, but will only make its way to the UK next year.In the meantime, the Dyson device will go on sale internationally, including in the UK, shortly after its launch later this month.Although it moved production to Malaysia almost a decade ago, Sir James Dyson's company still does its research and development at its Wiltshire base. Dyson is known for introducing odd new designs that sometimes become iconic, as in the case of its first product, the cyclonic action vacuum cleaner.In 2006 the Dyson Airblade was introduced and has since become widely used in the bathrooms of commercial premises. The Air Multiplier, a bladeless fan that has won design awards, is less ubiquitous.Whether its products become hits or not, Dyson is notable for creating a stir with each launch – perhaps because the UK has so few internationally recognised engineering firms.
Microsoft is investing millions of dollars in training "hundreds" of sales staff for phone companies worldwide to encourage them to sell devices running its Windows Phone operating system, as the company tries to catch up in the smartphone market.The news came as Taiwan's HTC unveiled two new smartphones on Thursday – called Titan and Radar – which are based on Mango, the next update to Windows Phone, and said that they will be available from October. They will almost certainly be the first using the Windows Phone 7.5 software to be available in Europe.The Titan model will be priced somewhat above Apple's iPhone but carries a wider 4.7in display. The HTC Radar phone will be priced at similar levels to other smartphones.Achim Berg, Microsoft's head of Windows Phone marketing,told Bloombergthat forecasts by market analysts that the operating system will have a 20% share by 2015 are conservative – even though it is languishing with a 1.6% world market share in the second quarter of the yearaccording to the analysts Gartner."This is a completely new platform, it takes time," Berg told Bloomberg. "It took time with Android, it took time with Apple. We have to show that we're very capable and that we have the fastest and easiest phone." Part of that effort will involve tutoring shop staff selling the handsets in how to show off the phones to best effect.Other analysts say that Windows Phone has a mountain to climb in order to reach the aim expressed by Stephen Elop, chief executive of Nokia – which will use Windows Phone in forthcoming smartphones – of becoming the "third ecosystem" in the field alongside Google's Android and Apple's iOS.Horace Dediu, a former Nokia executive who now runs the independent consultancy Asymco,notedthat in the US Android and iOS phones cumulatively outnumber Windows Phone devices – which there have a 4.5% share – by 12 to one: "To become the largest mobile platform in the US, as some analysts are predicting, Microsoft has a 12:1 disadvantage that looks to continue to grow. Those are some pretty tough odds."But Microsoft is undaunted. "I am confident on Q3. We see a strong Q4," Florian Seiche, head of HTC's business in Europe, Middle East and Africa, told Reuters at the IFA consumer electronics show in Berlin. He said good demand for its latest models was continuing, despite macroeconomic worries and longer replacement cycles in some countries.On 29 July, HTC gave a better than expected forecast for the third quarter, estimating sales of all its phones – which includes both Android and Windows Phone smarpthones – would double from a year ago to 13.5m, while its gross margin would be around 28%, down from 29-30% in previous quarters.HTC's shares have fallen as much as 40% from their peak in April because of the slowing growth, courtroom fights with Apple over patents and stiff competition. Microsoft has also won a per-handset payment – believed to be around $5 (£3) – for each Android handset HTC ships after claiming that HTC's Android phones infringe its patents.Analysts say HTC needs new markets to sustain growth and will have to call again on the speed and innovation that turned the once obscure Taiwanese company into a global brand in five years and propelled its market value beyond that of Nokia this year."HTC will be hoping the heightened awareness of Windows Phone as a result of Nokia cosying up to Microsoft will help kick-start interest in these new phones after the dismal reception of Windows Phone this time last year," said Ben Wood, head of research at CCS Insight.Nokia, still the world's largest cellphone vendor by volume, has decided to dump its own Symbian software in favour of Windows Phone. The first devices, running Mango, are expected later this autumn, but analysts think that it will not be before late spring next year that the Finnish company will have a range of handsets with which to target the market. Meanwhile, the companyfell into loss in the last quarter, and that is not expected to improve this year.Microsoft first announced Windows Phone in February 2010, ditching its longstanding Windows Mobile operating system in the face of competition from Apple's iPhone and Google's Android. Windows Phone was launched in October 2010, but the company has given few details about how many handset licences have been sold as market figures have suggested a slow start.
Xenoblade Chronicles...Wii; £39.99; cert 12+; NintendoXenoblade Chronicles looks at first glance like a traditional Japanese RPG – cutscenes and all – but this complex, rich game manages to transcend the genre conventions and tell its story in surprising, engaging ways. Gifted orphan Shulk must lead his fellow colonists on an epic battle against evil robots that have invaded their world – but this is not all standard fantasy fare (the first grisly death comes about three hours in). Confusing camera angles and busy screens can sometimes make for complicated battles, but the combat system is unusual and compelling, revolving around use of special attacks, team tactics and manoeuvring to find the best position. The legendary weapon Monado, which lets Shulk see the future, provides both the main thread of a poignant and engaging story and some beautiful and innovative combat effects. The Wii's graphical limitations sadly make the game look old before its time, but Xenoblade Chronicles more than makes up for it with believable characters, a surprisingly open, non-linear world, intertwining side quests and collection and crafting systems that complement the main game without overpowering it. All that over more than 50 hours of gameplay – and very few random encounters. A genuine epic.Mary HamiltonInazuma Eleven...DS; £29.99; cert 7+; NintendoInazuma Eleven is a football-meets-RPG mash-up aimed at anime-mad 10 year olds. The game follows the adventures of young Mark Evans as he attempts to lead his school team to unlikely glory. With an unfolding soap opera storyline which hooks you in despite (or perhaps because of) its clichés, the main action is a series of stylus-controlled football challenges. There is some skill to moving the players around the pitch, like a real-time tactical general, but once you're in position for a tackle or a shot, a Pokemon style micro-battle kicks in, with accompanying animation. Whether your player's action is successful is down to a series of stats and elements, and getting together a team capable of preposterous, Shaolin Soccer-aping moves is the only way to achieve victory. Between these matches, much time is spent traipsing around the school and town tracking down the players suggested to you by the bubbly talent scout and potential love interest Celia. The plot – with its characters with dark secrets, opposing teams with evil cloaks and depth-perception-limiting eyepatches, and time spent praying to the shrine of the central character's dead grandfather – is typically outré for an anime, and the cut scenes are nicely rendered and break up the game well. Quibbles: the time spent searching for new players does drag, and the dubbing into CBBC English is a touch grating at times. Inazuma Eleven has been out since 2008 in Japan, and is showing its age slightly – but it's better late than never.James WalshWhite Knight Chronicles 2...PS3; £49.99; cert 16+; SonyLoad up White Knight Chronicles 2 (WKC2) and it's not long before you get the feeling something's amiss. Putting the generic, overlong JRPG cutscenes to one side for a minute, in terms of gameplay you're not so much thrown in the deep end as you are thrown off a cliff in to the Mariana trench. There is, you see, no tutorial, and for a game that looked at FF13's Paradigm Shift system, snorted derisively and said "I can make something even more complicated than that," it really should something of a prerequisite. For a newcomer, it's impenetrable, and this is the point at which many reviewers and purchasers probably gave up. There is method to this madness, however. WKC2 is not a sequel in the typical way we expect of a game nowadays. Buy Fifa 12 and you don't expect to have to play Fifa 11 to understand it. WKC2 on the other hand sees itself as the second half of whole (think Kill Bill) and the original game is bundled with it. The tutorials – and a great deal of narrative context – are only acquired through playing through its predecessor. Buy WKC2 then and, assuming you haven't played the original (which has been slightly updated for this release) and you've got two, 25-hour plus JRPGS in one package – great value. The games themselves are standard JRPG fare – terrible dialogue, tedious cutscenes but rewarding and challenging gameplay in between. The White Knight aspect of the title comes from your "summons"-like ability to transform into a huge Japanese knight during battle and kick the snot out of your opponents, which is always good fun. Rewarding and challenging as it might be, WKC2 is nevertheless unremarkable in all other aspects and of little interest to all but the most dedicated JRPG fans. Bury 50 hours of your life into these two games, by all means, but not before you've played the 27 better role-playing-games that exist across this generation of consoles.Jack Arnott
Google has introduced adverts for daily deals to its famously clutter-free homepage for the first time, in what appears to be a bid to challenge Groupon, the hugely successful discount and offers service.The world's number one search engine offered US users a deal on Wednesday, a rare instance of the internet giant using its prized online real estate for advertising.The advertlinked to its Groupon-style service, currently available in the US only, called Google Offers, and offered users tickets for the Musuem of Natural History – which would normally cost $25 (£15) – for $5.The daily deals move comes just eight months after Groupon rejected a $6bn takeover offer from the company amid fears that it would have drawn an anti-trust investigation. Groupon has now filed for a flotation which could happen as early as next month.Placing adverts on its homepage is a rare step for Google, which regards the clutter-free user experience as one of the key elements of its success.Google only ever breaks with this rigorously guarded format to promote services it considers strategically important, such as its Chrome browser or its now defunct Nexus S phone.Groupon is one of the stellar technology start-ups of the last three years with more than 115 million subscribers and has an estimated 600-700 companies trying to emulate its success including its nearest rival, livingsocial.com.All are vying for a slice of Google's local advertising business – Google generated 96% of its roughly $29bn in revenue last year from ads that appear alongside search results."We occasionally include a link on the Google homepage that points users to important information, whether it be about a relevant cause, a new product or an offer," a Google spokeswoman said. "Users can benefit from learning about great deals from local organisations."
When we were playing through Batman: Arkham Asylum for the second time, picking up all the achievements, we found the blueprints for Arkham City …You found that? That was you guys?Er, no, if we're being honest; someone else found it first, posted it onGamefaqs.comand then we found it using their walkthrough.(Laughs) Aha! So you can't take credit for that! Well, that's honest of you.Thanks. So the existence of those blueprints means you were planning a sequel before Arkham City was even out the gate, right?It does.So how did you stay focused on the game you were making at the time? And how much of what you planned in those blueprints – and what you were planning for Arkham City at the time – has ended up in the new game?Let me answer the second question first. Those blueprints … when we look at them now and we look back at Arkham City, they're really accurate. We managed to stay focused on that broad footprint of the layout of Arkham City almost to a fault.It was always going to be driven by technical considerations because when you're making an open-world game you don't know how big it can be until you start building it. But we knew we really wanted to inject it with the same level of detail and attention and love that we put into Arkham Asylum. We also wanted to layer it with Batman DNA; we wanted to make sure that it contained legendary locations that made the place meaningful for Batman and that it wasn't just a collection of generic streets.So when we hatched the idea of taking the game out of Arkham Asylum and on to the streets of Gotham, and then the concept of Arkham City, that was the point where we created the secret room with the blueprints for Arkham City – almost in the hope that we would be allowed to make it. But by that stage, to answer your first question, we were so close to finishing Arkham Asylum, there was no chance Arkham City could be a distraction that would threaten the polish of the game we were working on.When you started thinking about Arkham City, was it a case that you wanted to take what you were doing in widescreen? Or did the idea for the city environment come from features you couldn't put into the first game – like Batman's new gliding ability, or his new combos? Which of those aspects came first?It actually came for the desire we had to give the player an immense sense of navigational freedom. We want to be true to the character of Batman, to all the things that make him a person and make him a hero. For example, the Dark Knight, the defender of Gotham – that's just one aspect of his personality. Being the world's greatest detective is another aspect, and it's just as important. That's why there's a lot of crime scene investigation and puzzle solving in the game.Then you have the Caped Crusader moniker for Batman and so, being able to deploy his cape and glide through buildings is something we have in the game – I think the recent Batman films did that aspect particularly well. We knew that was something we wanted in the game; it felt very Batman, it felt great for the gameplay and overall it was the next logical place for us to go with this Arkham-verse that we're building here.Batman: Arkham City … well-known characters mix with some obscure onesSpeaking of the Arkham-verse, you've got a lot more characters in this game than there was in Arkham Asylum. We've already seen the Riddler, the Joker, Harley Quinn, Catwoman and Two-Face. Are there anymore characters that will make an appearance in Arkham City?Yes.Can you tell us which ones?(laughs) No. We've got more character announcements to make but I can't tell you what they are yet. I can tell you, though, that the Riddler will appear physically in the game. In Arkham Asylum he was just a voice on the radio, but here, you'll come face to face with him.Catwoman's in the game both as an adversary and as a playable character. Calendar Man, Zsasz and Hugo Strange – as the warden of Arkham City – are in the game too. So there's a lot of fan service with very well-known characters as well as some obscure ones in the game. This is a big game as well, you're looking at around 40 hours plus to get 100% in there, and then you've got challenge maps on top of that.We've got a lot of time and space to fill out the development of all of the different super villains. Arkham Asylum was a lot more focused and claustrophobic experience – the focus in that game was mainly on the tension between Batman and the Joker.Speaking of fan service, Robin is a character that divides fans. Yet we have seen concept art for the young lad in Arkham City. Was there an internal argument at Rocksteady before the decision was reached to put him in the game?(laughs) You're right, he does divide people. The inclusion of Robin is always going to be met with resistance, whether within Rocksteady or outside with the fans or the community. It's actually incredible how divisive a character he is, but I think done well and done right, he's got the potential to be an awesome character.We haven't shown anything of Robin in action yet, but I can tell you he has his own navigational system, he has his own moves, his own combat combos and he's got an explosives augmentation. I think gamers are going to find that he feels very different to playing as Batman – the same way that Catwoman feels different to playing as Batman. We definitely wanted to make players feel the three different playable characters offer three different experiences.Are you a fan of Robin?Absolutely! Always have been! I've always thought he's a brilliant character. I know why some fans don't like him, but I've always been on Team Robin!Batman: Arkham City … a novel use of a washing lineBah! Next question. You might be sick of hearing this one, but let's talk about the Batmobile. After all you've given Batman an open city, so why can't we drive his car?It ain't a driving game, is the short answer. You've seen the work we've put into the gliding system and that works just fine for moving the character around the city. Also, lots of the streets in Arkham City are filled with rubble an craters so the Batmobile wouldn't be the best mode of transport. It wouldn't make for very fun driving even if we put the Batmobile in the game.In all seriousness, though, the moment you put Batman in a car, it becomes an entirely different kind of game. So there are no vehicles in the game whatsoever.Would you say, that in a way, Batman is the ultimate vehicle in the game?Well, he certainly controls with the same level of responsiveness. We wanted to build in a lot of navigational options for players – you can see that even in the way the player can use the Batarang, where you can completely control their path once you throw them.Speaking of the Batarang, lots of games featuring superheroes make you unlock their powers – even in the sequels. Will we have to spend a lot of time unlocking all of Batman's gadgets from the first game?No, you have them right from the start of Arkham City. We wanted players to really feel like Batman has been preparing for the inevitable day when Gotham would experience a crisis like it does in Arkham City, so all of his gadgets are ready.Mark Hamill says this is the last time he's playing the Joker. It seems that every time a Batman series hits a peak, something untoward happens with that character.How do you mean?Well, Tim Burton made a good Batman film and then killed off the Joker at the end of it. Christopher Nolan made a great Batman film and then Heath Ledger tragically passed away. Now, after Rocksteady made an outstanding Batman game – you're losing your Joker as well.I hadn't thought of it that way. Well, Mark said that he thought that Arkham Asylum would be very difficult to top and I absolutely agree – when I play Arkham Asylum, the performance he turns in is amazing.But his performance on Arkham City has been just phenomenal. When it comes to the Joker, Mark's a genius. He gets this character so perfectly. All we need to do is just write the dialogue and then he brings it vividly to life. When we add his performance to the game, the quality our game just doubles.To be honest, I don't know what's going to happen in the future. So long as we remain focused on making an amazing game, opportunities will come for the studio, I'm sure and creative solutions will present themselves.•Batman: Arkham City is out on 21 October for PC, PS3 and Xbox 360
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I like my posh coffee machine – a Nespresso Magimix. It makes the morning seem like a luxurious and exciting event rather than a personal trauma.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it this morning – funnily enough, to make coffee.What additional features would you add if you could?I would really like it to be able to make my entire breakfast – scramble a couple of eggs, maybe toast a bagel.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, I think it probably have taken over my whole kitchen.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I usually have the feeling with technology that I'm only using about 50% of its capabilities.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I've got a robot vacuum cleaner which promises so much and delivers so little.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Don't throw it out of a window, however tempting it might be.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Probably somewhere in the middle – maybe a lerd?What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My laptop – a Macbook Pro.Mac or PC, and why?Mac. I'm afraid I'm just a sucker for design, and they just look prettier.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I download music, but I do buy DVDs. I recently bought An Education.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Like most things, I thing they're a very good idea if they work and a very bad idea if they don't But I wouldn't want a mad robot in charge of my house.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A time machine – so then I could zip around doing whatever I wanted.
Toshiba has unveiled what it says is the thinnest notebook yet, the Z830.The 13.3in notebook – which falls into the "ultrabook" category recently defined by Intel for very thin, light laptops – was shown off at the IFA technology show in Berlin on Thursday. Toshiba also launched a new Android tablet, the AT200.Andy Bass, Toshiba's sales and marketing chief for the EMEA region, claimed that the company has been "launching ultrabooks for many years now", in that it has always tried to make its laptops thin and light. However, he said, the Z830 was the thinnest and lightest yet.The Toshiba ultrabook is 15mm thick, despite which it offers three USB ports along with HDMI, VGA and Gigabit Ethernet ports. It weighs 1.11kg. Intel's specification for an ultrabook says it must be 20mm thick at most, and weigh a maximum of 1.4kg.The AT200 is also fairly thin, at 7.7mm. Running Android Honeycomb 3.2, it weighs 558g and has a 10.1in screen, putting into the same size category as the majority of Android tablets out there, as well as the iPad.Analysts at Nomura have expressed severe doubts about the viability of the ultrabook category, at least at the price point it seems to currently entail.Analyst Richard Windsor said in a briefing a week ago that Apple, whose MacBook Air laptop may be said to have spurred on the category, would be very difficult to compete with, given the control it has over its supply lines."Here the magic price seems to be $1,000, but it appears that the PC makers are really struggling to make this price point and still preserve a modicum of profit for themselves," Windsor said. "This is the major reason why we do not believe that the ultrabook segment is really going to take off until next year."Windsor suggested that the advent of Windows 8, which allows the use of ARM's architecture instead of Intel's, would make devices cheaper, as would the availability of low-cost flash memory."Just as it is with tablets, non-Apple PC makers will need to be very price competitive before they are likely to see any real traction in that segment and the pieces to allow them to do that are still not really in place," Windsor said.Toshiba has said it is aiming to have the Z830 come in at under $1,000, but has not announced final pricing.
A burst of 16 apps for your considerationSocial Widget Suite by INQINQ is best known for making Android handsets, but now its social software is available on Android Market as standalone downloads. The Social Widget Suite pulls Facebook updates onto the Android home screen, and it's joined by two other apps – Social Sync and People – for other Facebook features.AndroidBen 10 OmniGamesThe Ben 10 brand continues to go from strength to strength for children, with this latest iOS game offering three mini-games. It was developed by UK studio Neon Play for Turner Broadcasting.iPhoneThe 9/11 Memorial: Past, Present and FutureAs the anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attack in New York draws near, an iPad app has been released curating videos, photos and information about the events, including an interactive timeline. It's the work of author and filmmaker Steven Rosenbaum, who made the 7 Days in September documentary.iPadDoodle Jump for iPadThe name says it all: hugely popular iPhone casual game Doodle Jump has been supersized for the iPad. New features include a multiplayer racetrack theme and use of the OpenFeint community.iPadFoo FightersFoo Fighters are the latest band to get their own app, published by label Sony Music using the Mobile Roadie platform. Expect news, photos, videos and "other cool stuff" from Dave Grohl and chums.iPhone / AndroidVirgin Media ShortsUK telco Virgin Media has a new iPad app for its Virgin Media Shorts competition, spotlighting two-minute epics from film directors who have entered the contest. It promises new films every week.iPadMichael Garland's Icarus Swinebuckle Interactive Picture BookThe next big book-app for parents looking beyond the big brands could be this retelling of the Icarus myth – with a pig in the title role. Giant Atom's app looks plenty of fun.iPadBear Grylls – KnotsFans of TV presenter Bear Grylls and boy scouts will be eager for this iPhone app, which "shows Bear's favourite knots for almost every eventuality". And if that's not enough, publisher Chillingo – better known for its games – also has Grylls-branded apps for a compass, watch and S.O.S.iPhoneJetpack JoyrideThere is a big buzz building this week around iOS game Jetpack Joyride, which is the latest from Fruit Ninja developer Halfbrick Studios. One-touch gameplay sees hero Barry Steakfries jetting through levels, with in-app purchases used to speed up his progress.iPhone / iPadThe New Republic for iPadUS publication The New Republic has a slick new iPad app offering its fortnightly issues with added social features. It's using a subscription model, with users paying $3.99 a month or $39.99 a year.iPadMonster Galaxy: The Zodiac IslandsOnline game Monster Galaxy now has an iPhone spin-off, hoping to attract some of the 10 million people who play the Facebook version every month. It's a bit like Pokemon.iPhoneCricket Captain 2011Just in time for England being world-beaters comes Cricket Captain 2011, a serious management simulation for iPhone and iPad packed with stats and strategies. It also supports online play against PC and Mac owners of the game.iPhone / iPadSocialMusic.fm BetaSocialMusic.fm is an online community for people who trade bootlegs of live gigs. Its new Android app makes it clear that you can't actually download music: it's more about comparing your collection to its database of bootlegs, and connecting to other users.AndroidDove Body Language MessengerDove's Body Language Messenger is just the ticket for any iPhone owner who's been wishing they had an app to send animated messages to friends where the letters are made up of women's bodies. Anyone? Bueller?iPhoneOfficial New York JetsAmerican football team the New York Jets have an official iPhone app, developed by YinzCam and with heavyweight sponsorship from US operator Verizon Wireless. News, video, photos, stats and social features are all included.iPhoneMonkey KingMonkey King is apparently a 20-volume series of comics based on the famous Chinese novel, which took 70 people more than six years to complete. Now – inevitably perhaps – it's an iPad app. 12,800 pages too.iPadYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
Michael Arrington is to step down as editor of the US technology blog TechCrunch after six years at the helm.The combative tech blogger is to head up the $20m private investment fund,CrunchFund, backed by TechCrunch-owner AOL and several other high-profile venture capitalists.Arrington, 41, will have no editorial role in the site he founded in 2005, but will continue to serve as its founding editor.He will report to Arianna Huffington, the AOL boss who oversaw the $25m takeover of TechCrunch from Arrington in September 2010.Arrington will partner with many well-known Silicon Valley venture capitalists – including Digg-founder Kevin Rose, Yuri Milner, Marc Andreessen, Ben Horowiz, and Accel Partners – to invest between $100,000 and $200,000 in fledgling internet firms.AOL has invested $10m in CrunchFund, which will operate independently from AOL Ventures, with the other venture capitalists believed to have invested about $1m each. Patrick Gallagher, an investor at VantagePoint Venture Partners, will run CrunchFund alongside Arrington.An AOL spokesman told the Wall Street Journal: "Mike will run the fund and will continue to write for TechCrunch, but will have no editorial oversight."Erick Schonfeld, co-editor of TechCrunch, will take over as interim editor while AOL searches for a permanent replacement.Arrington's departure from TechCrunch comes after a tumultuous period, since the famously punchy site was acquired by Huffington at AOL.A household name in Silcon Valley, Arrington announced a return to investing in startups in April, causing fellow bloggers to criticise a claimed "lack of transparency" around the editor's involvement in the companies TechCrunch wrote about.The California-born entrepreneur's departure will also raise questions about the future of TechCrunch under AOL.Under the stewardship of Huffington, AOL aimed to take on international competitors including the New York Times and Washington Post with a roster of popular blogs, led by TechCrunch and the Huffington Post.At the centre of AOL's ambition are the personalities behind those blogs, with Arrington and Huffington at the core. The AOL chief executive, Tim Armstrong, was open that it had paid $315m in February not just for the Huffington Post, but for its charismatic founder.More recently, rumours of a sale or plans to go private have swirled around AOL. The content company's shares have soared 24% since Monday, to $15.19, amid speculation that the company had met bankers Allen &amp; Company. AOL was also rumoured to be considering a sale of its dial-up internet business, which accounts for about half of the company's $1.62bn market capitalisation.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTechCrunch editor Michael Arrington steps down &gt;&gt; Guardian"Arrington will partner with many well-known Silicon Valley venture capitalists - including Digg-founder Kevin Rose, Yuri Milner, Marc Andreessen, Ben Horowiz, and Accel Partners - to invest between $100,000 and $200,000 in fledgling internet firms."TechCrunch Editor Resigns &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"TechCrunch founder Michael Arrington is resigning as editor of the popular technology blog, and will run a $20 million venture-capital fund backed by TechCrunch-owner AOL Inc. and several venture-capital firms."Mr. Arrington "will run the fund and will continue to write for TechCrunch, but will have no editorial oversight," said an AOL spokesman. Erick Schonfeld, who has served as co-editor in New York, will become interim editor while AOL searches for a replacement for Mr. Arrington, the spokesman said. AOL purchased the site last year."Arrington gets the exit that one suspects he always wanted. Now the interesting times start for Techcrunch and AOL.Windows Phone, the third ecosystem? What are the odds? &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu, analysing the comScore numbers for US smartphone users: "In the last 12 months, Android gained 25m users in the US. iPhone gained 9.5m while Blackberry lost 3.2m and Microsoft lost 1.6m. Other platforms had a net loss of 1.2m."The total net gain of smartphones was about 29m new users."RIM switched from being a consistent net gainer of users to a consistent net loser of users in October 2010. Windows Phone is showing signs of holding the line on user base erosion but share remains below 5% (now at 4.7% vs. 4.6% last month). To put the mountain-sized hurdle in perspective, Android now has 7 times more users in the US while iPhone has about 5 times more. To become the largest mobile platform in the US, as some analysts are predicting, Microsoft has a 12:1 disadvantage that looks to continue to grow."Those are some pretty tough odds."British Airways testing iPads for cabin crews &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Add British Airways to the list of airlines putting iPads in crew members' flight bags."The U.K. carrier recently began a pilot program that will see some cabin crew members using the tablets to improve in-flight service and replace the paper clutter of the passenger manifests, seating charts and flight timetables they typically carry."BA will initially outfit just 100 crew members with iPads. But if that initial deployment is successful, it plans to give them to 1,800 more in the coming months."Shouldn't we be hearing about RIM, that darling of the enterprise, winning PlayBook contracts some time soon?Beware online confessions &gt;&gt; Tim HarfordTim Harford, the FT's undercover economist and presenter of the BBC's More Or Less programme, investigates why people give up personal information so easily online.Superman VS Google+ &gt;&gt; Joy of TechSo true, so very, very, true.Screenshot of Steve Jobs's calendar &gt;&gt; Joy of TechThese guys are on a roll.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Samsung may have launched two new Android tablets at the IFA technology show in Berlin, but it has found itself unable to include its flagship tablet on its stands.The Galaxy Tab 10.1, which falls into the same size category as the iPad 2, is absent due to an injunction Apple won in August in a German court. Representatives from the company confirmed the device could not be shown at IFA, the largest and most significant gadget show in Europe, because all marketing of the tablet is banned under the injunction.The tablet is the only one of Samsung's Android range that is banned, and only in Germany. A Duesseldorf court originally granted Apple a temporary injunction covering the entire EU, with the exception of the Netherlands, but Samsung subsequently complained that the court was overreaching its jurisdiction, and the court reduced the ban area to the country where it sits.Apple gained its injunction because, it said, the Galaxy Tab 10.1 infringed on design rights that are supposedly exclusive to the iPad line. Indeed, Samsung appears to be taking care that its new tablets are not of equivalent size to Apple's tablet – the new Galaxy Tab 7.7 is noticeably smaller, as is the 5.3in-screened Galaxy Note.The Galaxy Tab 10.1 is also banned in Australia, which is another of the many territories in which Samsung and Apple are battling it out. There, the case will progress with further hearing at the end of September. In Germany, Samsung will get another chance to plead its case at a 9 September hearing.Samsung representatives at IFA said they were unable to comment further on the 10.1in device's absence, due to the ongoing court case with Apple.
It's a busy release day today. Ubisoft's vehicle-based action adventure Driver: San Francisco is out, as is Codemasters' arcade-inspired shooter Bodycount and the latest in the Madden NFL series. Anything there tickle your gaming fancy?
Team Bondi, the games studio behind the blockbuster La Noire, has gone into administration after six years and just one game.The Sydney-based games developer appointed administrators on Tuesday, according toa filing with the Australian Securities and Exchange Commission.This brings to an end a tumultuous period for the Australian games firm, with rumours of bad management and poor working practices plaguing Team Bondi since it released LA Noire in May 2011.The detective thriller continues to enjoy critical and financial acclaim, but its six-year production paved the way fornumerous unflattering claims from disgruntled employees, promptingan investigation by the International Game Developers Association.More recently, Team Bondi was reported to have parted ways with Rockstar, the New York-based games publisher behind LA Noire, raising questions about its ability to continue operating.The company was also rumoured to be selling its assets and intellectual property to a rival studio, KMM Games, where many of its senior developers have moved, including founder Brendan McNamara.Rockstar is thought to own the intellectual property for the PC version of LA Noire, which is due to be released later this year.According to theAustralian news website Smart Company, Team Bondi is to hold a creditors' meeting in Sydney on Friday.Team Bondi could not be reached for comment at the time of publication. Rockstar Games did not respond to a request to comment.
Is it possible to run a second (external) DVD drive for playing back DVDs from a different region? My daughter lives in the US, and uses her laptop's internal drive to play Region 1 discs, but she would like to be able to play some of her UK (Region 2) discs. I'm aware that some DVD drives are multi-region but don't know how to determine whether one of those is fitted. I have given her an external DVD-RW drive (UK sourced) but she is reluctant to use it in case it affects the settings on her laptop and eventually prevents her from playing Region 1 DVDs on the internal drive.Alan GoodridgeI haven't actually tried this myself, but I can't see a problem with using an external drive to play Region 2 discs, and perhaps a reader can confirm this works. At worst, your daughter should get a pop-up asking if she wants to change a drive's region, so all she has to do is click No.Get your daughter to download a very small (7K) free utility calledDriveInfo. This will check both drives and tell your daughter whether they are protected and, if so, how many times she can change the region setting. The usual maximum is five.If the external DVD drive has not been pre-set, your daughter may need to set the region in Microsoft Windows. To do this in Windows XP, plug the drive in, right-click the My Computer icon and select Properties, click the Hardware tab, and then click the button labelled Device Manager. This will open a separate window listing the PCs hardware. Click the plus sign next to the entry for DVD/CD-ROM Drives to open that section, and it should be obvious which drive is which. Double-clicking the name of the external drive will bring up its Properties sheet, where one of the tabs says "DVD Region". This tab will tell her the current region setting. It also includes a list of countries for people who want to change the region.I expect both your daughter's DVD drives will be protected.In the early days of region coding, DVD drives used a "regional playback control" system called RPC-1, but the PC software used to play DVDs could ignore it.VLC, for example, was effectively a "region free" media player. In fact, I'd still recommend your daughter to try VLC and use it for DVD playback rather than Windows Media Player. (VLC is open source, and it's a waste of time putting copy restrictions in open source code: someone would just take them out.)About a decade ago, the entertainment industry started to enforce RPC-2. This stores the region code in the DVD drive's firmware. RPC-2 can be circumvented by entering the right unlocking code (which some manufacturers make available) using a DVD player's remote control, or by patching the firmware chip,if a patch is available. This is somewhat risky, and would invalidate any remaining warranty.Another approach is to use "region killer" software that bypasses the region coding, or a media player that includes this type of feature. Examples include the AnyDVD and BlazeDVD Free DVD players, and DVD Region Killer 2.7 or DVD 43 ("DVD for free"). AnyDVD is available on a 21-day free trial but after that must be purchased, so the free version of BlazeDVD is the one to try first, followed if necessary by DVD 43. The MajorGeeks site says that DVD Region Killer does not work with RPC-2 drives.Unfortunately, this is an area fraught with legal problems, and some sites have been taken down under America's notorious Digital Millennium Copyright Act. The DMCA is intended to stop the distribution of software and devices intended to circumvent DRM (Digital Rights Management) or copy-protection systems, though in some cases there may be a "fair use" provision.The Content Scrambling System (CSS) used by DVDs has been cracked and the DMCA cannot uncrack it. It makes it more difficult for people to enjoy their legally purchased content – your daughter being a case in point – but it does nothing to stop commercial pirates from flooding markets with counterfeit DVDs. Nor does it stop people from downloading pirate copies of movies from what we've apparently started to call "cyberlockers": download sites such as Rapidshare, Fileserve, Filesonic, MegaUpload, DepositFiles, Wupload, Hotfile, FileFactory, Oron and many more.Of course, if the external DVD drive does play her Region 2 DVDs, none of this will be necessary. However, buying a different DVD player for each region setting probably isn't the cheapest or most practical solution.
Broadcasters may be buzzing about the potential of second-screen mobile and tablet apps for viewers to use while watching their shows, but they are not forgetting that first screen. Business and financial news channel CNBC has launched its first connected TV app in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.CNBC Real-Time TV App serves up a variety of content, including video interviews and market analysis; live data from the London Stock Exchange, NYSE, NASDAQ and the Deutsche Börse; and a personalised portfolio feature to keep tabs on up to 30 individual stocks at once.The app is available for connected TV products from Panasonic, Philips and Samsung in the EMEA region, as well as through Virgin Media's app-capable set-top box in the UK."CNBC's Real-Time TV App is the latest tool in an unparalleled suite of digital products that makes the real-time data, news and analysis that investors care about, available to them across multiple platforms," says CNBC's vice president of distribution Justine Powell in a statement.That's presumably investors sitting at home getting their business intelligence through their TV set, which may be something of a niche. CNBC's website and iOS app already offer similar features, and are likely to continue to be a useful way to access this real-time data while people watch the main TV channel.
Ford is to give European parents the chance to tell their children how to drive without even being in the car with them.The car giant announced on Thursday that its MyKey technology, first introduced in the US in 2009 as a way of helping businesses manage their fleet drivers, will make its way to the Fiesta line in Europe in 2012. Ford is promoting MyKey as ideal for parents who worry that their kids drive too fast while playing music too loudly and without doing up their seatbelts.The technology, which will be rolled out across Ford's entire European range after the Fiesta, lets parents pre-program a master key that sets various limits on the vehicle. Top speed settings can be limited, with warnings beeping at 70, 90 or 100kph. Failure to fasten seatbelts can also activate a chime and mute the audio system.Pim van der Jagt, managing director of the company's Aachen research centre, said at Ford's IFA launch event in Berlin that under-25s were three times more likely to be involved in accidents, and MyKey would allow parents to tailor the vehicles performance to help their children drive more safely and more fuel efficiently without taking away their independence."It also encourages safety values," van der Jagt said, noting that MyKey could limit distractions by allowing parents to set a maximum audio volume.MyKey also reminds young drivers of low fuel levels sooner than would otherwise be the case, if the system was not in place – warnings sound 125km before fuel is likely to run out, rather than 80km before that point.If MyKey involves increased automation of control, it has nothing on the Ford Evos concept car that will be shown off at the Frankfurt Motor Show later this month. Ford revealed the technology featured in the car at IFA, ahead of its physical unveiling.Paul Mascarenas, Ford's chief technology officer, described the Evos as an ultra-smart, cloud-connected vehicle. There are several cars on the market that already feature internet connectivity, but the Evos takes it a step further by interacting with the user's smartphone, tablet and even work diary.If a meeting is cancelled first thing in the morning, Ford's software would tell the user's alarm clock to allow a lie-in. The car would know what the user was listening to via their iPad on their home sound system, and continue the music in-vehicle. It would also pre-cool itself to the user's chosen settings, also taking into account the weather outside.If a meeting is delayed, the Evos would suggest the driver take a scenic route to work, and it would also suggest diversions to cleaner routes if it detects high pollution levels. It would even scan social networks to see what routes are recommended by friends.A heart monitor built into the seat would detect a quickening of the pulse and take away extraneous information from the digital dashboard in response. If the car is put into performance mode, it would also automatically select music above a certain level of beats per minute, to go with the chosen speed. As the Evos is a hybrid, it would also scan the neighbourhood for nearby charging stations.Of course, concept cars are just there to show off what could be made reality with a bit more work. MyKey will make it into real European cars next year, and Ford also hopes to bring its Sync voice control system across the pond soon too – that particular piece of technology is delayed for a rollout here due to the fact that Europe has a much greater variety of languages than the US.
Samsung has unveiled two new tablets, one of which, the midsized Galaxy Note, is being pitched as a replacement for pen and paper.The Android-based Galaxy Note features a pressure-sensitive "S Pen" that can be used to write, draw and annotate a variety of content types, including photos. The idea has been done before, with HTC's Flyer, but that tablet's stylus came as a pricey optional extra that had to be bought separately.Samsung's Galaxy Note's 5.3in screen size is smaller than the Flyer and closer to the dimensions of a standard notepad. The tablet is 9.65mm wide and weighs 178g. The larger tablet announced at the IFA technology show in Berlin on Thursday is the Galaxy Tab 7.7, a slightly enlarged version of Samsung's first Android tablet, unveiled a year ago.According to Andrew Coughlin, head of account for Samsung Europe, the Galaxy Note comes with a memo application that can be quickly called up so the user can jot down ideas. "Any screen can be captured and annotated with detailed commentary in your own handwriting," he said.Samsung obviously sees a big future for pen-based input. The company will release a software development kit (SDK) so third-party developers can write apps for the stylus – reference apps that have already been created with partners include a multiparty whiteboard application for business use.It remains to be seen how the device will be priced in the UK or when it will become available. The Flyer, which is already getting long-in-the-tooth by tablet standards, can be picked up for about £400.Coughlin and other Samsung executives repeatedly referred to the Galaxy Note as a primary device, suggesting that it can replace both the smartphone and the larger tablet size exemplified by the market-leading iPad.The Galaxy Tab 7.7 is a revision of the original Galaxy Tab, which featured a slightly smaller 7in screen. The new version is thinner, lighter and brighter, measuring 7.89mm in thickness, weighing 335g and featuring the same Super AMOLED Plus screen technology that is used in the extremely popular Galaxy S II smartphone.Super AMOLED Plus allows wide viewing angles, a feature that Apple has been keen to promote with the IPS display on its iPad 2. Both of Samsung's new tablets feature 1.4GHz dual-core processors, which is about the same processing power that can be found in netbooks. By comparison, Apple's iPad 2 is relatively sluggish with its 1GHz processor.Versions of the Galaxy Tab 7.7 will be made available with a variety of connectivity options, including "4G" LTE and the more-common 3G-based HSPA option found in most smartphones.At the same event, Samsung unveiled its Wave 3 handset, which runs the new version 2.0 of the company's Bada operating system. Bada is an OS that Samsung is putting into a range of handsets, from the low end to smartphones.Although the high end of the market is almost entirely taken up with smartphone-specific operating systems such as iOS, Android and the BlackBerry OS, Samsung said at Thursday's launch that it will do its utmost to make Bada "one of the top mobile platforms in the industry".
A major element of Gamescom's appeal lies in its scheduling, a couple of months after E3. That allows publishers to demo games that weren't quite ready for public presentation at E3, and this year, the show's biggest debutant was Dishonored, developed by Arkane Studios and published by Bethesda Softworks. With games such as The Elder Scrolls and Fallout 3 in its canon, any new action-RPG from Bethesda is bound to attract a considerable buzz. Especially so with Dishonored, which combines technological innovation and a distinctive look and feel in a bid to provide the original gameplay that we all crave.Initial impressions of Dishonored brought to mind Deus Ex and BioShock – a pretty tasty starting point for any new game. Like Deus Ex, it's an open-world mission-based game that bends over backwards to let you navigate it in your favoured play-style, supporting multiple paths, stealth and shooting. Its visuals, meanwhile (dare we utter the dreaded phrase "steampunk"?) and the supernatural abilities your character can use, bring to mind BioShock.Retro-futuristic plot and environmentIn Dishonored, you play Corvo, once the Empress' bodyguard, but falsely imprisoned for her murder after a coup by the corrupt Lord Regent. Corvo is an assassin, bent on revenge for what happened to him, and armed with a raft of supernatural powers and a collection of gadgets. The setting is a fascinating city which, although it exists on a planet other than Earth, is designed to be reminiscent of 19th-century London. So rats, cobbles, sewers and run-down areas juxtapose with heavily protected posh bits.Emergent gameplayArkane Studios explained that as little of its gameplay as possible has been scripted – instead, gameplay systems have been put in place for you to exploit as imaginatively as possible. Bravely, Arkane sets out to create "Mechanics that can be combined in ways we didn't predict," the overall intention being to let you: "feel like you authored the gameplay experience". A lofty ideal, undoubtedly, but one that will excite any gamer of a more cerebral bent.So what's it like?Arkane took us through a mission in which Corvo set out to assassinate Arnold Tinch, a barrister accused of falsely claiming people have the plague (which is rife in the city) in order to make a land grab on their homes. We started off in a suitably grimy, run-down neighbourhood, sneaking up and assassinating a security guard, and hiding the body in a dumpster. The entrance to the lawyers' district in which Tinch resided, we soon discovered, was protected by a Wall of Light – a crude electrical force-field. Arkane explained that the game world has just undergone an industrial revolution, leading to the development of crude, Tesla-like technology. If you find blueprints for such technologies, you can make it work on your behalf.The first behavioural system we encountered was a swarm of rats – which are attracted to bodies but repelled by light and therefore can be used to your advantage. As one of Corvo's supernatural abilities is possession, you can use rats to sneak through tiny openings into inaccessible areas or, for example, to make a stealthy getaway after performing an assassination.Eschewing this approach, Corvo climbed into a nearby building and worked his way into the lawyers' district, looking through keyholes to see whether rooms were occupied and finding the Wall of Light blueprint. He reversed its polarity using a junction box, so that it would stop pursuers when he was making his getaway. Arkane explained that even when you make a getaway, the manner in which you do so is important: the game tracks the chaos you cause, and adjusts the world and the attitude of the characters you meet accordingly.Supernatural powers, attacks and adrenalinAs Corvo made his way towards his prey, we saw the game's hand-to-hand combat engine – combining blocks, dodges and punches with the ability to perform jump-down kills – and glimpsed some weaponry, including a crossbow and a revolver. Arkane explained that successful actions filled up an adrenalin meter which, when full, can be cashed in to pull off a single-shot instant kill. And a very small proportion of Corvo's massive inventory of supernatural powers was revealed. Among those powers were a supernatural jump followed by a teleport, adding crucial extra length to a rooftop jump, possession (which can be applied to animals and humans) and, when we reached our quarry, a combination of a sort of energy-blast and slowing of time, which enabled the dispatch of our quarry and his surrounding security guards.Arkane explained that much of the emergent gameplay comes from being able to chain Corvo's supernatural abilities, which could either be used for puzzle solving (such as getting to apparently inaccessible areas) or prevailing when outnumbered or outgunned (when escaping, we encountered two mini-bosses, which were characters operating pleasingly Heath Robinson Victorian-style mechs).What do we think?Dishonored looks very promising indeed. It has bags of personality and a distinctive look (over which Viktor Antonov, something of a legend who worked on Half-Life 2, presides). And it doesn't lack ambition, with what, as far as we can tell at this early stage, a clever new take on the play-how-you-want paradigm (that part of the game is the territory of Harvey Smith, who worked on the original Deus Ex). At the moment, all Bethesda will say is it will be released in 2012, and we would imagine that it will be one of the company's marquee Christmas releases. Once again, Bethesda Softworks looks like it has a game that could map out new boundaries for its trademark action-RPG genre.•Dishonored is set for release on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 in 2012
Microsoft tracks the location of its mobile users even after customers turned the software off, a lawsuit filed on Wednesday alleges.The legal action claims that owners of Windows Phone 7 smartphones are being unwittingly tracked when the camera on their phone is switched on.The lawsuit, filed in a Seattle federal court, claims that Microsoft collects data about the whereabouts of its users even after customers have opted out of location tracking.Microsoft declined to comment on Thursday morning.The lawsuit follows mounting concern about how technology giants, including Apple and Google, record users' private data. Microsoft, Nokia, Apple and Google were called before the US Congress in April to explain their privacy policies after security researchers uncovered hidden location-tracking softwarein iPhones. Google Android phones weresubsequently foundto gather location data, but required users' explicit permission.The lawsuit alleges thatMicrosoft's letter to congress, which claimed that location data is collected "always with the express consent of the user", was "false".The claim, filed by Rebecca Cousineau, says that Microsoft transmits data including coordinates of a customer's location when the phone's camera is switched on. According to the lawsuit, hidden tracking affects smartphones using Microsoft's Windows Phone 7 software, such as the HTC 7 Mozart and the Samsung Omnia 7.Microsoft is understood to be preparing a response to the claims.In itsrepresentation to US Congressin May, the Redmond, Washington-based company said that tracking users' location helps "deliver more useful and relevant experiences to users".It adds: "To provide these rich experiences, Microsoft collects limited information necessary to determine the approximate location of a device. Collection is always with the express consent of the user and the goal of our collection is never to track where a specific device has been or is going."We believe that, when designed, deployed and managed responsibly, the location-based feature of a mobile operating system should function as a tool for the user and the applications he or she elects to use, and not as a means to generate a database of sensitive information that can enable a party to surreptitiously 'track' a user."
Poor old John Tanner, the cop with the unparalleled wheelman skills, has been through an awful lot over the years. After an attention-grabbing PlayStation debut in 1999's Driver, he saw subsequent iterations of the franchise in which fronts decline in quality, mirroring the disintegration of then-publisher Infogrames/Atari.By the time Driver: Parallel Lines arrived in 2006, Tanner had been dropped from his own starring vehicle. And now, his big comeback and first appearance on next-gen consoles, Driver San Francisco, begins with his old nemesis Charles Jericho hijacking his own prison transport van and driving it into the side of Tanner's classic Dodge Challenger R/T, leaving Tanner comatose in hospital.Except, despite the evidence (police radio chatter, Tanner driving his own body to hospital in an ambulance), Tanner wakes up in his miraculously undamaged car, trusty sidekick Tobias Jones in the passenger seat. And he has developed the ability to drive any car in the city, essentially by possessing the drivers (who look the same but utter Tanner's wisecracks).If you think that sounds like the sort of preposterous premise that would set up some movie almost entirely constructed from car chases, you're on the right track. Driver San Francisco is an homage to movie car chases. And it's an object-lesson in how to resurrect a franchise.Ubisoft picked it up after Driver: Parallel Lines, along with Newcastle developer Reflections Interactive, and gave the latter creative free rein. The result is that tortuously explained car-hopping mechanic, which brings a fresh new aspect to the well-worn driving game blueprint.Early missions include raising a driving instructor's heart-rate beyond 180bpm and terrifying a supercilious car salesman by racing the Ford GT he hopes to sell down San Francisco's famously twisty Lombard Street. Later on, you find missions like ensuring two drivers come first and second in a cross-city race, by flipping between the two cars.The ability to car-hop has spawned countless unusual multiplayer modes, such as vying with others to slipstream an AI-controlled car. Its control-system works beautifully, pulling you out to a birds-eye view with two levels of zoom to allow swift sweeps across the city.A (mostly) realistic San Francisco has been meticulously recreated in the game, providing the ideal surroundings – it's surely the iconic city for any car chase aficionado. Its steep, jump-enabling roads have been augmented with toys such as car transporters that form mobile ramps.Driver San Francisco's cars also seem designed to bring out your most hooliganistic tendencies – American muscle cars, original and modern remakes, predominate, along with supercars – although the game's overall level of realism does extend to a variety of awful modern American family cars and endearing oddities such as the Alfa Mito and Fiat 500 Abarth.Handling, as ever, is of the rear-wheel-drive, tail-out variety, although there's enough steering precision to weave through oncoming traffic (a key skill in the game). Mastery of the handbrake is required, but the cars are much more forgiving than in real life.Complex structure Single-player campaigns have shortened noticeably in recent years, but Driver San Francisco provides an unfashionably meaty experience, although the actual storyline is quite short and delivered in a rather bitty manner. But there are vast numbers of various missions – including Dares, Pursuits, Races and Stunts – dotted around the city, and every story chapter opens a new part of San Francisco.Plus, you can buy garages, where you can buy cars and upgrades to Tanner's abilities (his supernatural powers extend to a nitrous-style boost, whose duration and recharge speed can be upgraded, and a ram for battering enemies off the road). You can collect movie tokens (many in places only accessible by boost-jumping) and cash them in for special missions that re-enact San Francisco movie car-chase sequences. And your garages will earn money for you to spend (the currency is technically Willpower, or WP, representing Tanner's attempts to wake from his coma), so you can play at being a garage mogul if that floats your boat.Ubisoft Reflections, as the developer is now called, has especially gone to town with the car-hopping mechanic online, coming up with a bewildering variety of multiplayer modes that use it to varying degrees of success. There are classic checkpoint races, though – we played one that put us on a dirt-track near the Presidio at the wheel of a fearsomely twitchy Group B Audi Quattro – tag modes and cops and robbers, where one person tries to escape a bunch of pursuers.You'll have to try them to work out which suit, but more casual users should be able to find some sort of enjoyable multiplayer mode which isn't dominated by the hardcore online racing fraternity. While the likes of those Group B cars and McLaren's MP4-12c should keep the petrol-heads interested.When the oil runs out and the joy of motoring fades from memory, things like Driver San Francisco will become revered artefacts. If you liked Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit or Burnout Paradise, you should be pretty happy with Driver San Francisco – it's at least as classily constructed, and the car-swapping mechanic plus glorious San Francisco setting (which is sufficiently populated to feel pretty lifelike) add a couple of interesting new directions for the genre.It's not perfect – the storyline is a bit perfunctory, its free-form style can be illusory when it forces you to perform certain missions and it gets a bit repetitious in the latter stages. But it's a joyous sandbox in which you can drive like a lunatic, in exotic machinery that you might never even clap your eyes on in real life, without hurting anyone. Only video games can provide that experience, unless you're a movie stuntman.• Driver San Francisco was reviewed on PlayStation 3
A burst of 11 apps for your considerationCrimson: Steam PiratesCrimson: Steam Pirates is a clever-looking turn-based iPad game filled with ships, pirates and steampunk visuals. It's notable, too, for being the first iOS release from Bungie Aerospace, the new digital offshoot from the developer that brought us the Halo console games.iPadToyota EntuneToyota USA has released an Android app that aggregates other apps for in-car use. They include Bing, iHeartRadio, MovieTickets.com, OpenTable and Pandora. The idea being that users control all these apps from the Toyota Entune app on their handset.AndroidSocialSpeaker"How would you like to hear your Twitter home timeline whilst driving to work, sitting at work, listening to your iPod or whilst in the kitchen cooking your meal?" asks the App Store description for SocialSpeaker. Yes, it's a text-to-speech app that reads out your Twitter timeline.iPhoneDrawRace 2Developer RedLynx's original DrawRace game adapted Flight Control-esque line-drawing controls for a top-down racing game, and racked up two million downloads. Now it's back with a sequel and a new publisher – Chillingo – with much beefier graphics and new modes.iPhone / iPadLazyTown JukeboxParents whose kids are fans of the LazyTown TV show may cheer or weep at the news that a new iOS Jukebox app offers on-the-go access to songs from the series. Complete with a karaoke-style bouncing ball and lyrics.iPhone / iPadSudoku by Nikoli Hard 02Japanese company Nikoli played a major role in popularising Sudoku puzzles worldwide. Now it makes Android apps based on the phenomenon too. This latest edition has 16 hard puzzles to solve.AndroidStories UnboundStories Unbound is the work of agency J. Walter Thompson in Australia, on behalf of the Melbourne Writers Festival. It claims to be "the world's first social-media platform for writing and reading stories", with users able to scribble their stories and geotag them for others to read.iPhonePocket RPG iPhone EditionPopular iPad RPG game gets downsized for the smaller iOS screen. Pocket RPG is a dual-stick action title that sees you hacking, slashing and wizarding your way through dungeons, levelling up as you go.iPhoneBeershooterGerman publisher Handygames is celebrating the upcoming Oktoberfest in Munich with free Android game Beershooter – an update on a game originally released for Java phones. Pump beer into the mouths of willing punters. And, er, into the wings of passing birds too.AndroidStyleShareStyleShare is the latest social fashion app for iPhone: it aims to get people taking photos of themselves, friends and strangers to spotlight interesting fashion looks.iPhoneFrogger DecadesFrogger is back to celebrate its 30th anniversary, boasting of "high definition textures and graphics" as well as new characters and connected features. Oh Frogger, you've changed...iPhone / iPadYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFacebook Prepares to Integrate Music &gt;&gt; WSJ.com"Facebook Inc. is preparing changes designed to make the site a hub for listening to music, watching movies and playing videogames, according to people familiar with the matter, in much the same way people already use the social network to share personal media like photos and videos."Note: This isn't a music platform. It's not (really) an iTunes-rival.Apple loses another unreleased iPhone (exclusive) &gt;&gt; CNET News"In a bizarre repeat of a high-profile incident last year, an Apple employee once again appears to have lost an unreleased iPhone in a bar, CNET has learned."Is there a major security hole in Flickr's new "geo-fences" feature? &gt;&gt; Thomas HawkPhotographer Thomas Hawk: "Flickr asked me if I wanted to apply it only to photos going forward, or also to images that I'd already geotagged. I told flickr to go ahead and apply this setting to all of my past and future photos -- which included a thumbnail of the photo I linked. So now when you go to this photo on flickr, indeed, the geotag seems to be removed from the photo page for the image."Except that there is one pretty major security hole."Although the geotag information is indeed pulled from the flickr photo page, ANYONE can potentially still get your geolocational data simply by downloading the original sized file and looking into the EXIF data."This only seems to apply to images that were geotaged at the file level (i.e. by you or your device/phone, etc.) and not photos geotagged using flickr -- but still, with cell phones and software that auto geotag things, you could easily be lulled into a false sense of security on Flickr when you should not be."Object moved - the beauty of Ryanair usability &gt;&gt; codepo8 on FlickrTruly, a website design that sticks two fingers up at you from its lair in the mid-90s.Information age is changing the way baseball is played &gt;&gt; ESPNPointed out to us by John Dowdell of Adobe, the people who make Flash: details how baseball is being changed by the greater access to information about games. Guess how they access it.What ELSE Microsoft Revealed About Explorer In Windows 8 &gt;&gt; WinSuperSitePaul Thurrott, whom nobody would describe as an Apple fan, isn't very keen on the new Windows 8 Explorer ribbon idea: "The Microsoft post describing the new ribbon UI goes into great detail about telemetry data, which provides the company with information about what users are really using in Explorer and elsewhere in Windows. And according to that data, the top 10 commands represent over 81% of all commands used in Explorer. The bottom 18% of commands (by usage) include such things as Open, Edit (Menu), View Toggle, Organize, New Folder, Send To, and Edit."And yet, looking at a Microsoft screenshot of the new ribbon, what do I see in the default first tab? A bunch of commands - including Open and Edit, by the way - that are not in the 81% most-frequently used commands." Huh?"He also described Apple's Finder as "much cleaner and less busy". That's really quite scary.Sport and technology: Howzat! &gt;&gt; The EconomistIf you were wondering how Hot Spot and Snickometer worked in cricket...Infographic: how much does each piece of Apple's iPhone cost? &gt;&gt; The AtlanticGood graphic, though it obviously assumes that the software costs nothing to produce, and that the marketing and so on happen magically to give the "Apple's slice" element.Beware of Macs in enterprise, security consultants say &gt;&gt; The RegisterFrom early in August, but still relevant: "'With a large enterprise, you have to assume that people are going to get tricked into installing malware,' iSec CTO Alex Stamos told The Reg. 'You can't assume that you'll never have malware somewhere in a network. You have to focus on parts where a bad guy goes from owning Bob the HR employee to become Sally the domain admin.'"At the heart of the Mac server's insecurity is a proprietary authentication scheme known as DHX that's trivial to override. While Mac servers can use the much more secure Kerberos algorithm for authenticating Macs on local networks, Stamos and fellow iSec researchers Paul Youn, Tom Daniels, Aaron Grattafiori, and William "BJ" Orvis found it was trivial to force OS X server to resort back to Apple's insecure protocol."They also did a proof of concept. OSX Server is the weakest link. Then again, a similar flaw in Windows is what led to Google getting hacked in China in 2009.DRAM pricing to plunge in Q3 and rest of second half &gt;&gt; iSuppli"The average selling price for Double Data Rate 3 (DDR) in the 2-gigabit (Gb) density--the bellwether DRAM product--is projected to drop to $1.60 in the third quarter, down 24% from $2.10 in the second quarter. The dive would be the biggest decline for the year, following a surprisingly solid second quarter during which pricing fell only 5% from the first quarter. Moving into the fourth quarter, the price could plummet another 22% to $1.25--dangerously close to cash costs for many manufacturers. Only a year ago in the third quarter, pricing stood at $4.70."There's been a fall in demand, while yields are about to rise. The money now is shifting towards NAND Flash.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Have you heard this one before? An Apple employee walks into a bar in California with a top-secret iPhone prototype – and leaves it behind. Apple then scrambles to recover the phone, involving the police in the process after it has been sold by a finder, eventually getting it back under wraps.It happened in April last year– and now, says CNet, it has happened again with a prototype of the very latest iPhone, expected to be launched within the next few weeks.But this time Apple does not appear to have got the phone back.According to thereport, the phone was lost while being tested outside the Apple campus in a Mexican restaurant in San Francisco's Mission district, and then sold on Craigslist for $200 (£123).It was initially left in a bar called Cava22, which says it takes "real pride in bringing a live and festive Mexican experience, for all our cleints [sic] to enjoy" including a margarita sweet-and-sour mix, by an Apple employee who appears to have been testing it off Apple's campus. The company carries out external testing by letting selected staff take prototypes to urban and other locations in order to test its behaviour in normal settings, rather than the laboratory conditions of its own headquarters.But they are not meant to leave them behind. "I guess I'll have to make my drinks a little less strong," the owner, Jose Valle, told CNet.CNet says Apple contacted the San Francisco police as soon as the loss was discovered and told them that the phone was "priceless" and that the company wanted its safe return.It was eventually tracked down via a location-tracking system built into the phone to a single-family home in San Francisco's Bernal Heights area, says CNet. But when police and Apple's investigators visited the house, the occupant denied any knowledge of the phone, and it wasn't recovered despite a search – with the occupant's permission – of the residence.Apple has not commented on the events, which come as interest in the successor to the iPhone 4 – which has variously been guessed at as being called the iPhone 4G, 4S and iPhone 5 – is growing. With the existing model now comparatively old in smartphone terms, having been released in June 2010, the expectation is the next model will have to bring dramatic improvements in performance to compete with rival handsets from companies such as Samsung, Motorola and HTC using Google's Android operating system.New versions of the iPhone are expected to use more powerful processors and have a different arrangement of the antenna system in the casing. The external antenna caused a media furore last year after some users complained that reception seemed to drop when their hand completed a contact between two metal components. One source at a carrier company suggested to the Guardian the problem arose because the prototype phones are principally tested on the Apple campus, in areas with relatively strong mobile signals; the signal drop from the antenna "bridging" was principally seen in areas with weaker reception.Apple is understood to provide carrier companies with iPhones for testing that are shipped in sealed boxes so that staff cannot see the exterior. The tests are necessary to ensure that the phones comply with network software requirements.Last year a prototype of the iPhone 4 was left in a beer garden by Gray Powell, an Apple engineer. That eventually made its way to the gadget blog Gizmodo, which published pictures and a video of the device. Apple called in the police, who got a warrant to search the home of Jason Chen, Gizmodo's editor. Early in August, prosecutors in San Mateo filed criminal charges against two men, alleging that they sold the iPhone 4 prototype to Gizmodo. It is illegal under California law to take lost property if you know who the owner is likely to be, punishable by up to a year in prison.
First day of September. Is that summer over, then?
They may not have produced a band as big as The Beatles, and may bear some responsibility for the musical output ofClaude Francois, but the French are hoping that a little of theirsavoir fairecould help boost the fortunes of the struggling UK music industry.French music streaming service Deezer announced on Thursday that it will launch in the UK this month, hoping to lure music fans from services such as Spotify and We7. The service is styling itself as a new online record store where fans can come for recommendations and new music tips as well as finding their favourite tunes."We're offering the best of both worlds," said Deezer UK managing director Mark Foster. "We offering music fans access to any of the music they like on the device of their choice but we are also giving them to chance to discover new music. Other services are great if you know what you want to listen to – but with Deezer there is a real human element. We're bringing the emotion back into discovering new music."Listening to Johnny Hallyday would not be compulsory for UK listeners, he assured. "It's an on-demand service – if you don't ask for Johnny Hallyday, you won't get Johnny Hallyday."The service is already a big player in France with 20m users, compared with Spotify's 10m users across the whole of Europe. It has 1.2m subscribers to its premium service, slightly less than Spotify's 1.6m paying customers and is aiming to post a profit this year.Deezer users in the UK will be able to listen to a variety of radio "stations" based on different musical genres for free, as well as accessing "smart radios", which create radio stations based on similar music to one chosen artist.But to listen to recommended songs and full tracks – perhaps from big French names like MC Solaar or electro act Justice – users will have to pay £4.99 per month for unlimited streaming on their computers, with £9.99 per month also giving them full access on mobile phones, with the ability to store tunes  to play offline later.But it is with its editorial slant that Deezer UK hopes to put some clear water between itself and close competitor Spotify. Promising a team that "live and breathe music", once a week the site will give recommendations of new music in 12&nbsp;different genres.Users can share favourite tracks and playlists and offer comments on chosen tracks to create a noisy online community, said James Foley, head of editorial. "What's the point of having a celestial jukebox if you don't know what to play on it?," he asked. "You wouldn't go into a record store and want to be served by a robot, you want a human who can share their recommendations. We're aiming for a cross between a digital magazine and a record shop where you can listen to all your favourite music." The site, as well as covering recent mainstream pop releases will also have room for more avant garde tastes, he said.Experts argue that Deezer's success in France is largely based on a deal with Orange, which bundles Deezer with other products for its mobile and internet customers – making the service feel as if it's  free. Its chance of success in the UK will rest on it forging a similar deal with a large internet service provider here, following in the footsteps of Spotify, whorecently signed a deal with Virgin, according to independent music analyst Mark Mulligan.Sources close to the company say they are close to setting up a "similar deal" in the UK and are "finalising licensing agreements with all majors and key independents", but this is unlikely to be as powerful as the French deal due to a lack of a dominant internet service provider in the UK, said Mulligan."This is a welcome addition to the UK music industry, but it's not going to transform the market," he said. There was a risk, he added, that as Spotify had already cornered much of the subscription market the launch of Deezer risked fracturing the nascent streaming model."It feels like a bit of a European Its-A-Knockout competition at the moment," he said. "You've got plucky We7 flying the flag for the UK, a Viking invasion from Spotify and then a Norman invasion from France. It's like history repeating itself."
US authorities are investigating allegations that executives working for software group Oracle paid African officials in violation of anti-bribery laws.Agents at the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the justice department had been investigating the claims for at least a year, the Wall Street Journal reported.US financial watchdog the securities and exchange commission (SEC) is also looking at possible civil violations. The allegations are understood to centre on software sales to government agencies in western and central Africa. Law enforcement agencies are investigating whether Oracle or people working for the company made payments to government officials to secure contracts. Oracle did not return calls for comment.Such payments would violate the foreign corrupt practices act (FCPA), which makes it a crime for US companies and their employees to offer or pay bribes to foreign government officials or employees of state-owned companies.US authorities had been increasingly aggressive in their use of the FCPA, said professor Mike Koehler of Butler University, author FCPA Professor Blog. Koehler said FCPA actions had increased with the increasing globalisation of business and stricter requirements for corporate disclosure brought in under the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley act."Every week there seem to be more and more companies going through what Oracle is going through," said Koehler. The justice department brought 24 enforcement actions in 2010, up from five in 2004, and has brought seven so far this year. Penalties too have increased. In 2009 and 2010 criminal penalties totalled $2bn, up from about $11m in 2004. Koehler calculates that in 2010 FCPA actions accounted for 50% of the fines levied by the Justice department's criminal division.Koehler said he expected Oracle would fully cooperate with the authorities. Many companies uncover information about potential bribes themselves and then report it to the authorities in the hope of favourable treatment. A public company has not fought an FCPA action for more than 20 years.Oracle is one of several technology businesses under investigation. The US authorities are also looking at allegations that Hewlett-Packard executives made illegal payments to foreign state-owned and private companies.This year IBM paid the SEC $10m to resolve civil allegations that employees paid bribes in Asia in exchange for computer gear. The company neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.The reported action against Oracle comes as US authorities consider an FCPA investigation of News Corporation, owner of the defunct News of The World and one of the US's largest media firms. The authorities are investigating whether executives at the News of the World sanctioned payments to police officers to secure exclusive stories.
Sony unveiled its long-awaited Android tablets on Wednesday – but the price tags had analysts claiming it will struggle to compete for the No 2 spot in a market dominated by Apple.The basic model of Sony's main tablet, shown at the IFA show in Berlin, is priced at €499 (£441), the same as the iPad – a price where Hewlett-Packard and other tablet companies have failed to dent Apple's dominance.Sony had vowed in January that by 2012 it would become the world's No 2 tablet maker – behind Apple – and it stuck by this bold claim at IFA where its chief executive Howard Stringer introduced the devices."We want to prove it's not who makes it first that counts, but who makes it better," Stringer said.Sony is late to the game, with its first tablet due to hit store shelves in September. Its release is more than 18 months after Apple released the iPad, and almost a year since Samsung came out with its first Galaxy Tab.Both of the tablets deviate from the now-standard slimline format that has Samsung in legal trouble with Apple, where it is accused of copying elements of the iPad – leading to an injunction on the sale of its latest tablet in Germany, and potentially across Europe.From the side, the Sony Tablet S, which has a 9.4-inch screen, resembles a cross-section of an aircraft wing. The Tablet P, which will be heavily promoted as an ebook reader as well as a web-browsing device, is a clamshell device with twin 5.5-inch screens. Both will come with Google's Android 3 "Honeycomb" tablet software: the Tablet S with 3.1 and the Tablet P to follow with Android 3.2.Sony is trying to distinguish its Android tablets with features that let one tablet function as a universal remote, while another one folds like a clamshell.Both tablets come integrated with Sony's music, video and ebook services, marking them out from many other Android tablets, which have struggled to integrate compelling content services in the way Apple has with iTunes music, TV, film and app stores.Stringer, the company's Welsh-born chairman, president and chief said Sony, which owns film studios and a record company, is uniquely positioned as a producer as well as distributor of such media. "Apple makes an iPad, but does it make a movie?" he asked.Sony's European tablet product manager, Samir Militao, said: "We think that we have a unique design. We try to differentiate our products to [various criteria] and design is one of them."Militao said the tablets tie in with Sony's extensive range of consumer electronics. The Tablet S has infrared functionality that makes it usable as a remote control for Sony TV sets, for instance, and users can also "flick" music to DLNA-enabled hi-fi systems.Sony has priced the devices firmly at the high end, alongside Apple. The Tablet S will go on sale in Europe from the end of September at a starting price of €479, depending on the configuration. The pocket-sized Tablet P will follow in November, starting at €599.Sarah Rotman, at research firm Forrester, said: "Sony is no copycat … but the price raises a red flag. We've been down this road before: Motorola and HP both priced their devices on par with the iPad, and both were unable to sell their devices in volume until they lowered the price significantly."She added: "My concern for Sony is not price competition with Apple but price competition with Amazon, whose [Android] tablet we expect to be significantly cheaper."At least one gadget reviewer who has played with the new "Sony Tablet S" is not so sure Sony will achieve its aim of becoming the second behind Apple. "I don't think it has the premium feel, design and build quality that either the iPad 2 or [Samsung] Galaxy Tab has right now," said Tim Stevens, editor-in-chief of Engadget."I honestly don't think this is going to be the tablet that really catapults Sony into the lead on the Android front, which is where it needs to be if it wants to be No 2 in the tablet market."There has been little buzz generated ahead of the release, unlike the anticipation for the iPad or even the Galaxy Tab.Sony hopes the tablet will restore its leading position in consumer electronics. Once a symbol of Japan's high-tech might, the Japanese electronics conglomerate is struggling under the weight of its money-losing TV division and badly needs the boost of a new hit product."Sony really must be in the tablet market and must succeed," said Mito Securities electronics analyst, Keita Wakabayashi.Worldwide tablet shipments are forecast to more than triple this year to 60m units, and then rise to 275.3m units by 2015, according to a report this month from research firm IHS iSuppli.Meanwhile Dixons Store Group said that it would allow online pre-ordering of the Sony Tablet S for the next two weeks. Mark Slater, category director at Dixons Retail, said: "Sony's Tablet S is a real contender in the tablet market and one we expect to be a big success. The two week preorder period for the Sony Tablet S will be a very exciting period for us to see how popular this tablet will be with our customers."
The US government is attempting to block the $39bn (£24bn) takeover of T-Mobile by AT&amp;T on antitrust grounds.The department of justice (DoJ) filed court papers in Washington on Wednesday in an attempt to halt the merger, claiming that it would "lessen competition substantially" in the telecoms market and harm consumers. AT&amp;T said it was "surprised and disappointed" by the intervention."AT&amp;T's elimination of T-Mobile as an independent, low-priced rival would remove a significant competitive force from the market," the DOJ said in its filing, which was first reportedby Bloomberg.The multibillion-dollar merger, announced in March, would create the largest mobile provider in the US with 130 million customers, and reduce the number of players in the market to three.Telecoms firm AT&amp;T is the second-largest network in the US behind Verizon Wireless, with Sprint Nextel third and T-Mobile fourth.The DoJ court filing, seen by the Guardian, concludes that the AT&amp;T/T-Mobile merger would mean: "Actual and potential competition between AT&amp;T and T-Mobile will be eliminated; competition in general likely will be lessened substantially; prices are likely to be higher than they otherwise would; the quality and quantity of services are likely to [drop] due to reduced incentives to invest in capacity and technological improvements; and innovation and product variety [is] likely [to] be reduced."Wayne Watts, the senior executive vice-president and general counsel at AT&amp;T, said: "We are surprised and disappointed by today's action, particularly since we have met repeatedly with the DoJ and there was no indication from them that this action was being contemplated."We plan to ask for an expedited hearing so the enormous benefits of this merger can be fully reviewed. The DoJ has the burden of proving alleged anti-competitive effects and we intend to vigorously contest this matter in court."He said the merger would result in billions of dollars in additional investment and tens of thousands of jobs, and would improve wireless access for millions.He added: "We remain confident that this merger is in the best interest of consumers and our country, and the facts will prevail in court."AT&amp;T proposed in March to pay $25bn in cash for T-Mobile USA and the rest in stock, giving T-Mobile's German parent an 8% stake in AT&amp;T. The agreement was approved by the boards of directors at both AT&amp;T and Deutsche Telekom.Regulators have pored over the terms and implications of the deal for months, given its size and scale. AT&amp;T's shares were down 3.85% in early-morning trading on the New York stock exchange, trading at $28.53. In late Frankfurt trading, shares in the T-Mobile parent company Deutsche Telecom were down 4.8% at €9.08.Shares in Sprint Nextel soared 7.6% on the news as analysts predicted the government block could benefit competitors."At the very least, this will now create a massive uphill battle for AT&amp;T in consummating its merger, and will create significant delays," said Jan Dawson, chief analyst at Ovum. "At worst, it will prevent the merger from happening entirely, which will result in a massive breakup fee of several billion dollars and various other concessions on the part of AT&amp;T."AT&amp;T promised T-Mobile $3bn in cash if the deal fails to go through, as part of the terms of the merger.
Spotify's smartphone apps have been important factors in the streaming music service's growth, not to mention its ability to convert free users into paying subscribers. Now Spotify is hoping to boost its presence on iOS with the release of its Spotify Embedded Player libspotify 9.It's the first time Spotify has released an API for mobile developers, enabling them to integrate the service into their apps. The company has released documentation and samples to help developers to start working with the API, while also publishing a FAQ on its website."We hope this will enable a new category of iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch applications with Spotify inside and allow for more immersive music experiences within iOS apps,"blogsSpotify's director of platform Sten Garmark.There are, unsurprisingly, someterms and conditions. Developers must not "modify, edit, disassemble, decompile or reverse-engineer" the API, and they are not allowed to sell access to the Spotify service, or allow anyone who isn't a registered (paying) user to log in.Developers are also barred from selling their application, charging for its use, or sell advertising, sponsorships or promotions within it. However, companies wanting to use the libspotify API commercially are invited to contact Spotify's partner team.Spotify is not the first streaming music service to release an API for mobile developers. In the US, rival Rdio launched its Mobile Playback API in May 2011. It has since been used by apps including AOL's Play and The Grammy Awards' MusicMapper apps.Meanwhile, music technology company The Echo Nest has released a series of APIs for mobile (and web) developers, providing easy access to music and the metadata around it. In May, The Echo Nest partnered with Rdio to make it easier for developers working with the latter's API.The net effect of these and other APIs offered by music companies has been a thriving scene of developers mashing up different services with social and location-based features. TheMusic Hack Dayevents have been at the heart of this. Now Spotify will be able to join the fun.
London's 2012 Olympic Games will be the first to be broadcast in 3D, Olympic organisers and technology company Panasonic have announced.At the IFA technology conference in Berlin, Olympic broadcasting services managing director Manolo Romero said the plan was to distribute more than 10 hours of 3D Games footage around the world every day. The opening and closing ceremonies will be broadcast in 3D, as will more than 12 sports, Romero said."Under this partnership we are assembling a pool of broadcasters that will provide this 3D coverage, the first in Olympic history, to viewers around the world," Romero said. "This is an important step in the history of broadcasting technology."Panasonic, which has provided camera equipment for the Olympics for two decades, will supply the 3D kit for the London Games. The Japanese company is also very keen to sell the 3D television sets that are needed to view such content. Reports in the UK suggest that 3D sales accelerated relative to other high-definition sets over the summer."There is no doubt that the Olympic Games provides the best-ever content for the 3D market and 3D will drastically change the way we enjoy the Games in the living room," Panasonic communications chief Takumi Kajisha said at the IFA press conference. "We believe that our partnership will provide a true end to end solution for success of the first 3D live Olympic Games and create another era of Olympic broadcasting."The BBCsaid on Mondaythat it is considering broadcasting the men's 100m final of the Olympics in 3D, but would not broadcast the whole games in the format as this would interfere with the HD quality that must be in place for the broadcasting of the whole Games.
Photo-sharing startup Instagram has been on something of a hiring spree in August 2011, boosting its headcount by 50% to cope with growth that has seen its app downloaded by more than eight million iPhone owners since its launch in October 2010.For many startups, such a recruitment drive would involve moving into bigger offices. In Instagram's case, it was more a case of finding a couple of extra chairs and desks. Yes, the most startling thing about the San Francisco-based company is that it currently only has six employees."We've been blown away by the response from around the world since we launched," says CEO Kevin Systrom. "We never expected to see that, and it's been really humbling. We started as just two guys in an incubator working on a project, and now we're six people, and have been handed the opportunity to do something really big in the world. We have a responsibility to see this through, and it's an amazing ride."Instagram is far from the only mobile app offering people a way to share their photos on Twitter, Facebook, Flickr and other social services, nor is it the only one to include filters to apply visual effects to the shots before they are shared. It is certainly the one that has done most to break out beyond an early adopter audience, though.Systrom thinks that Instagram has done a good job of providing filters for users to "modify and improve" their photos, but accepts there are many free and paid apps offering similar effects. So why did Instagram catch on?"There's this large network underneath where people can connect and follow inspiring photographers and friends around the world," says Systrom."That's what a lot of other apps don't provide, but we've combined it with the effects. We tried to lower the bar for producing awesome stuff, so people can walk around with their iPhones and produce amazing pictures. The network really democratises attention: everyone from celebrities to a random guy in Japan taking pictures of his dog every day can get many thousands of followers. Taking images is the great equaliser."The celebrities are increasing in number, including Snoop Dogg, Jamie Oliver and Justin Bieber – whose presence is often seen as the ultimate seal of pop-star approval for a buzzy social service (see also: Twitter, Tumblr). Brands have also been attracted to Instagram since its launch, with the likes of Starbucks, National Geographic, Playboy, Red Bull and Gucci all posting images on the service.This particular group of new users poses an interesting challenge for Instagram: should it start developing some new features with celebrities and brands in mind?In August, Fred Wilson of venture capital firm Union Square Venturespublished a blog posttitled "Users First, Brands Second", in which he wrote approvingly of companies including Twitter, Facebook, Foursquare and Tumblr. "The brands are all over these services now. But for the most part, these services didn't do much to bring them. The engaged users did," wrote Wilson. Instagram fits neatly into that list too."We want to make sure all the features we build, even when they make sense for celebrities or brands, are big-impact changes that affect everyone," says Systrom. "It's important not to get distracted. Some people have maybe over-stated the value of getting celebrities and brands from the start. If you focus on producing a great experience for anyone, that's how you get big."Twitter famously had serversdedicated to Justin Bieber trafficwhen he was blowing up on that service in 2010. Has Instagram earmarked any servers for the star yet?"Justin Bieber has certainly added to the velocity, but the press probably played it up a little bit," laughs Systrom. "We get almost one signup every second, and it's been fine: even when celebrities have signed up, we've not had any stress on the system."With "well over eight million" downloads now, what next for Instagram? Systrom says that the biggest challenge for the company is scaling, with a lot of the work going on below the surface to ensure the service continues running smoothly as it grows. As he says, this work isn't visible to users, but if the company doesn't do it, it will be extremely visible: "The app won't work!"Systrom outlines three other key tasks for Instagram in the coming months, starting with revamping the core camera feature. "We always wanted to be the social camera, but the photo-taking part of the app has not changed in eight to nine months," he says."It's way overdue for some really core improvements. The second thing is the web: we realise that people want a native Instagram experience on the web, and we need to do that sooner rather than later."And third? Android. Systrom says that every day, Instagram gets a barrage of requests from people for an Android version of its app. The good news is that it's on the horizon."It's hugely important to us, but we're only six people," he says. "Android is a major priority for us, but first we have to build the team, and find the best people in the world to work on these projects." The company is currently hiring engineers and designers to help it move more quickly on all three of these aims.There is also a fourth titbit: new filters. "We have a really big release coming out soon that really changes the way you look at filters," say Systrom, while warning that Instagram intends to continue keeping the experience simple and straightforward, rather than bombarding users with hundreds of possible visual effects.It's impossible to describe Instagram in 2011 without referring to the 900lb gorilla looming in the distance: Facebook. The social network is expected to add Instagram-style filters to its own mobile apps in the near future, or even launch a separate photo-sharing app. Cue talk of Facebook being a potential Instagram-killer."I understand why someone like Facebook, where photos are core to their experience, would have things like filters," says Systrom. "But the core experience is so different. We use asymmetric follows like Twitter, which is a really big differentiating point. My friends network doesn't necessarily take the best photos. The major reason why Instagram works is that you can follow anyone out there and start following their photos immediately."He thinks adding filters will make sense for Facebook, but maintains that this will not be direct competition for Instagram."It's more of a press-cycle thing: it's been sensationalised beyond the reality of what the situation is," says Systrom, while also pointing to the fact that Instagram enables photos to be shared on a range of social networks, which is unlikely to be the case for Facebook's apps.One good omen: in 2010, the Facebook Places location feature was talked of as a potential Foursquare-killer, yet it is now being phased out by the social network in favour of wider location features, while Foursquare continues to grow. Systrom will be hoping that any threat posed by Facebook to his own company turns out to be a similarly damp squib.
One in five Britons do not feel safe online, government research shows, as the number of teenagers browsing the web on their mobile phone almost doubled in 2011.Britons' love affair with the internet continues to grow, with 71% of 16- to 24-year-olds using their iPhone or BlackBerry online, according tofigures from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) publishedon Wednesday.However, one in five Britons said they do not feel adequately protected online, fearing computer viruses and other attempts to steal their personal information.Britain continued to close the gap on the digital divide in 2011, according to the study, with 77% of households online compared to 73% in 2010. Despite that, 5.7m households did not have internet access.Facebook and Twitter drove a boom in internet use among the 19m households with a connection. More than 90% of teenagers and almost a fifth of over-65s said they used social networks.Britons' appetite for social networks is driving internet use on the go, according to the government figures.More than 6 million used their mobile phone to browse their web for the first time this year, with the ONS reporting "notable increases" across all age groups. One in two 45- to 64-year-olds sent emails or visited websites on the go this year, compared to just over a third in 2010.The greatest rise in mobile internet use was among teenagers, as almost three in four 16- to 24-year-olds went online on the go in 2011, compared to 44% in 2010.Britons' appetite for the internet saw the number using wireless hotpots in restaurants and cafes almost double in the past year, to more than 5 million people.Despite a government push to get all Britons online, one in five of those without an internet connection said the cost of getting online was still too high. Another fifth of those without the internet said they felt they didn't have the neccesary skills.But while most Britons are glued to their computer screens, half of those without an internet connection – or about 2.35 million households – said they "don't need the internet".
Tony Sale, who has died aged 80, was responsible for rebuilding the second world war Colossus code-breaking computer and for launching a&nbsp;successful campaign to preserve the Bletchley Park cryptography centre for the nation. The operation at Bletchley, Buckinghamshire, shortened the second world war by many months, but for almost three decades its existence was one of Britain's best kept secrets. When the war was over, the 10 Colossi – considered by many to be the world's first electronic computers – were broken up and the people who had built and worked with them were sworn to secrecy for ever.It was only in the early 1970s that the persistent efforts of Brian Randell, a computer scientist at Newcastle University, led to the government formally admitting to the existence of the code-breaking operation and releasing a set of eight photographs of&nbsp;the Colossus. It was on the basis of&nbsp;these that in 1993 Sale embarked on&nbsp;the most challenging technical project of his life. Over 14 years, he and&nbsp;a team of volunteers built a working replica of the 2,500-valve Colossus.Sale showed an early talent for engineering and tinkering. At&nbsp;the age of&nbsp;12, using Meccano, he built a&nbsp;primitive robot, the first of&nbsp;several. In&nbsp;1950, at&nbsp;the age of 19, he&nbsp;demonstrated a&nbsp;lifesize robot built from parts of&nbsp;a&nbsp;Wellington bomber fuselage. "George" was radio-controlled and could shuffle along on&nbsp;feet powered by castors. The robot generated huge popular interest and featured in&nbsp;newspapers and cinema newsreels. Last year, George was brought out of his 60-year retirement and again captured much media interest.Tony Sale in 2010 with George the Robot, built in 1950. Photograph: Geoffrey Robinson / Rex FeaturesSale was educated at Dulwich college, south London, where he obtained his "highers" in the sciences and history. There was no money for university, so&nbsp;he enlisted in the RAF for his national service. He became an&nbsp;instructor in&nbsp;radar at RAF Debden, near Saffron Walden, Essex, and attained the rank of&nbsp;flying officer. On his return to civilian life in 1952 he became a research assistant at Marconi's Great Baddow Research Laboratories, Chelmsford.There he worked for another engineer, Peter Wright – later of Spycatcher fame. In 1954 Wright was recruited by MI5 as one of its first scientists, specialising in radio interception. Sale joined him in 1957 at the height of the cold war. The two of them equipped a van with radio detection equipment which enabled them to locate clandestine Russian communications stations in London. Sale left MI5 in 1963 with the rank of&nbsp;principal scientific officer, and for the next five years led a team on weapons design for the defence contractor Hunter Engineering in Ampthill, Bedfordshire (now a subsidiary of Lockheed Martin).In 1968 the software industry was beginning to take off in the UK, and Sale formed one of the first firms, Alpha Systems. The company survived for more than 10 years – a good track record in this volatile new industry. He went on to found two further software companies before becoming an independent consultant in 1986. Sale was an active member of theBritish Computer Society. He founded its Bedfordshire branch and in 1986 was hired to co-ordinate a study group on the future of the society, under the then presidentSir John Fairclough.In 1989 he was hired by theScience Museum, in South Kensington, as a&nbsp;senior curator. There, together with Doron Swade (later assistant director of&nbsp;the museum), he led a&nbsp;series of projects to restore some of the museum's computer holdings to working order – rather in the spirit that railway curators restore ancient locomotives. At the same time he established theComputer Conservation Society, a joint venture between the museum and the British Computer Society. The society is dedicated to preserving computer history and restoring hardware and software. It has become a model for similar heritage ventures around the world.In 1991 Sale learned that Bletchley Park, which after the war had become a Post Office training establishment but was now owned by BT, was under threat of redevelopment. With a&nbsp;group of like-minded colleagues, he&nbsp;started a campaign to save it for the nation. It&nbsp;took some years to mobilise powerful support – including that of&nbsp;the then prime minister, John Major – but eventually a charitable trust was formed. Private benefactions and a&nbsp;Heritage Lottery Fund award turned it into a major museum and tourist attraction.Sale decided that the centrepiece of the Bletchley Park museum should be a working replica of the Colossus. To everyone except Sale, this looked impossible, since there was little more to go on than the set of photographs. Undaunted, Sale renewed the top-level security clearance he had enjoyed at&nbsp;MI5 and went about interviewing the surviving engineers who had built the Colossus – now mostly in their 80s. They had good memories, and one even had a project notebook, but there was still a lot of guesswork involved.In 1995, however, there was a&nbsp;breakthrough. Under its Freedom of&nbsp;Information Act, the US government had released a shoal of classified wartime documents including a&nbsp;detailed technical description of the Colossus, written by a visiting US army scientist. This transformed the project from imagineering to engineering. Whereas Sale and his wife, Margaret, had personally funded the project in the beginning, sponsors now began to come forward. With the help of volunteers, and the donation of wartime valves from hundreds of electronic hobbyists, the Colossus was completed in 2007 and placed in theNational Museum of&nbsp;Computingat Bletchley Park.Sale's achievements in building Colossus and leading the campaign to&nbsp;preserve Bletchley Park were widely admired. He gave hundreds of lectures describing the project and was a script adviser to numerous documentary series, as well as the 2001 film Enigma, based on the Robert Harris novel. Among his honours were two honorary doctorates and the silver medal of the Royal Scottish Society of Arts in 2000. He&nbsp;remained a fixture at Bletchley Park up to his last days.Sale is survived by Margaret, herself a&nbsp;Bletchley Park stalwart, three children and seven grandchildren.• Anthony Edgar Sale, computer scientist, inventor and museologist, born 30 January 1931; died 29 August 2011
A burst of 9 apps for your considerationLadybird Classic Me BooksPenguin Books has launched a new iOS app for its Ladybird brand, offering digital versions of some of its most loved classics. One is included – The Zoo – with others available to buy for £1.99 each via in-app payments. The original books have been updated with interactivity and animation, as well as an audio hotspots feature to insert a child's own sounds and words into the narrative.iPhone / iPadThe Sunday TimesThe Sunday Times has ported its iPad app to Android tablets, offering all 12 sections of the print edition, with extra video, interactive graphics, slideshows and live news and sports results. It supports Samsung's Galaxy Tabs, Motorola's Xoom and other Android slates, using the same £2-a-week digital subscription plan as on iOS.AndroidLooptSocial location service Loopt has only been available in the US until now, but the company has just gone international, launching its iPhone and Android apps in 13 countries, including the UK. Check-ins, local information and Q&amp;A are key features.iPhone / AndroidGoal.com for iPadFootball website Goal.com has launched its official iPad app, offering a tablet-friendly interface to its news, profiles, fixtures and live scores.iPadOnavo LiteData-saving application Onavo has been a hit on iPhone, and now there's a limited version available for Android. For now it doesn't include the full data-squeezing features of the existing version, but it does warn users about data-hogging apps, restricting them to Wi-Fi if desired, while tracking overall data usage.AndroidYour ShapeUbisoft has launched an official Windows Phone app for its Your Shape: Fitness Evolved console game. The app enables players to access their profile and stats while watching videos about the game.Windows PhoneJibJab Jr. BooksFor now, this app is only available in the US, but it may deserve a wider airing. Launched by JibJab, it's an iPad app with several interactive storybooks for children, with the schtick that you can use the camera to insert their face into the stories. The app also uses monthly subscriptions, with a new story launched every month.iPadTek War ComicsWilliam Shatner's TekWar books have been made into comics before, and now those comics have an iOS app. It's free to download, but individual comics cost 69p each via in-app payment.iPhone / iPadGarfieldIt might not be quite "the first time" cartoon cat Garfield has been made into a mobile game, but Frog Baby Apps' new iPhone game keeps true to the spirit of the sardonic comic strips.iPhoneYou can followGuardian Apps Blog's Apps rush on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardianappsblog"
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMicrosoft Windows 8 for tablets - detailed demonstration &gt;&gt; YouTubeRaises all sorts of questions about how the Windows 8 desktop/hybrid behaviour will be managed. Intriguing.Generate long, easy-to-remember passwords &gt;&gt; Passphra.seInspired bythis XKCD strip.Bitcoin WatchThe total BitCoin economy has a value of £39m. At current exchange rates, anyway. Unless someone finds the lost wallet.dat that someone left on an Amazon web instance which got restarted.Ex-Microsoftie Paul Maritz sees Windows PCs below 20% in era of cloud, devices &gt;&gt; GeekWireQuote from a speech (much more at the post): "What we're seeing in the cloud era is not just hundreds of millions but billions of new users and devices now coming into play. Three years ago over 95% of the devices connected to the Internet were personal computers. Three years from now that number will probably be less than 20%. More than 80% of the devices connected to the Internet will not be Windows-based personal computers."Obvious, really (think: smartphones) but intriguing to see it put that way. Maritz's real point though is about what becomes important when that is true.Apple's iTunes Match service uses downloads, not streaming &gt;&gt; AllThingsDWell, it isn't streaming, except that you can listen to it while it's downloading. And it's only sort of downloaded, as it might be in a cache. Anyhow.Research in Motion's Best BlackBerry yet, the Bold 9900, is not enough &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comFrom the conclusion: " the stellar 9900 shows that when its back is against the wall, RIM can produce winners. This phone is the best BlackBerry RIM has ever produced, but against the gigantic technological and marketing forces of iPhone and Android, it's a whisper in the wind. Let's hope that there are enough BlackBerry fans left to support their favorite phone and that the company completes its reboot in time to prevent the 2013 headline, 'RIM R.I.P.'"Life after Anonymous - Interview with a former hacker &gt;&gt; Cisco BlogInterview with @SparkyBlaze, who is in his 20s and from Manchester (but wants to keep the rest under his to-be-white hat)."Q: What are some of the biggest challenges you see out there?"SparkyBlaze: In my mind social engineering is the biggest issue today. We have the software/hardware to defend buffer overflows, malware, DDoS and code execution. But what good is that if you can get someone to give you their password or turn off the firewall because you say you are Greg from computer maintenance just doing testing. It all comes down to lies, everyone does it and some people get good at it."The Bitcoin paradox: it's attracting speculators instead of traders &gt;&gt; Technology ReviewJames Surowiecki, the New Yorker's financial writer, dissects the problem around the virtual currency in typically astute fashion: "many--probably most--Bitcoin users are acquiring bitcoins not in order to buy goods and services but to speculate. That's a bad investment decision, and it also hurts Bitcoin's prospects."True believers in Bitcoin's usefulness prefer to deny that speculation is driving the action in bitcoins. But the evidence suggests otherwise.":And if hoarding, instead of trading, takes over, then nobody uses it, so it becomes useless - trapped in a deflationary spiral where the velocity of the currency is zero.Who killed the fake-antivirus business? &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott finds the same thing that we pointed you to a while ago: a real-life crackdown by Russian police, rather than any fiendishly clever piece of technology, is what killed off Mac Defender and various Windows workalikes.Trouble is, that could mean that more will be along soon, depending on when the next gang gets its act together.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 27 AugustPositionWeeksin chartPlatform(share%)Game (age rating)1 (–)Deus Ex: Human Revolution(15+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (26)PC (8)12 (1)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (90)Xbox 360 (8)PS3 (2)223 (–)Rugby World Cup 2011(3+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)14 (2)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (32)Xbox 360 (23)DS (20)PS3 (13)165 (18)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (37)Wii (5)PC (5)396 (3)Cars 2(3+)DS (36)Wii (32)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (14)67 (5)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (36)PS3 (29)Wii (11)PSP (11)488 (8)Dirt 3(12+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (48)149 (6)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)Wii (42)Xbox 360 (21)DS (20)PS3 (15)2610 (19)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (42)3411 (4)The Legend Of Zelda: Ocarina Of Time 3D(12+)3DS (100)612 (13)The Sims 3(12+)PC (39)DS (20)Xbox 360 (13)Wii (13)4013 (14)Harry Potter: The Deathly Hallows Part 2(12+)DS (31)Xbox 360 (29)PS3 (23)Wii (17)714 (9)Brink(16+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (39)PC (5)1615 (11)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)9516 (–)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)3817 (16)Lego Star Wars III: The Clone Wars(7+)Xbox 360 (37)DS (20)Wii (16)PS3 (16)2018 (12)Battlefield: Bad Company 2(16+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (35)PC (7)3319 (17)Call Of Juarez: The Cartel(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)620 (20)Homefront(15+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (47)PC (4)13UKIEvideo games chart (compiled by GFK Chart-Track)
Wednesday already!
If you missed out on the low-cost HP TouchPad – with its price slashed from £400 to around £100 – but still want one, there's some good news. Hewlett Packard Co plans to crank out "one last run" of TouchPads, just over a week after declaring it will kill off its tablet line after apparently deciding they had failed to challenge Apple Inc's command of the booming market.Update:HP says that the new batch will only be available in North America, and "there will be no additional products available in EMEA [Europe, the Middle East and Africa] beyond what is currently available."In a statement, HP EMEA said: "We are pleased by the response to webOS and look forward to customer feedback so we can further enhance the platform. A limited quantity of TouchPads will be available in the coming weeks in North America only. In EMEA we are discontinuing the webOS hardware operations and will not offer any additional products beyond what might be currently available in selective outlets."HP has announced a temporary about-face on the gadget after being "pleasantly surprised" by the outsized demand generated by the low cost version – even though the writedowns, believed to be at least $200 per tablet compared to the cost of manufacture, are losing it millions. According toIHS iSuppli's preliminary estimates, the 32GB version costs $318 for the parts alone."The speed at which [the TouchPad] disappeared from inventory has been stunning," Mark Budgell, of HP's PR team, said in ablogpost. "We have decided to produce one last run of TouchPads to meet unfulfilled demand. We don't know exactly when these units will be available or how many we'll get, and we can't promise we'll have enough for everyone. We do know that it will be at least a few weeks before you can purchase."Budgell said though that there will be none available for small or medium-sized businesses through HP's sales channels, possibly indicating that the company will sell only to consumers through retailers in the final batch.HP has not explained why it is continuing to make the tablet to sell at lossmaking prices. Some have speculated that it is trying to clear out parts inventory from factories which had geared up for a more successful run, and that the parts constitute a sunk cost which has to be written off somehow.Digitimes in Taiwanreportsthat upstream suppliers have been left with a components surplus including parts for a 7in model, which HP has never announced. Digitimes says that the companies had been geared up to make as many as 100,000 per quarter, with production expected to start at the end of September.Even if HP isn't making money on sales of the TouchPad, some enterprising eBay sellers appear to be: a large number are available on the auction site, being resold for prices of more than $200.Critics have blasted HP's management for wavering on pivotal decisions, having stated in , such as its original stated intention to integrate its webOS software into every device it makes, followed by a decision to stop making webOS gadgets, including the TouchPad.The Silicon Valley giant is struggling to shore up margins as smartphones and tablets eat away at its core PC business, which isthe world's largest but is also its least profitable division on paper. On 18 August, chief executive Leo Apotheker said the company was also considering spinning off the PC division – although other managers have since emphasised that that is a strategic review and that other alternatives, including keeping it, are still on the table.CEO Leo Apotheker is under immense pressure from investors unhappy with HP's back-and-forth on strategy. The former SAP chief has also been forced to slash HP's sales estimates three times since he took over last November.In a resounding rejection of his grand vision, shareholders sent HP shares down almost 20% the day it announced its sweeping moves, which included apricey acquisition of the British software company Autonomy. That wiped out $16bn of value from HP in the stock's worst single-day fall since the Black Monday stock market crash of October 1987.Since the beginning of January, the shares are down by almost 40%, while the stock market overall has remained flat.
Next time you're moaning about your sluggish broadband connection, spare a thought forNasa. The US space agency currently relies on radio broadcasts to transmit information across the solar system and beyond, which not only uses a lot of power but makes for slow transfer speeds. The current connection with Mars, for example, can send data at a rate of only around 6Mbps: the same as the average broadband connection in the UK, and you don't have to share it with a whole planet.Now Nasa has announceda long-overdue upgrade. It will be testing a new system of sending signals via lasers instead of radio – the space equivalent of using fibre-optic cables. Sending a pulse of laser not only requires less power, but it can carry more information. This lasercom technology should be ready to launch by 2015 and will increase speeds by up to 100 times, which certainly puts the14% of Britainstill struggling with 2Mbps connections in the shade.Nasa has provided a constant internet connection to theInternational Space Stationsince January 2010, allowing astronauts to update their Facebook accounts and send tweets whenever they want. The upgrade will not only give them faster connection speeds, so they can watch YouTube without all that annoying pausing, it will also pave the way for future manned and scientific missions to Mars and beyond.This is not just for future use on Mars, it's an immediate need, since the current connection is too slow for the satellites in orbit there. The Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter regularly sends back high-resolution images of the Martian surface. At around 2 gigabytes each, even after compression the photos take around 90 minutes to reach Earth. With a new 100Mbps lasercom, this could be done in&nbsp;five minutes.
They call themselves "Anonymous", and they are the world's most famous group of hacker-anarchists. When they have left the glow of their computers to protest in public – against anti-piracy laws, perhaps, or the imprisonment of Julian Assange – they have taken, very wisely, to wearing masks. Since 2008, the mask of choice has been the eerie "Guy Fawkes" design made famous by the film of Alan&nbsp;Moore's graphic novelV&nbsp;for&nbsp;Vendetta.In Moore's story, the mask is worn by a lone freedom fighter against government iniquity. Yet it is a measure of the allure of hacktivism that the real-life replica has now become one of the most popular masks worldwide. Its manufacturer, Rubies Costume Company, sells well over 100,000 every year, and the product is the best-selling mask on amazon.com, amazon.co.uk and amazon.de. In the words of one reviewer on the site, it is "very useful to hide your identity from the public while you go about your anonymous deeds".Now, it is not nice to sneer – nor is it wise, when one's target is a rather touchy criminal collective. But there is a tasty irony about the fact that the V mask is itself a copyrighted product. Every time that Rubies sells one – for $6.49, £5.16 or €10.50 –a cut of the profit goes to Warner Bros, which made the film. That's Warners as in one of Hollywood's six big studios, a subsidiary of TimeWarner, and a member of, yes, the Motion Picture Association of America – Anonymous's adversary in the fight over online piracy. It&nbsp;just goes to show. The battle for copyright may be lost, but no one flouts the law of unintended consequences.
Amazon is expected to release a tablet computer before Christmas which analysts forecast will finally provide serious competition for Apple's iPad, which has had the overwhelming share of the tablet market since its launch in April 2010.Though the company declined to comment on Tuesday, a growing number of analysts and industry watchers said Amazon, best known for its online shopping site, is preparing to push into the highly competitive tablet market to add to its dominance of the handheld ereader market through its Kindle device.Meanwhile US testers of Apple's new iCloud service say it will allow users both to download and to stream music wirelessly to iPhones and iPads, after using early versions of the "iTunes Match" service – which will put Apple into even closer rivalry with Amazon's own "music locker" service launched in the US earlier this year.Sarah Rotman at Forrester, speaking about the expected tablet from Amazon, said that if Jeff Bezos's company manages to set the price below $300 (£185) and launch it by October, "we see Amazon selling 3m to 5m tablets" by the end of the year and that it will "completely disrupt the status quo". However she sees Apple continuing to dominate the sector, where it has roughly three-quarters of the market. In the Christmas quarter of 2010, Apple sold 7.3m iPads.Rotman said that "even though Amazon taking on Apple is a bit like David taking on Goliath – compare the market capitalisation, profits and cash position of the two companies – Amazon's willingness to sell hardware at a loss, combined with the strength of its brand ... makes it the only credible iPad competitor in the market".Apple has sold more than 28m iPads since it was launched, reporting 9.2m sold in the three months from April to June in its most recent financial results. Though Amazon does not release data about sales of the Kindle, the analysts IDC believe 3m were sold in the Christmas quarter of 2010, adding to the millions already in users' hands; since then it has also introduced a lower-price version. IDC estimates around 6m Kindles were sold in 2010.Analysts expect Amazon's forthcoming tablet will use Google's Android mobile operating system, which has become the dominant player in the smartphone market, pushing aside Finland's Nokia, but made little impact so far on the larger devices, partly due to a lack of content and apps.But Amazon has been preparing its own "app market" for Android, and can offer its Kindle app on the platform, creating a potentially huge market for ebooks."A year from now, Amazon will be synonymous with Android on tablets, a strong second to Apple's iPad," Rotman said.But other tablet makers' experience in trying to challenge the iPad suggest that it may be difficult. Hewlett-Packard, one of the world's biggest technology companies, abandoned its TouchPad tablet after it had been on sale for just 48 days,taking writedowns on stock that are believed to have cost millions as it slashed prices to around £100. And the BlackBerry maker RIM, whose seven-inchPlayBook tablet runs its own QNX software, has seen slow salessince its launch, with just 500,000 sold in the three months to May, when it last reported its results.Meanwhile testers of Apple's iOS5, the upcoming version of its software powering the iPhone and iPad, said the new iTunes Match serviceannounced in June by ex-chief executive Steve Jobs, allows users both to download copies of songs from their collection, or just listen to them without downloading if they wish.iTunes Match works by first scanning the user's music library that resides on their principal computer. Any songs that already exist in Apple's master library are then immediately available to stream or download to another device such as an iPhone or iPad; songs which Apple does not sell are uploaded and become available later. When Jobs announced the service in June he only mentioned the downloading capability – but Apple may have since signed licences which allow it to add streaming.The $25-per-year service competes in the US with offerings from Amazon and Google, but those require users to upload their songs manually to Amazon's or Google's servers, though Amazon's already includes any songs bought from the site. By contrast iTunes Match includes any song on the computer, whether paid for or not – so that it has been seen as a form of amnesty for people who downloaded songs illicitly from filesharing services, while bringing in money for the record labels through Apple's licensing."All your music – up to 250,000 songs – will be accessible from your various computers and iOS devices," said Arnold Kim of the MacRumors site. "What wasn't clear before is that music can be either streamed or downloaded. This [streaming option] means your music library won't need to take up valuable space on the device itself, as long as you have some sort of internet connection."However Apple has given no date for the launch of iTunes Match in the UK. Nobody at Apple UK could be reached for comment on Tuesday at the time of publication.• This article was amended on 31 August 2011. The original stated that 25,000 songs could be stored. This has been corrected.
British police officers have flown to the US to gather evidence of computer hacking that could be used in the prosecution of two UK teenagers suspected of carrying out online attacks on behalf of Anonymous and LulzSec.Jake Davis, 18, from the Shetland Islands, and Ryan Cleary, 19, from Wickford, in Essex, will appear in January before Southwark crown court in London charged with attacks on websites including the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca).While neither Davis nor Cleary were at Southwark crown court for a short hearing on Tuesday morning, Judge Nicholas Lorraine-Smith said the co-defendants would need to appear at the court for a plea and case management hearing on 27 January.Davis, who was arrested earlier this month, and Cleary, who was arrested in June, are remanded on police bail, prohibited from accessing the internet via a computer or phone, and have restrictions on their movements.It is believed the UK authorities are having to trawl through a large amount of forensic evidence to build their cases.The FBI declined to comment on whether it has sought the extradition of the pair, whose arrests form part of an ongoing international investigation into a number of online attacks by members of the hacking collective Anonymous and the smaller group LulzSec.Cleary is charged with offences under the Computer Misuse Act, including conspiring with other people to create a remotely controlled network of zombie computers, known as a "botnet", which crashes websites. He is also alleged to have carried out attacks against Soca, the British Phonographic Industry's website and the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry's website, and with making, adapting or supplying a botnet for a distributed denial of services (DDoS) attack, which brings down sites by bombarding them with repeated requests to load webpages.Davis is accused of offences under the Computer Misuse Act, the Serious Crime Act, and the Criminal Law Act, including unlawfully gathering data from NHS computers, being involved with attacks on News International and being part of an attack that crashed the Soca's website.LulzSec has claimed responsibility for online attacks against Soca and the Sun newspaper, as well as targeting US authorities such as the Senate and the CIA.Peter David Gibson, a 22-year-old student from Hartlepool, wascharged in connection with online attacks related to Anonymous last Thursday. US authorities have so far arrested more than 16 people there as part of their investigation into the groups.
Last week, Apps Blog looked at how mobile games firms Godzilab, Papaya and Gameview weremaking moneyfrom freemium Android games, with all three companies notably positive about the potential of Google's smartphone OS – in contrast to the gloominess of developers focusing on paid games.Now there are two more examples of publishers trying new models beyond pure paid downloads. What's more, they are two of the bigger beasts in the mobile games world: Electronic Arts and Gameloft.EA's strategy: it is giving away one of its premium brands for free. Tetris, to be specific. A new version of the classic falling-blocks game is free to download and play on Android Market, complete with apress release quotefrom Tetris licensor Henk Rogers claiming that going free for Android will ensure "fans can fall in love with the Tetris game all over again". Advertising appears to be the sole source of revenues for the new version.Gameloft, meanwhile, is turning to a different money-making model: subscriptions. Its newAndroid HD+ Gameloft Clubis hosted on its own mobile website rather than the Android Market store, and charges people £0.99 a week. For that, they get one new Gameloft game to download and keep every week, starting off with two when they first sign up. For now, this is a UK-only club.The difference in approach is interesting for two companies that have been slugging it out for top-dog status in the mobile games industry since well before apps were a glint in Apple CEO Steve Jobs' eye.EA's move is the more surprising of the two at first. In that pre App Store era, Tetris was the dominant mobile game worldwide. With tongue firmly in cheek, you might describe it as the Angry Birds of its day: a joke with teeth, since it hints at how the game developed by Finnish studio Rovio has supplanted Tetris as king of the mobile games landscape in the last couple of years.There are likely to be two main motivations behind EA's decision to make the game free and ad-supported on Android. First, the difficulty of making a lucrative business out of paid games on Android, likely with a side-order of concern about potential piracy.But second is the recognition that with 550,000 new Android devices activated every day, Google's platform has the scale to support ad-funded models, especially for apps and games that are likely to be used regularly for fairly long sessions. It's the same logic that led Rovio to make Angry Birds free and ad-supported on Android earlier this year, of course.There are some gripes about the "intrusive" ads on Android Market from players posting reviews of Tetris' free version already, but time will tell if the model pays off – and of course, EA has the scope to offer an in-game payment option to remove the ads.How does Gameloft's subscription model compare? Logistics made the decision to run the Gameloft Club from the company's own site an obvious one, but it will also give the publisher plenty of data on subscribers and their gaming habits: as well as a tailor-made mailing list for marketing new games that sit outside the subscription offer.The 99p pricing means many games will be just a third of their regular price, which is a good deal for players as long as the available catalogue is good. Gameloft makes a lot of games every year, so at least there should be no problem with the flow of new titles for subscribers.It is somewhat fashionable for games firms to grumble about Android's unfriendly climate for paid games. By experimenting beyond pure paid downloads, EA and Gameloft – as well as the numerous firms going down the freemium route – are arguably taking a more positive approach to establishing the real potential of Android as a gaming platform.
A new website with the slogan "Euston, we have a problem" aims to use the power of the crowds using British public transport to notify operators of problems with rail, bus, tube and even ferry services.FixMyTransport, which launched on Tuesday, aims to "give you the tools to report your public transport problems to the correct operator or authority", and to post them online so that other people can see where problems are.And, following representations from transport companies, there will also be another option: to praise them for the quality of the experience.The project, which is the result of 18 months' work by a lone developer, Louise Crow, uses the same idea as its older sibling FixMyStreet.com, which lets people contact their local council to report problems with roads such as potholes or fly-tipping and last year had more than 60,000 problems reported.FixMyTransport has been open for limited user testing for some weeks and has already gathered a number of examples from users reporting their problems: one complained that the Woolwich Ferry's Greenland pier was in poor repair; the council renovated and fixed it soon afterwards.The project is the latest brainchild ofMySociety, a non-profit organisation created by Tom Steinberg – who now advises the government on better ways to open up government data – which has tried to make public data and information more accessible to the wider public.Among its creations are PublicWhip.org, which lets people see how MPs vote,TheyWorkForYou, which republishes Hansard's proceedings from parliament in a more usable form, andWhatDoTheyKnow, which lets people lodge freedom of information requests with organisations quickly and easily.The project has had support from Transport for London, which looks after transport in the capital involving trains, buses, underground trains, cycle hire and ferries, say Myfanwy Nixon of MySociety. "It gets very complicated because some operators' problems – say, with accessibility for wheelchair users – have also to be reported to TfL as well as the operator."The key element that makes the site work is its database of contact details for all the operators, which Nixon says was collected in the same way that the site itself operates: by "crowdsourcing" online. "We put up a Google spreadsheet and asked people to enter the details," explained Nixon. "Some operators were very helpful – Arriva sent all their details in."The site aims to become a rallying point for people who have persistent problems by allowing them to create a campaign page. "FixMyTransport then offers a powerful toolbox to help them spread the word and lobby for changes," says Nixon.FixMyStreet has been copied around the world, from Brazil to South Korea, and MySociety is working on versions for the Dominican Republic and Philippines. "We hope that FixMyTransport will be similarly popular across the globe – after all, wherever you find a public transport system, there'll probably be something going wrong."The key elements in working out which operators are responsible for each part of a journey has come via the government's open data projectData.gov.uk, launched in January 2010. The data for FixMyTransport comes from the National Public Transport Data Repository (NPTDR) and National Public Transport Access Nodes (NaPTAN) data sets, which provide route names, stops and operators. More than 400,000 bus, train, tube and tram stops are represented on individual pages.
Google Plus's controversial identity policy requires all users to use their "real names". Commentators have pointed to problems with this, including the implausibility of Google being able to determine correctly which names are real and which ones are fake. Other problems include the absurdity of Google's demand for scans of government ID to accomplish this task and the fractal implausibility of Google being able to discern real from fake in all forms of government ID.Google argues that people behave better when they use their real names. Google also states it is offering an identity service, not a social network, and therefore needs to know who you are and, thirdly, that no one is forcing you to use Google Plus.However valid the first two points may be, they are eclipsed by the monumental intellectual dishonesty of that last one – no one's holding a gun to your head, so shut up if you don't like it.Because when Google's chairman, Eric Schmidt, toldNPR's Andy Carvin, "G+ is completely optional. No one is forcing you to use it", he implied the only time a service should come under critical scrutiny is when it is mandatory.This simplistic theory of critical discourse is perfectly incoherent, implying that in a marketplace, the only role "consumers" have is to buy things or not buy things, use things or not use things, and that these decisions should not be informed by vigorous debate and discussion, but only by marketing messages.After all, no one forces anyone to eat at a restaurant, so why should we review it? No one forces you to see a movie, so why have any informed public discussion about which movie you should see this weekend? No one forces you to take a job, so why rank employers? No one forces you to go to universities, so why should we debate which ones are best and which ones are worst?The theory of markets goes like this: over time, users of goods and services will figure out which ones suit them best, and they will spread the word, and bad services will be "ranked downward" (to use Schmidt's language) and good services will rise and thrive. There's some good evidence that this theory works (at least sometimes). Not least, there is Google's own market-like mechanisms for ranking pages and advertisers. There are market sceptics, too, but they, too, don't believe that the world improves when people havelesscritical discourse.Here's why we need a critical debate about Google's Real Name policy: first, because it embodies a highly controversial theory of human behaviour, that the way to maximise civility is to abolish anonymity – even though everyone knows Muammar Gaddafi's real name (though not how to spell it) and no one knows the name of the kind driver who slows to let you cross the road.Second, because it embodies an equally controversial theory of identity: that our lives are best lived when we have a single identity that persists in all contexts over time, so your grandparents get the same experience of you that your lover does, your boss sees the same side of you that your toddler does.Next, because social services exert pressure on non-users – when all your friends join G+, the pressure mounts on you to do the same.And finally, because the policy Google espouses is likely to exact costs on its users long after they made their "use/don't use" decision, and those consequences are not easy to discern in advance.This last reason is the most important one. Google suggests that our internet use is a series of fair trades: I'll give you the management of my identity if you give me easy social experiences and easy logins across multiple services.But for the trade to be fair, the user has to know what she's giving up: has to appreciate the total cost, over time, of irrevocably – because parts of your G+ use are likely immortal in Google's databases – surrendering to Google Real Name Theory of the Everything.If Schmidt is certain that the trade is a good one, that users will still use the service even after they appreciate the risks, then he should welcome and participate in debate. He should drop the ridiculous "No one is making you join", talk and bring some of Google's legendary intellectual vigour to the discussion.After all, Google is the company that set the standard for making everything it does "a beta test". By long tradition, the purpose of a beta test is to solicit critical feedback from testers. This is a natural for Google's service-based model, because Google can update its service centrally, without the old-time inconvenience of pushing out bug-fixes to every user.The first duty of social software is to improve its users' social experience. Facebook's longstanding demand that its users should only have one identity is either a toweringly arrogant willingness to harm people's social experience in service to doctrine; or it is a miniature figleaf covering a huge, throbbing passion for making it easier to sell our identities to advertisers.Google has adopted the Facebook doctrine at the very moment in which the figleaf slipped, when people all over the world are noticing that remaking ancient patterns of social interaction to conform to advertising-driven dogma exposes you to everything from humiliation at school to torture in the cells of a Middle Eastern despot. There could be no stupider moment for Google to subscribe to the gospel of Zuckerberg, and there is no better time for Google to show us an alternative.
