What would you say to having a mobile phone mast inside your house? Mobile phone companies think that a lot of us will say yes and, starting from the end of this year, plan to offer us just this in the form of devices called "femtocells".A femtocell is technically a mobile phone base station, but it's one that's been housetrained. It's a very different proposition from the big radio masts that sit on top of buildings. For starters, it's smaller. Literally, "femto" means "a quadrillionth", which would imply a device about the size of the nucleus of an atom. In fact, femtocells are boxes about the size and shape of a wireless broadband router.Breaking barriersFemtocells will improve mobile voice and data signals indoors. Mobile phone networks are designed to give good coverage but they're better outdoors; once you go inside, the signal has to go through a brick wall and it dies away. Your voice calls go crackly and mobile data slows to a crawl. "70% of mobile data is used inside buildings," says Stuart Carlaw, research director at ABI Research, "and that is typically the worst environment."This means you won't use the internet, which is bad news for the operators. They've bet their businesses on mobile data, buying radio spectrum for &pound;22.5bn in the UK and upgrading their networks to 3G and now HSDPA (high speed downlink packet access), which is theoretically as fast as high-speed broadband - only to find they can't deliver that high-speed data where we actually want it.A femtocell solves this by putting a tiny 3G radio mast indoors, using your home broadband to connect it to the mobile network. Now the coverage pattern is reversed - once you get inside your house the signal gets better, not worse. "That's a good thing for the operator," says Carlaw. "And it's a good thing for you."For those who fret about health risks (still unproven) from phone masts, an indoor mast does not make the situation worse. Quite the reverse: if you're using a mobile, it's actually safer. The weaker the signal a mobile receives from a base station, the more it ramps up its output to try to reach it. If the base station is a femtocell in the same room, the signal is strong enough that the phone's output will be far less. Less power means less radiation - and your phone's battery will last a lot longer. (If there are health risks from phones or masts, the phones will be riskier because the power of the radiation falls off with the square of the distance - and the phone will always be closer to you.)Most of the network equipment makers have a femto plan, and plenty of prototypes were on show at the mobile industry's big get-together in February, the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. Carlaw believes there will be 70m femtocells in the world by 2012, with maybe 200 million people using them; operators expect housemates to share femtocells.Despite this, there's not much to see yet. One operator, Sprint in the US, has a public femtocell trial for plain mobile voice calls. Data-oriented 3G femtocells are being lab-tested, and operators will move later this year to secret trials with "friendly users" (usually employees). Both O2 and T-Mobile have plans to test femtocells, but analysts don't expect public trials until later this year, when operators will make a "soft launch" with a few real customers. The first public 3G femtocell services will probably be in the Far East.Browsing habitsThere are already a handful of people using them. "I've been using a femtocell daily in my home for a long time," says Will Franks, chief technology officer at Ubiquisys, the company providing femtocells for both O2 and T-Mobile. In testing terms, this makes him a "very friendly user". Having a phone that browses as fast as an average broadband-connected PC has changed his habits: "You check the weather or train times or your email on your phone, instead of going to the PC."It also reveals which phones are the best. Some of them simply don't have a fast enough processor to keep up with real sustained HSDPA data rates, he says: "Manufacturers can't blame it on the network any more."Femto fans reckon the devices will be the telecoms equivalent of the PC, changing the industry and the way people use technology for good. "They will have a big impact on infrastructure companies that provide vast numbers of base stations," says Franks. "An area which needed three masts and all the power and backhaul they require may only need one. The network will be a thinner layer, more of a veneer."They could also change the way people use their phones. If mobile data is cheap in the house, the femto could be a "filling station" that tops up the phone with prearranged content such as movies and music when you come through the door, and copies off any photos to save them in your digital family album or put them online at a site like Flickr."The sweet spot is tying the mobile into the home network," says Carlaw.Cell divisionNot everyone is quite so optimistic: "It's not as easy as it sounds," says Dean Bubley of Disruptive Analysis. "The general premise of femtos is good, but I'm sure a lot of 2009 will be spent fixing the problems that show up in the trials."It's not clear how the devices will be packaged and sold, but they have to be foolproof, as users will set them up themselves. Femtocells will also have to work with the existing cells of the mobile network. Bubley is sceptical that operators will persuade every member of a household to get onto the same network; so will homes have multiple femtos, or will one femto operate on several networks? And will there be a standard for femtocells, so you can choose which one you want, as you (more or less) can with handsets?Industry body the Femto Forum hopes to sort this out: "The forum has been cataloguing the different approaches, and it is clear from the operators' point of view that there are too many of them," says forum chair Simon Saunders. The technology is ready to use, but there's a tangle of acronyms and technologies to coax through standards bodies such as the 3GPP (Third Generation Partnership Project).They'll also have to get cheaper. At the moment, it costs about $200 to make a femtocell, and operators won't ship them until that price falls to $100."We'll see them in niche markets first, such as rural areas with lots of cable and DSL but poor mobile coverage," says Bubley. He thinks mass uptake won't happen until the mobile networks move on, from 3G to the next generation, LTE (long term evolution). "LTE was designed with femtos in mind. With 3G, femtocells have to retrofitted, but with LTE things needed by femtocells, like cell registration and closed user groups, are all built into standards up-front."
Because it wants more people to use it - but the method it used to try to get its Safari browser onto Windows users' machines (pre-selected as part of a "Software Update" to iTunes and QuickTime) was, at best, cackhanded; at worst, downright sneaky.John Lilly, the chief executive of Mozilla (maker of the rival Firefox browser)said on his blogthat it "borders on malware distribution practices". It turns out that not only would having iTunes (which demands QuickTime) lead to your being "offered" a new browser for your machine, but Safari would bring along with it another piece of Apple fun, called "Bonjour for Windows" - an Apple-developed method of auto-discovering services on the local network. (Adding iTunes also brings in its wake a slew of iPod services, even if you haven't got an iPod.)So what is Apple up to? Two things: trying to garner market share by getting more people to use Safari, and concomitantly aiming for a little extra cash from Google in return for those extra people using Safari - because Apple and the Mozilla Foundation each get payments from Google every time someone uses their built-in search fields on Safari and Firefox respectively. Safari, with about 5% of searches, earns Apple about $2m (&pound;1m) per month, while Firefox (with about 15%) earned Mozilla $4.73m per month in 2006, 85% of its income.Lilly insists on his blog that he is not concerned about any threat from Apple to Mozilla's revenue stream, but simply about how pre-ticking the box "undermines the trust relationship great companies have with their customers, and that's bad - not just for Apple, but for the security of the whole web."It's all part of what could be called the "install wars", where installing one bit of software leads to all sorts of unwanted, unasked-for stuff on your machine; that's the modus operandi of adware and spyware companies.Yet Steve Jobs was perfectly open about Apple's intent to do this last June, when he unveiled a beta of Safari (previously only for Apple Macs) for Windows at the Worldwide Developers Conference. "But how are we going to distribute this?" he asked rhetorically. "We don't really talk to these [Windows] customers, do we? What are we gonna do? Well, it turns out there are a million downloads of iTunes a day." Jobs has previously estimated that 90% of the 300 million-odd iTunes installations are on Windows. So, you know, if you could get even a few percent to accidentally install Safari ... (By contrast, he said, Firefox gets half a million downloads per day.)But it's still quite a leap from updating existing software to installing entirely new stuff. Apple could have made it all OK by not pre-ticking the box showing Safari as an "update".Still, at least it doesn't make itself your default browser. That really would have caused a fight.
Inspiring news for bedroom coders everywhere -Darwinia, the brilliant PC strategy title from UK indie studioIntroversionis coming to Xbox Live Arcade in Autumn 2008. The game will be available alongside the new multiplayer version, Multiwinia, in one package named Darwinia +. It's been rumoured for ages that Introversion has been chatting with Microsoft - indeed they hinted as much when I met them at the Bradford Animation Festivaltwo years ago.Now, how about a PlayStation Network conversion ofDefcon?
In astatementreleased earlier today, Take-Two announced that it would be rejecting EA's takeover offer of $26 per share, which amounts to a $2 billion valuation for the publisher. The board of directors has instructed its stockholders not to tender their shares at this price."Our Board, after careful review, has unanimously determined that Electronic Arts' offer continues to provide insufficient value and remains opportunistically timed to capture the value of the upcoming Grand Theft Auto IV launch at the expense of our stockholders," said Strauss Zelnick, Chairman of the Board of Take-Two. The press release implies that the boardwillbe willing to consider, "alternatives to maximize stockholder value", which may or may not include, "a business combination of the Company with third parties or with EA, remaining independent, or other strategic or financial alternatives, that could deliver higher stockholder value than the EA Offer." However, it will only engage ininformaldiscussions until GTA IV has been released.Nevertheless, the willingness to open channels of communication, together with several tactic allusions to other interested parties, suggests that Take-Two is attempting to manouvere itself into a stronger position for a still possible buyout. "They're publicly bargaining,'' said Kaufman Brothers analyst Todd Mitchellto Bloomberg. "They're trying to flush out a higher offer.''The press release presents robust and verbose defense of the board's decision- hardly surprising considering the legal action instigatedearlier this monthby shareholder Patrick Solomon who alleged Take-Two's rejection of EA's bid was not in the best interests of shareholder value. However, it's a gamble: EA may well withdraw its offer, or field a reduced bid at a later date. Industry analyst Michael Pachter of Wedbush Morgan has referred to the decision as a mistake: "We believe that the company was positioned to extract a higher offer from EA by offering a friendly transaction, and its Board chose to continue its adversarial posture." (Morehere.)The question is, who are the other suitors mentioned in Take-Two's release? Vivendi has been touted, but this seems unlikely. Could a large mainstream media giant be about to step in?
Forgive the intrusion onto Gamesblog turf, but I thought you lot might be interested in this one.Tomorrow morning I've got some time withNeil Thompson, Microsoft's grandly-titled "senior regional director, northern Europe, entertainment &amp; devices division". Yes, it's a bit of a tongue twister, but for our purposes it's probably just easier to think of him as the head of Xbox in the UK and Ireland.That means there's probably a lot of stuff you'd like to ask him. I'll probably be inquiring about the Byron review (which comes out tomorrow), the death of HD-DVD and the infamous Red Ring of Death. But what question would you want him to answer?Leave your queries in the comments - the deadline is 9am tomorrow (Thursday March 27). We'll be getting it all down and, hopefully, putting the interview out in the nextTech Weekly podcast(if you don't listen already, give it a try).
Take-Two Interactive, the games publisher behind the successful Grand Theft Auto series, today rejected a $2bn takeover bid by Electronic Arts.In a statement Take-Two's chief executive Strauss Zelnick said that the company's board considered the offer "inadequate", and would only look again at a deal after the release of GTA IV next month."Our board, after careful review, has unanimously determined that Electronic Arts' offer continues to provide insufficient value and remains opportunistically timed to capture the value of the upcoming Grand Theft Auto IV launch at the expense of our stockholders," he said.Electronic Arts – the world's largest video game publisher, and the maker of hugely popular titles such as The Sims and the Fifa football series - has been courting Take-Two shareholders for some time. Its interest has become increasingly hostile as Take-Two's board members considered the offer, and now is likely to develop into a full-scale assault.Zelnick said that the New York-based publisher had also received interest from other companies about "possible business combination transactions", but refused to elaborate further.The acquisition attempt by EA is seen by many as an attempt to cash in on a period of turmoil for the publisher. In an extraordinary sequence of events last year, one former chief executive, Paul Eibeler, was ousted while another, Ryan Brant, was fined more than $7m after admitting he backdated stock options.It also comes as prepares to release one of the biggest games in its history. Grand Theft Auto IV, which is due to be released at the end of April, is one of the year's most eagerly anticipated titles and the first full-length since 2004's GTA: San Andreas. Like its predecessors, it has been developed by British gaming studio Rockstar, a subsidiary of Take-Two.
Guardian News &amp; Media - that's us in the paper, online, podcasting, videoing, magazines, conferences, the whole darn show - has announced (rather quietly, to be honest) that it will not be working with Phorm and the OIX internet advertising exchange (set up by Phorm) for the present time.The decision was revealed in an email to a concerned reader of the paper from Simon Philby, the Guardian's advertising manager. AsThe Register notes, Philby said:It is true that we have had conversations with them [Phorm] regarding their services but we have concluded at this time that we do not want to be part of the network. Our decision was in no small part down to the conversations we had internally about how this product sits with the values of our company.I hope you appreciate that the quality of the Guardian's editorial is funded by our advertising sales operation and it is our duty to keep abreast of all developments in this sector. In this instance, however, I agree with you that this is not something that we should be partnering.TO be clear, my information is that the Guardian had neversignedanything with Phorm; the term is, I think, an "expression of interest". But now it's definitely been pushed a long way onto the back burner.Which isn't going to reduce our interest in Phorm, of course. The question now becomes: can it persuade enough ISPs to sign their customers up to make the service compelling? Or is this semi-public statement from the Guardian (which as The Register points out, remains Britain's most popularnewspaper[thanks, tribble] website) going to be a bad loss?Thestock graphshows that it's not doing so well (Phorm is listed on the London AIM): latest numbers suggests it's down 2.7%. (Katie Allen has also blogged it on theMarkets blog.)I've asked: there's no official statement from GNM's press office.
As Red Hat chief executive Jim Whitehurst told the InfoWorld Open Source Business Conference in San Francisco on Tuesday:"I never thought I would say this but actually, being very unpopular in the world, as frankly the US is these days, is a huge benefit to open source," because people are resentful of sending billions of dollars back to the US in IP taxes, Whitehurst said. They also do not want to pay it to Western Europe, he said.InfoWorld has thestory, around tableon the state of open source, and aslide showof mug shots.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Woe unto Microsoft, for it has laboured hard on Vista's Service Pack 1 (that's SP1 for the three-letter acronym, except they're not all letters and it's not an acronym..), putting in 551 bug fixes, and some people aren't happy.In fact they're so unhappy they want rid of it.Thus theWashington Post:According to PC World's test lab gurus, the Service Pack is safeand it does improve performance, albeit not enough to crow about. My own, totally anecdotal survey reveals that some customers have upgraded with no problems (myself, for example), while others claim unexpected crashes and instability - almost assuredly the result of driver issues - but that any system speedup could just as easily be attributable to the placebo effect.(To clarify, the "myself" there is not me; it's Neil McAllister of PC World.)At InfoWorld, whereAngry Vista users vent over SP1 driver issues, folk are just getting the pitchforks and torches ready for a little trip to Redmond. Except that Microsoft had already warned them that SP1 wasn't for everyone:But as it added Vista SP1 to Windows Update, Microsoft also spelled out numerous caveats, telling users that there are as many as eight different reasons why they might not find the update in the Windows Update listing on their PC. Among those reasons: any of 31 language packs, earlier installed versions of SP1, various prerequisite updates, and a number of device drivers.The service pack is being withheld from machines containing one or more of the listed drivers because, as Microsoft put it in a support document, "these device drivers are problematic on Windows Vista-based computers when you update to Windows Vista SP1."If you want the full thinking on who does and who doesn't and should and shouldn't get SP1, it's onthis Microsoft Vista blog post.But Computerworld has meanwhile put togetherHow to dump SP1("The simplest way, according to Microsoft's own documentation and its support staff, is to uninstall it using the normal procedure for tossing out unwanted applications." That's OK then.)What it seems to boil down to is drivers. Third-party drivers. Against which, of course, Microsoft can't test everything, and given the variability of programming quality out there it's inevitable that some people with access to blogs will be having hassles.Does this make SP1 bad? No. It makes it complex. Possibly we're seeing the stage at which complexity overwhelms Windows. It can't combine security - which heaven knows we really, really need - with grotty (or just inexact) low-level software for device interaction. Too many machines, too many little tweaks, too many lines of code; the edifice can't keep being built higher and higher.That said, has anyone here updated to SP1? How's it going?
According toDigiTimesin Taiwan: "Asustek's 8.9-inch second-generation Eee PC lineup will include touchscreen panels and possible GPS support, with shipments expected to begin in May or June, according to Kevin Lin, vice president of Asustek's sales department. Pricing is projected to reach NT$15,000 (US$500), Lin added."The company aims to ship up to five million Eee PCs in 2008 through retail channels and contract orders combined, with quarterly retail-only shipments expected to total 650,000-700,000 units, according to the company. The device is seeing a 50% supply shortage in the Taiwan and Hong Kong regions and 70% worldwide in the first quarter of 2008.Another DigiTimes story saysAsustek aims to ship seven million notebook PCs in 2008. However, this will include "3.5-3.7 million units in China and around one million units in Taiwan". That leaves about 50,000 a week for the rest of the world, and some of those will be "entertainment notebooks" with big screens.For comparison, Dell is shipping about 800,000 PCs a week (including desktops and servers), and 15-inch Dell laptops now start at prices similar to the 7-inch Eee PC.Update: I've also written about subnotebooks inthis week's column....
According toClive Thompson from Wired, we're about to enter a new age of interactive entertainment - co-presence gaming:By the looks of it, we're entering a new golden age of social, face-to-face game playing. Consider that in the last year, the biggest breakout hits have been music games like Guitar Hero and Rock Band, and the Wii's sporty and casual titles...Each of these games explicitly encourages social playing -- people hanging out together.Are we reverting back to the heady console days pre-Dreamcast, where we wanted to play (together) with people in our own homes?Ah, I often hark back to the nights spent crouched over a N64 controller, sharing it with a friend as we struggled for control over the joypad during an 8-player match of the mighty MicroMachines. What about the magical Multitap - the PlayStation's answer to more-than-two-person multiplayer games?And if we're to take the lead from Thompson's inspiration for the article - the mediocre Army of Two - the USP of the N64's Perfect Dark was the co-/counter-operative modes, a steal for only the cost of the 4MB expansion pak.Human interaction: the killer app - who knew?
Venture capitalists should not let prevailing financial conditions prevent them from putting money into technology start-ups, one leading investor has warned.The internet industry, which relies largely on venture capital to fund start-up companies, has yet to feel any significant damage as a result of the spreading credit crisis. However, many investors are now being swayed by a "background sense that it is time to be cautious", according to Robin Klein, of European investment company The Accelerator Group."The technology venture community isn't directly affected by the credit crunch environment because they are mostly based on equity funds - they aren't built on debt," he said.  "However, if they are in the process of raising money, then that's a different matter."TAG has put money into some of Europe's most highly rated dotcom start-ups, but Klein said that the group was starting to see more value in funding repeat entrepreneurs than in those starting out for the first time. "We've definitely got a wave of second and third time entrepreneurs. They weren't necessarily successful the first time, but it is a major advantage for us."According to figures from research group Library House, investment in media technology companies across Europe dropped to &euro;121m (&pound;95m) in the fourth quarter of 2007 - a drop of 52% on the previous quarter.The news that 3i Group has also stopped investing in early stage technology companies has dealt a blow to internet entrepreneurs, though the group said the move was part of a long-term decision to focus its efforts on companies that are ready to expand internationally. Even Silicon Valley, the hotspot of technology investment for the past 30 years, is seeing a slowdown in the amount of money being invested in new dotcom companies.Apart from a number of high profile deals such as Microsoft's 1.6% stake in Facebook, which cost it $240m (&pound;120m), there has been a slight reduction in overall investment, according to figures from Dow Jones VentureSource. As a result, analysts are warning that the slowdown could be just around the corner, particularly if the advertising market continues to slide as the wider economy contracts.This warning comes despite some good news for the internet investment community recently, including the sale of social networking site Bebo, which was bought for $850m by AOL. That deal netted venture capital group Balderton $140m, a nine-fold return on its investment.With stockmarkets under pressure,  some see dwindling opportunities to cash in through high-value exits or flotations. Unlike the boom at the end of the last century, people may not be able to raise millions through the stockmarket. Klein insisted investors must keep faith in the growing value of the internet, rather than succumb to cautious urges."E-commerce keeps growing at a tremendous rate - the high street is having a tough time, but the internet is doing well," he said. "It's certainly not all doom and gloom."
This has been Dugg like mad today, but it's worth pointing to for those who haven't seen it. The Popular Mechanics website has posted an article entitled'Shooting For Realism: How Accurate are Videogame Weapons?'. It's an interesting look at how game guns are evolving, and at whether realism is a genuine goal.Sure, advances in technology are allowing developers to include more data every time a bullet is fired - "If someone shoots through a plant, then a car door, then it hits Level 3 body armor, all of that effects the force of the round," explains Rainbow Six Vegas 2 designer, Philippe Theiren. Indeed, both CoD4 and RSV2 allow certain weapons to shoot through walls and other objects. However, developers are aware that gamers are more interested in the perceived character of favourite gun types, rather than their real-life performance:"I take these weapons, and look at what defines them, or what people think defines them," Theiren explains. "For an Uzi, people think it fires lots of bullets, and it's really inaccurate." That, he knows, has nothing to do with reality--if anything, Uzis are considered some of the most reliable and accurate submachine guns around. But the 80s (and Miami Vice in particular) offered us the Uzi as a low-life villain's weapon, spit-fire and out-of-control. "So I make it fire faster than it should. It's about taking the personality of a weapon, and making it shine in the game," Theiren says.The personality of a gun? I'd never thought of that, but it's true - most gamers, for example, feel a palpable excitement when they discover a shotgun, not because of its real-life performance, but because it makes a lot of noise and it's messy. We all think of Hicks in Aliens, jamming one in the throat of an incoming beast, yelling 'eat this!' and performing a particularly invasive piece of cranial surgery - it's so much more fulfilling than the rat-a-tat from the marines' massive techno guns.The piece doesn't mention Far Cry 2 which adds a new wrinkle to the depiction of weapons in games: wear and tear. During the FPS sequel, your gun will fill with dust and grime, becoming less and less reliable and frequently jamming mid-firefight. There's a great re-loading animation which shows your character forcefully ramming ammo into his rifle before smacking it a few times to get the rounds to engage. Apparently, it's best to get hold of an AK-47, which, of course, has a real-world reputation for reliability in even the harshest environments.I've talked about the similarities between the depiction of guns and cars in games before; when portraying both, developers merge realistic performance statistics and authentic modeling with a certain amount of creative license to produce objects of heightened desirability. How soon before gun manufacturers are courting studios to include their latest models? It is probably already happening.How authentic are the weapons in modern shooters? And do they even want to be?
The title worried me a little. Due out next month, Grand Theft Childhood, is an academic analysis of violent games and the effects they have on younger players. But the subtitle, 'The Surprising Truth About Violent Video Games and What Parents Can do' hints at something more considered than a reactionary fright-fest aimed at impressionable parents andhamfisted polticoslooking for their next moral sitting target.My favourite 'serious' games blog, Watercooler Games,drew my attentionto the book and links to ahugely encouraging interviewwith one half of the writing team, Harvard researcher, Cheryl Olson. It's one long, considered de-bunking of various myths associated with violent games and, indeed, game playing in general. For example:One very encouraging finding was how sophisticated middle-school boys were in their understanding of violent games. They could enjoy playing bad guys without wanting to be them.When asked about the way that certain politicians have taken up the crusade about violent games, Olson replies:It's upsetting to see a group of boys laughing as they watch one game character literally rip the guts out of another. But when you know more about the context, motivations and other factors involved, you may see this differently. Also, for politicians it's an issue that they can campaign easily on, even if the scientific data don't support their claims.With the Byron Report set to publish its findings this week, I hope its compilers have been as rigorous and open-minded in their examination of supposed truths concerning games culture and games playing. The authors of Grand Theft Childhood even rebuke themselves for not interviewing more girls about GTA - they had assumed that the game attracted a meagre female user-base, but it turned out that a fifth of the girls they surveyed had played the game regularly.I'm not sure, and this is dangerous territory to get into I suppose, but I feel, if I had a teenage daughter, I'd rather she played GTA thanMiss Bimbo. Rockstar's series has some dislikable misogynistic undertones, but the lead character is essentially on a quest for power and authority within a society where respect is garnered via actions rather than appearances. Breast augmentation and pathetic fame fantasies do not enter in the equation.The book, due out on April 15, has a website,here.
to this week's show, presented byAleks Krotoski, withCharles Arthur,Bobbie JohnsonandJemima Kiss.Clay Shirky(pictured) - internet guru, professor, author of Here Comes Everybody - talks to Charles about how some social tools and a lack of organisational structure would have done Microsoft's Vista the world of good; and Bobbie Johnson talks to the people behind the BBC Micro at a Science Museum discussion.As always: your thoughts and opinions are welcome - leave them in the comments below.·The podcast feed URL·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·Visit our Facebook group·The Tech Weekly archives
We don't have room in print for the full text of all your letters and blog pingbacks, but do here. Last week folk were quite exercised about whether the internet was a time-sink or saver - or is it both? And adverts, of course.FIXING THE UN&gt;&gt; I completely endorse the spirit of this initiative. When an institution is broken, more citizen scrutiny can only help fix it.davemenninger.com&gt;&gt; UNDemocracy makes it possible to see all of George Bush's speeches at the UN. I believe there are many interesting applications for textual analysis in the future; it can be adapted for identifying linguistic patterns (automatically) or for spotting inconsistencies (by mobilizing an army of volunteers and crowdsourcing the efforts). I still can't understand why the official UN data site doesn't count "text" as data, but well,I am sure they have a nice bureaucratic excuse.evgenymorozov.comDEATH OF THE NET&gt;&gt; Before mass hysteria sets in, let's all remember that we have years, decades even, to deal with this latest programming glitch. And as for the internet? Well, I'm pretty sure that self-improving Artificial Intelligences will be running the world by then, so we probably don't need to worry too much about this.readwriteweb.comFIXING IE?&gt;&gt; Given the debate on OOXML and the lip service that has been paid in the past this is refreshing...mike-peters.blogspot.comTIME SAVING?&gt;&gt; Every time we need to find something out or exchange a thought, not only can we do so straightaway, but our attention will be caught by a dozen other things which we hadn't until then been aware of needing to know or share. By giving us almost unlimited access to information and enabling us to communicate so easily, the net plugs into two of our most basic instincts as a species - to learn and to talk to each other - with the result that we spend more and more of our time doing these things.johnmill.wordpress.com&gt;&gt; The internet is now a two way street, we outsource to the internet and at the same time we insource to ourself, getting extra work we normally would not do. Since the internet is global it might be true that it is the ultimate work creating device. With the internet we imagine to have control over the type of work we do.outsourcing-options.comPRECISION TARGETThe online Sydney Morning Herald of March 14 took the advert targeting issue, as discussed recently in Technology, to another level altogether. A report of a gruesome assault in a Sydney park was headed 'Woman's nose bitten off'. A link was provided - 'Ads by Google' - to 'Safe Cosmetic Surgery' from London. 'Request a free brochure online now!' it urged, sensing there wasn't a moment to lose. Harold Lewis, CobhamAPPLE'S SLICEDear oh dear! Since when has 30% become "more than a third"? How did poor Charles get through school let alone get a job as a tech journo. Trying to make Apple look slow, sly, or greedy by exaggeration, slight and slur only makes the column's author look snarky, envious and foolish. The SDK is over 3GB for Pete's sake! That's one heck of a lot of code to give away for free. Or even 30% of app takings which covers distribution and credit card fees, and doesn't apply to freebies. Vincent Bowry, Suva, FijiWI-FI REDUXi am interested to know if there have been any follow up investigations to the Wi-Fi sensitivity article on Nov 30th 2006. In a nut shell i have empathy with those who can detect Wi-Fi when in close proximity. I can give umpteen examples of occurences and symptoms, The last and worst has prompted me to research it via the internet. This is compounded by a complicated condition which after 5 or so years has been identified by a neuro-consultant resulting in a high steroid treatment. While he believes to have identified the condition (CIDP), he cannot identify the cause. I am putting 2 &amp; 2 together. If you have any further leads I can follow up I would be extremely grateful if you could let me know. Ian Wadsworth (no post town given)STILL GLOWINGI must congratulate our worthy editor on his piece "The real answer is nuclear not plastic". It is high time people came to grips with reality and realised that nuclear is the only solution. Fred Hoyle convinced me when I heard him 30 or so years ago, saying just this, and that all other 'solutions' were a waste of time. It was not to do with Global Warming but as the only answer to the inevitable world energy crisis which would arise when third world nations will expect and demand a higher standard of living.To those opposed to Nuclear I would say that there will be no future for mankind without it and the problem of waste will be solved sooner or later. I must take exception though to his reference to smart bulbs - they are far from irrelevant. It has been shown that if every household replaced the tungsten lighting in the room they used most, with smart bulbs it would reduce the need for one power station! turning off TV standby also saves an enormous amount of power and is well worth while. Charles Rowbotham, Arnside
Last year, Google announcedOpenSocial, which wasn't open and wasn't social ... but now it probably is, because Yahoo and MySpace have signed up to a newOpenSocial Foundation. According toYahoo's announcement:The OpenSocial Foundation will be an independent non-profit entity with a formal intellectual property and governance framework; related assets will be assigned to the new organization by July 1, 2008. The foundation will provide transparency and operational guidelines around technology, documentation, intellectual property, and other issues related to the evolution of the OpenSocial platform, while also ensuring all stakeholders share influence over its future direction.It also quotes Google as saying: "Developers and websites should feel secure that OpenSocial will be forever free and open."The basic idea is that any social networking can support the OpenSocial API and that any developer can use it. So if you develop an application that, for example, allows users to throw sheep at their friends, people will be able to throw sheep on MySpace, Orkut, Hi5, Friendster, LinkedIn, Ning, Six Apart, XING and any other site that signs up, if the developer so chooses. It's just like every town having its own McDonald's.The OpenSocial launch did not, however, include Facebook, which has its owndeveloper platform, which is obviously what inspired OpenSocial. It's in Facebook's interest to have unique Facebook applications, though it won't be able to stop reimplementations on OpenSocial.Whether it will make any difference remains to be seen. How many people will switch from Facebook in order to use what amounts to a gadget, especially if the gadget actually offers less functionality than an associated web site?
Aleks Krotoski, Charles Arthur, Jemima Kiss, and Bobbie Johnson are here for another edition of Tech Weekly.This weekClay Shirkytalks to Charles about how some social tools and a lack of organisational structure would have done Microsoft's Vista the world of good and Bobbie Johnson talks to the people behind theBBC Microat a Science Museum discussion.There's the latest news, and your blog comments too.Don't forget to:• Tell us what you think attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme...•Join our Facebook group
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
BBC Newshas a report onAccess Denied: The Practice and Policy of Global Internet Filtering, a book that blows away the old cliche about governments being unable to censor the internet.Ronald Deibert, one of the book's editors, says: "What we're finding is that states that were taking a hands-off approach to the internet for many years are now finding ways to intervene at key internet choke points, and block access to information."Mr Deibert heads The Citizen Lab at the University of Toronto. The Lab, along with Harvard Law School, the University of Cambridge, and Oxford University, has spent the last five years testing internet access in some 40 countries.Countries such as China, Iran, and Pakistan are well known for net censorship, "But it's not a simple equation with territorial boundaries," says Deibert. "Maybe the best analogy is with the old Middle Ages, where you had multiple and overlapping layers of authority. I think that's the future of the net."There's a contents list and sample chaptershere.In the UK, of course, we may be less likely tocensorsites than tomake it a crime to look at them.
Over at our PDA blog,Jemimahas picked up the story in theFinancial Timesthat investment group 3i has stopped early-stage funding for technology companies.I was more than a little surprised that this made Easter headlines - Mike Butcher over at Techcrunch UK posted about it inas far back as January, and the news was confirmedlast month.As an egocentric conspiracy theorist, I wonder whether I managed to drag this up after speaking to a number of venture capitalists about the current climate (including 3i) over the past week.The basic consensus seems to be that there's nodirectdanger to investment from the credit crunch, but that theindirectproblems it causes - caution, belt-tightening, lack of acquisitions and stock market floats - could easily make life difficult for startup entrepreneurs looking for a little funding.I'll be back with more shortly.
"Australia's first WiMAX operator, Hervey Bay's Buzz Broadband, has closed its network, with the CEO labeling the technology as a 'disaster' that 'failed miserably'," reportsCommsDay.In an astonishing tirade to an international WiMAX conference audience in Bangkok yesterday afternoon, CEO Garth Freeman slammed the technology, saying its non-line of sight performance was "non-existent" beyond just 2 kilometres from the base station, indoor performance decayed at just 400m and that latency rates reached as high as 1000 milliseconds. Poor latency and jitter made it unacceptable for many Internet applications and specifically VoIP, which Buzz has employed as the main selling point to induce people to shed their use of incumbent services.Later the story says:What made Freeman's presentation most extraordinary was that just 12 months ago he fronted the same event with a generally positive appraisal of the platform which at that stage he had deployed just a few months before.Like every other technology, WiMax has "issues," but you'd have thought that the potential for a large-scale disaster would have emerged in testing. (We reported a test in Swindon in April 2005. SeeGet in the loop.)Any WiMax users out there want to say how they've found the service?Update: "Airspan, which shipped the equipment Buzz used, isn't turning the other cheek, and is now hitting back at Buzz, saying the technical and financial resources of Buzz Broadband were not sufficient to deploy a functioning network," reportsIDG News Service. "With regard to range Buzz Broadband opted to go with the less-expensive micro-cell base stations in order to reduce cost. This was a well understood trade-off of cost versus range, according to Airspan."
Viking: Battle for Asgardmay have slipped under the radar of most 360 owners. A hack and slash adventure set in a mythical Norse landscape, Viking seems almost anachronistic compared to the modern world shooters clogging up the 360's release schedule. This is a shame, as I've been playing the game this weekend - it's out this Friday - and so far things are looking good. Reminiscent of Fable - fantasy visuals and "oo-arr" regional British accents - but far more combat focused, Viking has the look of a cult classic.The initial action seems simplistic. Pick up some quests from the starting village and then head off to hack and slash your way to glory. The combat is pleasingly visceral with dismemberments, cleavings and beheadings bringing back nostalgic memories of ancient C64 titleBarbarian. But as you'd expect from a game developed by theCreative Assembly- most famously known for the Total War games - strategy is important. The quests usually involve you freeing your captured troops. Gather enough men and you can eventually lead them into a full scale Viking battle. Here the game really comes alive, with the hack and slash combat - your character is fully involved in the heat of the action - combining with battlefield strategy decisions, such as whether you should take out the archers of the infantry first. Dragons can be summoned too, which is obviously a plus point. The lack of multiplayer is a shame but if Viking keeps up the early promise - I'm about 4 hours in - then this looks like a potential winner.
Aleks has been talking recently aboutPMOG, a way of playing an online game passively.In the same vein, I noticed over the weekend that a lot of people are pointing atMyMiniCity- where players create a SimCity-like place which develops from hicksville to metropolis as you refer more traffic to it.It's French in origin, and ends up being half game, half traffic visualisation engine. As I write, some of the leading cities are springing from less than savoury sources, and I don't know what kind of lifespan it will have... but for now the combination of competition and Simmish graphics seem to be buzzing.
In today's Guardian,Karen McVeighdelves into the controversy surrounding the internet game Miss Bimbo,in which girls as young as nine are encouraged to "buy" their virtual dolls breast operations and facelifts.Well, despite the protestations of its creators who adamantly insist that it's 'harmless fun', the first thing I was struck by when logging into the service was that my bimbo, a looker kitted out only in her white knickers, was already almost a stone overweight. How to cope? By popping diet pills or checking into the plastic surgery clinic, of course.Fat has been a gaming issue in the past (seeKeith's take on itduring the launch of GTA: San Andreas), but that game was intended for people over the age of 18. Miss Bimbo, which has already caused a massive outcry in France where there are 1.2 million people playing it, has amassed a following in the UK of 200,000 9-16 year olds.What responsibility do developers have to a game's audience?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Internet service providers have a problem with the 10% of serious peer-to-peer file sharers who hog around 75% of the internet's bandwidth, making it perform significantly worse for the rest of us. At the moment, ISPs typically use "traffic shaping" between about 5pm and 11pm, which basically slugs the net for everyone, but at least the net still works. A better approach would be to change the "fairness algorithm" that lets P2P users grab an unfair share. According toFixing the unfairness of TCP congestion control, a post by George Ou at ZD Net:Bob Briscoe (Chief researcher at the BT Network Research Centre) is on a mission to tackle one of the biggest problems facing the Internet. He wants the world to know that TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) congestion control is fundamentally broken and he has a proposal for the IETF to fix the root cause of the problem.The basic idea is to change the current AIMD (Additive Increase Multiplicative Decrease) fairness algorithm, which is abused by P2P and some other programs, to a system where all users get roughly the same bandwidth (or what they've paid for) whether they open one TCP stream or 1,000.Apparently this wouldn't make P2P downloads take any longer, but by making them less abusive, it would make the net perform better for everyone.In any case, according to Briscoe:Controlling relative flow rates alone is a completely impractical way of going about the problem. To be realistic for large-scale Internet deployment, relative flow rates should be the outcome of another fairness mechanism, not the mechanism itself. That other mechanism should share out the 'cost' of one user's actions on others -- how much each user's transfers restrict other transfers, given capacity constraints. Then flow rates will depend on a deeper level of fairness that has so far remained unnamed in the literature, but is best termed 'cost fairness'.Briscoe presented his idea in a paper,Flow rate fairness: Dismantling a religion, to the IETF in July, 2007. It's worth a read because it doesn't pull any punches, describing the current system as "completely daft".
Starbucks has opened a community website designed to collect suggestions and feedback from users of its ubiquitous coffee shops. It's not the first to try the idea - Starbucks has followed Dell'sIdeastormin using the same Salesforce.com software - but it won't be the last. Many companies must now be looking atMy Starbucks, Ideastorm andUbuntu Brainstormto see if they can set up something similar.The main idea behind these sites is to find out what users want. My Starbucks lets users make suggestions in a wide range of categories that cover the merchandise (coffee, pastries etc), the experience (ordering, paying) and the company's social responsibilities (fair trade, health issues, recycling). Other visitors can then comment on suggestions and vote on them. Popular ideas rise to the top.Starbucks also has a section called Ideas in Action, where it can report on changes it has made in response to community feedback. There's really no point in doing this kind of thing unless you can show results. But it does require a leap of faith, because there's no guarantee that popular suggestions will be practicable, affordable, or successful. For example, I can imagine plenty of people voting for healthier snacks while only ever buying chocolate brownies.Community sites also present a risk if a company has practices it would rather not publicise, such as paying slave wages or using child labour. In Starbucks' case, a US court has just ordered it to pay more than $100m (£50m) to Californian coffee-servers for making the workers share tips with their bosses. ("Starbucks believes that our shift supervisors deserve their fair share of the tips," the company said.) On the other hand, it's probably better to have any complaints on your own site where you can respond to them, rather than send traffic to aStarbucks-suckstype of site.Starbucks does have some advantages in the online game. It offers relatively expensive and highly configurable products, which is a very middle-class thing, and I suspect that the majority of its customers are computer users. It also has a ready-made "hot topic," which is the availability of Wi-Fi in its stores. Another is "convenient power connections for laptops".After the first couple of days, the second most popular idea on My Starbucks was "to make ALL stores have free Wi-Fi," with 11,120 points. The one at the top was "Offer customers a free drink, after purchasing a set number of drinks" (15,170 points), which seems to have been pre-seeded by Starbucks "from a customer in Feb 08". Of course, some rival chains do this already.But there's a long way to go. My Starbucks seems to be all sweetness and light at the moment, which I don't think is possible without quite a lot of censorship. The web has no shortage of destructive idiots, and more than enough $tarbuck$ haters to make an impact. If Starbucks can't even cope with frivolous suggestions such as topless baristas, it could soon find it tough going.
In case you missed it,Douglas Couplandis filling in for Stephen Fry in this week'sDork Talk....
We are about to witness a battle between online ad networks and big media brands. This month, Google made an announcement that didn't get the attention it deserved: just after closing its purchase of DoubleClick (the leader in online advertising technology for large publishers), it also opened a new venture to serve smaller sites' ads for free. Google Ad Manager could be, I believe, a key element in a new kind of loose network where any site can accept any ad - and any marketer can advertise on any site. Competitors are emerging already.This is how Google defines a network: distributed, flexible, fairly open. Compare its competitors' network strategies: AOL takes over Bebo and Microsoft tries to acquire Yahoo. They believe they are buying audiences - as if we can be bought.Google's infrastructure, by contrast, will enable smaller sites it does not own to gather into ad hoc networks that can deliver a critical mass of targeted audience to advertisers. In these pages, I've urged the creation of an open-source ad network to enable just such business. Now Google may have built a piece of it.There's just one problem: Ad Manager is not open or open-source. It's Google's.Ad Manager's benefits to Google are clear: Google could become the standard for ad-serving online. Google can serve its ads when sites run out of their own; that expands the reach of its AdSense business to potentially millions more sites. Google also gathers a wealth of data about sites, pricing and ad performance.But Google doesn't open up all that data to publishers or advertisers. Instead, it gets to hold on to it and, once more, becomes smarter than the rest of us. That is the Google way. And I say it's our own fault in the publishing, blogging and advertising worlds for ceding this opportunity and not building an open ad marketplace ourselves.But there may be the beginning of such an infrastructure in OpenX, a UK company that provides a free ad platform for 30,000 sites serving a few hundred billion ads a month (DoubleClick serves about a half trillion). What's missing in OpenX is a network that ties these sites together so advertisers can fluidly choose where to place ads. Instead, advertisers have to approach each site separately.OpenX has told me that by the time this column appears, it will have released an ID structure to track behaviour of users across any of its sites. Then it will offer a bidding structure that enables advertisers to compete for traffic on sites. It hopes to beat Google and become the standard for serving ads.Once we have an open ad network, we'll also be able to expose data about sites and ad performance. We would establish the true value of our new medium, especially when we can track new metrics: behaviour, interest, influence, authority, the timing and spread of ideas, and so on. As an ad blogger once said: instead of measuring impressions, we'd measure the impressed. Or to twist another ad cliche: let's stop reaching eyeballs and start reaching brains.My hope is that an open infrastructure would encourage the creation of many new companies. Let's start with a wealth of new content sites: niche interest blogs, hyperlocal blogs, innovative services, new, small-scale journalism. Next we'll see new analytics companies that would help advertisers find their ideal buys. And we'd see a host of networks spring out of ad agencies and media companies to help us poor bloggers make a living.The Guardian started such a network gathering green blogs. The Washington Post put together networks for high-value content areas such as travel. And last week in 13 US markets, CBS TV launched a network that places widgets containing news and ads - with promotions for stations - on local blogs.So now the battle is on. Will big media brands, Google's ad network or an open network win more of the online ad market? The stakes are growing ever bigger: last week, General Motors announced that it will move half its $3bn ad budget online. I'm just hoping that one of these networks will bring a few of those dollars on to my humble blog.&#183;Jeff Jarvis blogs atbuzzmachine.comand is writing a book, WWGD? - What Would Google Do?
Last month was unusual in the realm of  web news, with traffic to all UK newspaper internet sites down compared with January. It has become an article of faith that internet growth is unstoppable - but the reversal caused little concern. "I don't think anyone will be remotely bothered by it because the underlying trend is so strong," said Martin Clarke, editorial director of Mail Online.Guardian.co.uk remained the UK's most popular newspaper online, with 19.52 million unique users in February, down 0.96% on January. Mail Online stayed at number two, despite posting the second largest drop in unique user numbers - with a 4.85% fall from January to 17,035,229.Times Online fell below the 15 million unique user mark, with a 4.07% drop to 14,472,902, and Sun Online saw a 5.97% month-on-month fall in February, leaving it below the 13 million mark with 12,526,916 unique users. In comparison, the Telegraph's online operation had the lowest drop of the month, 0.53%, to record 12,283,835 unique user numbers in February.A month ago the gap between Telegraph.co.uk and Sun Online was almost one million unique users - now it stands at 243,000. In next month's figures Telegraph.co.uk, which is enjoying great success with its video output, will be looking to overtake Sun Online and move into fourth place.Unlike circulation figures for newspapers, which are calculated as a daily average, website unique users are cumulative. So there is some merit to the theory that numbers suffered because February was a short month - 29 days this leap year, compared with 31 days for January. And a record-breaking January at that, with some of the big international celebrity stories that the web is so fond of, including the unexpected death of Heath Ledger and Britney Spears' public breakdown. The Premiership transfer window also served to boost speculation and web chatter.Despite the US presidential primary season continuing into February, the month lacked international news stories of similar magnitude. The big UK news stories of February - the convictions of murderers Levi Bellfield, Steve Wright and Mark Dixie - did not have the same global appeal. A problem for the newspaper websites is that they all have more overseas readers than home-grown readers. This is an issue because of revenue - with advertisers reluctant to pay for international audiences, websites are yet to make satisfactory revenue from their overseas eyeballs.And given the percentage of websites' audience that are based in the UK - 27.47% for Mail Online's, 36.26% for Times Online, 40.70% for the Sun, 40.70% for Telegraph.co.uk and 42.37% for Guardian.co.uk - an intriguing question is whether foreign stories are becoming more important than local ones for UK sites. However, sites can still console themselves that year-on-year growth remains strong - indeed, massive.
"Notice how the robot first plays on the object it finds (or is forced to find by the angry cameraman), plays a small beat, and records the beat it plays on it. Then this recorded beat is played again, and it starts to play on the object (an belt tracks and everything else it has),and also playing this sampled beat," saysLet's Make Robots!, introducing the Yellow Drum Machine build-it-yourself project.Let's Make Robots! has videos.
Nice Mega City&pound;10,458Miles per gallon:600Seats:2 plus 2 little onesGood for:gentle pacersBad for:boy racersBefore you get behind the wheel of a Mega City electric car, it's worth reminding yourself of the myriad evils that of necessity ride at the shoulder of every motorist: noise, pollution, the dangers of speed, the global horrors of oil production... And then, as you turn on the tiny car's electric engine, smile openly as you run through a mental checklist of green brownie points: silent, clean, safe and without the stench of oil. In every negative way, the Mega City is not a car, and yet it allows you to shelter from the rain and listen to the radio as you steer yourself in a sitting position from one place to another, for free, so it must be one...The Mega City is made in France and is imported by a company called Nice, not so that you can say 'I have a Nice car', though you could, but because all of the cars it imports have No Internal Combustion Engine. Instead they have electric engines which will whirr you from A to B (as long as B is not more than 40 miles away and you don't wish to travel at more than 30mph). In the process the Mega City will produce no emissions whatsoever, not a whiff - it doesn't even have an exhaust pipe. If there was, it would smell of roses or baby's breath or maybe Germolene. The car is also totally silent, unnervingly so. The only sound you can get out of it is the sort of strained whine you hear when a milk float edges past.When you arrive at B, you simply plug the Mega City in again (in my case via an extension lead snaking out of my letterbox and across the pavement), leave it to charge for as long as you can - five hours will give a complete charge - unplug it and off you go.Of course your Mega City is only as clean as the electricity you charge it with, so you'll need to switch over to a green tariff pronto. Nice estimates it costs about 60p to fully charge the car, so the running costs work out at an amazing 1.5p per mile - the fuel equivalent would be about 600mpg.Other than the overwhelming sense of carbon smuggery that descends when you drive a Mega City, there are all kinds of sweeteners on offer to make this little eco car even more attractive to motorists. There is no road tax, no congestion charge in the capital and free parking in Westminster and the City of London, plus vastly subsidised parking in many other boroughs. At &pound;10,458, the car is, to my mind, astonishingly expensive. But if you use it to commute in central London you could easily recoup most of that in the first year of ownership. Nice reckons a daily commuter will save up to &pound;7,000 a year. Other than commuters, the car is probably best suited to the school run. This new model comes with two tiny back seats suitable for anyone still in shorts.So what more could you want? Quite a lot, actually. To keep the weight down, the car is made almost completely of plastic - the thinnest, tinniest plastic you've ever come across. Inside, the road noise is deafening, and the lack of power-assisted steering and braking means it feels heavy to manoeuvre and alarming to stop. But if you can't be persuaded to get your bike out of the shed, the Mega City is a big step in the right direction.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Tense? Angry? Can't get online? Internet addiction is now a serious public health issue that should be officially recognised as a clinical disorder, according to a leading psychiatrist.Excessive gaming, viewing online pornography, emailing and text messaging have been identified as causes of a compulsive-impulsive disorder by Dr Jerald Block, author of an editorial for the respected American Journal of Psychiatry. Block argues that the disorder is now so common that it merits inclusion in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, the profession's primary resource to categorise and diagnose mental illnesses. He says internet addiction has four main components:&#183;Excessive use, often associated with a loss of sense of time or a neglect of basic drives;&#183;Withdrawal, including feelings of anger, tension and/or depression when the computer is inaccessible;&#183;The need for better computers, more software, or more hours of use;&#183;Negative repercussions, including arguments, lying, poor achievement, social isolation and fatigue.A primary case study is South Korea, which has the greatest use of broadband in the world. Block points out that 10 people died from blood clots from remaining seated for long periods in internet cafes and another was murdered because of an online game. Their country now 'considers internet addiction one of its most serious public health issues'. The government estimates that around 210,000 South Korean children are affected and in need of treatment, of whom 80 per cent might need drugs targeting the brain and nearly a quarter could need to go to hospital. Since the average high school pupil there spends about 23 hours per week gaming, Block notes, another 1.2 million are believed to be at risk of addiction and require basic counselling. There has been alarm over a rising number of addicts dropping out of school or quitting their jobs to spend more time on computers. In China it has been reported that 13.7 per cent of adolescent internet users, about 10 million, could be considered addicts.Block, a psychiatrist at the Oregon Health &amp; Science University in Portland, writes that the extent of the disorder is more difficult to estimate in America because people tend to surf at home instead of in internet cafes. But he believes there are similar cases, concluding: 'Unfortunately internet addiction is resistant to treatment, entails significant risks and has high relapse rates.' He told The Observer that he did not believe specific websites were responsible. 'The relationship is with the computer,' he said. 'First, it becomes a significant other to them. Second, they exhaust emotions that they could experience in the real world on the computer, through any number of mechanisms: emailing, gaming, porn. Third, computer use occupies a tremendous amount of time in their life. Then if you try to cut the cord in a very abrupt fashion, they've lost essentially their best friend. That can take the form of depression or rage.'Harry Husted, a single 51-year-old from New York, spends 16 hours a day on the internet. He insists that he is not addicted, but admits that he used to be. 'I used to work with computers for eight hours, then get home and go online for seven hours. I would stay up till two or three in the morning until I got so sleepy I had to go to bed. I wouldn't go out to get the groceries and I couldn't have cared less about friends, TV, anything. After a while I realised what was happening and did something about it. Now if I use MySpace it's only to advertise my business.'Internet addiction clinics have sprung up around the world in an attempt to wean people off their need for a fix. Many people have turned, apparently without irony, to web discussion boards with names such as Internet Addicts Anonymous. The Centre for Internet Addiction Recovery in Bradford, Pennsylvania, says internet addiction has become a growing legal issue in criminal, divorce and employment cases. It offers a consultation service to lawyers that includes 'assessing the role of electronic anonymity in the development of deviant, deceptive and illegal sexual online activities'.Robert Freedman, editor of the American Journal of Psychiatry, said expressions of the addiction could be diverse. 'In Korea, it seems to be primarily gaming sites. In America, it seems to be Facebook. It's porn, it's games, it's gambling, it's chatting with friends. All these things existed before, but now they're a lot easier.'To beat the addiction, he advised: 'A self-help group might be a place to start. Maybe replace an online group with a real one.'Are you a net junkie?If you answer 'yes' to five or more of these questions, you may have an internet addiction.&#183;Do you feel preoccupied with the internet? (Think about your online activity or anticipate your next online session.)&#183;Do you need increasing amounts of time on the net in order to achieve satisfaction?&#183;Have you repeatedly made unsuccessful efforts to control, cut back or stop internet use?&#183;Do you feel restless, moody, depressed, or irritable when attempting to cut down or stop internet use?&#183;Do you stay online longer than originally intended?&#183;Have you jeopardised or risked the loss of a significant relationship, job, educational or career opportunity because of the internet?&#183;Have you lied to family members, a therapist or others to conceal the extent of your involvement with the internet?&#183;Do you use it to escape from problems (eg, feelings of helplessness, guilt, anxiety, depression)?Source:Centre for Internet Addiction Recoverynetaddiction.com
As the US presidential election approaches, minds are again being concentrated on the electronic voting machines on which the American electoral process largely relies. You may recall that in 2000 and 2004 there were widespread concerns about the reliability and security of the technology. Voting machines lost votes, subtracted votes instead of adding them and even doubled votes. And because many machines have no paper audit trails, a significant number of votes in both elections went uncounted - or were wrongly counted.But it's not just the accuracy of the machines that is questionable, it's also their security. Several projects have demonstrated how voting machines from all the major makers can be hacked into with comparative ease. This is not an argument for not using machines: who would want to replicate the 'hanging chads' fiasco of the 2000 election? But before a society entrusts its central democratic process to machines, it ought to take reasonable steps to instil public confidence in the technology.This requires only two very basic provisions: all machines must leave a paper trail that can be independently audited after the election; and software used in voting machines must be open to public scrutiny to allow any interested party to examine it and find bugs, which can then be corrected. This will increase public confidence in the voting process because, as one security expert puts it, 'if the software is public, no one can insinuate that the voting system has unfairness built into the code'.The strange thing - and the reason conspiracy theories about voting machines abound on the net - is that the leading manufacturers have so far fiercely resisted one or both of these reasonable requirements.Their resistance to providing paper trails, like the Peace of God, passeth all understanding and is enough to turn even a sceptical observer into a conspiracy theorist. The companies' hostility to allowing scrutiny of their computer code is more understandable: it's a by-product of paranoia about intellectual property. An intriguing insight into this mindset was provided by an email published last week by Professor Edward Felten of Princeton, a world expert on voting technology and a penetrating critic of current systems.The background is that electoral officials in New Jersey were puzzled by discrepancies in the returns obtained from a Sequoia AVC Advantage voting machine when the polls closed at the end of the presidential primary election on 5 February. (This particular machine does produce a rudimentary paper trail, which is how the discrepancies came to light.) The officials decided that they would send one of the machines to Princeton for analysis.On 14 March, Felten sat down to read his email and found this message from Edwin Smith, a vice-president of Sequoia Systems: 'As you have likely read in the news media, certain New Jersey election officials have stated that they plan to send to you one or more Sequoia Advantage voting machines for analysis. I want to make you aware that if the county does so, it violates their established Sequoia licensing agreement for use of the voting system. Sequoia has also retained counsel to stop any infringement of our intellectual properties, including any non-compliant analysis. We will also take... steps to protect against any publication of Sequoia software, its behaviour, reports regarding same or any other infringement of our intellectual property. Very truly yours ...'Given that the UK cannot make even postal ballots work with any degree of security, it will be a while before some wonk in the Cabinet Office has the nerve to come up with a proposal for e-voting over here. But the proposal will come eventually - wrapped, no doubt, in canting arguments about efficiency, speed, security, social inclusion, 'engagement' of young people in the democratic process, etc. And you can bet that the main contenders for the lucrative contracts to provide the technology to British polling stations will be the same US corporations who are behaving so mysteriously over there.We should ensure that the two principles - of in-built paper trails and open software - are non-negotiable terms of trade. And when companies complain about violations of their intellectual property rights, we should show them the door - citing the old adage that 'sunlight is the best disinfectant'.
John Lilly, the chief executive of Mozilla, has attacked Apple for what looks like a deceptive attempt to get Windows users to install its Safari browser as an "update" when it's no such thing.He writes on his blog:What Apple is doing now with their Apple Software Update on Windows is wrong. It undermines the trust relationship great companies have with their customers, and that's bad -- not just for Apple, but for the security of the whole Web.Underneath a screen grab of the Apple Update notification, he adds:Apple has made it incredibly easy -- the default, even -- for users to install ride along software that they didn't ask for, and maybe didn't want. This is wrong, and borders on malware distribution practices.It's wrong because it undermines the trust that we're all trying to build with users. Because it means that an update isn't just an update, but is maybe something more. Because it ultimately undermines the safety of users on the web by eroding that relationship. It's a bad practice and should stop.Lilly just wants consumers to be able to click on updates and get updates, and not get new software by default. He is not criticising Safari, which competes with Mozilla's Firefox, just the approach that Apple is using to try to get it installed.Of course, Apple's not the only company pull this sort of crap: for example, the last time I wanted to upgrade Adobe's Flash, the bastards tried to stick me with an unwanted copy of the Google Toolbar as well. (It has also been bundled with RealPlayer, WinZip and other products, and Googlebundles its Toolbar with Firefox, if you don't watch out. But all of those are downloads, not updates.)Windows users with iTunes are already getting QuickTime, a bloated, buggy and crippled media player with a history ofmultiple security vulnerabilities.Update: It seems Apple's Trojan installation attempts are more evil than I thought. I'm told that the Apple Updater is installed even if you choose not to install it, and you get lumbered with iPod services even if you don't have an iPod. I know from personal experience that QuickTime can require constant effort to stop it preloading -- for example, just visiting a Web site can be enough for QuickTime to try to get into your start-up sequence. But since I don't have an iPod and don't use iTunes, I'm not actually familiar with Apple's malware-type approach to crapware installation.
The Peugeot 307 - the predecessor to the 308 - sold 3m copies around the world. Truly, it is the John Grisham of family hatchbacks. And this despite the traditional curse of French small cars - terrible sell-on value - meaning that, once you had driven it up and down the road a couple of times, it was worth about &pound;17.50.Traditionally, Peugeot hatchbacks have also had a thinness about them, but the message that comes with the 308 is of a new-found strength. That's certainly the notion promulgated in the adverts, in which the car seems to evolve in the immediate aftermath of a volcanic eruption. And it isn't even scratched.Apparently the 308 has endured more during its development than any model Peugeot has made. It has, allegedly, been driven 1.2m miles on test tracks. They've hosed it down and thrown things at it, just to toughen it up. They've beaten it with branches. They've said really horrible things about it within its hearing. Sometimes they've ignored it. No Peugeot ever had it so hard.And it has come out quite well. A little bit strange to look at from the front, maybe: a flabby grille, a weird, Gallic nose-cone and, beneath that, a plastic wraparound bumper that gives the car a slightly gawky, teenage look, as if it has recently come away from the orthodontist.It's all curvy glass and funky brake lights at the back, though. And it's also available with a sunroof the approximate area of Chesterfield. Plus the front passenger footwell includes what is now formally known in the industry as a "curry hook" - a catch from which you can suspend the carrier bag containing your takeaway and get home without slopping lamb pasanda all over your passenger seat or, indeed, your passenger. Great news, generally. In a French car, though? It sounds a slightly off-key note. Still, I suppose you could hang a bag of croissants from it.It's neat and taut and easy to drive, and relatively frugal. Even the hard-living party animal of the 308 range, the 1.6 turbo petrol, doesn't exactly go around throttling endangered birds, churning out a relatively mild 167g/km of CO2. As for the HDi 90 version, it emits 120g/km, making it exempt from the London CO2 charge under the muddle-headed "banding" proposals - muddle-headed because, if we accept that manufacturing cars is worse for the environment than driving them, then a policy that encourages people to change their cars (or, in some cases, even acquire a second or third car for use as a charge-skipping runabout) must be wrong.And doubly muddle-headed if the result is to encourage people to change their car to a Toyota Prius, which has to be shipped over from Japan and has thus run up a massive carbon debt - possibly so massive that it can't be settled in its own lifetime - before you even climb into it.A big-picture CO2 policy, perhaps, would be one that encouraged people to hold on to the cars they already have for at least another 15 years, or until their hubcaps were actually crying out in pain. But people are more fickle than that, of course, which is why something in the region of three million Peugeot 307 owners are currently looking with twitchy longing at the 308. Say what you like, they know a better car when they see one.Peugeot 308Price&pound;14.795Top speed119mphAcceleration0-62 in 11.3 secondsAverage consumption62.7mpgCO2 emissions120g/kmEco rating8/10At the wheelKen LivingstoneBound forSouthwarkIn a wordStiffer
Superficially, the new Citro&euml;n ad is a funny, flagrant attempt to attach "German" qualities - sleek, technocratic efficiency - on to a French car. Stereotypes of the French do not cut it in Autocar-land - one reaches into one's grab bag of prejudices and emerges with unwashed little men riding round the Place de la Concorde in low horsepower vehicles waving their fists at each other. No good. How better to expunge this than with a generous application of German stereotyping? And what stereotyping!To the thunderous strains of Wagner, an almost transsexually Teutonic specimen bests a marginally inferior Aryan at a duel, before setting off from his Bavarian estate, sweeping past the stone eagle at his gate, as his two children and a woman with a haunted, Frau Goebbels air about her, look on. Sweeping through the forests, wreathed in Germanic smugness, he stops off and takes refreshment. A buxom, blonde m&auml;dchen lingers pendulously over him as she serves him three enormous sausages but he only has eyes for his Citro&euml;n, parked outside. He alights by the Brandenburg gate which sits resplendently as if having presided over a 20th century of untroubled conquest by the German Volk. The punchline? "Unmistakably German. Made in France".Way to make a point: there are unmistakable echoes of Downfall, Fatherland and Schindler's List here. The Germans have thus far taken it in good spirit but were their ambassador to present himself at the Foreign Office, slap the minister about the chops with a leather glove and demand satisfaction, one could hardly blame him.
Stephen Fry has a broken arm, so I was asked to fill in for him. Ten days later, a FedEx box full of thousands of dollars' worth of toys - GPS and navigation systems - arrived at the front door and I thought to myself, "Man, what a cushy gig this is!" (Note to Canada customs: thank you very much for holding hostage that crappy little vase I  bought on eBay last month while you waited for me to pay three dollars in duty - while these glittering baubles sailed through with a cheerful nod.) Of course, the punchline here was that, when I tried using this swagstravaganza, none of it worked. North America is not the EU; nothing was adaptable.What I essentially experienced this week was an ultra-high speed lesson in techno-obsolescence. Instead of taking 18 months to become doorstops, my new machines arrived pre-obsolete. They now reside in a Rubbermaid bin, along with my Museum of Old and Incompatible Cords, Adapters and Laptops. In about five years, when the bin fills to overflowing, its contents will be sent to the local landfill to be unearthed in one billion years by whatever species it is that supplants us.All this got me to thinking about the relationship between time and gadgets, because there is a relationship between the two, and it's not just about the 18-month tech cycle or the decomposition-proof materials that will allow my swaggy new Casio Module 3070 wristwatch to be around when the sun goes supernova. Any gadget we use invariably morphs our perception of time's passing.These shifting perceptions of time are what give eras in human history their specific textures. I was in Austin, Texas last spring and bumped into a friend from my stint at Wired magazine in the mid-90s. The encounter went along the lines of, "John - I haven't seen you since... eBay! I haven't seen you since... Google! I haven't seen you since... BlackBerrys!" The point was that the use of decades and calendar years to mark eras is over. Time is measured in tech waves, and not only do these tech waves demarcate eras, they also define them.I remember in the 80s when cellphones first started to pop. I remember how, if you saw someone using a cellphone on a street, you immediately thought they were an asshole: gee, my phone call is so important I have to make it right here and right now! Twenty years later, we're all assholes. We're assholes at the supermarket's meat counter at 5:30pm, phoning home to ask if we need prosciutto; we're assholes driving in traffic; and we're assholes wandering down the streets. And with cellphones and handhelds, we collapse time and space and our perception of distance and intimacy.Is this a good thing? Maybe, maybe not. The advent of cellphones may, in the end, be no more relevant than the ability of laptops to change our written documents into ones using cool new fonts. But then it's hard to imagine the current boom in procedural crime dramas without the cellphone. Cellphones have, if nothing else, turned TV crime writers into lazy sloths.When I think of the 90s, I remember waiting for 10 minutes for small files to download and visiting the reference library every other day to locate a piece of info Google now gives me in 0.0258 seconds. And now, when I think of the post-90s, I remember turning on my computer one day with an email from a friend saying, "Check out this cool clip on YouTube." That was a year ago and I can now barely imagine life without being able to watch a blurry version of Haysi Fantayzee's Shiny Shiny on command.I'm rambling here. Curse you for breaking your arm, Stephen Fry - you've forced me to confront modern demons. And I'd write more about it, but someone just sent me a link to a site with really cute baby animal photos ... which could also possibly be a very raw porn site in disguise. You really never know. We are a dreadful species indeed, and deserve whatever it is our techno-baubles do to us.
Imagine an Oscars ceremony where the biggest stars go home empty-handed. That's what happened yesterday at YouTube's second annual video awards, as Obama Girl, the Don't Tase Me, Bro student, and other stars of viral video got nominated but lost to unlikely newcomers.In the politics category Amber Lee Ettinger, aka Obama Girl - who became a household name thanks to her sexy clip declaring "I've got a crush" on the presidential candidate - lost to a far grittier video supporting Middle East peace talks, put together by global activist group Avaaz.org.The eyewitness category, devoted to user videos of live events, pitted the famous plea of a college student before police subdued him with a Taser against gripping footage of protesting monks in Burma and wildfires in California. But the winner was Battle at Kruger, a vivid clip of lions and buffalo fighting to the death shot by a holidaymaker on safari in South Africa.YouTube handed out the awards, including trophies in the shape of a "play" button, based on user voting. The site's organisers say a scripted ceremony, complete with red-carpet arrivals, is under consideration for next year.But for now the bragging rights of internet notoriety are more than enough to change the lives of some YouTube winners. Student Tay Zonday, 25, whose strangely catchy song Chocolate Rain won the best music video award, has parlayed his fame into appearances on Lily Allen's BBC show and an endorsement deal with Dr Pepper.Another online offering falling short at the awards was Chris Crocker, the young man who taped a flamboyant plea to end hateful gossip about pop star Britney Spears. Crocker lost the commentary category to Michael Buckley, who satirises pop culture in a YouTube show he calls What the Buck?.One Hollywood bigwig even scored a nomination in the series category, which was dominated last year by the prototypical YouTube starlet LonelyGirl15. But a comic video, How to Seduce Women, by Knocked Up star Paul Rudd was beaten by The Guild, a dramatic show about friends who play online games.Other winning videos got the nod more for visual appeal than star power. The sports award went to a group of skateboarders who filmed themselves wheeling noisily through a track filled with blue balloons. A Swiss filmmaker won the most creative clip contest for using stop-motion technology to recreate the iconic video game Tetris, using human bodies to represent the game's geometric pieces.Among all of the 21st-century sensations recognised by YouTube, however, was one who has no idea of his global fame. The award for most adorable video went to Ethan, a nine-month-old baby with a penchant for belly laughs whenever his father lets him rip a piece of paper.Ethan's simple joy was so infectious that insurance company AIG borrowed his clip for a TV commercial that reminded viewers "Laughter can add eight years to your life."
I have a Sony Ericsson S500i phone and I've been having problems downloading music to it from my PC. My computer says there is a hardware problem. What might be causing this?The first step is to isolate the problem: check whether you get the same issue using your phone on a different computer, or using a different handset with the same PC. The most common reason is that you need new drivers - the bits of software that help your PC talk to your device. Look at your manufacturer's support website or check an online library such asdriverskit.comfor the latest version (and make sure your computer is freshly updated, too). If that doesn't work, try updating the application that manages your phone downloads. Each maker has its own - Sony Ericsson uses two: Disc2Phone and PC Suite. From here, things get a little weirder. The forums atLiveWire.comsuggest the following: 'When you plug in the phone, make sure it's turned off and hold down the C button.' That can make the phone visible as a drive on your machine. Such idiosyncratic solutions often work: try sifting through independent websites and forums, or talking to your phone retailer.
Most gamers have noticed that millions of kids manage to play "violent games" without the slightest injury to their mental health, and without ever acting out this violence in "real life" (which for the purposes of argument is held to be something else). This news has not reached some politicians etc etc, but as bloggerTom Hansonsays on his Open Education site:Now comes the work of Drs. Lawrence Kutner and Cheryl K. Olson, the authors of the breakthrough book, "Grand Theft Childhood." In their text the authors indicate that the politicians and even some health professionals may in fact have it all wrong.Coverage of the book seems to come in three main parts, starting withShoot-em Up Video Games -- The Cause of Greater Anti-social Behaviors in Teens?After that comesAuthor Reveals "The Surprising Truth About Violent Video Games", which comprises "An interview with Dr Cheryl Olson, author of Grand Theft Childhood"Finally (or maybe not) you can move on toExperts State: Do Not Banish -- Instead, Manage Violent Video Game Play.Some of the information has already been published inChildren and Video Games: How Much Do We Know?by Cheryl K. Olson, ScD, Lawrence Kutner, PhD, and Eugene V. Beresin, MD in Psychiatric Times, Vol. 24 No. 12, which is a good place to quote. It's academic.Dr Olson and Dr Kutner teach in the department of psychiatry at Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) and Harvard Medical School, Boston, and are codirectors at the Center for Mental Health and Media. Dr Beresin is professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and director of the Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Residency Training Program at MGH and McLean Hospital and Medical Director of the MGH Child Psychiatry Outpatient Clinic in Boston.Sorry to say there is no magic conclusion. The basic advice boils down to: "Watch what your children are playing, and if you don't understand what's going on, get them to explain it to you. Try playing the game with them." In other words, take the same approach to video games as you would to playground games, what your kids watch on TV, the comics they read, and their attempts to build high explosive devices with ordinary household chemicals. It's called "parenting," but you already knew that anyway.Computer trivia point: Massachusetts General Hospital gave usMUMPS*, and thence the lateDick Pickand GIRLS**.* Massachusetts General Hospital Utility Multi-Programming System ** Generalized Information Retrieval Language System
Nowadays, many people pay little or nothing for the copy of Windows loaded on PCs because manufacturers charge suppliers for bundling "crapware" -- trial software, Internet services, the Google Toolbar and similar rubbish. (And anti-trust regulations mean there's nothing Microsoft can do about it.) Since the bloatware often slows Windows down and can have even worse effects on Vista, users often devote time to removing it, but not everyone can.Sony is one of the worst offenders, and often slugs its notebook PCs with an unbelievable amount of crapware, including Sony's own Sonic Stage and possibly the VAIO Entertainment Center, VAIO Productivity Center, VAIO Center Access Bar, VAIO Media 6.0, VAIO Photo 2007 and VAIO Video &amp; Photo Suite. What Sony users know as the"semi-clean" installis one way of trying to deal with it."Give us the option of a clean installation" is also a common suggestion onDell's Ideastormsite.Now, according to Engadget, Sony is offering toremove some of the crapwarefrom theTZ2000 ultraportablemodel, which costs from $1,900 to $3,700 -- nice, but not exactly a cheap option.However, the so-called "Fresh Start" option costs $49.99 extra!On a $399 laptop that might be understandable because the PC market operates on very thin margins. On a $2,000 business machine, it looks more like taking a liberty.I know this idea is heresy to the US Justice Department and Neelie Kroes and her minions in the Let's Kill Microsoft department of the European Commission, but shouldn't somebody who wants to buy a machine running Windows have the right togeta machine running Windows, without all the crap?In other words, there shouldalwaysbe an "add crapware" option with a money-off discount for those who are willing to put up with it, or simply a choice between a (clean) Microsoft installation and an OEM installation.OK, that isn't going to happen -- benefiting consumers is not part of the anti-trust agenda. But if you had the chance, would you take it? And how much extra would you be willing to pay?Update: Sony has done a quick climb-down, according toEngadget, which says: "After a minor outcry at Sony's new 'Fresh Start' option to skip the crapware on TZ laptops for a hefty $50 charge, the company has seen the error of its ways and is going to start offering the option for free as of tomorrow."
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
What's your favourite piece of technology?The MacBook Air. I love gadgets. I also love cars – I don't like driving, I just like having buttons to press – but I'm a MacHead. All my computers are Macs, I've been a convert for four years. The thing I like most about the MacBook is it fits in your handbag. I know it sounds a bit fickle, but I've done my shoulder in carrying a laptop bag. My MacBook is about three pounds in weight and it's a dream.How has it improved your life?I'm no longer lopsided. It's stupidly thin. It does actually sit in an envelope. There's no disk drive – which can be a problem in hotels trying to connect to the internet, because they're still very much ethernet based, and this doesn't have ethernet. It's all about the wireless which isn't always great. That's not the computer's fault though, it's everybody else.When was the last time you used it and what for?I wrote my weekly article for The Yorkshire Post on it this very day. I use it all the time. If I'm in the car, I use one of those mobile broadband thingies. It can be quite slow but if I'm writing charts for the band I can do that in the car, I can upload it to my iDisc and they can access it from wherever they are, even on the way to a gig. Of course, in jazz, they never look at the blooming charts anyway...What additional features would you add if you could?I think I would add an ethernet socket. I just would. It is strange not having a disk drive so if you could fit one in... but I'm just being pernickity now. I have to carry my external hard drive with all my music on. If you could keep it that thin and add a disk drive, that would be perfect.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Absolutely. We'll be back to paper and pen by then. The trackpad on this one is much bigger than any laptop I've seen, but it's like the iPhone: once you can synchronise your fingers, you can turn things upside down, and if you're on the internet and want to make the writing bigger, you just move your fingers... If you want to scroll through certain pages you use the "three finger movement". That's the way they're going, they're going to become more like paper and pen. They're going to know what you want. And then they're going to take over the world.What one tip would you give to non-MacBook Air users?Get one.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I've always been a nerd. In every respect. Even the music that I do was the least fashionable possible: it wasn't my fault it became cool! I'm only cool by default. I used to sit in the attic at home listening to 78s. That old music thing combined with my morbid fascination for technology? Definitely a nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?It's computers. It's addictive. The most money I shelled out was when I changed everything and I bought two computers and an iPod which, at the time, was about £500 or something stupid. That was getting on for six or seven grand all told. That hurt.Mac or PC?Mac. Definitely. It's really simple. Everything they do is intuitive, particularly on the music software. I love the graphics, the way the programs work and, touch wood, you don't have viruses to contend with. And they look nicer.What's the most played track on your iPod?This may surprise you, but all my time favouritest song of forever and all time that I still listen to about three or four times a week is Good Vibrations by the Beach Boys. That was the first time the recording studio was used as in instrument and it's perfect, a pocket symphony.Will robots rule the world?Quite probably. Possibly with little Apple logos on them. But at least they'll look nice.What piece of technology would you most like to own?Lots of things. But going back to the first answer, I really would like a new car so I'd say one of those four-wheel drive, er, Lexuses? Lexi? I don't know the collective noun, but a four-wheel drive Lexus anyway, because they've got about 400 buttons. I'd need someone else to do the driving then I'd try to find the one that makes the coffee...Clare Teal'snew album, Get Happy, is out now
The US government has been auctioning wireless spectrum, which has aroused more interest than usual because Google decided to bid (though, as it turned out, it wasn't bidding to win). Either way, the winners and losers have now been announced. Andaccording to AP:AT&amp;T Inc and Verizon Wireless, the nation's two biggest cell phone carriers, bid a combined $16 billion of the record $19.6 billion pledged in the auction, according to an AP analysis of the results. Verizon Wireless bid $9.4 billion while AT&amp;T Inc bid $6.6 billion.Verizon Wireless -- a joint venture with the UK's Vodaphone Group -- "won nearly every license in the consumer-friendly C block." But not everything went to the titans. AP says: "One new entrant, however, Frontier Wireless LLC, which is owned by EchoStar Communications Inc, won nearly enough licenses to create a nationwide footprint."There's an official statement from the FCC (PDF).A separate AP story saysLosing Wireless Battle May Be Google Win, adding:Google arguably would have been in an even better position in the mobile market if it controlled its own wireless network, especially one with the potential power the C block figures to offer. The 700 megahertz spectrum, to become available in February 2009, is expected to provide better wireless access because the frequencies travel long distances and easily penetrate walls.But the time and money that would have had to be invested in the C block probably would have represented another millstone on Google's sagging market value, which has already plunged by $80 billion, or 37 percent, so far this year.
The following comments come from Simon Davies, the lecturer at the LSE who has been a vocal critic of the government's plans for ID cards (earning theire of ministers) and is a founder ofPrivacy International. He actuallyposted this comment elsewhereon the blog; we thought it deserved a more visible posting.He writes:The record needs to be set out in full regarding the "conflict of interest" claim relating to 80/20 Thinking and Privacy International. I have no objection to public discussion about the matter, as long as the facts are laid out in full, rather than relying on a twisted, abbreviated account.Will people please read our report to Phorm.Read it in its brief entirety. [Link reinstated - CA 26/3/08] Once you'll do, you'll realise that there are no conflicts whatever. In that report we argue that the system should be opt-in, that there are unresolved questions, that the matter of legal compliance is irrelevant to the issue of intrusion. For example, from page 10 of our PIA:"Phorm liaised with the Home Office to assess whether its system could infringe the UK law that regulates communications surveillance. The Home Office concluded that Phorm's system is consistent with the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act and does not intercept communications. While this conclusion is a fair interpretation of Phorm and the system's capabilities, communications monitoring still takes place. Even if the Home Office's conclusions were appropriate and relevant, it would mean that if an ISP or any government wished to conduct similar monitoring of communications for segmentation purposes, albeit with consent of the user, then they may indeed do so and yet still be compliant with UK law. This could indeed give rise to a worrying situation."Yes, FIPR has lodged a detailed complaint with the ICO. That complaint dealt with matters outside 80/20s remit. There is no conflict there. Is there a conflict between our role in PI and our role in 80/20? Absolutely not. See above. My view is on the record athttp://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/7280791.stmRead beyond the headline.People have asked: "Why are they doing this?" "Why are they advising the evil empire?" Two reasons. First, we believe that engagement is more constructive than non-engagement unless there is no alternative. As PI we have directly engaged companies such as SWIFT, Microsoft and eBay with positive results for privacy.Second, the British Public, who apparently SO support PI, donate an average of £130 a year to us. We receive more from citizens of India, even during the height of the ID card battle. I, for one, haven't drawn a salary from PI for eighteen years. That is not a sustainable situation. Nor is it for my staff. Our supporters believe in an ideal, but some seem to believe we must be willing for us to go to our graves principled but penniless. There is a Thatcherite condition that prevails. Namely, that many supporters will make financial contributions to people like us as long as they have some sort of formalised stake in the enterprise. We never played that game.What is 80/20 Thinking? Check out www.8020thinking.com and find out the details. Or go straight tohttp://www.8020thinking.com/ethics.htmland you'll see that in fact this company is very much in the advocacy realm, and is intentionally set up to distribute fifty percent of its profits to NGO civil liberties campaigners in developing countries.Please allow me the pleasure of a small personal reflection. It seems to me, looking back over nearly two decades as an activist, that people were always willing to hail me - and PI - as heroes and visionaries, on the strict condition that we reflected everything without deviation or hesitation that they personally believed. On CCTV, ID cards, children's fingerprinting, US relations, police powers, DNA databases, going back further to the crypto wars and even further back in dim history to CLI and the telephone battles of the early 1990s, you were always there for us as long as we agreed with you on every point.So we disagree on one paragraph, namely, our point that personal information has been removed from the Phorm system "as defined in the UK DPA". If you want to demonise us for making that observation, then go ahead. At a personal level, I find that level of aggression unnecessary. I understand you are concerned about alleged endorsement, but let me reassure you that if we ever endorsed a product, you'd know about it. The last time we endorsed anything was PGP in the era of Phil Zimmermann.He then responds to "reader queries":As I mentioned to Chris Williams of the Register, we did not initially make the connection between Phorm and People on Page. I checked out the histories of all the Phorm Directors and key staff, but failed to spot the PoP issue. This was complicated by reporting that 121 Media had become a unit of a new holding company (Phorm) - effectively making it a merger, rather than merely a name change, as has recently been claimedhttp://www.forbes.com/afxnewslimited/feeds/afx/2007/05/04/afx3685378.html(Charles Arthur notes: while this is, I think, correct, Kent Ertegrul, chief executive of Phorm, didn't describe it that way - he just called it "a name change" inmy interview with him.)Even so - and again, as I've also told the Register - I'm not entirely sure that we'd have walked away even if we had made the connection between the two. Five years ago we made conscious decision to lay down our guns and engage directly with Microsoft (which was, remember, the evil empire back then). Now, five years later, even Microsoft publicly acknowledges that our carrot and stick approach has been of enormous value in re-positioning the company's approach to privacy.Interestingly, it was not until a couple of weeks after the Phorm announcement in the press that people became aware of the 121 Media connection. As far as I can see, one of Phorm's competitors tipped off the mainstream press and that's how the wave started to break. It's also where I heard it first.And yes, I've engaged Phorm over all this. Why should they now be trusted? Well, I'd question whether we should trust "any" organisation dealing with personal data. It's more a case of whether you believe that their business is sustainable the way they originally planned it. Right at the moment the opt-in model appears to be more viable at a number of levels.As for FIPR, I never saw its complaint as relevant to our scope with Phorm and so didn't advise on their complaint. I can't say one way or the other whether the ISP's would be in breach of RIPA. Much depends on how they move forward from this point.Simon DaviesIn short, I think he's saying it's better to jaw jaw than to war war. Especially when all the attrition seems to be to yourself, not the other side.
MondayNintendo's Monday teasePlay Live impressionsFootball Manager LiveTuesdayBlizzard hits ParisThe Onion vs the WiiGames on TVWednesdayGames and storiesCastlevania on mobilePrice cut boosts sales of Xbox 360Online shooters turning into RPGs?ThursdaySims 3: do single-player virtual words still have a role?Easter gaming
