This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe hear about a new business training serviceStartup Institute.  Co-founderAaron O'Hearntells Guardian tech reporter Alex Hern why he believes the tech scene in London and Berlin will benefit from their bespoke training services.Also Aleks is joined by the tech team including Guardian tech reporterSamuel Gibbs, head of technologyJemima Kissand technology editorCharles Arthurto discuss some of this week's big tech news stories. Including Google's recent purchase of Nest, the maker of smart thermostats and smoke alarms and why wearable tech revealed at this years Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas may change how we parent and monitor our children in the future.
ForDaniel Tomlinson, the Observer Tech Monthly's teenage troubleshooter, no enquiry is too bizarre, no smartphone complaint too pernickety, no security fear too paranoid and no digital illiteracy too dispiriting. He's already patiently taught us how to steel our systems against hackers, how to blow the cobwebs from our online personae and whether a VPN can be exploited to stream videos illegally. At your service again this month, he's ready to advise you, all you need to do is drop him a line attech.questions@observer.co.ukor leave comment below. Please fire away…
Music industry bodies the IFPI and RIAA have renewed their attacks on Google, accusing the company of breaking its promise to downgrade piracy sites in its search rankings.IFPI chief executive Frances Moore and RIAA chairman and chief executive Cary Sherman have both published articles this week in a co-ordinated campaign, calling for Google to adopt a “five-point plan” to tackle online piracy.It’s the latest in a series of skirmishes between the music industry and Google, even though the latter is also an increasingly strong partner for music labels and publishers through its YouTube and Google Play digital services. So why are the IFPI and RIAA so cross, is their anger justified, and how might this argument be resolved?The latest flashpointThe spur for Moore and Sherman’s articles this week was a milestone: the 100 millionth takedown notice sent to Google by music rightsholders. That means 100 million links indexed by its search engine to copyrighted music.Those notices have been sent in the last two and a half years, at an accelerating pace: according to Google’s Transparency Report, in the last month alone British music body the BPI sent 5.2m notices, while the RIAA sent 2.3m. The rightsholders see Google as the world’s biggest piracy discovery site, oras Sherman’s article put it:“That’s at least 100 million times Google offered to direct users to illegal sources for music just within the last two years. That’s also 100 million times that an artist, songwriter, music label – or anyone else involved in the chain of creating and distributing music – was likely denied the opportunity to earn any royalties, revenues or sales. And 100 million times that innovative tech companies – like Spotify, iTunes, Amazon, Deezer, Vevo, and dozens more – didn’t benefit from a sale or a stream.”Moore offered similar rhetoric: “Google, with its market capitalisation of more than US$370 billion, is directing internet users to illegal sources of music,” she wrote.Meanwhile, last yearBPI chief Geoff Taylor was also in the fray: &quot;Google leads consumers into a murky underworld of unlicensed sites, where they may break the law or download malware or inappropriate content, because it persistently ranks such sites above trusted legal services when consumers search for music to download,&quot; he said.Piracy sites still top Google's search results... for certain kinds of queries.Why are they so cross?The key to understanding why the music industry is so angry with Google is that it’s not just about the amount of links or takedowns. This is about what broken promises (or, at least, the perception of broken promises).In August 2012,Google announced that it would be downgrading piracy sitesin its search rankings. SVP of engineering Amit Singhal explained in a blog post:“Starting next week, we will begin taking into account a new signal in our rankings: the number of valid copyright removal notices we receive for any given site. Sites with high numbers of removal notices may appear lower in our results. This ranking change should help users find legitimate, quality sources of content more easily—whether it’s a song previewed on NPR’s music website, a TV show on Hulu or new music streamed from Spotify.”This was welcome news to the music industry bodies, who’d been lobbying hard for exactly this kind of action. The BPI and RIAA stepped up the number of takedown requests they were sending to Google, anticipating that they would start to see the results in search results. And then…Well, this is where the arguments begin. Since that promise, music bodies have regularly complained that even sites with hundreds of thousands or millions of valid takedown requests weren’t being penalised. Moore’s article reiterates this:“Unfortunately, the recording industry has seen no demonstrable demotion of sites that receive a high volume of piracy notices. If you search for an artist’s name and the term “mp3” on Google, the first page of results you get is still dominated by links to infringing sites. The truth is that, whatever Google’s claims to be helping tackle infringement, they are not showing convincing results.”Sherman agreed, using some of the same wording, but elaborating on some of the detail:“Unfortunately, this commendable promise remains unfulfilled. We’ve seen no demonstrable demotion of sites that receive a high volume of piracy notices. In fact, when a user searches for virtually any prominent artist and song and “mp3,” the first result served up by Google’s own auto-complete function is usually mp3skull.com -- a site that’s received more than two million music piracy notices and is among the top offenders on Google’s own public listing of sites receiving the most piracy notices.More broadly, rogue sites we analyzed managed to appear on page 1 of search results over 98% of the time in the searches we conducted.What’s even more frustrating is that a significant portion of our piracy notices are repeat notices for the same song found on the same illicit site.”The problem for the RIAA and IFPI is not just that Google isn&apos;t downgrading piracy sites in its search results: it&apos;s that Google said it would, and (in their view) isn&apos;t following through.What is Google’s defence?Google doesn’t tend to respond to each individual attack of this nature, but it did publish a report in September 2013 hitting back not just at the claims that it does not do enough to tackle piracy, but also questioning whether the problem is as great as the music bodies claim.TitledHow Google Fights Piracy, it broke down the company’s activities. First, legal services like YouTube and Google Play, including YouTube’s Content ID system for helping rightsholders identify and make money from uses of their music on people’s videos, rather than taking them down.Second, Google highlighted its efforts within its advertising business, to ensure Google ads weren’t appearing on (and thus funding) piracy sites. This is an area where the company has been working more closely with the likes of the BPI in the UK, alongside advertising industry bodies.Third, Google said it was being more responsive than ever in removing individual web pages and files from its search results, although note, this is not the wholesale downgrading of entire websites that the music rightsholders want.“During 2012, copyright owners and their agents sent us removal notices for more than 57 million web pages. Our turnaround time on those notices was, on average, less than 6 hours. That’s faster than we managed in 2011, despite a 15-fold increase in the volume of requests,” wrote Google’s Fred von Lohmann at the time.The report also tackled claims that search fuels piracy, baldly stating that “search is not a major driver of traffic to pirate sites. Google Search is not how music, movie, and TV fans intent on pirating media find pirate sites. All traffic from major search engines (Yahoo, Bing, and Google combined) accounts for less than 16% of traffic to sites like The Pirate Bay.”Google has also questioned the methodology used for the rightsholders’ research, noting that people searched for “carly rae jepsen call me maybe” 16 times more often than “carly rae jepsen call me maybe mp3” on Google. Its view: many more people are using more general queries for music – and finding lots of legal links at the top of the results – than the more specific ones with “mp3” appended.Seaches for Carly Rae Jepsen's Call Me Maybe was one of the examples given by Google in its defence. Photograph: Jonathan Short/APWhat happens now?Moore and Sherman have both called for Google to take five specific steps to tackle the problem of pirate sites in its search results. Moore set them out at greatest length in her article, even if the first and fifth steps appear to be identical:&quot;Fulfill the admirable promise to demote sites receiving extensive numbers of piracy notices.Make sure that the “take down” of a song is effective and does not mean temporary removal, to be replaced 2 seconds later.Better help consumers to find legitimate sources of music – for example by using an icon to indicate authorised sitesChange the way the auto-complete search function works so that it no longer directs users to pirate sitesMake sure your stated policy on repeat offenders has teeth – why is it that, after millions of copyright notices to the same site, this is not having an impact on search results?&quot;The first and fifth steps boil down to that “demonstrable demotion” phrase: it won’t be enough for Google to say it’s doing it, because the rightsholders want to see proof. If Google won’t provide it, expect the IFPI, RIAA and BPI to continue running their own research, and shouting about the results if they’re not happy.Icons to indicate authorised sites? This may be trickier. It sounds simple, but there are questions around who decides which sites are authorised, and how this is maintained.Streaming music firm Grooveshark is a good example: many labels loathe it (and some major labels have sued it) because it doesn’t have licences for most of the music available on its service. Yet it does have some licences – a smattering of indie labels – so is it authorised or not?SoundCloud isn’t licensed in the traditional sense of the word, but it’s used widely by artists and labels. BitTorrent (the company) works with some artists to distribute music and multimedia bundles for free, but its name still raises hackles within the music industry over the impact of BitTorrent (the technology) on piracy.And then there’s YouTube, which combines an enormous library of licensed music videos for which it pays royalties to labels and publishers, and an enormous library of unlicensed content uploaded by users. Does the official video for ‘Gangnam Style’ get an icon but the unauthorised full-album upload for streaming refuseniks Atoms for Peace’s last album not? All this is up for debate.Auto-complete?Google has already taken action on this: in December 2010, it announced that it would “prevent terms that are closely associated with piracy from appearing in Autocomplete” – for example, not appending “torrent” to search queries for musicians or albums.So this row will continue?In a word: yes. The debate about Google and music tends to be dominated by the biggest voices on both sides: people who think Google has an evil, over-arching plan to erode copyright and screw the creative industries, and people who see those industries as copyright monopolists trampling over the free internet in order to protect their (outdated) business models.There’s a culture clash, yet in the middle of these warring words, there is also collaboration. Google and YouTube’s music teams work closely with labels, publishers and artists, while below the level of rightsholder-body sabre-rattling, there are plenty of music people who spend their time thinking of inventive ways to use the internet’s strengths to connect artists and fans, and rebuild a business.That’s the broader message to take away: for all the clashes between Google and the music industry organisations, the story isn’t just about music versus technology any more. It’s much more positive than that.•Kim Dotcom: &apos;I&apos;m not a pirate, I&apos;m an innovator&apos;
Thousands of hotel listings on Google Maps and Google+ have been hijacked to point to an external commercial site, leading to allegations of an &apos;inside job&apos;.The official Google+ pages of hotels and guest houses across the globe including the US and UK have had details, including the external web address for their pages, changed by an unknown third party. That has effectively &quot;poisoned&quot; search results for those properties, because the Google+ listings are used to populate Google Maps listings and Google search results, as well as other Google services.The web addresses listed were altered to point to a third-party booking service.In one example, “the URLs for the hotel’s official website leads to “courtyardmarriott.roomstobook.info” rather than the hotel’s actual pageherewithin the Marriott.com domain,” said Danny Sullivan of Search Engine Landwho discovered the hijacks.The majority of the verified listings were altered to direct visitors to websites Roomstobook.net and Roomstobook.info, both of which then redirect to the third-party booking service Hotelswhiz.com, or to hotel pages within the Roomstobook websites.&quot;We were not involved in the hijackings and we are dealing with the fallout. We reported the redirect issue to Google when we spotted it on 8 January,&quot; Karim Mawani, director of HotelsWhiz.com told the Guardian.&quot;Because of the backlinks [from the Google+ pages through the .info domains to the hotelswhiz site] we have been penalised by Google and our site has been paralysed, so we are victims here,&quot; he said.Mawani said that he and his company didn&apos;t know what or who carried out the modifications to the Google+ listings.A search of Google+ listings also showed the domain Roomstobook.org being used, with over 4,000 listings affected in total.Anyone can attempt a changeThe Guardian has confirmed that anyone with a Google+ account - which can be obtained by registering a Gmail email - can submit a change to any detail of a Google+ Local page, whether verified or not, including the listed website address, phone number, physical address or name of the place. Users can also mark the place as closed, as a duplicate or flag inappropriate reviews or photos.Anyone with a Google+ account can submit changes to business and place listings.However once submitted, the change must be reviewed before being implemented on the listing.Changes submitted are then reviewed before being published.Allowing anyone, rather than the verified owner of the business or place in the listing, to submit modifications opens up Google’s system for abuse. An automated correction submission programme could be used to overwhelm the system of check required before a change is verified.An inside job?Google’s support documents for Google+ Local pages state that edits made by business owners and other users will be reviewed prior to publishing for “quality”. Google also states that:“Our systems may also update your business information based on other data sources or reports from our users, if that information appears to be more up-to-date and accurate for your business.”Google did not respond to requests to explain whether the review system for edits is automated, conducted by people or a mixture of both. A failure on this scale could indicate that an automated system had been gamed into allowing the hijacks, or that a human had either accidentally or deliberately approved the URL changes.But the scale of the changes has sparked allegations of an inside job.“My prediction is, this was an inside job with someone at Google. Not to be a conspiracy theorist, but any and all modified URLs have to be okay&apos;ed by a Maps moderator. No one is dumb enough to believe the official URL of a hotel lives on roomstobook.info... come on!” saidMatthew Hoff of public relations company Merkle, who also discovered modifications made to listings of hotels Merkle represents, in a comment on Sullivan&apos;s story.Google+ Local pages are used to populate search results as well as listings on Google Maps, and therefore a failure like this could have significant knock-on effects for the businesses affected, as well as users unknowingly caught out by the redirect.Google awareGoogle said in a response that it is &quot;aware of the issue and we are working to fix it&quot;. It did not respond to questions about whether the changes could have been the result of cooperation by an insider with a third party to approve the revisions.The search engine has also initiated a cleanup of the affected pages, removing the verified Google+ listings in favour of non-verified but &quot;correct&quot; pages.• In January, Google enabled a Google+ feature thatallows anyone with a Google account to emailany user without knowing their email address
China Mobile, the world&apos;s biggest wireless carrier, has received 1.2m pre-orders for Apple&apos;s iPhone, which goes on sale through it for the first time on Friday, the company says.The figure suggests a dramatic rise in iPhone sales there, as Apple typically sells about two million phones a month in a country with more than 630 million smartphone owners, where an average of about 23m smartphones will be sold each month in 2014.Tim Cook, Apple&apos;s chief executive, called the deal &quot;a watershed day&quot; in an interview with CNBC and praised China Mobile as a company with a &quot;very fast network&quot;. He added that there are already 500,000 iPhone app developers in China.However the rapid growth in the broader Chinese smartphone market is putting pressure on the existing leader, Korea&apos;s Samsung. China&apos;s Xiaomi outsold Samsung to become the country&apos;s top-selling smartphone brand in December, according to an upcoming report from the research company Kantar ComTech, taking 21.7% of the market against the Korean company&apos;s 19.1%.In an interview with press in China,reported by the Wall Street Journal, Cook said that the significance of the deal was that &quot;it allows us to take the iPhone to a different level, to marry it with the fastest network, with TD-LTE [the protocol used by China Mobile&apos;s 4G network] for the very first time… this is a big deal, it&apos;s huge, and so I couldn&apos;t be happier with how we&apos;re doing.&quot;Cook also said that Apple had sold more iPhones in China during the Christmas quarter than ever before, but couldn&apos;t specify figures because the company is in the quiet period before announcing its quarterly results. Apple has never broken out iPhone sales in China. Kevin Restivo of the research company IDC said that Cook&apos;s commentsuggestedsales there of more than 10.4m units - the previous quarterly maximum achieved in the first quarter of 2012.Meanwhile, the Chinese networks and handsets company Huawei said that it had shipped 52m phones in 2013, and was aiming for 80m in 2014. Companies such as Huawei, ZTE and Xiaomi are all targeting upmarket segments as they search for profit, creating a direct challenge to Samsung.Apple is to some extent insulated from Chinese rivals&apos; onslaught because it still has a high brand cachet among users - and a price to match. The 16GB iPhone 5S, the higher-end model which incorporates a fingerprint reader, will sell for 5,288 yuan ($874) on China Mobile - compared to the typical smartphone price in China of around $100.Some analysts think that the availability of the iPhone on China Mobile will take sales away from Samsung among buyers prepared to buy foreign handsets. They reckon that the China Mobile deal could add between 12m and 20m extra iPhone sales in 2014.According to the research firm Strategy Analytics, Xiaomi only entered the top five smartphone vendors in China for the first time in the third quarter of 2013. But its &quot;flash&quot; sales, where it announces handsets for rapid sales, have driven huge customer loyalty and excitement.Broad agreementThe figure of 1.2m iPhone orders broadly agrees with a figure quoted on Tuesday by the Wall Street Journal, which said that Foxconn had shipped 1.4m top-end iPhone 5S handsets to the carrier.While the iPhone 5S and 5C have been on sale through the other two Chinese networks, China Unicom and China Telecom, since last year, China Mobile has a total subscriber base of more than 760m, compared to more than 465m for the other two combined. However China Mobile has only 181m 3G subscribers, compared to a combined total of 221m at the other two companies - and is trying to drive up the number who use data services to grow revenues.Apple has previously been locked out of selling phones on China Mobile because the two companies could not agree a revenue-sharing deal on handset sales, and because the iPhone was incompatible with the TD-CDMA data system used on the carrier for its 3G services.There are an estimated 10m iPhone users on China Mobile&apos;s network already using older phones, but they cannot get data services because they are incompatible with its protocols.But with the 5C and 5S it has introduced new chips capable of working both with that system and the forthcoming TD-LTE system, licensed in November 2013 by the Chinese government.Cook said that the deal with China Mobile, which has been expected ever since Apple began selling iPhones in China, &quot;came together fairly quickly&quot; once the iPhone 5S and 5C were available.•China and India will together have 1.2bn smartphone owners by the end of 2014, research says
There have been plenty of ridiculously ambitious Minecraft modelling projects over the past four years. Talented gamers have used Mojang&apos;s Lego-like building sim to craft reproductions of everything from theStarship Enterpriseto theGame of Thrones city of King&apos;s Landing. But this is something rather special.Working with a small group of friends Alan Becker is creating a scale reproduction of Hayao Miyazaki&apos;s masterpiece Spirited Away, including all the iconic buildings and landscapes from the animated movie. Working from hundreds of screenshots and dozens of viewings, he is replicating everything from the opulent bath house to the pig farm where Chihiro&apos;s transformed parents are taken. The detail is incredible, with custom textures used to decorate Minecraft&apos;s blocky building materials, and the slightest architectural flourishes captured.The Clock Tower, as portrayed in Minecraft and the movie Photograph: Alan Becker/Studio Ghibli&quot;I&apos;ve compiled all the known concept art that shows the infrastructure of the bath house interior,&quot; he explains onhis YouTube channel. &quot;I&apos;m also implementing red stone wherever needed in order to make things like elevators and automatic doors and boiler room parts.&quot;Of course, once the project is completed (Becker reckons he&apos;s 80% there), he could then attempt to recreate classic scenes from the animation. Minecraft movie sequences are all over YouTube, includingthis rather astounding recreationof the Death Star attack at the close of Star Wars.You can follow his progress via thedevelopment websiteand there are lots more images onAlan&apos;s Imbgur page.
In 2007, Jane Gauntlett was planning for a career in theatre when she was violently mugged and fell into a coma for three weeks. She suffered a traumatic brain injury (TBI), the long term legacy of which includes epileptic seizures and short term memory and communication problems.&quot;When I woke from the coma I had no idea how severe the injury was. I was adamant that I was to become a freelance theatre producer,&quot; says Gauntlett, who had completed the Royal Court Theatre&apos;s Young Writers Programme while working previously for mental health charities. Initially, she stayed on track, gaining experience with interactive theatre makers at Battersea Arts Centre and producing shows in Edinburgh, London and Margate.However, work was disrupted by epilepsy. Worse than the seizures themselves was the alarmed reaction of colleagues, and this was compounded by the humiliation of not being able to remember and communicate as freely as she once had during the creative process.Life will never be the sameThe first step toward accepting her life post-injury was to volunteer as a mentor for young people with similar issues. She worked to facilitate understanding between those she mentored and those who could in no way relate to the daily experience of TBI, which can be frustrating and scary. Those whose injuries leave no physical trace face the biggest challenge, since their problems are so easy for others to overlook. Gauntlett says the young people had to accept that life would never be the same because &quot;communication with families, friends and strangers was often tough.&quot;It was this imperative for empathy between those with and without brain injuries that gave Gauntlett her route back into theatre. But to achieve her goal, she had to look beyond the spacial and relational conventions of performance. The result was a piece called In My Shoes which lacks anything one might recognise as actors or an audience and is also non-site specific. In fact, the immersive and single-user experience relies mostly on technology.Life becomes theatre with the aid of technologyThe piece recreates the producer&apos;s own disorientating experience of waking up in Slough after a seizure, with no idea how she got there. The audience - or rather the one person experiencing the show - is put &quot;into Gauntlett&apos;s shoes by wearingVuzix 920 Eyewear, wrap-around video glasses, and earbuds connected to an iPod Touch which deprive them of their own, familiar senses. Virtual reality takes over and is augmented further by the manipulation of touch, taste and smell, though exactly what happens should probably be saved for the performance itself.&quot;We have our eyes peeled for technology that will enhance our experiences - we want to keep up to date,&quot; says Gauntlett. &quot;In My Shoes experiments with alternative methods of communication. My aim is to put audiences as close to being in the shoes of a stranger as I can, I use virtual reality software, touch, taste, sound &amp; smell to make it as true to life as possible.&quot;The success of the first incarnation - reactions run the gamut of emotion but are never underwhelmed - led to the evolution of the piece. Gauntlett formed a collective calledSublime and Ridiculous, to share the work of exploring a variety of complex, delicate or controversial subjective realities. They have so far put hundreds of willing participants into the shoes of a people with post-traumatic stress disorder, bi-polar disorder and stroke, as well as those of a paramedic and a trans-gender person. They have plans to adapt the piece and its technology to explore the perspectives of an astronaut, a politician, a dominatrix and a murderer.Though Gauntlett had no prior experience in the field, technology is now integral to her work: &quot;I am fascinated by how quickly things are evolving and have my eyes peeled for new inventions. In My Shoes is an ever-expanding collection of audio and audio-visual experiences and I am keen to expand it, and for it to evolve using cutting edge technology as it becomes available.&quot;Different versions of My Shoes have been performed by the Sublime and Ridiculous collective in New York and London. Photograph: Amy HartTechnological innovation is part of theatre&apos;s futureDespite such a unique genesis and production, she is quick to point out that the symbiosis of theatre and tech is common in contemporary performance. &quot;Interactive theatre plays a large part in the fringe scene,&quot; she says, while elsewhere, technology is used to deepen understanding in other specific contexts: &quot;High tech Kabuki theatre in Japan uses portable monitors [for the audience to read] subtitles in order to better understand an artform that is often difficult to comprehend.&quot;As well as illuminating intensely personal experiences, Gauntlett hopes such advances will lead to more international collaboration and theatre that is accessible to much broader demographics. However, she says: &quot;I don&apos;t think theatre&apos;s survival and relevance depends on embracing technological advances.&quot; The point is there is room for everything, and technology-driven theatre will gain momentum as technology becomes ever more integral to people&apos;s daily lives.Such innovation, she says, &quot;is sometimes frowned upon by critics. However, if the work is good it shouldn&apos;t matter.&quot;Sublime and Ridiculouswill perform In My Shoes at Battersea Arts Centre, London on 8 February 2014, as part of Freshly Scratched
Barring a few changes – such as chip-and-pin technology, contactless payments – the standard mix of loyalty cards, credit and debit cards, and cash in a wallet is much the same as it was 20 years ago. But there's a big prize waiting for the first company to convince us to ditch all our metal and plastic for something more 21st century. Here's what you need to know about the groups jostling for position in your back pocket.1 The big threeA small group has taken the lead in digital payments online: Google, Amazon and PayPal. Now they are trying to build their businesses in the physical world. Google's Wallet service lets users put cash on their phone to spend in-store as well as online. And, with near field communication technology, it turns a compatible Android phone into a contactless card.2 Google Wallet's real walletIf your favourite coffee shop isn't hooked in to Google's system, the company has also just released a physical Wallet Card, which lets you spend your balance anywhere in the US where Mastercard is accepted. It's basically just another debit card but hooked up to the Bank of Google.3 The Coin cardThe aim of the $100 Coin, launching in the US in the summer, is to allow one card to do the job of every other one in your pocket, from debit cards to supermarket loyalty cards. It scans the magnetic strip on the back of the cards, and then replicates the strip electronically on its own back. With the click of a button, you can switch from paying with a debit card to paying with a credit card and back – and even swipe for loyalty points in between.4 SquareDigital wallets have a chicken-and-egg problem: they're useless to customers without shops which take them, and no shop will accept payment in them if their customers don't use them.Square, Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey's new company, provides small businesses with an appendage that plugs into the headphone jack of a mobile phone and allows merchants to swipe cards and take payments. But Dorsey's real goal is removing cards altogether. Every merchant using Square to take card payments can also take payments directly from the Square app on customers' phones – and thanks to a high-profile deal with Starbucks, that's now quite a few customers.5 USGoogle's Wallet Card, Coin and Square are unavailable outside the US. There are the standard commercial pressures to blame, plus in the UK we've moved to a chip and pin system. That is significantly more secure than the magnetic stripes still used in the US, but also harder to programme for. It's doubtful that something like the Coin card could exist with chip and pin payments, for instance.6 iZettleSome companies are dealing with chip and pin. Stockholm's iZettle lets stores use an iPhone or iPad to take credit card payments, but the more complex technology comes at a cost: whereas PayPal and Square offer free mag-stripe readers in the US, iZettle's chip and pin reader costs almost £100, as does PayPal's competing hardware.7 NFC paymentsMobile phones that can carry out contactless payments have been available in the UK since 2011, but the technology hasn't taken off. Phones with the required technology are still quite rare. And most of the services require you to set up a separate digital wallet, rather than linking directly to your bank account, adding an extra layer of bureaucracy between you and your money.8 Horrible fragmentationEvery company has its own, non-transferrable, digital wallet app. In 2014 some of that fragmentation should end as Vodafone, EE and O2 form a mobile wallet service, "Weve". But the days of digital wallets being as straightforward as credit cards seem a long way off.9 BitcoinDespite news stories about bitcoin being illustrated with shiny metallic discs, bitcoins are simply chunks of data on a hard drive that can be bought with "real" money or them by getting a computer to chug through some complex maths. Their fully digital nature gives them potential as an international currency, and allows users to transfer them between each other without having to go through banks.10 The elephant in the roomSome suspect Apple has a plan up its sleeve: a combination of its vast horde of credit card data, Touch ID fingerprint scanners and new "iBeacon" technology for short-distance communications could create a fearsome competitor.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThousands of free circular walks around England &gt;&gt; walks.ioFollowing on from Tuesday'sWhy the world needs OpenStreetMap, here's one of the apps built on OSM data: circular walks from any rail station for a length of time you choose.Mobile use grows 115% in 2013, propelled by messaging apps &gt;&gt; Flurry blogIn November 2013, Benedict Evans, a well-respected and widely followed analyst, shared an updated version of his famous slide deck called"Mobile is Eating the World". This deck quickly made the rounds on social media and was highly referenced by industry and financial analysts who cover mobile. We can't help but agree with Benedict's conclusion. For the past five years, we have watched mobile disrupt every industry, in every country, and continue to break its own records year after year. 2013 did not disappoint.According to Flurry Analytics, overall app use in 2013 posted 115% year-over-year growth. (In this context, we define app use as a consumer launching an app and recording what Flurry defines as a session.)Samsung status report: Galaxy S III &amp; IV users generate 57.7% of Samsung smartphone web traffic in North America &gt;&gt; ChitikaMeanwhile, web traffic from all Galaxy Note users (versions 1, 2, and 3) constitutes just over 13% of all North American Samsung smartphone usage. While the device has been well received globally, buyers of the so-called phablet don't collectively command a large share of US and Canadian smartphone web traffic.However, looking at the whole graph, it's clear that Samsung has achieved a great deal of success with newer, larger phone models within North America. 71% of Samsung smartphone usage within the continent is generated by devices with 4.8in displays or larger – equating to about 16% of total continental smartphone web traffic.HTC One X+ will not be updated past Android 4.2.2 &gt;&gt; Android CentralIt's always a sad day when we have to report that a device will no longer be receiving software updates. HTC has confirmed that its 2012 flagship, the One X+ — and by extension the One X — will not be making the jump beyond Android 4.2.2 and Sense 5. The writing was really on the wall when the devices only received the 4.2 update late in 2013, but it still hurts to know for sure that further updates aren't on the way.Now that's not to say that the One X and X+ aren't fine phones on their current versions of software, but it can be a bit of a tough pill to swallow when HTC has made great strides in updating its newer One variants.It was HTC which producedan infographic bemoaning how difficult software updates are.Windows Everywhere, Strike that, Android... &gt;&gt; David SobeskiIn classic Microsoft fashion, we had three competing operating systems: DOS (yes, it was still used by a majority in embedded applications, Windows CE and Windows Embedded. Making a single bet and moving it forward would have helped Microsoft fulfill its dream of Windows Everywhere.The accidental strategy that Google's partners are on (not Google) is Android everywhere. Take the core, change it for the embedded need and still allow for a robust application ecosystem. Google, however, seems to actually be on an anti-Android strategy. From the outside, it looks like Google loves Chrome and ChromeOS and that is its true strategy.When it comes to the client [device], the Android Everywhere strategy is working.May 2011: Google's platform extends its reach with Android@Home &gt;&gt; Wired.comMay 2011:"Think of your phone as the nucleus that this all started with," said Google engineering director Joe Britt in an interview. "We're opening the platform up to everyone to do whatever they can imagine."Little detail was given, but Google explains it has essentially created a framework to control wireless communication between objects in your house. During a keynote presentation, Britt demonstrated this wireless communication using a Motorola Xoom tablet to control stage lights created by Google's first officially announced partner, Lighting Science.For Google, the Android@Home project is a first step into "the internet of things," a term used to describe the growing trend of manufacturers producing intelligent, connected objects.Is Android@Home about to be turbocharged by the Nest acquisition? It certainly seems thatit died.Foxconn ships 1.4m iPhone 5Ss to China Mobile &gt;&gt; WSJLorraine Luk:Apple's major iPhone assembler Foxconn has shipped about 1.4m iPhone 5Ss to China Mobile last week, according to a person familiar with the matter, ahead of the mobile giant's launch this Friday.While the initial shipment volume doesn't represent the total sales at China Mobile for January, the figure helps to gauge early demand for iPhones from China Mobile, the world's biggest carrier by subscribers with more than 760 million customers.  China Mobile has been taking preorders for iPhones since 25 December."Shipping one million or more iPhones to a single carrier per month is substantial. But we have limited visibility beyond this month as Apple hasn't informed Foxconn of the volume for the next shipment to China Mobile," said the person…"Shipping one million or more iPhones to China Mobile every month would be significant to Apple as its average monthly iPhone sales in China is only about two million," said Gartner analyst Sandy Shen.Top Samsung analyst predicts stock wipeout will deepen &gt;&gt; BloombergThe slump in Samsung Electronics that wiped out $28bn of market value in six weeks will deepen as Apple and Chinese rivals take market share in handsets, according to the stock's most-accurate forecaster.Shares of Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung fell 13% since Nov. 29, losing more market capitalization than any other company worldwide. The stock will sink another 11%, said Adnaan Ahmad, an analyst at Berenberg in London whose recommendations during the past 12 months produced the best return among forecasters tracked by Bloomberg.He's forecasting that its smartphone margins will decline from 18% to 13%. Make a note in a diary and come back in a year. And note:Most analysts still don't recommend selling. Ahmad has one of only two such ratings on the stock, among 48 buy calls and 3 holds.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Google has expanded its presence in consumer homes by buying Nest Labs, a connected device company which makes smart thermostats and smoke detectors, for $3.2bn.The internet search giant announced an agreement to acquire Nest on Monday, signalling a deeper push into a new market of app-controlled household devices.“They’re already delivering amazing products you can buy right now – thermostats that save energy and smoke/CO alarms that can help keep your family safe,” Google CEO Larry Pagesaid in a statement. “We are excited to bring great experiences to more homes in more countries and fulfill their dreams!” Google&apos;s stock increased 0.53% after the announcement.In a blog postNest&apos;s CEO, Tony Fadell, called the deal momentous but said the Silicon Valley company would retain its current leadership and brand identity. “In other words, Nest will stay Nest.&quot;Fadell, who was part of the team at Apple that created the iPod and iPhone, is known as &quot;the father of the iPod&quot;. He left Apple in 2008 and two years later started Nest in a Palo Alto garage with a former Apple colleague, Matt Rogers.Partnering with Google will help the company realise its vision of the “conscious home” and change the world faster than if it continued solo, he said. “We&apos;ve had great momentum, but this is a rocket ship. Google has the business resources, global scale, and platform reach to accelerate Nest growth across hardware, software, and services for the home globally.&quot;Starting a business focused on the lowly thermostat seemed a crazy idea at the beginning, said Fadell, but by 2011 Google executives were expressing interest. “That little device that went unnoticed and unchanged year after year on the walls of our homes was a lost opportunity to save energy and money. We knew we could do better.”The Guardian named Nest&apos;s smoke alarmas one of 2013&apos;s notable technological innovationson the grounds it could distinguish burnt toast from a real domestic threat, speak rather than bleep and switch on its nightlight if it detects you walking underneath in the dark.The smoke alarm, anda smart thermostatthat is currently available only in the US, can be accessed remotely with a smartphone app which updates you on battery power and emergency alerts. The alarm also advises users how to respond to alerts, whether a carbon monoxide buildup or full-blown fire, and includes direct contact with the fire service.The thermostat can learn user behaviour and determine whether a building is occupied or not using temperature, humidity, activity and light sensors.Fadell has created 300 patents for consumer technology, and began exploring energy-efficient domestic technologies after leaving Apple.Despite the deal Nest plans to let customers continue controlling devices through Apple products.The purchase, which is expected to be completed in the next few months after regulatory review, showed that Google increasingly believed in hardware/software solutions rather than just building operating systems for other manufacturers to implement, said Frank Gillett, an analyst with Forrester who specialises in the connected home.“Google will open up the somewhat closed approach that Nest used to date, to better integrate with interoperable smart home solutions that have entered the market in the last year, such as SmartThings, AT&amp;T Digital Life, and Revolv,&quot; said Gillett.The purchase still leaves Google atop a mountain of money. Last September it reported holding nearly $57bn in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities.
Apple and Google are facing a backlash from social media users for promoting cartoon plastic surgery apps to children as young as nine.Messages on Twitter spoke of disgust over an iTunes game which shows a smiling cartoon character named Barbie about to go under the knife. Users of the app are placed in the role of a liposuction doctor.The blurb for the app, created by Corina Rodriquez, reads: "This unfortunate girl has so much extra weight that no diet can help her. In our clinic she can go through a surgery called liposuction that will make her slim and beautiful. We'll need to make small cuts on problem areas and suck out the extra fat. Will you operate her, doctor??"Recommended as being suitable for children aged nine and over, the game, called Plastic Surgery &amp; Plastic Doctor &amp; Plastic Hospital Office for Barbie, was released in January 2013 and was free to download on Apple's iTunes store.However, by the end of Tuesday afternoon the app had been removed from the Apple store, following the angry Twitter protests.Rodriquez's other titles, including Leg &amp; Foot Surgery &amp; Doctor and Hospital Office for Barbie, and a range of make-over apps, remained available on iTunes.A similar app on Google Play shows blonde-haired cartoon character Barbara lying in a hospital bed with surgery marker lines over her body. "Plastic surgeon is going to make operation on her body and face in order to return cute Barbara's look," reads the blurb of the app, developed by Natalya Staritsyna.On Tuesday night, a Google spokesman said: "We don't comment on individual apps, but will remove apps that breach our guidelines."A member of the public, Melissa Hardie, on Twitter called the iTunes app disgusting. "They should reconsider marketing this crap to players aged 9+". Another, Ayala Prager, said: "Any plans to schedule Action Man for post-fight rhinoplasty? Thought not."The apps appeared to be unconnected to Mattel, makers of the Barbie doll.Laura Bates, founder of the Everyday Sexism project, said these apps were "incredibly damaging" to the body image held by young girls. "We are calling on iTunes and Google Play to reconsider whether these kind of things are what their platforms want to be offering to children."She added that the use of Barbie's name made the apps "attractive to girls at an incredibly young age", while their "complete focus on women's looks and their bodies" sent a message that said looks were everything.Bates said: "Access to the internet means these things are much more quickly available at the touch of a finger tip, and children in particular are so media savvy these days. They are on iPads, they are on smartphones. They are able to access these apps. The Barbie plastic surgery app was completely free and could have been downloaded instantly."It is just so sad that we are sending that message to children as young as nine that the ideal body is all that they should be aiming for and that the way to get it is by cutting their bodies apart."Apple and Mattel could not immediately be reached for comment.Playing at liposuctionThe purpose off the app Plastic Surgery &amp; Plastic Doctor &amp; Plastic Hospital Office for Barbie Version might seem just to get players to click on the adverts.On launching the app for first time an advert fills the screen; tapping the cross to close it releases a second advert promoting other games made by the same developer. On closing that a third advert appears.Finally the game is ready to play (though a fourth advert takes up permanent residence at the bottom of the screen and two more adverts appear if the player switches away from the app then returns).The game is simple. The player taps on the proffered surgical tool, then taps on the body to use it. Helpful arrows show what to do. Liposuction involves local anaesthetic, a scalpel, and something that looks like a bicycle pump. The poorly programmed controls and slow animations means it takes about 10 minutes to finish. Once the surgery is over there's an opportunity to play dress-up, with a choice of a few hairstyles, dresses and shoes.Aside from objections over its sexism, the app underscores the double-sided nature of Apple's control over the App Store. At the same time as being overzealous in its approval process – removing apps such as that of the Pulitzer-prizewinning editorial cartoonist Mark Fiore after accusations of "ridiculing public figures" – the company lets many more apps slip through the net.Alex Hern
Rush hour has begun on a sunny Friday afternoon butKim Dotcom, internet entrepreneur and bete noire of the entertainment industry, is asleep. He keeps strange hours – working, eating and gaming all night, sleeping most of the day.I'm not the only one waiting for him to wake in the shady outdoor dining area of the Dotcom mansion, a NZ$30m (£15m) pile half an hour's drive north of Auckland. James Kimmer, Dotcom's political adviser, whose other clients include therecently freed Russian  oligarch Mikhail Khodorkovsky, is here to shoot a campaign ad for Dotcom's new political party, which will contest the next New Zealand general election, almost certain to be held at some point this year. Kimmer has to wait until the boss is done promoting his debut EDM album Good Times first.Both these ventures launch next week – on 20 January, the day before Dotcom turns 40. That's also the second anniversary of what has come to be known as "the raid", his arrest on money laundering, racketeering and copyright infringement charges. It was conducted in a style straight from  Dotcom's beloved video games, by 76 New Zealand police officers, some armed with MP5 machine guns, some arriving on helicopter. The charges stemmed from Megaupload, the file-sharing company he established in Hong Kong in 2005 which became a major piracy hub, at one stage accounting for 4% of all internet traffic, and with 180 million registered users. After intense lobbying by the movie and music industries, Megaupload was shut down by the US Department of Justice on 19 January 2012. Dotcom is currently on bail, fighting extradition to the US, with the next hearing set for April.If the politics, the album, and the legal complications weren't enough, there's alsomega.co.nz, a successor to Megaupload, and Baboom, a music distribution service that he haspreviously described as an "iTunes-Spotify hybrid". He also dabbles in theatre and recently reclaimed the #1 global ranking in the Xbox shooter Call of Duty ("I have a really good kill:death ratio"). He has five young children, too. All in all enough to keep anyone awake all night.After 40 minutes, Dotcom, all 6ft 7in and 20st (130kg) of him, wanders through the patio door and settles at the head of a long wooden table. He's pale with short-cropped sandy hair and sideburns that form little ski jumps on either side of his large fleshy head. As ever, he's dressed entirely in black.I mention his political ambitions, which I'd been discussing with Kimmer, and Dotcom lays out his vision. "I want to create tech jobs, by creating the right environment for companies to come here and establish a presence in New Zealand. Meaning the right legislation – safe harbour laws. Laws unlike the US, where you have to install backdoors if the government asks you, and you can't do anything about it. You can't even tell anyone about it."Safe harbour laws, which reduce or eliminate liability if parties act in good faith, might have saved him from his current legal problems. Removing backdoors from service providers would make it harder to gain evidence to charge alleged pirates. But this isn't just a publicity stunt designed to raise awareness of his plight: he's confident of breaching the 5% threshold that will bring his candidates into parliament. Dotcom – who himself won't be running – sees his party as the beginnings of a worldwide stirring against the  surveillance state and attempts to  control the internet.Kim Dotcom characteristically flaunting his wealth in 2012. Photograph: Action Press/REX"We are all children of Assange,"  he says, later noting that "the internet is by the people, for the people."The people elect those in power. The people will awake to what's happening here. The privacy intrusions, they will not go unnoticed. We here in New Zealand have elections in November, and you will see that this whole thing will have a great impact."Dotcom is not just passing through New Zealand. He's become a major public figure here, and not just of fun. His opinions and his party are being taken seriously. He loves this land not just for its clean air and greenery, but for being remote enough to feel safe. "New Zealand is not on any nuclear target list. It's the perfect place to survive a global crisis." He is certain there's a major international conflict looming.That insecurity might be a natural byproduct of the turbulent life he has led. In the 90s he was a famous hacker in Germany, convicted of computer fraud and data espionage, before commencing a career in business that would bring further court  dates for embezzlement and failing to disclose shareholdings.In the mid 2000s, after changing his named from Schmitz to Dotcom, he moved to Hong Kong, and started Megaupload. The company had 50 million daily users at its peak and, through a system that, in effect, paid people to upload pirated material, facilitated a gigantic unsanctioned exchange of music and movies. In short order he made a lot of money, while developing a reputation as an international playboy – the bad boy of the internet.But since the raid, and the US government's case against him, he's emerged with a new image: digital martyr and internet freedom evangelist. These two Kim Dotcoms, the villain and the hero, remain as competing public personae. A lot of his current activities, from the political party to funding fireworks displays, can be viewed as an attempt to convince  people he should be embraced andnot feared.To try to escape his troubles over the past couple of years, Dotcom turned to  making music. "When you have a family with five kids, and you're facing an indictment with potentially 80 years in prison, you're not in a good state of mind. But that's why the music really helped me. When I was in the studio, everything else just turned off."He is effectively CEO of his album, rather than author. "I was the architect of my music. I have done most of the sound design myself. I choose the  synthesiser. I choose the effects that  go on it. Apart from playing the music," he says, "all these songs are constructed by me."The creative process affected him deeply. "I cried several times," he says. "Being in the studio, working on the lyrics. When you really find the right thing, you get emotionally so involved."He says making the album helped him relate to his future partners in music distribution service Baboom. "I wanted to know what an artist goes through. How they feel. How it affects them, what kind of obstacles they have to overcome. Because I wanted to  create the best tools for them."It's like method acting, I say. "Exactly.""I think it made Baboom much better. If I didn't do it, I wouldn't have implemented some of the things that I had, which are really genius."Kim Dotcom (far right) and his fellow defendants following his arrest over Megaupload.com Photograph: Fairfax Media via Getty ImagesSome of those "genius" ideas sound pretty worthwhile, such as using lossless FLAC files instead of MP3s to provide "HD audio", and hardwiring contractual splits and their corresponding payments into songs. Others are less promising, like a preference for downloads over the cloud, and a free service involving the overlay of existing internet ads with his own, which sounds a lot like more theft. When I ask how that would affect struggling online publishers, he says they are not the target."It's the big boys, the Googles of this world, that are already benefiting from piracy, and not paying the artists a dime."Dotcom seems oblivious to irony at times. But there is an element of truth in this line of defence: Kim Dotcom and Megaupload were hardly the only people getting rich from piracy. ISPs, Google, data centres and hundreds of others profited along the way. He saw his company as no different."We were all under the impression that we were acting in a perfectly legal space with Megaupload, and that we as service providers would not face any actions like this. Of course there was always the route that Hollywood could have taken, to sue us civilly. That's what we expected."The music and movie industries had bigger plans for him in store. But if Baboom works out he'll have his revenge on those opponents in music who've brought him, if not exactly low, then lower.After talking for a little over an hour he shows me around the mansion. Even though the US government has frozen his assets, including US$175m (£106m) in cash, even his chastened circumstances are beyond the wildest dreams of most teenage boys. The walls are crowded with photos of Dotcom with a yacht, Dotcom with a helicopter, Dotcom with a private jet. There's a gaming room with several linked Xbox consoles. A home studio, a huge poker table, three separate circular dining tables, each replete with a brushed stainless lazy susan. They, like the garish silver coat of arms that adorns many walls, were designed by Dotcom himself.We head outside to traverse his 60 acres on a golf cart, and he talks about what he sees as a conspiracy that shut down his old company. "I reached out to both the movie and recording industries," he says. "What came back was: 'Shut down Megaupload. Then we'll talk.' That wasn't really acceptable."The government came for him anyway. This despite Megaupload claiming to have removed the payments for users who uploaded pirated content in 2007. I ask why he thinks they kept doing it. "To be honest, I have no idea," he says. "I don't really think about that."That seems implausible, and – tellingly – his new site is already a piracy hub. "The same amount if not more of piracy is happening everywhere," he says dismissively. Perhaps. It still seems strange, even foolhardy, to have jumped back into the arena so soon after his arrest.There was an alternative. Around the time Megaupload was in its pomp, the streaming services Spotify and Netflix were making their plays for the future too. What their respective founders Daniel Ek and Reed Hastings recognised was that nailing the technology was one thing, but it was worthless if it wasn't signed off by rights-holders. They spent years courting those companies, convincing them to roll the dice on streaming, experimenting with different ownership structures and revenue splits until they found one everyone could live with.Dotcom is as visionary as Hastings or Ek. But he never had the temperament to bow and scrape to the "dinosaurs", as he calls them, running the music and movie businesses. Even now he seems set on operating at the very limits of the law, despite the potential impact on his family and liberty.We glide back into the courtyard. His wife Mona and kids are wandering up the drive, along with a nanny and a puppy. "Daddy, Daddy!" the kids scream, leaping all over him.He peels the kids off and they continue up the hill. Daddy doesn't follow. Instead he will head inside to film the campaign ad. After that there's a photo-shoot, and later, an edit of a music video in the city that will run late into the night. All part of his endless battle to change the world's mind about Kim Dotcom."I'm not a pirate," he says, unbidden. "I'm an innovator."Unfortunately for him, for the time being at least, he's both.Good Times is released on Kimpire Music on 20 January.
Internet providers may be able to offer faster connections to preferred websites, or even block competitors, after a US appeals court ruled that regulators could no longer enforce the principle known as “net neutrality”.In a case seen as having profound implications for the future of digital innovation and free speech, the US court of appeals for the District of Columbiaruled in favour ofbroadband giant Verizon, followinga long-running challenge to the Federal Communications Commission’s rule-making powers.FCC regulators had argued that forcing broadband providers to provide equal internet access and bandwidth to all lawful content was a cornerstone of the open internet, and that it encouraged innovation by stimulating a “virtuous circle” that drove infrastructure improvements for all users.But Verizon and other broadband carriers maintain that it hampers their ability to strike commercial deals with content providers, and their ability to provide higher-speed access to premium material, such as high-definition films. The carriers argue deregulation could spur more growth in emerging markets like their own.Regardless of the commercial impact, the decision from a panel of three judges drew immediate concern from free speech groups, who worry about the implications of undermining net neutrality in the US and internationally.“This ruling, if it stands, will adversely affect the daily lives of Americans and fundamentally change the open nature of the internet, where uncensored access to information has been a hallmark of the communication medium since its inception,” Barbara Stripling, the president of the American Library Association, said in a statement.“The court’s decision gives commercial companies the astounding legal authority to block internet traffic, give preferential treatment to certain internet services or applications, and steer users to or away from certain web sites based on their own commercial interests.”The FCC said it would consider an appeal against the decision, which may now go to the full DC appeals court and could eventually wind up with the US supreme court.“I am committed to maintaining our networks as engines for economic growth, test beds for innovative services and products, and channels for all forms of speech protected by the First Amendment,” said FCC chairman Thomas Wheeler. “We will consider all available options, including those for appeal, to ensure that these networks on which the internet depends continue to provide a free and open platform for innovation and expression, and operate in the interest of all Americans.”The opinion, to which one of the three judges dissented in part, argued that regardless of the merits of net neutrality, the FCC simply did not have the legal power to treat broadband carriers in the way that it does traditional telephone operators.“Our task as a reviewing court is not to assess the wisdom of the Open Internet Order regulations, but rather to determine whether the commission has demonstrated that the regulations fall within the scope of its statutory grant of authority,” the opinion said. “Even though the commission has general authority to regulate in this arena, it may not impose requirements that contravene express statutory mandates.”Verizon welcomed the decision, but insisted it would extend consumer choice in the future rather than limiting existing internet openness. “Today’s decision will not change consumers’ ability to access and use the internet as they do now,&quot; said the company in a statement. &quot;The court’s decision will allow more room for innovation, and consumers will have more choices to determine for themselves how they access and experience the internet.&quot;&quot;Verizon has been and remains committed to the open internet which provides consumers with competitive choices and unblocked access to lawful websites and content when, where, and how they want,&quot; it added. &quot;This will not change in light of the court’s decision.&quot;Pro-net neutrality activists argue that allowing powerful media companies to strike deals with broadband providers to promote their content over others could also hamper the growth of social media.“The ability of the internet to spread and share ideas is only getting better,” Stripling added in her statement. “With modern technology, individuals and small groups can produce rich audio and video resources that used to be the exclusive domain of large companies. We must work to ensure that these resources are not relegated to second-class delivery on the internet – or else the intellectual freedoms fostered by the internet will be seriously constrained.”
When most people would expect to spend about £20 on a thermostat and a smoke alarm, Google's chief executive Larry Page just spent $3.2bn – in cash.But Page isn't getting just one of each. He's buying a company, Nest Labs, and with it the man who helped build the iPod and iPhone at Apple, with the aim of turning what is at present a concept – the "internet of things", where devices like lights and doors can communicate with us and each other – into a reality that reaches from our offices to our smartphones and right into the walls of our houses.The purchase of Nest Labs, founded in 2010 by Tony Fadell, marks a clear move by Google to expand beyond just the desktop computer and mobile phone. Fadell was one of the team who devised the original iPod in 2001, and so turned Apple's fortunes around; after that he was one of two teams who competed to devise the best iPhone. (Fadell's team lost to one led by Scott Forstall, who squeezed desktop computing capability into a phone.)Google has tried hardware – even home hardware – before with a smart power meter (shut down in September 2011), the Nexus Q set-top box (never went on sale), and is currently trying to persuade people beyond geek boundaries to try its Google Glass headset.Nest, meanwhile, quietly wowed customers with Apple-style simplicity and clarity: rather than trying to build an internet-enabled fridge, it built a thermostat that learned how to adjust the temperature to your liking, and a smoke alarm that wouldn't scream if you burned the toast (but would if the sofa caught light). Fadell's ambitions for building the connected home clearly resonated with Google, where co-founder Sergey Brin was an early fan.Is it worth $3.2bn, though? "This is a classic example of a crazy valuation being justified by long-term strategic value," commented Richard Windsor, an ex-Nomura analyst who now runs the RadioFreeMobile consultancy. "This acquisition clearly shows that the mobile ecosystem is going to be far more than just phones… Google had a crack at home automation some time ago using [its mobile software] Android, when it launched Android@Home [in 2011] but very little has come of it. This is because Android is a solid OS that can do many things, but only one thing very well: mobile."The "internet of things" – that is, devices with inbuilt communications capability – is already here, says Paul Green, director of innovation at Arkessa, based in Bishops Stortford, which specialises in setting up machine-to-machine systems. "We have about 1,300 Tesco stores which are managed by Matrix Energy, which can manage the heating, ventilation and air-conditioning inside each remotely. The advantage of that is that if you know the weather is going to change – get warmer or colder – you can adjust the in-store heating ahead of time so that you reach the right temperature, without overshooting or undershooting."Nest already thinks that way: it connects to a weather service to get the forecast, so that it can pre-emptively work out whether to turn the heating up or down in the hours ahead. For Google, with its mission to "organise the world's information and make it accessible", being able to know what people are up to in their homes (for Nest hasn't finished devising products yet) holds lip-licking promise.But that leads into the other question around Google's acquisition: data and privacy. In ablog post, Nest's vice president of engineering Matt Rogers set out a question-and-answer set, where a key one was "Will Nest customer data be shared with Google?" To which Rogers's cautious answer is: "Our privacy policy clearly limits the use of customer information to providing and improving Nest's products and services. We've always taken privacy seriously and this will not change."That clearly doesn't preclude sharing data with Google. "For Google, this is all about expanding its tentacles into other areas where consumers generate data but Google has no ability to collect it," comments Windsor.That idea isn't popular with many in the technology world who have watched Google morph from a company that says "it's best to do one thing really well" (as itscorporate philosophy pagestill insists) to one which seems to want more and more personal data all the time. And Google has begun to sprawl: it makes mobile phones (Motorola) and a smartphone operating system (Android), and is aiming at self-driving cars, robots, fibre-optic internet services and (through Page and Brin) asteroid mining. That's because it has to think big: "All of Google's ideas are about reach," commented Benedict Evans, tech and telecoms analyst at Enders Analysis. "None of them need direct monetisation." That's because it can make money from getting more information about you, and what you do, and then serving up tailored ads when you go online – which are still the source of 97% of its revenue.The other question people have been asking: where is Apple? Reportedly, it was never in the bidding. Where Google needs to achieve reach to gather data, Apple picks its targets carefully – and gathering data isn't core to its mission; selling hardware is. Even the Nest has an iPhone app. Google is happy if the data for the internet of things passes through it; Apple, if one of those things is its own.
It&apos;s hard as nails, it&apos;s bug-ridden, and it has no tutorial – but online zombie adventure DayZ has now been downloaded 1m times, barely a month after its &apos;alpha&apos; launch on PC gaming service Steam. Its creator, New Zealand-born game designer, Dean Hall, has become the latest independent developer to release a new project before it is finished, allowing gamers to contribute toward its completion. Potential customers are warned via a series of titles screens that the game is a work in progress and that bugs and crashes are commonplace. But this hasn&apos;t stopped hundreds of thousands of PC gamers from pouring hours into the taut, exciting multiplayer action.Originally written by Hall as a &quot;mod&quot; – or unofficial add-on – for the popular military shooter ArmA II, DayZ places gamers into the midst of a zombie apocalypse. Surrounded by unfamiliar landscape and with no tools to survive, they have to ransack houses to find guns and food, while avoiding the ravenous undead. The important part is that the game is online and there are up to 40 other players in the world with you – you&apos;ll either have to compete for resources, usually with deadly force, or team up to form clans of survivors. Brilliantly, the game supports in-game chat via headsets and microphones, so players are able to communicate with each other, plotting their fraught hit-and-run missions on other gangs. But every once in a while, the game glitches out or crashes altogether. You just have to re-boot and go back in, reporting your experiences on the game&apos;s packed forums.Launch and hopeDayZ is far from alone in this &apos;release then adapt&apos; approach. Although indie coders have often launched new projects in unfinished formats for fans to download and test, it was crossover smash hit Minecraft that really transformed the concept into a workable business model. Markus &apos;Notch&apos; Persson&apos;s ingenious construction game was original launched in an early &apos;alpha build&apos; state in 2009 but quickly attracted an enthusiastic community, who feed back on the game&apos;s faults and features. Now available on PC, console and smartphone the title has sold over 33 million copies. &quot;The benefits [of early release] are that you don&apos;t have to rely on a publisher, and that you can get people passionate about the game early on,&quot; he toldGamasutra last July. &quot;The added pressure of people already having paid for the game can help motivate you to work on it as well.&quot;So far, the model has worked particularly well for simulation titles, that can offer up stable gameplay experiences without the need for advanced visuals or complex narrative sequences. UK developer Introversion was effectively saved from closure in 2012 when it made its latest title, the compulsive jail design sim, Prison Architect, available for online purchase in an early alpha state. The title is yet to receive a full, complete launch, but has raised over $10m from its community. Speaking to VG247 last year, the studio&apos;s co-founder Mark Morris explained both the financial and creative advantages: &quot;I liken the process to steering a oil tanker – we have our own vision for Prison Architect and we know the path we are heading in, however we keep a close eye on the forums, Twitter and Facebook accounts, and the thoughts and views of the community kind of act like tug boats nudging the tanker in one direction or another.&quot;The approach has become so successful that key digital gaming service Steam now has an Early Access section, allowing gamers to select and support unfinished titles. As with the Kickstarter revolution which has seen hundreds of games funded to completion via crowds of fans, there is a sense of ownership over the project. Gamers aren&apos;t just &apos;pre-ordering&apos; an interesting new title, they&apos;re potentially contributing toward its growth. In many ways, there&apos;s the same appeal as discovering and supporting a new band from their days gigging in flea-pit pubs; it&apos;s that sense of getting in there first with something cool and exciting.Fear and freedomDayZ, which wasapparently inspiredby Hall&apos;s survival training while in the New Zealand armed forces, still has over a year of development left. The big test for &apos;early access&apos; games like this is whether the creators can maintain development momentum under the pressure of user expectation. While community expectations can no doubt provide impetus to a small development team, there&apos;s always the danger is can be creatively stifling – especially if a large vocal community has a wide range of opinions on where the design should go.But it&apos;s a problem most indie studios would be happy to face. The smartphone app stores are flooded with game content, and Steam houses something in the region of 3000 titles, so visibility is now the key challenge facing smaller developers. Building a proactive community is, then, a vital part of the development process – indeed, to gain a slot on Steam these days, developers have to go through the Greenlight system in which gamers vote on which new titles should get into the store.The interesting thing about DayZ&apos;s success is that this is such an uncompromising experience. It is not a nice welcoming simulation title, it is a raw, bleak and almost entirely emergent survival horror game. The communityisthe experience. And with a million players, the lesson it appears to be teaching is – provide a compelling universe and let participants build from there. Is this the future of traditional game design, or the end of it?• Would DayZ benefit from a touch of humanity?• Minecraft at 33 million users – a personal story
Google&apos;sacquisition of Nest, a learning thermostat and fire alarm company, prompted excitement in some quarters and concerns about privacy in others.Here&apos;s how Twitter reacted to the news with characteristic humour and scepticism - much of it to do with the much maligned Google Plus.#Googlepaid $3 Billion for Thermostat Company#Nestto find out the temperature in your home. That&#39;s easy: on Hoth, it&#39;s bloody freezing.&mdash; Jedi Order PR (@JediOrderPR)January 14, 2014Got my hands on a Nest prototype thermostat post-Google acquisitionpic.twitter.com/VXhdMX6jaf&mdash; Danny Sullivan (@dannysullivan)January 14, 2014What? I have to create a Google+ account to increase my temperature in the house?#nest&mdash; Cloud Borat (@cloud_borat)January 13, 2014Want to change the temperature? Sorry, you need to log in with your google+ account.#nest#acquisition&mdash; Martin Eriksson (@bfgmartin)January 13, 2014“People in your G+ circles can now adjust the temperature of your home. Click here to opt-out.”#google#nest&mdash; Nathan Smith (@nathansmith)January 13, 2014But soon came the realisation that, Google&apos;s acquisition of something installed in your home that monitors your house while you&apos;re both there and not, might be slightly undesirable for a company all about data.with the purchase of nest and boston dynamics, google has given up all pretense of caring about the appearance of creepiness&mdash; matt (@mattbuchanan)January 13, 2014Google is trying to turn into the evil empire#nest&mdash; Tom C (@tcopps)January 14, 2014When looking at Nest (or Plus, or Android), it&#39;s helpful to think of Google as a vast machine learning engine, not a web search company&mdash; Benedict Evans (@BenedictEvans)January 14, 2014So Google with Nest will know how warm your house is and when it&#39;s burning down. I can imagine the targeted ads for those scenarios.&mdash; Tom Warren (@tomwarren)January 13, 2014Google buys Nest, &#10;Açaí berry ads on thermostat?&mdash; Edward Tufte (@EdwardTufte)January 14, 2014Can&#39;t wait to use Google Maps to tell if my house is burning down BN *GOOGLE TO ACQUIRE NEST LABS FOR $3.2 BLN IN CASH&mdash; Nicholas Johnston (@FirstWordNick)January 13, 2014Resulting in theclassic comparison...I&#39;m sorry, Dave. I&#39;m afraid I can&#39;t let you change the temperature in your home. [Message I do not want to get from Google.#Nest]&mdash; Dave Martin (@martindave)January 14, 2014Nest + Google Now = Nest-9000pic.twitter.com/q9WTWyGvWD&mdash; Farshad Nayeri (@FarshadNayeri)January 14, 2014Some time in the future: &quot;Nest. Raise the temperature in the house.&quot; I&#39;m sorry, Dave, I can&#39;t do that.&quot;&mdash; Kevin Krewell (@Krewell)January 14, 2014Eventually the possible privacy implications started to hit home.Sniffle,#Nesthas been bought by#Google…. wonder if the privacy policy has changed :(&mdash; Andrew Plein (@blockmonkey)January 13, 2014Google will now know the home temperature preference of every human on the planet. Just think about that for a sec.#Nest&mdash; Spencer Chen (@spencerchen)January 13, 2014Every Nest thermostat has an infrared motion sensor, in every living room with one. Now owned by Google. &#10;&#10;This is going to work out great.&mdash; Matt Haughey (@mathowie)January 13, 2014Oh PS with Nest’s built-in sensors now Google knows when you’re home, what rooms you’re in, and when you’re out. Just FYI.&mdash; Ryan Block (@ryan)January 13, 2014Eventually resulting in downright paranoia, with some people taking drastic action.Done with NEST. I&#39;ll go back to dumb thermostats before letting Google inside my house.&mdash; Jason Perlow (@jperlow)January 13, 2014Turning off all internet capability on my NEST ASAP. Until it gets replaced, freaking thing ain&#39;t dialing home anymore.&mdash; Jason Perlow (@jperlow)January 13, 2014Anyone want to buy an@nestthat&#39;s been installed for barely a month? Probably not joking.&mdash; David Chartier (@chartier)January 13, 2014My sentiments exactly. Buy a nest, get a free personal spy. RT@matto:@jmspoolask and you shall receive:pic.twitter.com/n7x0vcavEJ&mdash; Andrew Boardman (@deckchairs)January 14, 2014Its unknown precisely what Google plans to do with Nest, yet another robotics and intelligent machine-related acquisition, but one thing is for sure – Google&apos;s backdoor invasion of the home is not welcomed by all.• In December, Googleadded Boston Dynamicsto its growingstable of robotics-associated companies
Motorola&apos;s Moto X flagship smartphone goes on sale in the UK and Europe in February, part of its attempt to return to profitability since being acquired by Google.Motorola hopes that the launch of the £380 Moto X, which originally went on sale in the US in August 2013, will help move the company back into the black after recording six quarters of losses since it was acquired in May 2012.&quot;Google wants Motorola to be able run as a stand-alone business&quot; without subsidy, James Soames, Motorola UK&apos;s director of marketing told the Guardian.&quot;At the end of the day we&apos;ve launched a brand new business in the last 18 months,&quot; Soames said. Motorola has reduced its staff levels by around 30% from 20,000 employees and reduced its product line-up from 30 devices to just &quot;two flagship smartphones aimed at different audiences&quot;.Motorola has made an operating loss almost every quarter over the past five years. Since being acquired by Google its losses have totalled $1.6bn on revenues of $8.1bn in the period to the end of September 2013.Stiff competitionThe Moto X faces an uphill battle against very stiff competition from Samsung, Apple, Sony and HTC, while a February release - after the Christmas splurge when a significant number of new smartphones are bought - is unlikely to help.Motorola&apos;s share of the UK market is minuscule compared to the likes of Apple and Samsung, as highlighted by recent trade-in data from UK site CompareMyMobile. There, Samsung and Apple devices make up the majority of smartphone trade-ins, with the iPhone and Samsung&apos;s Galaxy S line among the most traded as people seek to unload old phones and get cash for new ones. Data from the site shows that while 48.3% of all trade-ins are Android phones, Motorola devices are only 0.26% of the total - which could suggest relatively few owners following the relatively limited exposure for the Motorola brand in the past two years.Despitegarnering praise from critics, the Moto X sold just 500,000 in its first three months on sale in the US, compared with 10m Samsung Galaxy S4 smartphones sold in its first month of release, according todata from Strategy Analytics.Soames said Motorola is &quot;very pleased with&quot; the US sales figures.The Moto X also sees Google competing with itself, as the Google Nexus 5 smartphone – another flagship Google phone, made by LG and priced at £300 – is a direct competitor to the Moto X.&quot;You can get the Nexus 5 for £299 and the specs don&apos;t justify then £80 difference,&quot;said Francisco Jeronimo, director of European consumer wireless and mobile communications for research firm IDC.&apos;Touchless&apos; control and all-day battery lifeTouting “touchless” control that allows a user to command it by voice alone, even when the screen is off, the Moto X is made with “premium materials” but priced below the premium smartphone competition, including the £500-plus Samsung Galaxy S4 and Apple iPhone 5S.“We want to change the industry,” said Andrew Morley, vice-president and general manager of Motorola UK. “We’re different because we solve consumer problems, including battery life like, no one else does.”Similar to the technology built by Appleinto the latest iPhone 5S, Motorola has given the Moto X a custom-designed new processor that combines a 1.7GHz dual-core processor with two lower power co-processors to deal with voice control and other always-on functions. The 4.7in screen uses an OLED display and the active notifications system uses a low power setting.The result is that the Moto X claims much longer “all-day” battery life than most of the competition, which Motorola believes is a “critical pain point” for most consumers.As the first new flagship smartphone made by Motorola since being acquired by Google, the Moto X builds upon voice controls seen with Siri on the iPhone and Google voice search on Android phones such as the Nexus 5.Powered by its co-processors, the new Motorola has an “always listening” mode that will respond to the keywords “OK Google Now” even when the screen is off, triggering searches, calls, and being able to send text messages and play music among other functions.Downward price pressureWith the Moto X Motorola is attempting to relaunch its brand and follow up the success seen by its first new UK smartphone, the affordablebut well-reviewed £135 Moto G.&quot;The Moto G was all about capitalising on a Google ambition – about big numbers and about how do you make the purchasing decision easier for 500 million consumers who might be spending less than $200 on a smartphone at some point in the next 12 months,&quot; explained Soames. He declined to release sales numbers but said that &quot;early indications are that things are going brilliantly.&quot;The Moto X clearly follows Google’s other smartphone strategy with theNexus line of phones, aiming to put downward pressure on the average price of smartphones.“Motorola has been quite quiet in Europe over the last couple of years, so therefore our products and pricing need to be competitive,” said Soames. “The right price point is key, which is why we’ve priced the Moto X at £380 or free on a £25 a month phone contract.”• In November, Google released the latest iteration of its own-brand phone, the Nexus 5, whichscored 5 stars in the Guardian’s review
The TellMatthew HertensteinThe little clues that reveal big clues about who we are.The Nazi and the PsychiatristJack El-HaiThe strange tale of what happened when a psychiatrist was called on to ensure the captured Nazi top brass were fit for trial at Nuremberg.Evolution and the Victorians: Science, Culture and Politics in Darwin's BritainJonathan ConlinThe untold social and cultural story of the birth of Darwin's theory of evolution.Physics in Minutes: 200 Key Concepts Explained in an InstantGiles SparrowAn illustrated, whistlestop tour of the crucial theories that form the intricate world of modern physics.Junkyard Planet: Travels in the Billion-Dollar Trash TradeAdam MinterA journey through the surprisingly global world that disposes of everything from your old Christmas lights to a broken mug.Sonic Wonderland: A Scientific Odyssey of SoundTrevor CoxAcoustic engineer Cox finds sand dunes that sing, echos that tell jokes, and more as he explores the sounds that surround us.The Accidental Universe: The World You Thought You KnewAlan P LightmanLightman brings a gentle tone to the big questions about life and the universe in a series of essays from a unique perspective.Trespassing on Einstein's LawnAmanda GefterThe memoir of a writer who conned her way into science writing, and in the process met the greatest, and most eccentric, minds of the day.Moral Tribes: Emotion, Reason and the Gap Between Usand ThemJoshua GreeneThe underlying reasons why we argue on a YouTube video about climate change and the way forward.The Universe Through TheEyes of HubbleOli Usher, Lars Lindberg ChristensenStunning images from the Hubble telescope gives you a guided tour of the cosmos.
Every time I tell someone aboutOpenStreetMap, they inevitably ask &quot;Why not use Google Maps?&quot; From a practical standpoint, it&apos;s a reasonable question, but ultimately this is not just a matter of practicality, but of what kind of society we want to live in. I discussed this topic in a 2008 talk on OpenStreetMap I gave at the first MappingDC meeting. Here are many of same concepts, but expanded.In the 1800s, people were struggling with time, not how much of it they had, but what time it was. Clocks existed, but every town had its own time, &quot;local time&quot;, which was synchronised by town clocks or, more often than not, church bells. Railway time, then eventually Greenwich mean time, supplanted all local time, and most people today don&apos;t think about time as anything but universal. This was accomplished in the US by adoption first of the railroads, and then by universities and large businesses.Geography is big businessThe modern daytime dilemma is geography, and everyone is looking to be the definitive source. Google spends$1bn annuallymaintaining their maps, and that does not include the $1.5bn Google spentbuying the navigation company Waze. Google is far from the only company trying to own everywhere, asNokia purchased Navteqand TomTom and Tele Atlas try to merge. All of these companies want to become the definitive source of what&apos;s on the ground.That&apos;s because what&apos;s on the ground has become big business. With GPSes in every car, and a smartphone in every pocket, the market for telling you where you are and where to go has become fierce.With all these companies, why do we need a project like OpenStreetMap? The answer is simply that as a society, no one company should have a monopoly on place, just as no one company had a monopoly on time in the 1800s. Place is a shared resource, and when you give all that power to a single entity, you are giving them the power not only to tell you about your location, but to shape it. In summary, there are three concerns: who decides what gets shown on the map, who decides where you are and where you should go, and personal privacy.Decision timeWho decides what gets displayed on a Google Map? The answer is, of course, that Google does. I heard this concern in a meeting with a local government in 2009: they were concerned about using Google Maps on their website because Google makes choices about which businesses to display. The people in the meeting were right to be concerned about this issue, as a government needs to remain impartial; by outsourcing their maps, they would hand the control over to a third party.It seems inevitable that Google will monetise geographic searches, with either premium results, or priority ordering, if it hasn&apos;t done so already (is it a coincidence than when I search for &quot;breakfast&quot; near my home, the first result is &quot;SUBWAY® Restaurants&quot;?).Of course Google is not the only map provider; it&apos;s just one example. The point is that when you use any map provider, you are handing them the controls - letting them determine what features get emphasised, or what features may not be displayed at all.A road sign warning HGV drivers not to follow Satellite Navigation instructions. Photograph: Christopher ThomondLocation, locationThe second concern is about location. Who defines where a neighbourhood is, or whether or not you should go? This issue wasbrought up by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU)when a map provider was providing routing (driving/biking/walking instructions) and used what it determined to be &quot;safe&quot; or &quot;dangerous&quot; neighbourhoods as part of its algorithm. This raises the question of who determines what makes a neighbourhood &quot;safe&quot; or not – or whether safe is merely a codeword for something more sinister.Right now, Flickr collects neighbourhood information based on photographs which it exposesthrough an API. It uses this information to suggest tags for your photograph. But it would be possible to use neighbourhood boundaries in a more subtle way in order to affect anything from traffic patterns to real estate prices, because when a map provider becomes large enough, it becomes the source of &quot;truth&quot;.Lastly, these map providers have an incentive to collect information about you in ways that you may not agree with. Both Google and Apple collect your location information when you use their services. They can use this information to improve their map accuracy, but Google has already announced that is going to use this information totrack the correlation between searches and where you go. With more than500 million Android phonesin use, this is an enormous amount of information collected on the individual level about people&apos;s habits, whether they&apos;re taking a casual stroll, commuting to work, going to their doctor, or maybe attending a protest.Certainly we can&apos;t ignore the societal implication of so much data in the hands of a single entity, no matter howbenevolent it claims to be. Companies like Foursquare usegamificationto overlay what is essentially a large scale data collection process, and even Google has gotten into the game of gamification withIngress, a game which overlays an artificial world onto this one and encourages users to collect routing data and photo mapping as part of effort to either fight off, or encourage, an alien invasion.Finding the solutionNow that we have identified the problems, we can examine how OpenStreetMap solves each of them.In terms of map content, OpenStreetMap is both neutral and transparent. OpenStreetMap is a wiki-like map that anyone in the world can edit. If a store is missing from the map, it can be added in by a store owner or even a customer. In terms of display (rendering), each person or company who creates a map is free to render it how they like, but the main map on OpenStreetMap.org uses FLOSS (Free/Libre Open Source Software) rendering software and a liberally licensed stylesheet which anyone can build on.In other words, anyone who cares can always create their own maps based on the same data.Similarly, while the most popular routing programs for OpenStreetMap are FLOSS, even if a company chooses another software stack, a user is always free to use their own routing software; it would be easy to compare routing results based on the same data to find anomalies.And lastly, with OpenStreetMap data a user is free to download some, or all of the map offline. This means that it&apos;s possible to use OpenStreetMap data to navigate without giving your location away to anyone at all.OpenStreetMap respects communities and respects people. If you&apos;re not already contributing to OSM, consider helping out. If you&apos;re already a contributor: thank you.•The geocoder: the unsung hero of the world of digital mapsSerge Wroclawski is on Twitter@emacsen. He describes himself as a &quot;long time hacker turned Free Culture advocate&quot;.This articleoriginally appeared on Serge Wroclawski&apos;s blog. It is reused with permission. It&apos;s licensed under aCreative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. Minor grammatical changes have been made from the original.
With every multimillion dollar acquisition deal, the technology startups space must seem more enticing to those stuck in unfulfilling jobs. As interest in the sector grows, there&apos;s an increasingly competitive market for retraining courses that offer the chance of fulfilment, excitement – and a slice of the pie.Initiatives from the government, industry and the charitable sector all exist to help potential entrepreneurs gain the skills and confidence they will need to launch their own business. Many still fail, but not through lack of aid.The same is less true of those who come after. Joining a start-up, whether as employee two or two hundred, frequently takes almost as much courage and talent as setting out alone. Organisations such asSteerandGeneral Assemblyoffer the opportunity to learn portable skills like coding or marketing, but without the specific focus on small companies.Startup Institutestarted in Boston as an attempt to correct that imbalance, and launches in the UK and Berlin on Tuesday.The company, which also operates in New York and Chicago, runs eight-week training courses supporting workers making the switch from a safer career into one at a new company. Although the courses include elements of practical skills, such as basic web development or design, they also focus on less tangible qualities.&quot;The ideal person that works for a startup is is three things,&quot; says Aaron O&apos;Hearn, the co-founder and chief executive of Startup Institute. &quot;Firstly, they are a continuous learner. Whether it&apos;s in their work, their personal life, their hobby, they&apos;re constantly absorbing new knowledge and learning how to apply it.&quot;They&apos;re always looking for a better way, they&apos;re always looking to understand something better, so they can do it more efficiently or more enjoyably. And the third thing is that individuals who work for startups, who have success there, are generally very aware. They have emotional intelligence.&quot;From a company perspective, these things are super critical. As an early-stage startup, I don&apos;t have the ability to train people on these three categories. I expect them to understand how to deliver, understand how to be self-directed, and understand how they&apos;re perceived by their team.&quot;Now, the reality is, most people are not these three things. But most successful companies absolutely and unequivocally have these characteristics on their early teams.&quot;O&apos;Hearn is keen to stress that it&apos;s not only the attendees who get the benefits of the Startup Institute launching. &quot;In general the London startup ecosystem is incredibly active and bustling. London is starting to develop a fantastic capital infrastructure, and the early stage economy is growing really rapidly, but there&apos;s one thing which will gate all these company&apos;s ability to grow, which is great talent.&quot;The company&apos;s London launch has been endorsed as &quot;great news&quot; by Matthew Hancock, the minister of state for skills and enterprise, while Joanna Shields, the chief executive of Tech City UK, said it &quot;is well timed&quot;.&quot;A healthy pipeline of talented, skilled individuals is essential&quot; to sustaining the capital&apos;s growth, she added. &quot;It’s very exciting news for Tech City.”But there are challenges ahead. London and Berlin are the group&apos;s first locations outside America, and they are still trying to anticipate what changes will need to be made.&quot;There&apos;s always this pressure on the individual to do what culture or society or their friends or family says is the right thing to do,&quot; O&apos;Hearn says. &quot;Then there&apos;s the internal voice that people have, which says &apos;I don&apos;t know if I&apos;m happy with what I&apos;m doing right now&apos;.&quot;In the US, we&apos;ve been able to tap that, and say &apos;it is totally acceptable for you to take a step back, invest in yourself, and find a career where you love what you&apos;re doing.&apos; I think in the UK, fighting that cultural pressure to not challenge the norm will be really hard. People are less willing to take the risk and invest in themselves.&quot;Applications are open today for the first full-time programme in London which begins on 2 June 2014, and tuition fees start at £2,600 for those who apply before 2 March or pay up front, rising to £3,250 over an 18-month payment plan. It&apos;s a hefty cost, but Startup Institute says that nine out of 10 students find a job within three months of graduating. &quot;We want to help people find careers they love,&quot; O&apos;Hearn says.•10 things to know before making the move to the Berlin startup scene
Meeting an elder statesmen of gaming is strange. An art form's old guard should have a wizened, gnomic quality, like theatre'sPeter Brook. But games are so new that even the creators ofPongare younger than my parents. When I encounter Ken Levine, the creator ofBioshock, hours after accepting his lifetime achievement award at theGolden Joystick awards, I am struck by his ram-like solidity. He's a broad, youthful figure, barely entering middle age. And his energy and passion are palpable."You ever go to Disney World?" he fires, having learnt of my interest in games. Before I can mull on which Disney park I might have visited as a child, he interjects. "Go again. Because the thing that's most like what we do, isPirates of the Caribbean." I frown, struggling with the comparison, picturing Johnny Depp. He helps me out. "The ride."The films were based on a Disney theme park experience, not the other way around. And it is that rollercoaster entertainment, a world and a journey, but one where you can look wherever you like, that Levine believes holds the key to great game-making. "You look at a guy like Walt Disney. He said, 'I am going to create an experience. How do I lure people into a mood. How do I get their attention? How do I get them to feel?' You feel as different in Frontierland as you do in the Haunted Mansion. He [Disney] was excellent at doing that without being able to fully control an audience's attention."Levine's award seems to have sparked something in him, rather than dimmed it. When I ask about his plans, he is forthcoming. He describes frustration that gaming is a "one and done experience". The true next stage, he says, is to open it to more narrative possibility; greater in-game choice and consequence, so that you want to go on the ride again and again. And it's his childhood that inspires him. "When I was a kid I had this Death Star playset. It was very specific. It was moulded in plastic and it had stickers all over. And then I had my Lego bricks. And the Death Star playset was good because it was really detailed but that was all it did: be the Death Star. The Lego didn't look quite as good but you could make anything out of it."Games use heuristics to offer choices and solutions during play. A heuristic is like an equation. Levine uses the example of Elizabeth providing the player with ammo inBioshock Infinite, (the oft-triggered, "Booker, Catch!"). This heuristic works out how much ammo you have, what level of threat you are under and from a relatively simple set of pre-programmed rules, "decides" whether or not to have Elizabeth throw you more ammo. This is a present tense event, rather than a built-in narrative certainty. It's based on your actions, not what the developer permanently plotted. Levine leans forward: "So what if you were to take that concept and expand upon it hugely?"He wants to build a game out of a huge numbers of such "Lego bricks" and a multiplicity of ways to fit them together. He wonders if there could be huge amounts of micro-content, rules that interact and fire off alternative consequences that apply to characters or lines or story rather than just ammo. Gaming has tried to embrace some of this already, but on a narrower scale. Levine imagines something more ambitious and ever-changing. More, possibly, like life. When he tests what one of his developers has been working on, he takes the controller and immediately turns the avatar round and starts going the other way. He wants to play his own game, not the one the developer has decided he should play. "I try to be the asshole," he jokes.Levine doesn't come across as an asshole. He is a big, soulful thinker but with an ambitious, driving focus.Thinking about the possibility of this next project, he becomes momentarily profound: "Inertia is an incredibly powerful force. It makes us think we have a life, versus a continuum of choices."We always think of the road not taken, of something in the past. 'Wow, what would have happened if I married so and so, or took that job in San Diego…' But you rarely think that each and every second that goes by is one of those moments. Like this second that just happened. And that one. And the one that's going to happen in a second." Potentially, each of these seconds could alter a game in a profound way. Just as they can in life. The easiest thing for us to imagine is that our lives, and the story we are playing, are pre-designed, solid. But neither gaming nor life has to be like that. In both, we can alter and decide in a way that is surprising, ultimately freeing.So why would his new work be different from a plate-spinning simulation like the Sims? Well, it might not necessarily. Except this would still be authored, it would still tell a story. It would end. And actually, that makes it more true to life, not less.The well-known myth about Disney is that he was cryogenically frozen. This is untrue. He was cremated and his ashes interred in Glendale, California. Life ends. Stories end. It's just that during them, we might have an almost impossible spectrum of choice, if the imagination were there. It isn't surprising that a game-maker like Levine would be considering this as he receives an uncomfortably final lifetime achievement award. Disney may be gone. But his world lives on. The same will be true for Levine.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamCyanogenMod: from bedroom Android hack to million dollar mobile OS &gt;&gt; TechRadar"I think that for every one person that does install CyanogenMod, there's maybe five or six that try but don't finish. I had one of our board members try to install it, and he actually gave up," laughs Koushik Dutta, one of CyanogenMod's lead developers (known to the community as Koush).The problem of getting people to actually use its software isn't something the CyanogenMod team has taken lightly. In fact, it's one of the spurs that has pushed the team into turning its community-based, open-source Android spin-off into a full-on business venture: Cyanogen Inc.With $7m in funding behind it, the core CM team, including Koush and CyanogenMod's founder Steve Kondik (known as Cyanogen), is now working on turning the enthusiast-friendly ROM into a mainstream hit. And the first challenge is making it easy to install.Nest, Google and you. &gt;&gt; Nest(Backstory: Google is buying thermostat/smoke alarm maker Nest for $3.2bn).Q: Will Nest customer data be shared with Google?A: Our privacy policy clearly limits the use of customer information to providing and improving Nest's products and services. We've always taken privacy seriously and this will not change.That is not actually an answer to the question. For instance, it doesn't exclude "Hey, if we share this data with Google, then it will improve our products and services!"Mobile predictions for 2013 &gt;&gt; Chetan Sharma consultingThese are the predictions made near the end of 2012 collected from around 200 mobile executives and others in the business. Among other points to note is that not a single one of the "likely to happen" things (slide 18) actually happened. (They're responding to an offered set of possibilities, but still.) Prediction is an uncertain business, especially about the future.US Supreme Court to tackle big questions in patent and copyright law &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier FoundationThe Court has granted certiorari [agreed to carry out a review and pass judgement] in six patent cases this term, including Octane Fitness v Icon Health (fee-shifting) and Alice Corp. v CLS Bank (abstract software patents). Taken together, its decisions in these cases could help slow the flood of low-quality software patents that has fuelled the rise of patent trolls. We'll work hard to convince the Court to reach this result.The cases cited - ABC v Aereo, Limelight v Akamai, Nautilus v Biosig - are going to be good ones too.What will your verse be &gt;&gt; AppleYes, yes, it's Apple's promo page for its new advert. But the thing to look at here is the applications that it's showing for its tablet: filmmaking, mountaineering, diving, choreography, ice hockey training. In each of them, it's the mobility that's the key - and that's the real change we're seeing in how people do computing. Ten years ago, all these applications would have required desk-bound systems, or hugely expensive kit. Now? A tablet.3D Printing Trends &gt;&gt; 3D HubsThere really are a lot of 3D printers out there. How long before there's a wave of consolidation? Three, four years?Earthquakes since 1898 &gt;&gt; IDV SolutionsJohn Nelson:Here, data from NCEDC.org and the USGS and UC Berkeley have been sliced out into veneers based on magnitude, then glued onto and image that began its life at NASA's Visual Earth and wrung into the Times projection (centered at the interesting bits).  The result looks an awful lot like a fleet of Nickelodeon tankers spilled the world's supply of floam.In case you wanted to know how tectonic boundaries show themselves. The blog overall is a fascinating source of map data.BlackBerry Picture Password is more secure than you think &gt;&gt; Jon AlmeidaWith the BlackBerry 10.2.1 release a new security feature called Picture Password was added. It works by lining up a chosen number with a specific (also chosen) point on a picture. This is a vague description because it isn't as easy to explain in words as it is to show.Very nifty - you drag a grid of numbers so that your pre-chosen number is on a pre-chosen point on the screen. So you don't make the same smeary pattern on the screen - or leave your fingerprint on the unlock key.Accessories are the Windows 8 tablet achilles heel &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson:The Dell Venue 8 Pro (DV8P) was one of the most in-demand tablets of this holiday season, but Dell has struggled with the availability and quality of its accessories.  The active stylus that was announced with the tablet became available, received poor reviews, and has now disappeared from the Dell website.  Hopefully this is a temporary measure while they address the stylus' quality issues, because I know a lot of DV8P purchasers were looking forward to this accessory.When the DV8P was launched there was also the promise of a keyboard accessory.  The limited description suggested that the keyboard would fold over on to the display and act as a cover.  After months of waiting the Dell Tablet Wireless Keyboard finally started shipping in the last week or so.  Mine arrived yesterday.  It arrives as a case (that is different from the Dell Folio) and a Bluetooth keyboard.  The case includes a cover flap that folds behind the tablet and under the holder for the (unavailable) active stylus.  The keyboard can hold on to the outer case cover using magnets, but those magnets are so weak you might be tempted to think Dell actually left the feature out.Note too that accessories tend to offer far better profit margins than the devices themselves. So missing on those is a double miss.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
Phone users in India and China will together buy more than 500m smartphones in 2014, comprising half of the total that will be sold in 47 key countries, according to a new forecast.They will also add more than 400m new users of internet-enabled phones to the global network, vaulting India ahead of the US to make it the second-largest country for smartphone use in the world.The surge in new smartphone users will also create a stage where cheap phones using Firefox OS could begin to gain a foothold in south America, with the vast majority of the rest upgrading from featurephones in developing countries expected to buy an Android phone.India will be the country where the largest proportion of smartphones sold will go to new users, according to data provided exclusively to The Guardian by the research company Mediacells. It says that people in the 47 countries, ranging in population size from China&apos;s 1.3bn to New Zealand&apos;s 4.4m, will buy a total of 1.03bn smartphones during the course of the year.&quot;The number of mobile internet users in the developing world will overtake those in the developed world for the first time - growing 27-fold compared to fourfold in the west,&quot; said Brad Rees, managing director of the Guildford-based company.The ten largest countries for sales will be China (283m), India (225m), the US (89m), Brazil (47m), Indonesia (46m), Russia (31m), Japan (30m), Mexico (23m), Germany (22m) and France (18.7m), just ahead of the UK with 17.7m.Map below (orview it at OpenHeatMap).2014: map showing forecast for countries with total largest smartphone sales. Hold mouse over countries to see figures. Source: MediacellsNew owners, new facesBut in terms of the countries where smartphone penetrations will grow fastest and create the largest number of new owners, the picture is slightly different.In absolute terms, China and India will add 216m and 207m new smartphone users respectively, ahead of the US (47.5m), Indonesia (39.8m), Brazil (38.2m), Japan (22.9m), Russia (21.4m), Mexico (16.3m).But two other countries then leap into the top ten of smartphone entrants: Vietnam (14.2m), followed by Germany (12.2m) and then Turkey (11.6m).Which countries will see the largest total number of new smartphone owners? Hold mouse over countries to see figures.&nbsp;Source: Mediacells(Orview the map at OpenHeatMap).Highest proportion of new smartphone usersViewing the data in terms of which countries will see the largest proportion of smartphone sales going to new users produces a quite different view. There, India leads the field, with 92% of the 224m forecast sales expected to go to new users. India currently has about 156m smartphone users among its population of 1.2bn, says Mediacells: that is expected to more than double to 364m.After India, the countries where the largest proportions of smartphones will go to first-time users are Indonesia (86%), Vietnam (82%), Brazil (82%), Romania (80%), Turkey (77%), Ukraine (76%), China (76%), Nigeria (75%) and Japan (75%).Which countries will get the highest proportion of new smartphone users, compared to sales? Hold mouse over countries to see figures.&nbsp;Source: Mediacells(Orview the map at OpenHeatMap)At the other end of the scale, a number of countries will see proportionately few new buyers - suggesting that the remaining featurephone owners are declining to upgrade to more powerful phones. The Netherlands will add just 1.4m users to its existing 9m - so only 39% of smartphone sales will go to new buyers - while Finland just 0.5m to its present 2.4m (so 43% of sales are new buyers). Others include Norway (44%), South Africa (44.6%), Australia (44.7%), United Arab Emirates (45%), Saudi Arabia (45.3%), and the UK (45.3%).ReplacementThe estimated sales figure of 1.03bn smartphones, and 761m new users, implies that about 27% of smartphone sales will be replacements of existing ones. But that overall figure is distorted by the huge numbers being bought by first-time users in China and India. The median figure across all the countries is that 56% of sales will go to existing owners, and the mean is 60% - suggesting that in about half of countries, more than four in ten smartphone sales will be to existing owners.The colossal growth in China and India points to further huge gains by the Android mobile operating system, with Chinese handset makers racing to produce products for a fast-moving market, while in India the local manufacturer Micromax is aiming to unseat Korean Samsung in a David-and-Goliath battle.Brazil, too, where Mediacells expects more than 38m new users, could be a key battleground between Google&apos;s Android and Firefox OS, the mobile operating system from the Mozilla foundation: &quot;Although the &apos;Android for All&apos; rule will apply in mainstream emerging mobile consumer economies, Mediacells is already seeing significant disruptions from Google challenger brands, which started in 2013,&quot; says Rees.&quot;For example, the Mozilla collaborative operating system software, Firefox OS, has been successful in wedding itself to affordable smartphone propositions with major operators such as Movistar [owned by Spain&apos;s Teleonica, which also owns O2] in strategic markets. During the Christmas 2013 period, Firefox OS smartphones at Movistar point of sale in Uruguay accounted for 30% of all smartphone sales.&quot;Mediacells sees this is an early indicator of demand for what a smartphone can do as a kind of reliable &apos;lifestyle powertool&apos;, and that this function far outstrips the mass market consumer need for it to be delivered by a known mobile brand - if anything it&apos;s more to do with being delivered by a known internet brand.&quot;He points out that in Brazil, its young population (where more than 80% are under 54) and the forthcoming World Cup this year will make it a &quot;fertile market&quot; for smartphone growth: &quot;with the entry in 2013 of Firefox smartphones in 14 developing countries, Brazil being one of them, at the $50 - $100 pricepoint - internet-based smartphones are cheap and plentiful.&quot;The US is expected to continue adding new smartphone users at an average of about 3m per month - consistent with the picture over the past two years. Rees forecasts a rise in take-up among under-14 year olds (63m of them) as smartphones from Motorola Samsung and LG will drive volume in this segment and others.&quot;The UK&apos;s addition of 8 million new smartphone owners is about 20% of the current 39.4m users, and represents 750,000 people upgrading to a smartphone each month.2014 smartphone forecast: new users and upgrading users. (Click for larger version on Flickr)&nbsp;Photograph: /PR/MediacellsHow total smartphone users will grow in 2014: China and India will be the two largest, with India overtaking the US and Brazil overtaking Russia.Click for larger version on Flickr.Photograph: /PR/Mediacells
The happiest place in the UK? It’s easy to find: all you have to do is analyse the colours, facial expressions and other objects in tens of millions of location-tagged photos posted on Instagram. And it turns out that the happiest city is Belfast - and the happiest place there is a pub called the Parlour Bar in Elmwood Avenue.Why? Because the people in photos posted from around that location tend to be smiling, and few look grumpy.The least happy place, meanwhile, turns out to be Salford, which comes below London and Bath in an analysis of 40 cities by Peter Warden, co-founder of the UK startup Jetpac, which provides guides of places to visit around the world based on publicly posted pictures.Warden analysed 100m photos from Instagram’s public system, as part of the company’s attempt to build a recommendation system built purely on pictures which are “geotagged” - linked to a specific location.He got software to analyse the faces in the pictures, which first found the mouths of people in the pictures, and then decided - based on colour - whether they were wearing lipstick (which would indicate being “glammed up”, and so likely to be having a good time) and whether they were smiling - which is rated on a scale of 0 to 100.The software could also identify moustaches - and so could point to the places in cities likely to have the largest concentration of “hipsters” - although, Warden notes, they tend not to smile as much as others. (That could be part of the reason why London rates so lowly on the top 40.)Using that system, Belfast turns out to be the happiest city - and the Parlour Bar, close by the Methodist College and the Botanical Gardens, is ranked as the ground zero of happy people.“We get a lot of students,” said John Kennedy, the manager at the bar, when contaced by the Guardian. “They bring a fun element to the bar. And we’ve got a quirky atmosphere. Plus oven-baked pizza.” The 550-capacity location also means that students armed with smartphones are highly likely to take and share photos from there.Warden’s analysis was made possible because we are generating so many photographs every day. More than a billion photos are taken worldwide on a daily basis. About 55m of those are taken on instagram - and of those, 30% are public, and of those 30% are geotagged, yielding nearly 5m photos every day on Instagram alone which are public and geotagged.“We’re identifying particular venues (bars, hotels, parks, etc) that we are interested in, and then we query Instagram for public photos at that place over the last year,” explains Warden. “Popular places will have hundreds or thousands of photos, and we’ve looked at over 6 million venues so far, so the numbers add up pretty quickly.”Even with a few hundred photos from a location he says it’s possible to produce “reasonable data” on gender ratios, popular hours, the moustache density, coffee cup prevalence (indicating whether a place is a coffee bar or bar) and so on.“It’s also possible to look at where else the photographers at a place take photos, so we can tell if a bar’s popular with students by the number of photos at university buildings the people there have taken,” Warden explains.Jetpac’s systems have analysed photos to create many other categories - including intellectuals (art galleries and museums), jet-setters (take many airport building photos), parents (photos from nurseries or toy stores), musos (photos from concert halls and music festivals), sports fans and more.Warden, who formerly worked at Apple, said: “I’ve been searching for an interesting and accessible data source like this for years, so it’s been great to find one I can turn into a useful product. I’m convinced all the &apos;data exhaust&apos; people are generating can actually help us in a lot of ways, so it’s great to get beyond Tomorrow’s World tech demos and have something a bit more down-to-earth to show.”UK cities&apos; happiness ranking1 Belfast 34.292 Bournemouth 32.883 Derby 32.604 Exeter 32.345 Lincoln 31.956 Aberdeen 31.147 Glasgow 31.028 Colchester 30.689 Newcastle upon Tyne 30.4310 Oxford 29.9611 Coventry 29.8912 Cardiff 29.7913 Wolverhampton 29.6514 Milton Keynes 28.9715 Canterbury 28.9716 Leeds 28.6217 Liverpool 27.3918 Cambridge 27.3019 Manchester 27.2020 Plymouth 27.1821 Birmingham 26.9522 Leicester 26.2923 Portsmouth 26.2024 Windsor 26.1425 Reading 25.9426 Southampton 25.8627 Newport 25.0928 Nottingham 24.9129 Bristol 24.2130 Norwich 24.0731 Blackpool 23.9632 York 23.4433 Brighton 23.4434 Sheffield 23.3835 Newquay 22.9636 Edinburgh 22.3137 Luton 22.2238 London 20.4839 Bath 18.3240 Salford 17.90
Sometimes the biggest changes in technology have the smallest beginnings. In the summer of 2013, Apple announced iBeacon, a nerdy-sounding feature of its new operating system that would &quot;provide apps a whole new level of location awareness&quot;.It&apos;s taken a few months to appear in the real world, but fromCEStogrocery stores– and, of course,Apple&apos;s shops themselves– iBeacon now seems to be popping up everywhere.What is iBeacon?It&apos;s a new technology developed by Apple, built into its operating systems and devices since 2013, and it may &quot;change the world forever&quot;, according to the Washington Post.The technology lets businesses set up transmitters which can tell nearby smartphones of their presence. It may not sound like much, but combined with the right software, it opens up a massive number of possibilities.With iBeacon set up, shops could send customers special offers for goods they are walking past, prepare pre-ordered items for pickup the minute someone comes through the door (the end of queueing!) or remind the customer about their shopping list – fish when they are standing at the fish counter, bread at the bakery, and so on.And it can be used in more than just retail.Nomi, a New York-based firm which specialises in these sort of set-ups, has worked with theme parks, concert venues and stadiums, as well as restaurants and car companies.In December, Bar Kick, a table-football-themed Shoreditch coffee shop, became one of the first in Britain to implement the technology, giving away free copies of music magazine Dazed &amp; Confused and football magazine When Saturday Comes, but only to patrons actually inside the cafe.Aren&apos;t there privacy issues with that?Yes. While iBeacon brings the advantages of the internet to the real world, it also brings the downsides.Just using data from old-fashioned loyalty cards, the US retailer Target famouslydiscovered a teenage girl was pregnant before her own father knew; think how much more information can be inferred by knowing not only what a customer has bought, but also how long they stopped to look at a product they didn&apos;t buy, how hurriedly they moved through the store, and the times they didn&apos;t buy anything at all.But for iBeacon to work, customers need to install the app of the retailer they are visiting, providing an easy way to opt out of any tracking. Of course, if there&apos;s money-off vouchers and free stuff involved, how many people will really opt-out?Is this another Apple walled garden?Although iBeacon is an Apple trademark, the technology behind it is an open standard. An iBeacon transmitter is just a small, low-powered bluetooth aerial, shouting its name to anyone who asks. The actual tracking is done in software on the customer&apos;s phone which, works out its location using triangulation; if iBeacon #3452435 is 20m away, iBeacon #3491035 is 5m away, and iBeacon #9045902 is 50m away, then the customer must be in the wine aisle.While Apple&apos;s iOS 7 has the required abilities to do this built into the operating system, any Android phone with Bluetooth and Android 4.3 or above can pick up the same signals, and it&apos;s on the app developers to make the most of them.What about NFC?Some have viewed iBeacon as Apple&apos;s answer to &quot;Near Field Communications&quot; (NFC), which lets compatible phones send information in the same way a contactless credit card.The two technologies are very different on the surface: NFC only works at ranges of tens of centimetres, and requires special hardware in the phone to get working. But they both offer a way to link the physical and digital worlds – and there&apos;s probably only room for one.•High street shops are studying shopper behaviour by tracking their smartphones or movement
Dr Dre&apos;s headphones brand Beats will launch itsBeats Musicstreaming music service on 21 January in the US, competing with Spotify, Rhapsody and Google Play Music All Access.The company has been working on the service for more than a year, having hired Nine Inch Nails&apos; Trent Reznor as chief creative officer, and digital music industry veteran Ian Rogers as chief executive at the start of 2013.In December, Rogers hadpromised that Beats Music would launch in January, but over the weekend the company confirmed the date, price, initial distribution partners and more details on how the service will try to differentiate itself from the competition, although for now, it will only be available in the US.Unlike Spotify, there will be no free element to Beats Music beyond an initial 30-day free trial. Subscribers will pay $9.99 a month for unlimited access to a catalogue of more than 20m songs through apps on iOS, Android and Windows Phone devices, as well as a website for desktop access.US mobile operator AT&amp;T Wireless will be on board for the launch, with customers on a &quot;multiline&quot; account able to pay $14.99 a month to get Beats Music for up to five family members and 10 devices, including an extended 90-day free trial. Retailer Target will also promote the service through gift cards sold in its stores.The key selling point for Beats Music is curation, with Beats executives including Rogers and parent company Beats Electronics&apos; CEO Jimmy Iovine having spent the last year promising to outdo their rivals with their quality of music recommendations.Beats has hired a team of editorial staff from backgrounds including radio and journalism to curate music playlists, while also partnering with Pitchfork, Rolling Stone, DJ Mag and Country Weekly, among other media brands, to provide their own selections.Customers will also get a &quot;personalised selection of albums and playlists&quot; delivered four times a day, with more recommendations based on their location, activity, surroundings and musical preferences, as Beats aims to make context one of its key features.&quot;Beats Music combines the emotion only a human created playlist can give you with the best personalisation technology can deliver,&quot; said Rogers in a statement. &quot;With this you get not just the music experience only a talented DJ or music expert can deliver, but also the right one for you right now.&quot;Beats execs Dr Dre and Jimmy Iovine. Photograph: Kevin Mazur/WireImageThe company is also angling to pitch itself as a more artist-friendly alternative to rivals like Spotify, which have been criticised by a number of musicians in the last year for the size of the payouts for streams of music.Beats said at the weekend that it will be &quot;paying the same royalty rate to all content owners major and indie alike&quot;, although it has not announced what that rate will be.Spotify said late last yearthat its average payout to music rightsholders – labels and publishers – for a single stream of a track varies between $0.006 and $0.0084.Beats said a year ago that it would be working with music technology company Topspin – where Rogers was CEO before being poached by Beats – to help artists sell merchandise within Beats Music. Since then, Topspin has signed a similar partnership with Spotify.&quot;Beats Music is based on the belief that all music has value and this concept was instilled in every step of its development. We want it to be just as meaningful for artists as it is for fans,&quot; said Reznor.Beats Music&apos;s launch kicks off what&apos;s expected to be a year of robust competition for streaming music services. Google&apos;s All Access service launched in 2013, but the company&apos;s YouTube subsidiary is also expected to launch its own subscription service in the first quarter of 2014. French streaming music service Deezer is also expected to launch in the US in the coming months.Meanwhile, Apple launched its iTunes Radio service last year offering radio-like streaming stations, but not fully on-demand music.The company will be watching the market closely in 2014 though:figures announced earlier this monthby Nielsen and Billboard revealed that while US digital music track sales fell 6% to 1.3bn units in 2013, while song streams rose 32% to 118.1bn.
The great paradox of the internet age is that geography has become less important, and more. Technology allows people at opposite ends of the Earth to work together, yet the most innovative collaborations take place in clusters. Proximity matters. As the Harvard economist Edward Glaeser has written, cities "are our greatest invention" – crucibles where entrepreneurs can collide with experts and ideas from a wide range of fields.Research from the US has shown that technology patents are disproportionately created in a small number of urban areas, and even in the best-known technology cluster, the centre of gravity is rapidly shifting from the leafy suburbs of Silicon Valley to the city of San Francisco.As this report shows, Britain's cities are becoming global centres of technological innovation in their own right. This urban renaissance is incredibly exciting, breathing new life into Britain's metropolitan heartlands and creating jobs in every corner of the country. It's also, of course, part of a broader economic story, with more new businesses started in the UK last year than at any time in our history.I've been lucky to see at first-hand how quickly technology clusters can grow. When I created the Government's Tech City initiative in 2010 to support the emerging cluster in East London, there were around 200 technology and digital companies in the area. Today there are over 3,000, supporting approximately 50,000 jobs and apprenticeships.Government policies have supported this explosive growth: just look at the tsunami of seed funding unleashed by the incredibly generous tax incentives for investment in new companies, or how the release of public sector data has directly inspired a new generation of British tech companies.But local action is vital too, and the case studies in this report shine a light on the key ingredients of a healthy technology ecosystem. In Belfast and Manchester, flexible office space in science parks and warehouses has created fertile ground for start-ups, while technology businesses in Edinburgh and Bristol have been boosted by support from local universities.Building on this success will be a test for both right and left in British politics. Some on the right are too quick to castigate interventions that might support specific clusters and industries, while left-wing politicians who want to scrap tax reliefs for entrepreneurs and angel investors – on the grounds that they "help the rich" - risk damaging the UK's burgeoning technology economy.In truth, there are many sensible policies to support technology clusters that politicians should be able to unite behind. If I was still in Downing Street, here's what I'd be fighting for.Our urban clusters are held back by a shortage of people with modern technology skills. UK computer science graduates have the highest unemployment rate of any subject area, because many universities aren't giving students the skills they need. So poor performing courses should be overhauled, and we should also take a leaf from New York's book and invite the world's leading universities to open computer science campuses in British cities.We also need to open up government contracts to innovative small businesses. Technology businesses in clusters across the UK have next to no chance of winning public sector contracts because the procurement system is so unfairly rigged in favour of massive companies. The Government has made great strides in opening up central government contracts to small businesses, and if they want to help tech clusters, local councils should do the same.Finally, let's remember the simple, human point at the heart of all this: we need to attract bright, entrepreneurial people to live and work in our cities. That means understanding the economic importance of art, culture, music, food, nightlife - and supporting these things, not undermining them. And we need much more energetic action on affordable housing – especially in London.As this report demonstrates, Britain's effervescent technology clusters are garnering new attention and momentum with each passing day. Thanks to the hordes of energetic entrepreneurs and their teams in cities across the country, our nation's technology future is blisteringly bright.
According to a recent survey by ABI Research, by the end of 2013 there were1.4bn smartphonesin use. Earlier research from IDC in 2012 predicted there would beover 172m tabletsas well. As well as the usual suspects of GPS and mobile internet, one of the things we now expect on our choice of smartphone or tablet is some form of maps app.A modern digital map is a very clever piece of software. You can zoom in and out, add or remove information and make the map move by tapping or dragging your fingers. The map you&apos;re looking at is probably what&apos;s termed a slippy map - like a movable window peering down on the larger map of the world underneath.Now imagine taking the map out of your smartphone or tablet and looking at it side-on. What looks like a single map is actually made up of stacked layers. The bottom layer is opaque and contains what&apos;s normally called the &quot;base map&quot;, whether a traditional cartographic map or satellite images. On top of that are one or more translucent layers containing other information. They all line up to make the map see, and stay aligned when you change your view of the map. This how almost all of today&apos;s maps work, be they maps fromNokia&apos;s Here,Google,Apple,OpenStreetMapor any other of the number of digital maps that exist today.But you can search maps too. We&apos;re all used to typing in what we want to find and seeing it displayed, as another layer, on top of the map. Sometimes, though, we don&apos;t get quite the results we&apos;re looking for. Why not?Just as computers don&apos;t reallyunderstandtext, but are just making millions of binary calculations, a digital map doesn&apos;t reallyunderstandwhat it shows. All a map really knows about are latitude and longitude - a pair of numbers identifying a position on the surface of the earth. Latitude gives the north-south position, longitude the east-west position. Thus &quot;51.44615, -0.32873&quot; points to the main high street of Twickenham in south-west London.The co-ordinates of most of the features on the layers on the map can be stored when the map data is collected out in the real world. This data can vary, from a precise point for small things on the map, such as a bus stop or a house to the shape, as a series of co-ordinates, of larger things, such as large buildings all the way up to the shape of countries and continents. For a lot of map making, you just need to find a way of ensuring these all line up and your map&apos;s layers work as you&apos;d expect them to.Unco-ordinated humansBut humans don&apos;t speak in terms of co-ordinates; we use placenames, neighbourhoods, addresses. To understand these, a map needs the unsung hero of digital maps, the often unknown and usually unappreciated crown jewel for any map-making company: a geocoder.A geocoder takes an address and works out the best set of co-ordinates it can, and returns the best choice. For densely populated areas, there&apos;s a good chance that a geocoder will know about house numbers and what side of the road they&apos;re on, and will give you back an answer that&apos;s pretty accurate. Outside of metropolitan areas it can be a less exact science, especially in rural areas where a property can extend over a large area. But a good geocoder will try to cope with this and give you its best attempt at an answer.Geocoding sounds easy: just take a text string, work out which words are a place name, address or other geographical term, and look them up in a dictionary of latitude and longitude co-ordinates.In fact: it&apos;s not easy. And geocoders vary a lot. Some can work out what country the address lives in as the rules for addressing vary wildly; some need to be told the country.But when we search on a map, we tend not to speak as precisely as a geocoder would like. How should a geocoder make sense of a search phrase such as &quot;coffee in London&quot;? If you live in the UK, you&apos;ll probably intuitively understand that London means the capital of the country. But if you live in Canada, you probably mean the London in Ontario. There&apos;s also a London in France, one on Christmas Island and nine towns or cities called London in the US. So which London do you mean?This is a problem known as disambiguation. A geocoder not only needs to knowwhereyou mean, but also &quot;what you mean&quot; and which of the possible answers you really want. The &quot;what you mean&quot; part of the process is sometimes called geoparsing, but most modern geocoders also take this role on.Here in SpringfieldSpringfield is one of the most common town names in the US. Photograph: /Public domainKnowing where you are, via the GPS-derived coordinate from your smart device, can help. Armed with these, another part of geocoding, called &quot;reverse geocoding&quot;, can help. Rather than turn an address into coordinates, reverse geocoding tries to turn coordinates into an address (or the best guess). If you type &quot;Coffee in London&quot; into your smartphone, it can work out that you&apos;re in or near the capital of the UK, so you probably want the London that&apos;s closest to you. Probably.As well as trying to work out what you do mean, a geocoder also needs to try and work out what youdon&apos;tmean. &quot;Coffee in London&quot; has ambiguities: if you&apos;re in the US, &quot;IN&quot; is the abbreviation for the state of Indiana; and it&apos;s also the International Standards Organisation&apos;s code for the country of India.Then there are words that are actually placesas wellas being words with no geographical meaning. Eight out of ten of the most commonly used English words are also places. The? A town in the Burgundy wine region of France. Of: a town in Turkey. To: a town in Japan. A: a town in Norway. You: a town in Burkina Faso. It&apos;s enough to make a geocoder give up and look for another job.Then there&apos;s disambiguating between multiple places, all with the same name. One reason why the town in which The Simpsons is set is called &quot;Springfield&quot; is it&apos;s one of the most common town names in the US; there&apos;s 38 cities, 11 towns and 14 townships with this name at the last count. Every time a geocoder thinks it&apos;s got the right answer, there&apos;s probably a duplicate somewhere in the world.Searching for "Peru " gives answers that aren't necessarily the ones you expect. Photograph: /Public domainTake &quot;Peru&quot;, for example. Obviously a country in South America? Yes, but also a town in neighbouring Bolivia, and a town in neighbouring Argentina. There&apos;s a Colorado in Texas, a Washington in California and a Kansas in Pennsylvania. You can use GPS to help figure out where you are and choose the closest place to you, but a geocoder also needs to know things such a population size to try and guess which is the most likely of the multiple answers it knows about.To do all of this, you need geographic data andlotsof it. Generally, the more data and datasets you have, the better the algorithms that a geocoder can use to make sense of a query.So you&apos;ll want listings of all the addresses for the streets in a country, together with an explanation (in algorithmic form) of how each county&apos;s addresses work. American streets use directions, such as &quot;East Main Street&quot;, and often abbreviate this to just E Main; British streets usually don&apos;t. British addresses use postcodes, Irish ones don&apos;t (unless you&apos;re in Dublin), though this will all change in 2015.Which Richmond?Official information such as census information, administrative boundaries and how a country&apos;s geography works is also in the mix, so the geocoder can work out how a country fits together; if it can&apos;t give you the co-ordinates of a house number, it can give you the next best thing, such as the road name, the neighbourhood or the district.A geocoder also needs to know the difference between how officialdom refers to geography and how the rest of the population does. You might live in the London borough of Richmond upon Thames, but you probably just say Richmond. Spare a thought for the poor geocoder, which has to know that you really mean Richmond - and that the Borough of Richmond also has a town called Richmond in it. The UK isn&apos;t alone in this; if you&apos;re talking about San Francisco, do you mean the city or the county? It doesn&apos;t help that for San Francisco - both the city and the county - have the same name and that they&apos;re officially the City and County of San Francisco.So far, a geocoder can work out what you mean if you ask for King Street, Twickenham, TW1 3SN and it can work out which London you mean if you ask for &quot;coffee in London&quot;. But what it can&apos;t do yet is work out the name of the coffee shop you&apos;re looking for or what classes as a coffee shop. To put the final piece of the puzzle into place you need a point of interest, or POI.Traditionally, a POI was something that someone would find useful or interesting. The London Eye, the Eiffel Tower and Heathrow airport are all POIs. But these days, a POI is any type of place that ends up on a map; the names of shops and businesses, of public transport stations, of cinemas, of museums, of car parks, of hospitals and anything else that we might look for on a map. Along with the names of each POI comes the address, which of course needs to be geocoded so it can be shown on the map in the right place and the type of place, such as coffee shops. Feedback from the person on the end of the phone can also help here. That&apos;s why you&apos;ll find most digital maps have a big &quot;something is wrong&quot; button, as well as using implicit feedback that looks at how often a result is the right one. (Thankfully no one has worked out how to game a geocoder in the same way as search engine rankings can be gamed - at least, not yet.)Now someone can find out the answer to the innocuous but fiendish question of what &quot;coffee in London&quot; really means. But we don&apos;t only want an answer to such a question; we want an answer quickly.If you&apos;re geocoding information, such as shops or other businesses, to work out where to put them on a map, then speed isn&apos;t a factor. You can set off a geocoder to run over a large data set and come back sometime later to see if it&apos;s finished.But if you&apos;re geocoding in response to someone tapping on their mobile phone or typing on a website then speed is critical. One of the downsides of today&apos;s web and mobile experiences is that we&apos;ve become accustomed to instant gratification; we don&apos;t just want something, we want it now. Geocoding is a process that&apos;s both compute-intensive and data-intensive, so anything that can boost one or both of these is a valuable part of the geocoding system&apos;s arsenal.However Moore&apos;s Law (the number of transistors on a computer chip doubling every two years) still holds true. Most industrial strength geocoders are actually large numbers of servers, hidden behind a single IP address. But getting data off of a disk is still relatively slow, so geocoding servers often use large amounts of RAM and clever compression to load all the data needed into memory for faster access. Solid-state disk drives and caching popular requests can also help to give the answer back to your laptop or phone as soon as is possible.Now all of the examples so far have assumed that we&apos;re typing English into our digital maps. English may be the third most common native language in the world, but a geocoder that works only in English won&apos;t serve the global needs of today&apos;s digital maps. When you add multiple languages into the geocoding mix things get a lot more interesting and tricky.In English you can fairly easily split a phrase up into words and use each word to narrow down your geocoding efforts. In languages which don&apos;t use a Latin alphabet, you often have to check each individual character and adjacent characters. In Korean, the district of Suyeong is written as 수영구. But you need to be careful: if just one character is missed you end up with 수영, which translates as &quot;swimming&quot; or &quot;swimming costume&quot; (depending on context) which you&apos;re probably not trying to find on a map, unless you&apos;re thinking of going swimming.ConclusionsLooking after a geocoder is a never-ending task. While the shape of our planet remains more or less the same, humans are changing the map at a furious rate. A geocoder needs almost constant updates to know about what businesses have opened and which ones have closed, about new roads and housing developments and about changes in human political geography.Consider for a moment that since 1990, almost 35 new countries have been created, withSouth Sudanbeing the most recent in July of 2011. (Nothing annoys people faster than getting the name of their home country wrong.) Geocoders aren&apos;t perfect; geography and human intervention ensures that making a geocoder that&apos;s 100% accurate all the time is an almost impossible task, and if you don&apos;t get an answer to the question you type into your phone or laptop, it&apos;s probably because no answer is better than an answer that&apos;s just wrong.Making a geocoder that works with 75% accuracy, all the time, in multiple languages occupies 100% of the time of the dedicated teams of software experts who care and feed for geocoders. Getting to that elusive 100% accuracy rate hasn&apos;t been done yet and probably never will and that will take those software experts the other 100% of their time, if not more.So next time you mutter to yourself &quot;why don&apos;t you understand what I mean?&quot; when using a digital map, spare a thought for the true hero of map making, the humble but incredibly complex and clever geocoder. You may not know you&apos;re using one, but each and every day, geocoders the world over try and take the badly phrased and ambiguous search terms we type into our digital maps and try to make sense of them. They are the true heart of today&apos;s maps. Without them, we wouldn&apos;t be able to achieve even half of what we&apos;ve come to expect of digital maps.Gary Gale is a consultant withLokkuas geotechnologist in residence. He was formerly director of places and global community programs for Nokia and its Here maps division.He is on Twitter@vicchiand his webpage isGarygale.com.• Now you might understand what happened:Google apologises over reviving Adolf-Hitler-Platz in Berlin
This week on the podcastAleks Krotoskiand the Guardian Tech team switch on their cyrstal balls (running linux!) and gaze into 2014 to pick out some tech trends that will define the year ahead. Guardian technology editorCharles Arthurand Guardian tech reporterAlex Herndiscuss predictions ranging from the explosion in the Asian smart phone market to the rise of wearable tech.Also we hear from this years Consumer Electronics Show, CES 2014. Guardian technology reporterSamuel Gibbstells Aleks about the latest consumer tech from texting washing machines to curved TV's. You can read all of Samuel's coverage byclicking here.
In the wake of losing his partnership with Lady Gaga, you might expectTroy Carter, her former manager, to be a bereft, bruised soul haunting the boulevards of Los Angeles, dazed at his fall from the music industry heights. His collaboration with one of the planet's most recognisable, lucrative artists ended abruptly in November. Neither side has publicly given a reason but many suspectGagafired him. Whatever the truth, Carter surely has cause to wail. Or at least wilt.Not a bit of it. Seated in his sleek office, all leather furnishings, marble and expensive lighting, he fizzes with enthusiasm about the future. "I've been in the music industry for 24 years and with God's grace I'll be in it until I take my last breath. And I don't think a speed bump in the road will stop me from doing what I love."Losing the queen of pop, a speed bump? Carter shrugs. He is not supposed to comment on the split, he says. But he makes clear it is by no means fatal to his career. "It's not cancer. When you look at the big scheme of things, it's not cancer."Such sangfroid is rare in the music industry but Carter's rollercoaster career has given him perspective on success, failure and bouncing back. From humble roots in Philadelphia, he has more than once gained, lost and regained sway in LA showbusiness. He is a survivor.His confidence in a Gaga-less future, however, stems largely from his unusual and powerful position at the crossroads between music and technology.Troy Carter and Lady Gaga. Photograph: kingsofar.comCarter helped mastermind Gaga's strategy of marketing music directly to fans through social media and new technology, part of a wave of innovation still upending the entire industry. His biggest star is gone but Carter remains a player not just in music but inSilicon Valley, where he has invested in myriad companies includingSpotify,Dropbox,Uber,SongzaandSummly. Record labels and tech entrepreneurs consider him something of an oracle about the tempest he helped unleash."Everybody should be nervous," he says, matter-of-factly, the Philly accent still detectable. "With the music industry we've always had technological change, whether it was disruption from eight-track to cassette, or cassette to CD, CD to download, download to streaming. The difference now is how fast it's happening. We're seeing new technology pop up every few months like this." Carter clicks his fingers. "I sit on the edge of my seat. I try to live around the corner just to get a sneak peak, to have some sense of what's happening. The industry [needs] to be very aware, concerned and curious about everything on the way." Among the changes he foresees: albums released solely as apps; unprecedented data harvesting; more African Americans in Silicon Valley; concert holograms; massively bigger audiences; and the triumph of the perpetually online, engaged digital star.Hollywood, record labels and tech giants such as Apple, Google and Samsung face immense risks and opportunities, says Carter. "Everybody should be afraid right now. We saw what happened to Nokia and BlackBerry and Motorola. Nobody saw Android coming. Nobody saw the iPhone coming. Nobody saw Samsung coming. No one is safe right now. Everything is moving so quickly."Carter's opinion has weight. Just before meeting theObserver, he hosted a wealthy venture capitalist seeking guidance on industry trends. TheHarvard Business Reviewdocumented Carter's role as music Svengali and geek guru in twostudiesof Gaga's success. "Troy is an extremely well-respected manager," Anita Elberse, a professor who co-authored the Harvard studies, told thePhiladelphia Inquirerearlier this year. "[Gaga's] rise has been phenomenally fast, and to manage such a quick climb to the top is incredibly difficult. It requires making a wide range of decisions, on touring, on the release of her albums, on forming partnerships with the right people and companies, each of which comes with significant risk." If he offered to lecture at Harvard, Elberse said she would accept. "I think he'd be fantastic."Wiredmagazinefeatured himon its cover last year under the headline "Mogul 2.0: how Lady Gaga's manager reinvented the celebrity game with social media". ABillboardmagazine cover featured him as part of a "power trio".The 41-year-old is the founder, chairman and CEO of the grandly titledCoalition Media Group, a talent management and film and TV production company. He works from the management division, known as Atom Factory, in Century City. A big tank with tropical fish adorns the reception. Hipstery types breeze in and out, munching seaweed snacks.Troy Carter in 2011.The mogul himself turns out to be a down-to-earth, affable, wiry figure in jeans, boots and checked shirt. He looks younger than his years but jokes about having an "old soul". He tends to speaks slowly, giving himself time to think. As a boy, he says, he was curious but not geeky. "I always wanted to figure out how things work, I would take things apart." Growing up in a gritty neighbourhood, he received a limited formal education but found his curiosity piqued by a neighbour, Lawrence Goodman, who ran a rap label. Carter and some friends formed a rap group, which was signed by Will Smith and James Lassiter's WillJam Records label. They weren't very good and lost the contract but Carter stayed on as an administrative dogsbody and personal assistant. He moved with Lassiter to LA only to be fired – he had become arrogant, he later admitted – and banished back to Philly.Chastened, he co-founded a talent agency and clawed his way back to LA, and success, until a deal soured and ruined him by 2007.Enter Gaga. A producer friend, Vincent Herbert, introduced Carter to then unknown Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta. The trio toured her unique look and sound around bars and clubs but radio stations shunned her. She was too strange, too different. "It was tough to get played on the radio so we used social media as an alternative way to reach audiences," he recalls.An early adopter, Gaga became a phenomenon, eventually garnering 40 million Twitter followers, 61 million Facebook fans and 2.3 billion YouTube views. "It wasn't anything that we did was original. It was a whole new wave of artists that were using these as tools."The technology democratised video and eliminated middle men such as labels and publicists, giving artists direct access to fans. "It became an alternative to getting played on the radio or TV so we took a heavy interest in it. The tech community embraced our curiosity and welcomed us in. That's what opened up the doors."It was Gaga's idea, after seeing the Facebook biopic,The Social Network, to create their own network.LittleMonsters.comis its own ecosystem that lets fans buy music or concert tickets, watch videos, upload artwork and chat with other fans around the world with instant translation. "Gaga has done a phenomenal job building this huge digital fanbase – fans who became activists for her and will fight battles on her behalf," says Carter. "At the height of rock'n'roll it was about mailing lists. One of the early jobs I did was opening Will [Smith]'s fan mail. Now all that's been replaced by tweets and social media. So you've always had that connection. But now you can reach people in real time."LittleMonsters.com is hosted onBackplane, a new platform that Carter and other backers hope will host other community sites, herding content and interaction into one hub – and generating a data trove. Coca-Cola, Nike, Cirque du Soleil and a few others have signed up, he says, because they want the data and the relationship with consumers. "Are we going to replace large social media platforms for brands? I'm not sure. But we are seeing some traction in that space."Gaga's release of an app of her latest album,Artpop, foreshadowed a future when all albums will be apps, says Carter. "It's a much richer album experience for consumers. It becomes a living, breathing thing." They can, for example, amend the artwork or annotate lyrics. "There's a million things you can do." Others will follow her lead, he says. "I'm very bullish about this new generation of artists. They're digital natives. They're starting their careers online."Not all are convinced. "If you think Lady Gaga is rubbish, you won't like the app. If you're one of her avid Little Monsters, you'll love it. And everyone else? Well, it's certainly interesting," said theGuardian's Stuart Dredge. The album itself received mixed reviews and sold poorly in comparison to the 2011Born This Way, prompting speculation that Gaga is being eclipsed by rivals such as Miley Cyrus. True or not, their parting of ways has freed Carter to focus on things that do not involve meat dresses or meme-inducing hats.Troy Carter with Spotify's Kenneth Parks. Photograph: Todd Williamson/APHe sees multiple opportunities. The music industry suffered a "hurricane Katrina" from illegal downloads, streaming, YouTube and other innovations for which it was unprepared, says Carter, but the advent of services such as iTunes, Spotify and Pandora tamed piracy and generated income. "We're now at a really good point, seeing the fruits of the labour." Radiohead,David Byrneand other artists who accuse streaming of impoverishing artists and killing creativity would disagree.Long before the split with Gaga, Carter diversified into other artists, such as John Legend and Lindsey Stirling, but his foray into Silicon Valley could yield far greater benefits. It was a logical step because he believes music's future lies in mobile devices and streaming and that CDs and record stores will go the way of vinyl and Blockbusters. He has invested in more than 40 startups and employs engineers in Palo Alto to keep up with the revolution. "We don't have a clue what technology will look like in three years, let alone in 10 years. We stay very close to entrepreneurs and [many] want us to see their emerging technology first because they know we're not afraid of it. And they know we're good at being able to translate their vision to music executives. We kind of serve as this bridge."The likes of Snapchat, which processes 400 million messages daily, exposes the puniness of metrics such as album sales, he grumbles. The music industry needs to redefine scale and success. To think bigger. Way bigger. A recentU2 tour sold 7 milliontickets – rather good, most would think, but Carter thinks a future tour could net 700 million tickets by beaming holograms into living rooms or multiple stadiums. "It's a matter of time before the technology scales to that point." When songs start dwarfing photos in terms of reach – Audagram? – engineers and designers will gravitate towards the music industry, he predicts. "As we see this fusion of content and technology, we're going to be able to compete with some of the best technology companies in terms of recruiting talent."Black faces are rare in Silicon Valley but Carter says his race has not been a factor. "It's all about the idea, the ability to execute." He hopes his example will encourage young African Americans to become coders and entrepreneurs, just as Motown opened the music industry to black executives. "It takes just one person to be able to break down that door and show it's possible. And that's an option for the people coming behind me."There was little culture shock, he says, because tech engineers have similar personalities to musicians. "When you think about the amount of time you need to spend behind a keyboard as a kid, or a computer, your social skills can lag behind that of a kid who was out playing football." Tech entrepreneurs, he says, can match music producers' flamboyance. "You see those guys driving Ferraris and flying private planes. You're seeing a convergence of both lifestyles."Data capture is locking both sides in a tight embrace. Downloading, streaming and using the likes of LittleMonsters.com generates detailed information of immense value to artists, labels, stores and advertisers. "It's a game changer," beams Carter. "We're really understanding for the first time who the consumer is and how the consumer ticks." It lets you fine-tune tour schedules and marketing. "You know who are the super fans, who are the passive fans, what songs they're listening to at any specific time."In the wake of NSA snooping revelations and privacy concerns, is this not ominous? Carter, ever the optimist, shakes his head. "If you're transparent about your use of the data, and the tradeoff is valuable to the consumer, I don't think there's an issue." Over time, however, he expects more people to switch default settings to private. "When I download an app I don't want it to blast to all of my contacts."Carter with Lady Gaga in 2010. Photograph: Christopher Polk/Getty ImagesThe man who presided over Lady Gaga's social media empire, it turns out, has a tiny digital footprint. For work he uses Path, which limits contacts to 150, and uses Facebook just for family. He doesn't tweet. "Twitter is much more public and I don't have that many clever things to say."Even so, he believes technology now compels artists – and pretty much anyone with an audience – to be more transparent, available and interactive. Burnishing mystique with aloofness is very last century. "The whole mysterious star game is over. This audience grew up with reality TV, where people put their entire lives online. These kids share everything now. They want a constant flow of content. You're becoming more of a star now if you're opening up your life to the fans; it builds the bond."Hollywood stars are struggling to adapt, he says. "These are the guys who were mysterious back in the day. Now they have a problem connecting with the audience. They're not social media savvy."Will this not condemn us to ever more superficiality and narcissism? He laughs. "If you're a superficial narcissist I completely agree. It's just going to amplify whoever you are. If you're sincere and smart and genuine and lovable that's what's going to come across in your videos and tweets."The rule applies to anyone with an audience, no matter how small, because once a talk or performance is filmed it can be uploaded and shared, after which anything is possible. "You never know how this information may travel and how big the profile may get. Whoever you are is just magnified." As are your mistakes. "Within seconds we don't just know about it, we have video about it, and we have snarky, cynical comments by bloggers, tweeters."A dystopian vision, to some, but Carter welcomes it. Technology and information will make our kids smarter, he says. "We may crowd source a cure for cancer. Or organ transplants." The interview ends and he rises to his feet, still in full flow about boundless possibilities, exciting opportunities. His optimism is understandable, though not necessarily infectious. The new dispensation will have winners and losers. Unlike most, the music industry's tech savant can smile knowing which side he is likely to end up on.CELEB TECH INVESTORSMC HammerThe 90s hip-hop star who gave us songs like Can't Touch This and 2&nbsp;Legit 2&nbsp;Quit has been in the tech investment game for some time, although he hasn't had much luck. Launched in 2007, his company DanceJam was a website and social platform that let users watch, learn and show off dance moves to each other.That closed in 2011. Wiredoo, a "deep search engine" that was designed to face up to giants Google and Yahoo, become insolvent in early 2012.Lady GagaAn avid Twitter user with a huge following,Gaga has invested in the Backplane company of her former manager Troy Carter.Her own tech credentials were scooped up by Polaroid, whichappointed her creative director in 2010.Supported by Tomorrow Venture, an investment firm run by Google executive Eric Schmidt, her ladyship also partnered with Zynga's outrageously popular Facebook game FarmVille to produce GagaVille, in which users could unleash new Gaga tracks as they played the game.Will.i.amThe sci-fi pop superstar is now Intel's director of creative innovation, a slightly mysterious role that currently entails a worldwide tour making songs on an "Ultrabook" laptop.He has also gone back to college to study computer science, invested in Stem education – covering science, technology, engineering and maths – and is a founding shareholder of Beats Electronics.However his much ballyhooed$475 golden iPhone case, the foto.sosho, produced by his wearable tech company, i.am+, was less successful.The garishly designed camera mount complete with huge straps has faded into obscurity after launching to big press at the end of 2012.BonoThe rockstar millionaire philanthropist has had amixed bag of success with his investment company Elevation Partners. The equity firm invested $300m in the smartphone developer Palm – which lost the market to Android and Apple and was eventually acquired by HP.Elevation Partners also invested $400m inForbeswhich, while not as catastrophic, has not been doing so well– the esteemed magazine had to sell its famous New York headquarters in 2010. His investment in Facebook however was an excellent move.The SmithsActress Jada Pinkett-Smith recently invested in her first tech startup when she partnered with Bipper – a company that has created the app bSafe which, at the press of a button, can alert friends and family if you are in danger.Pinkett-Smith proclaims that the app is "a safety service that can easily be used by anyone".Her husband Will Smith also has tech investments that include Viddy, another short video sharing service similar to Vine. He has also has been said to back Fancy, a webstore to rival to the popular photo-sharing site Pinterest.Ashton KutcherHaving made a name for himself on the big screen, Kutcher has sincebecometheangel of the tech scene with his shrewd, forward-thinking investmentsthat include Skype and Flipboard.He is now part of a power-trio, along with Madonna's manager Guy Oseary and businessman Ron Burkle, that runs investment fund A-Grade Investments.The firm has invested in a host of tech ventures, includingSpotify,AirbnbandThe Hunt– a crowdsourcing service that helps you find out where to buy items that you have seen on social media.
Beneath the US Capitol building there is one of the swankiest theatres in which I’ve screened my film,Terms and Conditions May Apply, to date.The space is usually reserved for tours during the daytime, but at night if you have the magic key - a Congressman- movie magic can happen for Capitol Hill’s elite.Our magic key was Congressman Justin Amash, a second-term representative from Michigan who made a splash this summer with his stance on government surveillance. He introduced anarrowly defeated amendment(205-217) that would have defunded the mass data collection that Section 215 of the FISA Amendments authorises. It has since become known as the Amash Amendment, and it was the first beacon of hope that Washington might reform the Patriot Act.While introducing the film, the Congressman laid out a somewhat bleak view regarding his leadership role in the field of privacy, “Civil liberties have been my focus in Congress, maybe in some ways unintentionally, I wish there were more people who cared about civil liberties here.”So how do you get Congressmen to care about privacy?One way might be to show them a film that clearly lays out the stakes, then bring out a panel of NSA whistleblowers to let them know that when it comes to the surveillance state, we are very much all in this together.So that’s what we did.Russ Tice and Thomas Drake, two whistleblowers that used to work for the NSA, took to the stage after the credits rolled. It turns out the intelligence community doesn’t take kindly to those who shine a light on their behavior. While Edward Snowden was forced to take hiding in Russia, Drake now spends his days working at an Apple store.I asked them point blank “whether or not members of Congress are being spied on by the NSA?”Tice responded: &quot;Back in 2004, 2005, the first hard target that the NSA was going after was Secretary Colin Powell and they were doing that with space systems at the time. When I got together with my friends that were working the terrestrial side, and that means fibre optics [...] they were mainly members on the intel committees, the armed services committees, and all of the senior leadership [...] NSA was wiretapping all of those individuals in Congress.&quot;You can imagine the chilling effect this had as it fell on the ears of members of Congress and their staffers. Having been in DC meetings where the phrase ‘off the record’ isn’t used lightly, I can tell you that there’s no better way to scare a Congressman than letting them know they’re being spied on too.I also can’t help but think that the effects of this conversation reverberated through the Congressional halls in its wake. Just this week, Rep. Bernie Sanders repeated my question to General Alexander: “Are you spying on members of Congress?”Alexander’s response was “Members of Congress have the same privacy protections as all US persons.”That’s comforting.While I am deeply concerned for the rights of the average citizen -my filmshows case after case of perfectly innocent people and protestors having their lives upended by these spy systems - I’m far more concerned about spying on members of Congress. Ask any Congressman what the value of a secret is. Unsavoury and unethical secrets can topple legacies, and a secret found by looking at phone conversations, emails, web history, and GPS data - even taken out of context - can be used to leverage and blackmail.Heck, blackmail and leverage are the bedrock of every plot in House of Cards, a show about political ambition and how to accomplish things in Washington (people in DC love this show). Obama even joked that he wished he had a majority whip like the character Kevin Spacey plays in the show because he’s “getting a lot of things done&quot;. Or ask any journalist who is trying to protect a source, a source who allows us to know that corruption exists.What is the relationship between the NSA and Congress?During the discussion, Russ Tice named Congresswoman Dianne Feinstein directly as someone he knows the NSA was spying on as far back at 2004-2005. I have no hard evidence that this is true. The man is a whistleblower, and you have to decide for yourself if you want to believe him; unfortunately he didn’t leave with 10,000 pages of classified proof. But remember, bureaucracies don’t go down without a fight.Why might the NSA have a particular interest in Dianne Feinstein? Well, she is the head of the Senate Intelligence Committee. If you’re part of this privileged group, you’re granted access to highly classified information surrounding the NSA’s activities. And when an agency operates outside the parameters of the Constitution, as Thomas Drake, the other whistleblower that day put it, “there’s an extraordinary temptation to spy on even those who have oversight over you, spy on those who would pass legislation that would affect you.”What these whistleblowers made clear is that Congress is being spied on: what and how that information is being used is the only thing that’s up for debate.And the power needed to capture a vote from a politician is the very same power that can be used to catch a source leaking to a journalist. We know this has already happened with The Associated Press and Al Jazeera. In other words, the NSA has the power to spy on the systems that are supposed to check and balance them.Interestingly, on the same day we screenedTerms and Conditions May Apply, Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner introduced his own bill called The USA Freedom Act. If you’re unfamiliar, not only does this bill provide sweeping reform and oversight of the NSA, but it has over 70 co-sponsors from both sides of the aisle, including our host Congressman Amash, and it is supported by theAmerican Civil Liberties Union. And the most jaw-dropping part is that Rep. Sensenbrenner is the same guy whofathered The Patriot Act!If the man who helped pen The Patriot Act wants to reform it, why isn’t everyone who voted for it on board?It was a powerful and paradoxical moment, screeningTerms and Conditions May Applyunder the US Capitol. On the one hand, democracy may well be facing its greatest threat in a generation. On the other hand, we were able to openly discuss these problems with two NSA whistleblowers in front of legislators.But many of those legislators might be “pwned” - that is, owned by a spy bureaucracy three times the size of the CIA. The same could be true for judges and any number of government officials. This is why the Fourth Amendment exists in America; because secrets do matter.And if you have the ability to know a secret about a powerful person, that power becomes yours. This is a great temptation, a temptation no civil servant should have at their fingertips.•An exclusive preview of Terms and Conditions may apply•Our data is our digital identity - and we need to reclaim control
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHP has a new Android PC for businesses &gt;&gt; Business InsiderHP clearly still believes that business-class touchscreens will be hot. And now HP is trying to make Android the new operating system for businesses.Yes, Android — not Chrome OS.At CES this week HP showed off the Slate 21 Pr0, which uses Android 4.3 (Jelly Bean) and will be available on March 6, starting at $399, a price point that includes keyboard and mouse. HP the device in June and gave it a coming out part at CES, along with two new Windows 8 PCs.For an alternative point of view, read on...Android apps on a Windows PC is an OEM gimmick, waste of time &gt;&gt; NeowinBrad Sams:The idea of running Android apps on a Windows machine is somewhat logical as Android now has a massive footprint in the mobile segment. What doesn't seem to make much sense is that mobile Android apps are designed for mobile devices not PCs with a mouse and keyboard or even a touchscreen laptop as the resolution in the displays are dramatically different. And if you are going to argue that Android tablet apps would be more relevant, can you name a killer Android tablet app that doesn't have an alternative in the Windows store or heck, any application that will run on Windows?"Threshold" to be Called Windows 9, Ship in April 2015 &gt;&gt; Paul Thurrott's SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:At the BUILD developer conference in April 2014, Microsoft will discuss its vision for the future of Windows, including a year-off release codenamed "Threshold" that will most likely be called Windows 9. Here's what I know about the next major release of Windows…In some ways, the most interesting thing about Threshold is how it recasts Windows 8 as the next Vista. It's an acknowledgment that what came before didn't work, and didn't resonate with customers. And though Microsoft will always be able to claim that Windows 9 wouldn't have been possible without the important foundational work they had done first with Windows 8—just as was the case with Windows 7 and Windows Vista—there's no way to sugarcoat this. Windows 8 has set back Microsoft, and Windows, by years, and possibly for good.Lexical distance between European languages &gt;&gt; Etymologikon™This chart shows the lexical distance — that is, the degree of overall vocabulary divergence — among the major languages of Europe.From 2008. But they haven't moved since then. You never know when you might want to know.Covering CES with a Chromebook wasn't great, but it was possible &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaAndrew Cunningham:That's what bothers me the most about Chrome OS. It's not that you can't do a lot with a Chromebook. It's not even about getting used to different tools. It's just that the operating system works so differently from established desktop operating systems that you'll have to alter many of your normal workflows. No one's saying it's impossible to do, but for people used to something else it can be a laborious process.All of these complaints aside, I was able to cover the majority of CES with the Chromebook 11. I had one full cheat day on Monday, because I need Windows or OS X to run our image uploading tools for liveblogs and I didn't want to carry two laptops around all day. Even the biggest sticking point—importing and manipulating images—could have been circumvented in part with a card reader dongle (or better yet, a Haswell Chromebook with an SD card slot integrated). Even during the few times when I was without a reliable Internet connection throughout the show, Google's apps and the Outlook Web App's offline modes are robust enough that I could still get things done.One of his biggest complaints was that he couldn't edit RAW files from his camera, or edit video. Commenters then pointed out that hecould have handled RAW with an iPad app. And maybe edited the video.Apple devices flow into corporate world &gt;&gt; WSJ.comLG&amp;E and KU Energy LLC, Kentucky's biggest electric utility, shows how Apple gains a foothold inside companies, and then expands its reach.The utility, a subsidiary of PPL Corp, approved the iPhone for employees in 2010. It then introduced iPads, and built apps such as one to help its helicopter patrollers survey 5,500 miles of high-voltage power lines. Using an iPad's global-positioning system, patrollers can pinpoint the location of a problem and select from a menu of common issues, such as a damaged pole or an overgrown tree."For years, we looked for some way to automate this and we heard all sorts of fairy tales, but we could never find anything," said Robby Trimble, LG&amp;E and KU's manager of transmission-line services.Now, the utility's engineers who run power plants use iPads to record how much electricity is generated. Warehouse managers use the tablet to scan bar codes and track the utility's tools and materials."People start with the iPhone. It's the tip of the spear," said Chip Pearson, chief executive of JAMF Software LLC, which helps businesses deploy Apple products. JAMF says its software manages five times as many as Apple phones, tablets and computers as three years ago.At Cisco, which in 2009 let staff choose their laptop, a quarter (about 35,000) of the company-provided laptops are Macs. Why? The network effect of needing Windows to run Windows software is weakening.Windows XP and Java 6: Creating the "Perfect Storm" for Attacks in 2014 - Trend Micro Simply SecurityChristopher Budd:As we outlined in our predictions for 2014,"Blurring Boundaries: Trend Micro Security Predictions for 2014 and Beyond", when it comes to Windows XP and Java 6, we really do have unprecedented conditions coming together for a perfect storm for attacks against these legacy platforms. The coming end of support for Windows XP combined with Java 6 (which is already out of support) and the issue of how broadly these legacy platforms are deployed means we are likely looking at the largest number of unpatched and attackable vulnerabilities in history. If that doesn't describe a perfect storm, I don't know what does.For those tempted to write this off as "crying wolf", remember that as many as 2m Windows PCs running Java may have been infected by malware via ads on the Yahoo homepage in Europe over the new year.BlackBerry says keyboards are the future &gt;&gt; Re/code[New chief executive John] Chen says the main market for BlackBerry, at least in places like the US, is as a tool for businesses, particularly those in heavily regulated markets such as the financial industry. BlackBerry isn't going to win by competing for the latest games and apps, but instead needs to focus on being the best at getting work done.It also helps explain why BlackBerrysued Typo, the Ryan Seacrest-backed startup that makes an add-on keyboard for the iPhone.And while Chen says BlackBerry is sticking with the device business (albeit with Foxconn as a manufacturing partner), he said the company needs to first shore up its core product for businesses — the server software used to manage mobile devices.If keyboards are BlackBerry's future, why is it understood to be getting Foxconn to make a non-keyboard BB10 phone for release in Indonesia?FLIR ONE™ Specs &gt;&gt; FLIR SystemsFLIR ONE™ is a non-contact device that detects infrared energy (heat) and converts it into an electronic signal, which is then processed to produce a thermal image on your phone screen and perform temperature calculations. Heat sensed by an infrared camera can be very precisely measured, allowing you to use the FLIR ONE™ in a variety of practical and fun ways by revealing a thermal world not visible to the unaided eye.Shown off at CES. You can't think of many consumer uses for a thermal camera, but the commercial applications are plentiful; another example of the way that smartphones are becoming the universal tool.Why Delta put Microsoft's Surface in the cockpit (video) &gt;&gt; BusinessweekAirlines are putting tablets in the cockpit, replacing heavy flight bags and saving on fuel in the process. But while American and other airlines are using iPads, Delta went in another direction: the Microsoft Surface 2. Bloomberg's Olivia Sterns hits the flight deck to find out why.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday!
It's been GR8, 1DRFUL and often LOL, but OMG, the text message appears to have finally passed its prime. :(After two decades in which texting transformed the English language, turned reality show voting into a national event and earned billions for mobile operators, the number of messages sent in Britain fell for the first time last year.As a new generation of smartphone owners turn to internet-based instant message services such as WhatsApp and Snapchat, research shows the volume of old-fashioned texts sent last year is estimated to have fallen by 7bn to 145bn.Accounting firm Deloitte's annual technology predictions report, released on Monday, forecasts the number will fall again this year to 140bn.The head of telecoms research at Deloitte, Paul Lee, said: "This is the first decline in texting in the UK since texting was invented. We have reached a tipping point. But the usage of mobile phones to send messages is stronger than ever. This year, trillions of instant messages will be sent in place of a text message."Younger users are turning away from the relatively clunky SMS (standard messaging service) in favour of instant messaging apps that, at a fraction of the price, allow them to communicate with several people simultaneously, punctuate their messages with brightly coloured icons, and send photos and videos.The trend began in the US and is now spreading worldwide. The report claims that 160bn instant messages were sent in Britain last year, outstripping the number of texts for the first time. By the end of 2014, 300bn instant messages will be sent – more than twice the annual number of texts.Globally, Lee predicts 50bn instant messages will be sent each day – 18 trillion over the next 12 months – compared with 21bn texts.But the trend is not being driven by young people and technology geeks alone. According to the report, the age of the silver smartphone is beginning, when a critical mass of over-55s venture into the world of mobile computing by acquiring their first touchscreen handsets.As the price of the processors used in sophisticated handsets falls, manufacturers will simply stop making the more basic feature phones. Late adopters will increasingly have no choice but to trade in their ageing handsets. By the end of the year, up to half of all over-55s should be smartphone owners in developed economies.In Britain, the number of senior citizens with a smartphone will have increased from 29% in 2012 to 47% in late 2014. This is still behind the national average, which will reach 68% this year, but the generation gap is expected to disappear by 2020.But many older users will do little more than make calls and send text messages from their newfangled gadgets. In 2014, it is predicted one-quarter of older smartphone owners will not download a single app.Many are put off by fears of hidden charges or the theft of private information, others by the amount of choice. Apple and Google now offer more than 1m applications each in their online stores.Lee said: "Smartphones have a dazzling array of features and functions, and some of this functionality is not straightforward to use. Apps are daunting, particularly when there is no filter by age."Just 13% of older smartphone owners used instant messaging in 2013, and most will continue to rely on the humble text. Unlike apps, SMS works on any handset, on any network and in any country– worth $100bn a year to operators, according to Deloitte.The first text message was sent from Vodafone's headquarters in Newbury, England, on 3 December 1992, by an engineer Neil Papworth. As mobile phones did not have alphabetical keyboards in those days, he used his computer to wish a merry Christmas to Vodafone director Richard Jarvis on his Orbitel 901 mobile phone.Nokia produced the first mobile phone capable of writing texts in 1993, and what had started as a free service became a commercial one in the 1990s. By 2001, the UK was sending more than 1bn texts a month.Later that year, text messages were used to organise the protests that toppled president Joseph Estrada in the Philippines. By 2011, however, instant messaging had replaced the text as the demonstrator's most effective grapevine.BlackBerry's BBM service, released in 2006, can claim to have pioneered the format. But it was only with the arrival of the iPhone in 2007 that the instant messaging habit spread to other handsets. BBM was soon joined by Apple's iMessage, Facebook Messenger, and in 2009 by WhatsApp.Catching up fast is WeChat, owned by the Chinese web giant Tencent, which as of November claimed 270 million monthly active users worldwide. While its stronghold is in the domestic market, there were 100 million WeChat users outside of China.Instant messaging began life on desktop computers, as a more personal alternative to email, but the smartphone is responsible for transforming the format into arguably the world's fastest growing communication tool.
Price from £6,995MPG up to 74.3Top speed 97mphLast week we had an immigrant living with us. He may have had a style bypass, but he was strong, eager and looking for work. He's the fourth in his family to arrive on these shores and judging by how his siblings Duster, Sandero and Sandero Stepway have got on, Logan could well be here for the long haul.Logan MCV(Maximum Capacity Vehicle or, as we say over here, an "estate") is from Romania and is made byDacia– the unpretentious and workmanlike manufacturer that for the past dozen years has been Renault's ever-growing budget arm, playing the same roleSkodadoes forVolkswagen. The problem is that Skodas have started to go up in the world. They're still cheap and colossally good value, but you could not rightly describe them as budget any more than you'd callMade in Chelseaa gritty reality show. This  has left the door open toRenaultwhich has sniffed out a rung at the bottom of the motoring ladder, so drivers who prioritise low-cost motoring over, say, performance, or handling, or aradio, have found a&nbsp;new champion.Already a hit in mainland Europe, Romania's runaway success has finally arrived in the UK, so pennywise Brits now have the chance to both driveandsave money.The Logan MCV is the least expensive new estate car on the road. In its entry-level "Access" trim, you can drive one away for £6,995. I poshed up and opted for the range-topping "Laureate", which at £10,795 is still more than three grand cheaper than the equivalent vehicle from Skoda or Seat. It comes with a touchscreen satnav, air-con, electric mirrors, Bluetooth and cruise control.But don't let this soft packaging sucker you into thinking you are driving anything other than a&nbsp;utilitarian toiler. It's so basic, the plastics so tough, the panelling so unrefined, that it feels indestructible – it will elicit a grudging respect from you in the way a Greggs' sarnie does. The car's two other selling points are its colossal rear (onlyVolvo's V70has a&nbsp;bigger loading bay) and its fuel-saving consumption (the 1.5-litre diesel does a claimed 74.3mpg.)Keep it simple: the basic but user-friendly interior.From the outside the car is fairly anonymous. You could probably park it anywhere as the wardens wouldn't notice it. You will also be immune from road rage. When my wife "accidentally" jumped a long queue no one batted an eyelid. As a&nbsp;Dacia driver she was clearly one of the people. Had she been in a Porsche there would have been an outcry.Inside it's fine. It's a Travelodge on wheels. You know it's cheap, but it never pretended it wasn't. There's no central locking for the boot. The drive is straight out of the 70s. It pitches and rolls on corners, the acceleration is feeble, the engine rattles and the thin gearstick offers as much feedback as a spirtle in a pan of semi-set porridge. But what did you expect for less than seven grand?I&nbsp;wasn't heartbroken to give the Logan back. But I am sure its keen price and its honest diligence means it'll find plenty of work over here.Cars in the sunStreets lined with cars: last year's classic at Madeira.If looking at lovely old cars and staying in a beautiful hotel is your idea of fun, you might want to check outReid's Palacein Madeira which is hosting its third annual Classic Auto Show from 10–11 May 2014. More than 400 rare and restored cars, motorbikes and scooters are expected to line the Estrada Monumental during the event. The show focuses on restoration, originality and elegance, and some of the best known cars on display in previous years including a Stanguellini Formula Júnior, Moretti, HRG Aerodinamyc, Ford T Pick up 1925, Rolls Royce 20/25 and a Bentley Derby.In 1904, a guest of Reid's Palace brought the first ever car to Madeira, and the festival celebrates the important contribution the hotel played in kick-starting the island's love affair with the auto trade. All cars on show belong to local Madeirans, with cars having been acquired from all over the world.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
PS4 v Xbox One: Second RoundThe epic showdown between PlayStation and Xbox over Christmas saw PS4 come out on top as the UK's No 1 console. This year, the gloves are off. PlayStation will hope to stay ahead with games such asDriveClubandInfamous. But Xbox believes it has the edge thanks to blockbuster shootersTitanfall,below, andHalo 5. It's going to be competitive, with big advertising campaigns and major game reveals.PC gaming invades the living roomPC games giantSteamwill launch its own console next year. Actually, it will release several consoles. These "Steam machines" are PCs that have been designed to play on the TV in the living room, and will come with a specially crafted controller. This uses special touch pads, and if the early buzz proves right it could become the "standard" gamepad for all PC games, which could allow PC gaming to go toe-to-toe with Xbox and PlayStation this year.Prices risingThe cost of games keeps on rising, and it's the gamers who will have to pay. The price of blockbuster games in hard-copy form are already increasing slightly, but there will also be more games that encourage players to pay real money to unlock items more quickly. Major Xbox racing titleForza 5, right, for instance, lets players unlock cars faster by paying, and these sorts of microtransactions will only become more prevalent this year. On the plus side, expect more smaller, cheaper games, too.Wii U to bounce back?Actually, the answer's probably that it won't. Nintendo Wii U has sold so poorly in its first year that PS4 outsold it in just two days. But a price cut this year should help, as will a number of promising big titles, includingMario Kart 8andSuper Smash Brothers.New games, new ideasForgetCall of DutyandFIFA, 2014 will be a year for entirely new games to come to the fore. There will be more new IP from major game makers than we've seen for almost half a decade. The team behindHaloare creating online action game,Destiny, the developers ofCall of Dutyare preparing the aforementioned multiplayer shooterTitanfallfor a March release, while the publisher ofAssassin's Creedwill launch a sci-fi thriller calledWatch Dogsin the spring. And that's just scratching the surface of the new brands coming in 2014.The rise of eSportsOverall, 32 million people watchedThe League of Legendsgaming finals online (peaking with 8.5 million at the same time) on 4 October last year. That's not Super Bowl or Champions League levels, but professional gaming (or eSports) is growing rapidly and attracting serious money from big-name sponsors such as Coca-Cola and Red Bull. Professional gaming is now starting to take off in Britain too, and this could be the year when we see our first UK eSports superstar.
What's the storyThe PS4 may lack an extensivecatalogue of big-budget games this soon after the launch of the console, but Sony has taken steps to ensure that a few indie games are trickling in to fill the gap. This debut game from indie studio Spearhead Games is an action puzzler designed to work best in co-operative play.GameplayYou play one of four lab animals(and can swap between them in single-player) trying to escape a stereotypically Russian evil scientist. Progress is a chain of rooms that you can only escape through combining the individual superpowers of the animals – to create blocks, push things, pull things, or teleport – to solve simple physics puzzles.Highs and lowsUnfortunately, the game doesn't feellike next-gen: it's buggy, fiddly and short. The non-puzzle sections – protecting a chick, rolling a ball – feel unnecessary and frustrating, but most of the puzzles are satisfying to solve. Though some characters seem more useful than others, you feel powerful when your particular ability is needed.The verdictDespite its problems, the game doesn'tfeel unplayable, and is enjoyable enough when played with friends to keep you interested throughout its short campaign. If you happen to have four PS4 controllers, this is a great way to put them to use. Let's hope that Spearhead Games will refine the formula for a sequel.
What's the storyThe originalWii Fitkicked off thefitness game genre, and was so appealing to people who might not have considered themselves "gamers" that many bought the Wii just so they could play it.Wii Fit Utakes the formula – the technology of the balance board plus Nintendo's accessible style – and updates it for the Wii U.GameplayThe point is to encourage exercise: thebalance board measures your weight and movement, and the game encourages you to improve your skill at yoga, aerobics, muscle exercises, balance and dancing. The Fit Meter pedometer lets you measure other activity and upload it to the game, and the GamePad provides an additional prop.Highs and lowsAside from the few GamePadactivities, pedometer tracking, and dancing games, little else is new inWii Fit U. LikeWii Fit, it is still simple in its aims, but if you're prepared to set your own goals then the varied activities could be useful. Then again, if you were that willing you probably wouldn't need a fitness game in the first place.The verdictThe games in the Wii Fit series are notas focused as the more specific fitness games – likeYour Shape: Fitness EvolvedorZumba Fitness– that have come since. But although the breadth of activities meansWii Fit Ulacks depth, it is a good first step for those reluctant to try any of the less fun ways to stay in shape.
What's the story?Humanity has branched out into thegreat beyond – only to find that the rest of the universe's intelligent life is as vapid and self-absorbed as we are. On the space station Megalodon 9, social network Spacebook rules all, and leveraging its power and influence to advance through command ranks may be the only way to escape impending disaster.GameplayA futuristic satire of our modern-dayobsessions with social media,Redshirtis played entirely through the lo-fi interface of Spacebook. Attending an event or responding to wall posts offers RPG-like stat boosts, helping you to schmooze your way to success, while increasingly dangerous away missions put you in the difficult position of sacrificing friends – or enemies.Highs and lowsSatire and comedy are two of thehardest genres to pull off in video games, but the writing onRedshirtmanages both with aplomb. The non-linear narrative, revealed through the sprawling web of Spacebook, brilliantly spoofs sci-fi icons. However, that same web can be confusing, with key features hard to find.VerdictAlthough virtualising Facebook seemsa bizarre concept, interacting with the diverse and unusual characters becomes as compelling as e-stalking your real-life friends. It's emotionally investing too. Flat visuals may be offputting to some, but there's more depth inRedshirtthan many big-budget games.
What's the story?There is no story. There is onlyyour life beforePeggle, and then the gnawing addiction that takes its place after even the most cursory exposure to its colourful puzzle play. Don't be fooled by the cute characters and jaunty music -Peggleis that compulsion to have "one more go" – and there is no escape.GameplayGlorified Pachinko,Pegglesees youfiring balls around blue and orange peg-filled screens. The goal of clearing all orange pegs is simple in principle, but with obstacles, moving pegs, and the bouncing of the ball itself, it can become fiendishly difficult. Each cluster of 10 rounds is shepherded by a "Peggle Master", whose unique powerups offer routes to success.Highs and lowsOnce in the zone, playingPeggle 2becomes more about style and score, and pulling off skilful shots brings a strange but fulfilling rush. Online multiplayer may be a humbling experience, with frighteningly talented players in the community already. Of course, that's just incentive to play more – which would be great, if the game didn't crash so often.The verdictDespite its frustrating tendency todrop you back to the Xbox One's home screen, you'll be booting the game back up straight away. Overall,Peggle 2is essentially more of the same, remixed, but it remains so relentlessly engrossing that returning players will scarcely care. Newcomers should bid their free time farewell.
What's the story?After the five years it took forGran Turismo 5to go from announcement to release, the quick arrival of its sequel came as a surprise. Given that the PS4 had recently been revealed, further surprise lay in its exclusivity to the PS3, though it's likely Sony didn't want this simulation driving on the toes of forthcoming new racerDriveclub.GameplayWith no real goal other than towin races, accrue credits and collect expensive cars, the game is essentially a collection of different situations in which the player can experience the physics engine that is its core focus. For some, single player is only a training ground for the online multiplayer, which features seasonal events to keep players busy.Highs and lowsThatmeticulousphysics engine may be thecentre of attention, to the detriment of things like believable sounds and damage effects, but this time around Polyphony has overlaid the simulation with more of an accessible game. From the start players are given suggestions  and rewarded with stars that then unlock further challenges.The verdictWith that friendlier feeland new "coffee-break" mini games– as well asthe undeniably coolopportunity to drive on the moon –Gran Turismo 6is more agreeable than its clinical predecessor. At its heart,  however, it's still made for those who want to try out an elaborate range of vehicles, just for the feel of the drive.
Edinburgh has been courting the spotlight this last year. In November, 49 years afterPeter Higgsidentified the Higgs boson particle, the Edinburgh physicist won the 2013 Nobel prize. Last month, the University of Edinburgh climbed to its highest ever place in a global rankings list to be named the 17th best university in the world.  Amid such positivity, it is perhaps not surprising that the energetic Scottish capital has also become a hotbed of tech innovation and young startups.Although a relatively small city – its population stands at half a million – in terms of startups, it is punching well above its weight. The intellectual creativity of an ancient university city has been complimented by generous government-backed schemes, while a successful incubator programme,TechCube, which provides office space, networking opportunities and mentoring support to promising young digital firms, is helping evolve ideas that began as pet projects and distractions from day jobs into commercially robust ventures.However, the contemporary tech revival has not come easy. Following the dot com bust the local tech scene faltered, requiring initiatives such as TechCube and established companies to kickstart the scene. "We host events at our offices, we sponsor tech meetups and we talk at events," says Gareth Williams, co-founder of Skyscanner, the flight search site that employs more than 350 people and is valued at $1bn. "I don't see other startups as competition, really. The larger the number of startups based in Edinburgh the better for all of us."FANDUELLesley Eccles co-founder and Nigel Eccles co-founder and CEOFounded2009Headcount62What is it?A fantasy sports tournament operator, whose customer base is entirely in the US.How does it work?"Take a fantasy football league, curtail it into one week or a day, pay an entry fee, and at the end of the day you know whether they've won or lost," say Lesley. "It's all about instant gratification, rather than waiting for a whole season."How did it come about?36 million people play fantasy sports; Fanduel wanted to make it faster and more immediate.How are they doing?It's growing fast. "We initially operated only from Edinburgh and then two years ago moved the headquarters to New York," explains Nigel. "We go there every other week. Personnel wise, it's a 50-50 split between the US and Edinburgh."QUORATE TECHNOLOGYNick Rankin co-founderFounded2012HeadcountsevenWhat is it?Software that makes audio searchable using technology that converts speech into text.How does it work?"Our system automatically generates a transcript of what has been said in a conversation and makes the audio searchable by key words," explains Rankin. "So for example, we can automatically generate the transcript of a police interview and so if you wanted to find out the bit in the interview that talked about a white shirt, say, you can type in  white shirt and find all the chunks in the conversation where it was mentioned."Why Edinburgh?Quorate is a spin-out from the Centre of Speech Technology Research at Edinburgh University. A group of eight researchers spent eight years developing the system. They work very closely with the research team in order to keep in line with all the latest developments.Who is it for?"Our target markets are policing, defence, aerospace, troops on patrol and air-traffic control, but the technology can be used for anything, webcast meetings, university lectures and much more," says Rankin.BLIPFOTOJoe Tree CEO and co-founderFounded2008HeadcountnineWhat is it?A photo-sharing site that only lets people upload one photo a day. "It's a website, it's an app, it's the full gamut. We've got our fair share of cats, but people tend to record some of the most poignant moments of their lives," says Tree.How does it work?"Generally, people write about their photos too and subscribe to each other and comment so they form new connections all the time," explains Tree. "We've had at least one wedding that we know of – just from people on the online community meeting each other."How did it come about?"I decided to take a photograph every day. At the end of 2009 it won aBafta Scotlandaward and I thought this has to become a thing in its own right," he says.Who is using it?Users include Scottish MPs and the Scottish police force, who use it to record everything from crimes that have been committed to events they are attending. Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak has signed up. It has more than 400,000 users in 180 countries.DISTRIFYPeter Gerard co-founderFounded2011Headcount12What is it?A film distribution platform. "People see a movie trailer on the web or on a blog and we put a buy button on the trailer so you can click, pay and watch the film," says Gerard.How did it come about?"I started making films with my dad as a kid and I've been producing and directing documentaries for well over a decade," says Gerard, who is best known for his multi-award winning filmThe Shutdownand the graffiti documentaryJust to Get a Rep."The idea came about because my co-founder, Andy Green, and I are both film-makers and the problem with YouTube was that people watch it but there is no way to turn them into a customer."Why Edinburgh?Originally from Missouri, Gerard came to Edinburgh in 2000. "Edinburgh has a strong documentary and animation team and Scotland provides excellent support for new business. There is a really dynamic scene here."TIGERFACE GAMESKate Ho managing directorFounded2012HeadcountfourWhat is it?The award-winning TigerFace games build collaborative learning games on tablet devices, which aim to get two or more kids around a device playing and learning together.How does it work?"One of the things parents say is their eight-year-old is doing their times tables and the parent wants to help, but can only really look over their homework," says Ho. "With this, they can play the game together. Parents and teachers love what we are doing."Future plansThey have just signed a big distribution deal in the US.Why Edinburgh?Born in Hong Kong, Ho came to Edinburgh to study computer science and has lived there ever since. "I plan on sticking around," she says. "There's always the temptation to go to San Francisco, but the best thing about Edinburgh is the engineering talent – we're as good if not better than them, plus we try to support each other a lot."SKYSCANNERGareth Williams co-founderFounded2003Headcount350What is it?A search site that compares prices on flights, hotels and car hire.How did it come about?Back in 2003, Williams was travelling a lot in Europe and found it difficult to find the right flights, so he spent a week programming a tool to help. "Having done that, I decided that it would make a great website for other users," he says.Why Edinburgh?Originally based in Edinburgh because Williams got married there, the company has been resolutely growing in part because of the links to the computer science department at Edinburgh University. "After the dot-com bust there didn't feel like there was much of a tech scene here, but it's gradually built up," says Williams. "Since then, we've tried to do our bit. We host events at our offices, we sponsor tech meetups and we talk at events. I don't see other startups as competition really. The larger the number of start-ups based in Edinburgh the better it is for all of us. "Advice for new startups?"Have a programmer on your founding team," he says.Ones to watch?"FanDuel and Blipfoto are doing really good things and Quorate could potentially be a mass-market product."RELAYMEDNeil Farish managing directorFounded2012HeadcountnineWhat is it?A software solution for GPs in the US to connect test devices to electronic records to save them having to transcribe patient's test results.How does it work?"At the moment, if you do a blood test, a till receipt will come out and that will be passed on and transcribed, whereas with this, as soon as you run the test, it is done," explains Farish.Why Edinburgh?There are lots of opportunities for government backing in Scotland – earlier this year RelayMed secured £300,000 in public funding to develop the software.Future plansFor the time being they are focusing on the US. "In the UK when you get a test done it gets sent to a lab and you have to wait for the results whereas in the US the tests are done in the doctor's office so there's never any waiting," says Farish. "There, every doctor is like an entrepreneur. They bill the patient (or the customer as they call them) or the insurance company or the government and every test costs. Our aim in five years' time, is to be in about 20% of physician practices in the States."FLOATColin Hewitt CEOFounded2010HeadcountfiveWhat is it?Cashflow forecasting software for businesses.How does it work?"Float hooks into your accounting software, lets you set up a bunch of budgets and keeps track of how you're doing against those budgets. It's forward-looking so you always know when you're going to run out of money – or not," says Hewitt. "So many businesses go under because of cashflow and this is an easy way to see how you're doing."How did it come about?It grew out of Hewitt's bad experiences of running a business using spreadsheets.Why Edinburgh?"There's such a good startup environment here," says Hewitt, who is originally from Belfast. "New computer science graduates are coming in and other startups are really helpful with giving advice if there are ever any other issues."MIICARDStuart Fraser CTOFounded2012Headcount13What is it?A digital verification identity service that lets you prove who you are online.How does it work?"It's primarily to be used in the buying and selling of regulated financial services," says Fraser. "With  use of an identity such as Facebook and Twitter people are used to signing in, but the identity of miiCard is much stronger; we tie you to your accounts."Future plansmiiCard is currently doing a deal with a company in the States which will enable you to buy a house and mortgage it purely online. "The technology is maturing and so is our understanding of the market," says Fraser.INSIGHT ARCADEAllan Lloyds founder and managing directorFounded2012HeadcountsixWhat is it?An online platform to connect training providers and organisations for adult learners."We're like an eBay or airbnb for training providers," says Lloyds, who has been working on the concept for three years, building the team and working towards the launch next year.Why Edinburgh?"Edinburgh gives us access to the right kind of talented people, access to space and resources and the chance to learn from successful local startups such as Skyscanner," says Lloyds. "Plus there is a real sense of community here."TECHCUBEJamie Coleman managing directorFounded2012Headcount35 businessesWhat is it?A technology incubator programme that provides office space, networking opportunities and mentoring support to young digital companies. There are now 35 businesses ranging fromearly-stage companies through to really large ones. "Most of them are growing and doubling in size each month," says Coleman.Why Edinburgh?"Many, but not all, of the companies were started at the university by computer science graduates, and the sorts of graduates that are coming out of here have expertise that are driving the interesting companies that are coming through locally," says Coleman. "We've got the biggest, tightest-knit tech scene in the country - it's not Cambridge, it's Edinburgh."
If the internet is the road system for the digital world, then the world wide web is the car – the tool we use daily for work and play. It seems almost impossible to remember what unconnected life was like; some of us are old enough to remember living without the web, old enough to have used typewriters at university, microfiches in the school library and can recall the first mention of something called "Hotmail".It is nearly 25 years since Sir Tim Berners-Lee wrote his initial proposal for a distributed information system based on hypertext, in March 1989. "Vague, but exciting," was how supervisor Mike Sendall greeted the idea, proposed to help connect the work of several thousand atom-smashing scientists, researchers and administrators at Cern – the European home of nuclear research and the large hadron collider.The plan was a non-linear organisation system based on hypertext –quite the hot topic in late 80s computing circles – that would improve on the previous system that let documents be stored and printed. "A linked system," wrote Berners-Lee, "would allow one to browse through concepts, documents, systems and authors, also allowing references between documents to be stored.""The aim would be to allow a place to be found for any information or reference which one felt was important, and a way of finding it afterwards. The result should be sufficiently attractive to use that it information contained would grow past a critical threshold, so that the usefulness of the scheme would in turn encourage its increased use."Berners-Lee, with the help of colleague Robert Cailliau, later formalised the proposal and extended its ambitions to be a network for the world – the world wide web. By the end of 1990 Berners-Lee had put together the first server and web pages, and the first web browser for the NeXT operating system – this was the computer company founded by Steve Jobs during his interregnum from Apple. Another Cern colleague Nicola Pellow wrote a generic browser for other operating systems, and the first public page was published on 6 August 1991 at info.cern.ch.Quite what scale of "critical threshold" Berners-Lee had in mind for the nascent project was not clear, but he could never have imagined the diversity, the ubiquity and the functionality of the web today in all the myriad forms we know.Berners-Lee has been careful to credit decades of work by previous engineers who laid the foundations for the web. He has previously spoken out against Facebook and others for business models that rely on capturing information and keeping it in silos, away from the rest of the web, and has been outspoken in condemning government surveillance post the Edward Snowden affair.In the public debate following those revelations, it has been argued that perhaps commercialisation and government control are inevitable for such a critical network at a global scale. Should we just accept that most of the public web, and the internet on which it runs, has reached a level of maturity where ownership and control becomes inevitable?Berners-Lee thinks not, and has argued for the preservation of the web as a democratic tool. "Bold steps," he said in response to Snowden, "are needed to protect our fundamental rights to privacy and freedom of opinion and association online."This ideology will only become even more critical as the web faces its next 25 years of commercial experimentation, as well as political influence and cyberwarfare. The web itself will mature into predictive tools and artificial intelligence, and an immersive, hyper-connected web in which seams of data run through every part of our personal, professional and physical lives, of the objects around us and the organisations in which we work. It is a future, Berners-Lee hopes, when that data is open and democratic."Close to the principle of universality is that of decentralisation, which means that no permission is needed from a central authority to post anything on the web, there is no central controlling node, and so no single point of failure," he wrote last year. "This has been critical to the web's growth and is critical to its future."Beyond open data and the fast being-realised semantic web, he is too wise to predict the direction the web will take, limited only by our imaginations. "If we end up building all the things I can imagine we will have failed," he once said.A distributed network is a democratic system, where information and power are equally distributed. Had he determined to patent and commercialise his idea from the outset, market forces would have inspired others to do the same, creating a network of competing, smaller webs, he has said."We need to be able to find ways of governing ourselves in peace," he told the SXSW festival last year. "We need to be able to find ways of coming to agreements with people in other countries, in other cultures, about what we are going to do with our planet and how we are going to solve global warming. For that, we need a very strong democracy. Democracy involves people being informed, being able to communicate, being able to hold each other accountable. And all that absolutely depends on the neutral internet."The principle of one global, democratic communication network seems a reality that is slipping through our fingers. Curiously, by gifting the web to the world he has also retained an almost spiritual ownership of it.Perhaps the real celebration should be for Berners-Lee's uncommon principle of not commercialising his invention by default; among all the noise and hyperbole and distraction of the common web, that is a rare and noble thing. And worth defending.
It would be wrong to call Bristol and Bath an emerging tech cluster. The region is well-established in microelectronics and aerospace engineering and has been a base, in recent decades, for industry leaders such as Hewlett Packard. But now a new generation of smaller tech companies has formed and is building upon existing foundations in diverse and interesting ways. Newincubatorsandworkspacesare opening up in Bristol, notably aroundTemple Meadsstation, while Bath boasts one of the country's top early-stage tech investors,Eden Ventures.The two cities are 12 miles apart, but the gap between them has narrowed in recent years: the universities are closely linked through the dynamicSETsquaredpartnership and their involvement in theBristol and Bath Science Park, which opened in 2011. In spite of obvious differences between the two cities, many in the local industry now view them as a single cluster. Bath-based entrepreneur Glenn Smith notes: "More senior execs in the larger industries in the Bristol cluster are choosing to live in Bath … It all combines to form a fantastic base for modern technology companies: experienced management talent with global experience and perspective in Bath, coupled with a hipper technology and media crowd from Bristol." It's a powerful combination.PERVASIVE MEDIA STUDIOClare Reddington directorFounded2007Headcount147 residents (including 19 companies)What is it?A research lab and community workspace.How did it come about?The studio grew out of the Watershed, a cross-artform venue on the harbourside. "We realised there was loads of potential in the creative/tech crossover, but it was reliant on government funding, which was stop-start," says Clare Reddington, who set up the studio to support people doing interesting projects in that area.How does it work?Priority is given to applicants who bring new sets of skills to the studio. As well as desk-space and access to events and talks, the studio provides residents with guidance, feedback and support with funding.Why Bristol?"Partly because of its size, in that it's highly connected, not too massive, and you're able to find other people to collaborate with," says Reddington. "I think not being in London is a very big plus if you're doing experimental projects."BRIGHTPEARLAndrew Mulvenna co-founder and VP of partnershipsFounded2008Headcount100What is it?A cloud-based business management application that incorporates inventory, accounting, CRM, POS and ecommerce.How did it come about?University friends Andrew Mulvenna and Chris Tanner founded Lush Longboards in 1999. "Like most retailers, we hit challenges scaling the business," says Mulvenna. "Lacking a budget to buy an expensive business management system, we started to build our own." Eventually, they sold the skateboard company to concentrate on the system they developed.How does it work?"Brightpearl helps small-to-mid-size retailers by bringing together data from across the business and putting their customers, orders, inventory and accounting all in one place," says Mulvenna.How are they doing?The company has just launched a strategic partnership with eBay and has so far raised £9m.Why Bristol?"The biggest advantage is high-quality engineering in the south-west," says Mulvenna. "Research proves we're top of the charts in innovation and tech talent but we couldn't be worse in terms of investment. It's bad in the UK but it's very bad in Bristol."SETSQUARED BRISTOLNick Sturge directorFounded: 2003Headcount: 60+ companies; 18 are resident at the centre.What is it?A university partnership supporting research innovation and accelerating tech startups.How did it come about?It was formed as an enterprise collaboration between the universities of Bath, Bristol, Exeter, Southampton and Surrey, with the aim of supporting early-stage tech businesses in the region.How are they doing?"In the last six years, we've helped early-stage companies raise £106m," says Bristol centre director Nick Sturge, "and we've created more than 650 jobs." The partnership wasrecently rankedfourth best business incubator in the world, and joint-best in Europe. Last October, SETsquared Bristol moved into the renovated Engine Shed next to Temple Meads train station, at the heart of the fast-developing new enterprise zone.SECONDSYNCAndy Littledale co-founder and CEOFounded2011Headcount15What is it?Social media analytics for TV.How did it come about?"We saw a big opportunity in the volumes of conversations going on around TV shows on social media," says Andy Littledale. "A lot of business decisions get made on the back of audience data, but audience measurement hadn't really changed significantly since the 70s."How does it work?The company gathers around a million TV-related tweets in the UK every day and tracks the main channels getting traction on Twitter. They present this data in easy-to-read form to broadcasters and advertisers.How are they doing?"We launched our full product in January. By the end of February, we had BBC and ITV signed up," says Littledale. "We also sell data to Sky, Channel 5 and MediaCom, and now we're looking to move into other territories, including the United States, Canada and Australia."BARDOWLCaroline Hoddinott CEOFounded: 2009Headcount: FourWhat is it?A streaming subscription service for audiobooks.How did it come about?The idea to stream audiobooks to mobile on a subscription basis came to Chris Book and his co-founders in 2009, but they didn't launch the iOS app until last June. "The concept was ahead of the market," says CEO Caroline Hoddinott. "Now, consumers are used to streaming content rather than owning it, so we weren't missing anything by taking our time."How does it work?For £9.99 a month, you can access the entire Bardowl catalogue, which is small but growing – the company has deals in place with a few big publishers such as Penguin and Macmillan, and is in negotiation with several others.Why Bath?"It does give us space to be very focused; we're not distracted by anything. If we were in our 20s it might be more appealing to be in London, but we've all got kids now. We want to do interesting things, but in a more middle-aged way."MAPLEBIRDGlenn Smith co-founder and CEOFounded2010HeadcountThreeWhat is it?A company developing very small flapping-wing UAVs.How does it work?The company is developing tiny insect-like UAVs, or drones, with flapping wings instead of rotors. "Bees are good bad-weather fliers," says CEO Glenn Smith, a tech entrepreneur from Northern Ireland. "They have small wings but beat them really fast and can react very quickly to gusty conditions. That's the principle we're using at MapleBird."How are they doing?It's initially being developed for military use. "We're still a year or two away from having a product in that space." But Smith anticipates a variety of wider applications: "Police operations, fire-fighting and industrial plant inspection through to personal drones controlled with a smartphone."SURE SENSETony Solon co-founder and CEOFounded2012HeadcountThreeWhat is it?A tablet-based kitchen management system.How did it come about?"Commercial kitchens are obliged to keep records of how food is delivered, stored, prepared and cooked," says CEO Tony Solon. "This is traditionally done with pen and paper. We set out to automate all those operations and ended up developing a whole kitchen-management system."How does it work?The system uses low-cost wireless sensors to take measurements around the kitchen. Information is sent to software designed for iPad (the company supplies military-grade cases to protect against knocks and splashes) and can be accessed remotely via the cloud. Additional apps have been developed along the way to manage a variety of other kitchen operations.How are they doing?They've signed their first contract with an NHS trust in Cornwall, with trials in progress at four other NHS trusts. The company is also working with a local university and has had interest from a major US fast food chain.BLU WIRELESS TECHNOLOGYHenry Nurser co-founder and CEO Founded2011Headcount18What is it?A company that designs and licenses silicon IP for multi-gigabit wireless communications.What does that mean?"It's all about high-definition mobile video," says Henry Nurser, who co-founded the company after 20 years at STMicroelectronics. "With the advent of smartphones, everyone's expecting to have video on the go and the operators are struggling to keep up this demand." Blu Wireless is developing intellectual property that will enable operators to exploit a big band of spectrum at around 60GHz, allowing for much faster data downloads and video streaming on mobiles.How are they doing?"We've just shipped our first demo platform and should be able to demonstrate the technology in the second quarter of next year," says Nurser. "Realistically, we're two years away from getting the product in customers' hands."Why Bristol?"It has a very strong engineering base for digital signal processing and consumer electronics. There are enough people in Bristol who are world-class, so there's no need to think of ourselves as second-class citizens."HYBRIDCLUSTERDave Benton co-founder and head of salesFounded2008Headcount11What is it?A web cluster storage and cloud platform.What does that mean?"It's basically a platform for hosting companies, cloud providers and other IT companies who want to have resilience, scalability and data protection for the stuff they typically run in the cloud, such as applications, databases and mailboxes," says co-founder Dave Benton.How are they doing?This year the company has nearly quadrupled in size and it's currently working with 22 clients around the world, in countries such as Brazil, Australia and Malaysia.HIETAMike Adams co-founder and CEO Founded2011HeadcountSixWhat is it?A design company specialising in additive manufacturing.What does that mean?"Whereas 3D printing applies to plastics and polymers, additive manufacturing generally refers to metals," says Mike Adams. "We work with high-performance metals to produce components for engine systems, mainly, that make those systems lighter and more efficient."How are they doing?Last year the company secured £3.5m in funding from the Technology Strategy Board and entered a collaboration with Renishaw, currently the UK's only manufacturer of a metal-based 3D printing machine, to find ways of scaling up the process. HiETA is now entering its commercial phase and, according to Adams, aims to start manufacturing its own products in the next two or three years.TRIGGERTRAPMatt Kane co-founder and CTO Founded2011HeadcountSevenWhat is it?Apps and hardware for triggering cameras using a smartphone.How did it come about?It began with a Kickstarter campaign for a camera trigger which raised $77,262, more than three times its target. "We decided to create a mobile app as well," says Matt Kane, a Bristol tech entrepreneur who started the company with Dutch inventor and journalist Haje Jan Kamps.How does it work?Connect your smartphone to a camera with a custom-made dongle and use the free mobile app to trigger the camera in a variety of ways: the sound sensor feature takes a photo whenever the phone detects a loud noise, while DistanceLapse uses the phone's GPS to trigger a photo every time you cover a certain distance.How are they doing?They've just raised a further £290,000 on Kickstarter for a more advanced stand-alone camera trigger.NEIGHBOURLYNick Davies founder and CEO Founded2012HeadcountTwoWhat is it?A social network connecting local projects with companies in search of a cause.How does it work?"It's part social network and part matchmaking," says founder Nick Davies, who previously ran a marketing company in Bristol. "On one side, a project can tell its story and galvanise a community by uploading photos and videos and chatting about what they want to achieve. On the other side, companies can decide where best to make a contribution. In the middle, an algorithm looks out for fast-moving projects and ranks them accordingly so that we make the right introductions."How are they doing?After a year in development, the platform launches this month. They've already had interest from projects and companies around the UK.XMOSMark Lippett COO Founded2005Headcount56What is it?A fabless semiconductor company that develops multi-core microcontrollers.What does that mean?"I use the analogy of a motorway," says Mark Lippett, who joined XMOS soon after it was spun out from Bristol University. "With a multi-core microcontroller, it's like every task in the system has its own lane in the motorway rather than all sharing one lane, like on a conventional micro controller. It enables lots of activities to happen at the same time without interfering with each other." The technology has been used in a range of markets including automotive and robotics.How are they doing?After an impressive start, raising $71m in Series A funding in 2007, XMOS went through several years of moderate growth. "Then we found an opportunity in multichannel audio and grew that very successfully," says Lippett. Since then they've been expanding and are generally viewed as one of the most successful startups in the region.NU DESINERichard de Lancey co-founder and product design engineer Founded2010HeadcountSixWhat is it?A company making musical devices that integrate with computers.How did it come about?After studying design engineering at Loughborough, Richard de Lancey returned to Bristol and reconnected with a friend, Adam Place, who had an idea for an electronic musical instrument. "I started doing concept sketches and we raised much more money than expected," says de Lancey. They launched the AlphaSphere last March.How does it work?"It's a sphere with 48 tactile pads that you tap to trigger music. The harder you press, the more you can manipulate the sound, which gives you a whole extra degree of expression. It's all about getting music creators out from behind their laptops."How are they doing?They've sold more than 300 AlphaSpheres, which retail from £700, and the instrument has been used by artists such as Enter Shikari and Talvin Singh. "This is our flagship product," says de Lancey. "We have lots of other ideas ."CALVIUMRichard Hull co-founder and CEOFounded2009HeadcountFourWhat is it?An app developer and creator of a DIY app-making tool.How did it come about?Richard Hull worked at HP Labs in Bristol for 24 years before co-founding his first startup, Calvium, in November 2009. "It was a big adjustment and not always smooth sailing, but we're doing pretty well now."How does it work?As well as developing apps for clients, Calvium has created an online tool called App Furnace. "It helps you make a simple mobile app without any programming," says Hull. They are also co-producing a set of mobile apps called App Trails."They enhance the real world by playing you audio stories or showing images or video triggered by your location. Recently we partnered with the National Trust to do one about Soho."
It has been unexpectedly sunny in Brighton in the last few years – at least as far as its tech scene is concerned. After a long period of underperformance, the city's digital sector seems to have been galvanised by the recession.According to a recent report conducted by Wired Sussex and local universities, the average digital firm in the area is growing by more than 14% a year, while the sector in Brighton is experiencing jobs growth at more than 10 times the rate of the wider UK economy.Recent success stories such as Brandwatch (the analytics company profiled below) have shown local tech entrepreneurs that you don't have to move 50 miles north to London to make your business flourish: it can be done very nicely here on the south coast, in more laid-back circumstances with lower costs of living, a well-connected community and good creative energy.The crossover between technology and Brighton's vibrant arts scene is part of what makes the city special, according to Wired Sussex's CEO, Phil Jones. "If you want to understand whether there's real value in bringing together learning from the arts and technology, then Brighton is the place to test that proposition."STORYSTREAMAlex Vaidya co-founder and CEONeil Witten co-founder and CTOFounded2012Headcount14What is it?An audience-driven storytelling platform for brands.How did it come about?Vaidya worked at Porsche, where he created an online TV series for the brand, before founding StoryStream. "Brands are recognising the opportunity to bring together what the audience is saying and blend it with their own message," he says.How does it work?The platform collects relevant content from social networks and across the web, curating it for brands so they can use it to create stories around their products.How are they doing?Vaidya has maintained his connection with Porsche – "Using our technology, they were able to bring in instant audience reaction around their new car and build that into their microsite" – and the company is also working with Nokia and Getty Images.BRANDWATCHGiles Palmer founder and CEOFounded2006Headcount160What is it?A social media monitoring and analytics platform.How did it come about?With the rise of social media in the mid-2000s, Palmer, who was running a tech agency in Brighton at the time, recognised the need for a search engine to help brands understand how they're being talked about online."We codenamed it Brandwatch and never came up with a better name," he laughs.How are they doing?The company started out with the capacity to monitor 25,000 websites; now it has a reach of 80 million. Brandwatch has offices in Berlin and New York but is still headquartered in Brighton, where it employs nearly 100 people.BRILLIANT NOISEJason Ryan co-founder and COOFounded2011Headcount19What is it?A digital strategy and innovation agency.How did it come about?The three co-founders were senior members of Spannerworks, a Brighton digital marketing company which was acquired by iCrossing in 2007. "At a certain point, we realised there was a huge opportunity for a strategic digital agency," says Ryan. "Hence Brilliant Noise."How are they doing?"We expected it might take us a bit of time to get going, but within the first three months we were winning strategic work for global brands including Nokia and EDF," says Ryan.FREEDOM OF THOUGHTArjo Ghosh mentor and investorFounded2011HeadcountoneWhat is it?Business planning and consultancy support to founder-managed organisationsBackground: Ghosh moved from London to Brighton 17 years ago and co-founded the  search marketing agency Spannerworks, which was bought by US agency iCrossing for more than £10m in 2007. He stayed on at the company until 2010.What is he doing now?Since leaving iCrossing, Ghosh has been investing in and mentoring startups in Brighton. He is non-executive director at Brilliant Noise and video production company FatSand, and sits on the enterprise panel at the University of Sussex.Why Brighton?"It's a very open-minded, friendly scene. About half the startups I see here are aiming to be a social enterprise, they want to make the world a better place."STUDIO GOBOPaul Ayliffe co-founder and art directorFounded2011Headcount26What is it?A boutique games developer.How did it come about?When Black Rock, a major Brighton games studio owned by Disney, closed down in 2011, a number of smaller companies formed out of the ashes. The original founder, Tony Beckwith, and three other senior Black Rock members joined forces to start Studio Gobo.How are they doing?"Ironically, two years on we're working with Disney," says Ayliffe. "We developed thePirates of the Caribbeanplayset for the Disney Infinity game. It's probably the biggest franchise we've ever worked on – it's great for a new company to be partnered on something so big."EVERY1MOBILESteve Kingswell  COOFounded2010Headcount20What is it?A for-profit social enterprise helping organisations engage with young people in Africa.How does it work?The company, which also has an office in Cape Town, delivers information on topics such as education and health to 15-to 35-year-olds across Africa using mobile social networks.  "Our technology is designed to work with feature phones on WAP because the penetration of mobiles in Africa is much higher than smartphones or computers," says Kingswell. The company also helps brands engage with Africa's growing middle class.How are they doing?The firm covers 20 African countries and attracts 3-4 million visits per month. Last June, the company raised $1.7m in angel investment.VALOBOXAnna Lewis founderFounded2012HeadcountthreeWhat is it?A site that lets you search ebooks online and pay as you read.How does it work?"We are doing collaborations with publishers so we are adding features like gifting ebooks – we want to make ebooks as accessible as a web page because at the moment there is all this content but it is locked away," says Lewis. "You don't need a Kindle because we reflow all of the texts so that it matches the device you are on, whether that's an iPad or phone or computer."How is it doing?They have a catalogue of 15,000 books and 10,000 signed-up users.Why Brighton?"There's a good mix of creative and technical expertise here, with a bit more space than London," says Lewis.THE FUSEBOXPhil Jones CEOFounded2013HeadcountsixWhat is it?A startup to support startups. "We have a space where businesses can come and work and build their products but also a series of support mechanisms to help them do that. We get contributions from the public sector but also the startups themselves," says Jones, who runs Wired Sussex.Why Brighton?"The tech scene here is incredibly vibrant and they tend to be ones that marry technology and creativity," explains Jones, who says that a lot of people have come down from London to start their businesses in the city. "It's got a strong arts and bohemian scene and bringing that together with a digital scene is what gives Brighton its edge. Plus there are lots of students and that keeps the ideas fresh."TRIBEHIVEIan Wakeman founderFounded2013HeadcountfourWhat is it?An app that provides solutions for situations where smartphones have limited connectivity.How does it work?"When you go to a football stadium you normally can't get a signal for love nor money," says Wakeman. "This app builds the network directly between all the other phones within the stadium, and then whoever has got connectivity pulls down the current live scores and Twitter feeds and travel news and distributes it directly to everyone in the stadium."How did it come about?Wakeman has been a lecturer in computer science at the University of Sussex for more than 18 years. "The idea came about from going to football matches and looking at my phone for signal and realising there wasn't any," says Wakeman. "When Brighton built a stadium next the university it seemed like a good time to do it."Future plans"We want to work with other football clubs and we're also talking to people in rugby union, rugby league and horse racing."3DIFYIan Byrne founderFounded2013HeadcountthreeWhat is it?Portable 3D body scanning and printing.How does it work?People walk into a giant body scanner, which takes a 3D capture of them. They can then buy 3D figures of themselves for around £30. "We want it to be a very immersive experience," says Byrne.Future plansTo make a robust portable scanner (like a photo booth). "There is a huge call for it in galleries but we would like to take it further than that and we are also looking into using recycled materials."CRUNCHDarren Fell co-founderFounded2009Headcount100What is it?Online accounting software for small businesses, contractors and freelancers.How did it come about?"I wanted to challenge the world of accountancy because of my bad experiences," says Fell."I quickly realised that we needed software that automates as much as possible the running of your accounts, so that you can send your invoices out to your clients and you can record your receipts. It's like having your own accountant on the end of the phone."How are they doing?They now have more than 4,500 customers and have attracted investment from the chairmen of Bebo anbnd Skype.Who is using it?"Freelancers, contractors, locums, anyone operating up to a 14-person business. That is perfect to be done online," says Fell.LIGHTHOUSE LEARNINGDanielle Barnetche and Alex McGregor Stewart co-directorsFounded2012HeadcountfiveWhat is it?Apps that are based around learning geometry, designed primarily for primary school children.How are they doing?"We have released two apps and our next step is to expand the topics we cover to include maths and a whole range of other subjects," says McGregor Stewart.Why Brighton?"The main thing is it has a thriving digital community and there are a lot of entrepreneurial events," says Barnetche."On a personal level, it's a great place to be. I'm from San Francisco and there's something a bit more interesting about Brighton because it's up and coming and you don't have that intense startup atmosphere."TAGPOINTSJess Stephens director and co-founderFounded2012HeadcountsevenWhat is it?A mobile phone loyalty app that enables retailers to send messages and offers to the customers' mobile phones based on their location, previous spend and online purchases.How did it come about?"We saw there was a divide between shopping centres and digital offerings and we thought someone needs to close that gap and a mobile app can do just that," says Stephens.How are they doing?Nine shopping centres are using it in the UK and the firm is now working on deals in the US and in the UAE.Why Brighton?"Brighton is becoming a tech hub and there is a nice mix between technical talent and creativity. There is a real strong network of tech savvy, friendly people. It's perfect."MINGLUROliver West founder and directorFounded2012HeadcountthreeWhat is it?A conference-call service that offers its customers gifts for using it.How does it work?"Everyone pays for their own calls, as opposed to paying a monthly fee," says West."You earn points that can be redeemed for iPads and restaurant vouchers and with this reward scheme you can really earn in a matter of months."How did it come about?"I'd been using conference calling for a long time and found that there were problems with them all, from the quality of the line not being up to scratch to the cost. Plus we found there was no real loyalty to any brand so we thought, let's set one up ourselves that is better."
The annual vapourware games – otherwise known as the International Consumer Electronics Show – took place last week in Las Vegas. As ever, it brought fascinating glimpses inside the fevered imaginations of marketing and engineering executives.One of the most hilarious was LG of South Korea, whichpromised that we would be able to text our washing machine or dryerto ask how it's doing.Pause a moment to let that sink in, and then ask yourself: when was the last time you actually cared how far through its wash/spin/dry cycle your washer and/or dryer was? Personally, if that does happen, then I get up and go and look at it. It's not as if my home is so large that it requires a special expedition.The nonsensical belief that people will text their appliances is typical of what emerges from a technology industry that simply tries to answer "What can we…?" As in, "What can we add to this toothbrush?" To which the answer, apparently, is "Bluetooth", plus a smartphone app so that your toothbrush can tell your smartphone how well you're brushing your teeth. (Depending on the definition of "well".)Or, of course, add texting capability to your washing machine.Whereas the question that you really want your new piece of technology to answer is "I wish I could…" For example, the original Sony Walkman granted "I wish I could listen to my music while I'm walking about." I recall trying one of the very first models, and while the sound wasn't amazing, the fact of being able to walk around with music was.You might say that LG is answering the calls of all those who think "I wish I could text my washing machine," but that's not how this game works. Really successful technology fulfils a desire, not a specific function; it fulfils the need through its functions.Viewed through this sort of prism, it becomes easier to analyse some of the technology that's flying towards us like space shrapnel in the filmGravity. Does in-home 3D printing answer any desire that you can fit around "I wish I could…"? If it's "I wish I could have small globs of plastic that I will discover in odd places," then job done – although for that purpose you can already just get some children to bring their Lego over, at far less expense.Similarly with "wearables" – those devices that strap to your wrist, head or other body part – the question again becomes, what is the need that these things are fulfilling? I'm happy to own a Pebble smartwatch, which for me fulfils a simple set of functions: tell me the time, and tell me if someone rings or texts my phone by vibrating and showing the caller details. Not very big, and definitely not demanding. I'm still uncertain that there's a large constituency out there saying: "I wish I could monitor how many steps I've taken every day and put it into a graph, which is then shown to all my friends and nags them to get one too."There are whole classes of things that we wear that don't serve any useful need: jewellery (or "accessories", as they're known in fashion). That's the real chasm that wearables need to cross.If they can answer "I wish I could…" with "…wear something that looks attractive," then it won't matter how functional they are.The executives departing from Las Vegas this weekend should take a look at the advertisements along the airport walls, especially for the expensive watches. All those do is tell the time – yet they sell.Sometimes it's not about the answers you provide – it's about the questions you ask in the first place. "Can I text my washing machine?" isn't a good one.
