It's Christmas Eve! Have yourself a merry little Christmas.
The security company RSA has denied that it knowingly weakened the encryption it used in its products as part of a secret contract with the US&apos;s National Security Agency.A report from the Reuters news agency on Fridayallegedthat RSA arranged a $10m contract to use a mathematically weaker formula in a number of its products, which would in effect have created a &quot;back door&quot; for cracking encrypted messages or communications.RSA initially declined to respond to the reports. But in ablogpost on its site posted Sunday, the company now says: &quot;Recent press coverage has asserted that RSA entered into a &apos;secret contract&apos; with the NSA to incorporate a known flawed random number generator into its BSAFE encryption libraries. We categorically deny this allegation.&quot;It adds that &quot;We have worked with the NSA, both as a vendor and an active member of the security community. We have never kept this relationship a secret and in fact have openly publicized it. Our explicit goal has always been to strengthen commercial and government security.&quot;The amount described would have been a substantial boost to RSA&apos;s revenues – totalling about a third of the revenue for the relevant division in the previous year.Damien Miller, a security researcher at Google,commentedthat the blogpost might qualify for &quot;carefully worded press release of the year&quot;. RSA&apos;s statement seems to deny knowing at the time of any contract that the random number generator was flawed. But clear details about its weakness have only emerged in the past few months, while the alleged contract would have been undertaken in at least six years ago.Elliptic curveThe weakened encryption system – a random number generator known as Dual EC DRBG – is the default for a number of security &quot;toolkits&quot; built by RSA which it then issues to other companies. It also figures in its own products. It relies on an algorithm known as &quot;Dual elliptic curve&quot; – Dual EC – which was developed by the NSA.Reuters alleges that the NSA paid RSA to make Dual EC DRBG the default method for generating numbers in its Bsafe software. Most people stick with the defaults in any software they use – even in cryptography.&quot;We made the decision to use Dual EC DRBG as the default in BSafe toolkits in 2004, in the context of an industry-wide effort to develop newer, stronger methods of encryption,&quot; the company says. &quot;At that time, the NSA had a trusted role in the community-wide effort to strengthen, not weaken, encryption.&quot;Disclosures from the whistleblower Edward Snowden have revealed that the NSA worked to weaken the random number generation in the system, which would make any communications much easier to crack.The Dual EC DRBG algorithm was approved by the US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in 2006, but concern was raised by two researchers from Microsoft the net year that it had a &quot;back door&quot; in it.NIST has since recommended that the algorithm is not used to generate secure content.
Google ended 2013 with more than a million Android apps on its Google Play store, and a commanding share of the smartphone market – as well as rapidly-rising tablet sales.It was a good year for new Android apps too, from entertainment and lifestyle apps through to more serious productivity tools. The year also saw a notable upswing in the number of high-quality children&apos;s apps available on Android, as developers caught on to growing use by parents.Earlier today, the Guardian&apos;s50 best Android games of 2013roundup was published. This is the companion piece, covering the best non-game apps for Android smartphones and tablets of the year. As in the previous piece, each app&apos;s title is a link to the Google Play store.Think something doesn&apos;t deserve to be included, or spotted an excellent app that&apos;s been missed out? Make your views known in the comments section. And if you want to dive into the Guardian&apos;s deeper Android app coverage from 2013, browse the archive ofweekly Best Android Apps roundups.The bonus 51st app in this roundup would bethe Guardian and Observer Tablet Edition, of course – it wouldn&apos;t feel fair to deprive another app of a place, but as a reader as well as writer, its appearance on the Google Play store in time for Christmas greatly cheered me up.Digg for Android.ENTERTAINMENTBand of the DayAn award-winning app on iPhone and iPad, Band of the Day proved just as impressive on Android, with its simple mission of spotlighting a single new band or musician every day. Streaming music, biographies, videos and photos help you tell whether they&apos;re up your street or not.BBC SportThe BBC&apos;s official sports app offers news, live text commentary, fixtures and tables, and a mixture of live and on-demand video and audio from a range of events. Live radio streams and the ability to customise it for your favourite teams were among the updates added during 2013 too.BiophiliaIt took a while, but Björk&apos;s Biophilia album-app finally made the leap from iOS to Android this year. As before, it offers an individual &quot;mini-app&quot; for every song on her last album, with a mixture of games, creativity and musicmaking tools to explore the sounds of Biophilia.Bloom.fmBloom.fm is a stylish streaming-music app, starting with free personal radio where you choose a genre or artist to get a stream of similar music. Pay £1, £5 or £10 a month, and you can &quot;borrow&quot; a certain amount of tracks to listen to on demand. A beautifully-designed and innovative app.Circa NewsCirca was one of a host of startups trying to disrupt the news industry through aggregation: in this case, editorial staff &quot;condensing the news&quot; to bitesize segments, and updating stories over time so you can follow them. It launched this year with a US skew towards tech, politics and science.Cross DJBudding Android superstar DJs (or, indeed, super round-a-friend&apos;s-house-commandeering-the-stereo DJs) should be flocking to Cross DJ, a DJing app released late this year with a clean, uncluttered design to get you mixing and scratching your digital music files.DiggWeb 2.0 veteran Digg was reinvented in 2013, serving up blog posts, videos and social updates to its users on Android. The timing was good too: just as Google closed its Google Reader RSS service, Digg offered an alternative way to keep tabs on RSS feeds and share stories to social networks.FrankensteinThe idea of interactive fiction can make some literary purists a bit grumpy, but Dave Morris&apos; adaptation of Mary Shelley&apos;s Frankenstein wasn&apos;t a gimmick. It saw you influencing the decisions of Frankenstein himself (yes, NOT the monster, the man) as the story goes on.Radioplayer TabletUK consortium Radioplayer gathers live streams, catch-up shows and podcasts from a range of British radio stations, including the BBC and commercial radio alike. This was its Android tablet app, joining a separate smartphone version, offering streams and programme recommendations.iPlayer RadioBBC iPlayer Radio for Android also promised live streams from the BBC&apos;s national radio stations, plus access to shows from the last seven days (and podcasts) on demand. Video clips, alerts for upcoming programmes and an alarm-clock function were also part of the mix.Sky Go TabletBSkyB&apos;s Sky Go service got plenty of mobile love this year, including this app optimised for Android tablets. It was a way to watch Sky live over Wi-Fi or the mobile network, along with films and children&apos;s shows on-demand. As the year went on, more and more content was added.Soundwave Music DiscoveryIrish startup Soundwave aims to help people discover new music by following what friends and tastemakers are playing. The app tracks and shares song plays on Spotify and Rdio, as well as on your Android device, while showing you the plays of others – as well as aggregated charts.Xbox One SmartGlassMicrosoft&apos;s official second-screen app debuted just ahead of the launch of its Xbox One next-gen console. You can use it to control the Xbox One, access media, browse the web on TV – and, for games that support it, use it as a companion for extra gameplay features.Hakitzu Elite: Robot Hackers for Android.KIDSBBC CBeebies PlaytimeThis was the BBC&apos;s first official CBeebies app for Android, offering high-quality mini-games for some of the pre-school TV channel&apos;s main shows including Octonauts, Alphablocks, Something Special and Tree Fu Tom. Light educational elements underpinned the gameplay.Hakitzu Elite: Robot HackersHakitzu Elite is one of the most intriguing apps trying to teach children to code: in this case, JavaScript by getting them to build and battle giant (virtual) robots against their friends. The game uses a virtual credits system: they can be earned and/or bought, then used to customise the bots.Mr Shingu&apos;s Paper ZooThis was a delightful combination of origami and virtual pets. Kids have to populate a zoo with colourful animals by folding them (virtually) together following on-screen prompts, then keep the menagerie occupied with items. The in-app currency is earned purely by playing, not paying.The Snowman and the Snowdog GameChannel 4 commissioned this endless-runner game in the style of Temple Run for its Snowman sequel. You control the Snowman as he makes his way across the UK towards the North Pole. It uses in-app purchases, but with a £20 spending cap on individual players to avoid bill-shock.Toca BuildersThis was a treat: an app inspired by Minecraft from popular children&apos;s publisher Toca Boca. It involved building ... well, building anything you like using coloured blocks, helped by six robot characters – each with their own building, decorating or destroying ability. Creative joy.Toca Hair Salon 2The second Toca Boca game on this roundup was also its first on the Google Play store. It gets kids to play hairdresser for six characters, cutting, styling and colouring to their heart&apos;s content with simple touchscreen gestures, before showing off their work to the nearest sibling, friend or adult.Toy Story: Story TheaterDisney was another big name in children&apos;s entertainment putting more oomph into Android in 2013. This creative storytelling tool for kids was based on the Toy Story films. Children can pick a character, setting and props, then record their own voice telling the story.SketchBook Ink for Android.LIFESTYLEFitocracyReleased in January, Fitocracy could be just as handy a year later to combat post-Christmas bloat. It turned getting fit into an almost RPG-style game where you earn points for workouts, rise in levels and &quot;slay the laziness dragon&quot;. Social features are built in for extra motivation.Gogobot Travel GuideSocial travel service Gogobot wanted to help you discover interesting places to holiday based on other people&apos;s experiences, with an app to browse their virtual &quot;postcards&quot; and reviews, scout out more than 60,000 destinations and then book hotels to stay in.HelpoutsBrand new from Google this year, Helpouts is a service that connects you to a host of experts from cooking, beauty and fitness/nutrition through to computers and electronics, for video calls paid for by the minute, or per call. An interesting idea whose wider potential may be seen in 2014.LearnistLearnist was one of the startups trying to help people learn online – or, as it describes itself: &quot;like a collaborative, multimedia and interactive ebook from the future&quot;. It pulls in content from around the web including YouTube, Wikipedia and SoundCloud, and sorts it into topics.MovesActivity-tracking app Moves had one crucial difference to the likes of Fitbit and Jawbone UP: it didn&apos;t require an extra gadget. Instead, it uses your smartphone&apos;s sensors to measure your daily steps, recording your location as it goes for a mini life-diary on top.Sketchbook InkAutodesk&apos;s SketchBook Ink drawing app was as warmly received on Android tablets as it had been on iPad. Working in portrait or landscape orientation, it offered slick touchscreen line-drawing, with plenty of options to export images for further work on other devices.UP by JawboneJawbone&apos;s UP wristband was one of a plethora of fitness gadgets available to track your activity and sleep patterns this year. Its Android companion app enabled UP owners to dig into their data, while also logging their eating and drinking, setting sleep alarms and see what friends are up to.Wowmum Maps UKThis was an app to find &quot;child-friendly places&quot; around the UK, based on your current location. Divided into Eat, Play and Pamper categories, it covers more than 10,000 places from pram-friendly restaurants to soft-play centres. And yes, dads can use it too, although the developer also released a separate app for them.YPLanYPlan was one of an emerging crop of apps aiming to help you decide where to spend evenings out. At launch, it covered London and New York, providing a slick list of events, and helping you buy tickets – often at a discount. Music, cinema, theatre and even &quot;chessboxing&quot; were among the offers.The Walk: Fitness Tracker GameDeveloper Six to Start made the innovative Zombies, Run! fitness game, which got people jogging while pretending to be chased by zombies. This follow-up took similar basic principles, but it is less athletic: using your walking steps as part of the gameplay rather than requiring you to run – complete with the NHS as a partner.Cal for Android.PRODUCTIVITY / TOOLSBBC WeatherThe official BBC Weather app provided forecasts for the UK, automatically for your current location or via search for other places. Besides temperature and sun/rain details, it provides pressure, visibility, humidity, UV and pollen data, with a lock-screen widget just for Android.CalCal is a calendar app by developer Any.do that works in maps, contacts and social networks to ensure you&apos;re always up to speed on where you&apos;re going and who you&apos;re meeting. It also connects neatly to the developer&apos;s previous app, task-list Any.do, to tick off your chores as you go.Camera 2The Paper Camera photography app did pretty well on Android, so this year its developers returned with a follow-up: Camera 2. Billed as the &quot;ultimate real-time effects app&quot;, it has a host of filters, as well as the ability to shoot photos and videos, and share the results to various social networks.Camera AwesomeThe hit iOS photography app snapped onto Android this year, with just as impressive a range of photography features focused on taking better shots, not just on sharing them. You could dig as deep as you like into the app&apos;s shooting and editing tools to improve your mobile photography skills.CoverCover is a &quot;smart lockscreen&quot; for Android smartphones, replacing Google&apos;s own lockscreen to provide speedy access to your most useful apps, flick quickly between them, and a &quot;peek&quot; feature to glance at what&apos;s new before opening an app. It also tries to suggest apps based on your context.Dolphin ZeroDeveloper Dolphin pitched its latest app as a Snapchat of browsing. No, not because it is full of nudes. It&apos;s about privacy: a browser that automatically deletes (or &quot;shreds&quot; in its terminology) your browsing history, cache, passwords and cookies whenever you quit browsing.DuckDuckGo Search &amp; StoriesAnonymous search engine DuckDuckGo&apos;s official Android app wanted to be a haven for more users who are turning away from Google. The app offers similarly-anonymous search functions to the website, but also doubles as a news-reading app for news, entertainment, sports, technology and other areas.GO Launcher PrimeThe original GO Launcher app was hugely popular on Android as an alternative homescreen. This year it got a new premium version, which blocks ads, adds two-finger gestures (not that kind) and additional animations, with more features promised in forthcoming updates.Microsoft Remote DesktopReports this year suggested Microsoft makes plenty of money from Android just from patent licensing. This remote-desktop app was another facet of its business, helping people log in to their Windows computers from their Android devices.QuipQuip was the startup launched by former Facebook CTO Bret Taylor, aiming to shake up the way people collaborate on documents. It&apos;s a cloud-synchronised word-processing app that runs across smartphones, tablet and computers, with an emphasis on people working together on files.SwypeTyping app Swype had been available on a select few Android devices before, but this year it hit the Google Play store. Its signature swipe-based typing may now be part of other virtual keyboards, but a solid predictive engine and voice recognition features aimed to set it above the rivals.VSCO CamVSCO Cam got plenty of &quot;at last!&quot; reviews on the Google Play store when it transferred from iOS to Android this year. It&apos;s an impressively-slick app for shooting and editing your snaps. An in-app store of &quot;packs&quot; to tweak your images is how it makes its money.Twitter for Android tablets.SOCIALBBM2013 was the year when BlackBerry&apos;s messaging app BBM launched on other devices, including Android. It initially focused on text chatting and sharing photos, files and voice notes, with the group chat and broadcast messages that made it popular on its home platform. Expect more features in 2014.LiftPromising &quot;daily motivation&quot;, Lift aimed to help you &quot;take regular steps toward healthy life change&quot;, whether that&apos;s giving up bad habits, getting fitter or developing new career skills. The idea being that you set your priorities and use the app to keep track of your progress.MixBitMixBit was a video-sharing app from a couple of YouTube&apos;s original co-founders. The videos you share are split into up-to-16-second clips, which can be strung together into sequences of up to an hour. Simple, slick editing tools come with an emphasis on sharing and remixing videos with other usersRandoRando put a fun skew on photo-sharing: an app that got you to snap a pic (using a circular frame) and then send it to ... Well, you don&apos;t know who it&apos;s going to: Rando handles the job of pinging it &quot;anonymously to somebody completely random&quot; – somebody else using the Rando app, obviously.Silent TextTechnology company Silent Circle was in the news this year after shutting its encrypted email service &quot;to prevent spying&quot; in the wake of the Guardian&apos;s NSA revelations. Silent Text was another part of its business: encrypted text messaging with file-transfers of up to 100MB too.TinderTinder was a bona-fide craze this year: a dating app showing you people nearby who might be a match, with a hot-or-not style swiping interface to indicate interest, and the ability to text-chat to matches before deciding whether to meet. Also one of the most popular pub spectator-sports of 2013.TwitterTwitter on Android isn&apos;t new, but this year saw Twitter&apos;s first native tablet app for Android, redesigned for their bigger screens. An initially-limited release for a few models led the way for more devices to come, providing an even better way to tweet (or just read) on the sofa.VycloneVideo-sharing app Vyclone&apos;s tagline is &quot;Film together&quot;. That means you shoot video of whatever you like, then Vyclone figures out who else is filming at the same time in the same place, and stitches all your clips together into a multi-angle video.•The 50 Best Android Games of 2013
Picture the scene: you're trapped in a burning building with a beautiful French reporter by your side. Do you a) panic b) use this moment to profess your undying love, or c) stare intently at every object in the room, offering quips as commentary, before concocting a MacGyver-like scheme at glacial pace to get out? If you answered (c) then congratulations, you're probably a Broken Sword fan and this Kickstarter-funded title is largely for you.The fifth instalment in the adventure series is self-published by Revolution and represents a return to the traditional 2D aesthetic of the first two titles. This is not the greatest game in the world, this is a tribute, and newcomers may be baffled by its charms, not least because it's been cut in two, with the second part due early 2014. However, if the thought of spending five hours in the company of George Stobbart, Nico Collard et al gives you a warm glow inside, you will find enough to admire in this resolutely old school adventurer. Alas, it also brings old flaws to the gaming table.Back to ParisWe begin in a Parisian art gallery, with our stars back together after the cruel separation of 2006's turgid Angel of Death. George is conveniently there as an insurance assessor, Nico for her newspaper, but their reunion is interrupted by a robbery that leaves the gallery owner dead and a single painting stolen. The latter, you're reliably informed by an attending priest, is a Gnostic piece cursed by the devil, bringing death in its wake. To an outsider, this seems a threatening, borderline-insane setup, but the Broken Sword fan can relax in such comfortable surroundings.They know that when George intones that "the police will be here any minute", they will in fact arrive only when you've accomplished precisely as much as the storyline requires. Why rush your investigations when you can examine every painting and exhaust every dialogue tree? Indeed, solutions in Broken Sword frequently arise by doing precisely this. There's no sense of urgency or consequence to your actions in the manner of Telltale's The Walking Dead; progress is slow and linear.This is reinforced by the traditional point-and-click interface and sluggish character movement, which results in you waiting for George to walk all too frequently. The occasional nods to modernity, such as the ability to ring people from your mobile, prove cosmetic. They can only be used strictly when the storyline requires, so at one stage after ringing Nico I had George ring his boss from the same spot, only to be told there was no service. George and I must share he same shoddy mobile provider.Such frustrations are partially negated by the sumptuously-drawn backgrounds, which offer plenty of incidental detail to gaze at, but their artistic purity is undermined by the occasionally-clumsy 3D character sprites projected onto them. These mostly work well, but our protagonists can veer between being depressingly static to spinning 360 degrees on the spot before speaking.Thankfully, the script is solid enough once they do.  Although it's laughably full of portent at times and the intended humour falls largely flat – expect early gems like "there was something fishy going on here, and it wasn't just the canapés" – it's a cut above what you find in most modern games. You can still carry around pointless objects like a half-eaten Rich Tea biscuit to show to strangers for laughs, and there's the occasional smart remark when you tell George to pick up outlandish objects – albeit nothing on a par with Space Quest's "ladder in your pants" shtick, to cite another series worthy of revival.Regardless, George's lines are delivered by the returning Rolf Saxon with such aplomb that you can't help but be charmed. His wry take on the world is ably assisted by Sword's cast of eccentrics with exaggerated accents, ranging from a Sartre-quoting barista who insists on only serving black coffee, to detective Navet, who makes Inspector Clouseau look like Morse. The only real letdown is the slightly lifeless Emma Tate as Nico, but even here the chemistry between her and George means you indulge the worst excesses.The same is true of puzzles, which may not be terribly inspired – trapping a cockroach, really? – but are at least broadly logical. Only one involves pushing a block, mercifully, as The Sleeping Dragon still haunts my dreams. Should you get stuck, there's a hints system that progresses from vague to outright solution. Generally you shouldn't need it but if you've missed a hotspot it's handy; the resort to pixel hunting should be illegal in a 2013 adventure game.Remembrance of games pastNostalgia is the game's saving grace and it doesn't stint on catering to fans. There are scores of returning characters, including personal favourite Sergeant Moue, as well as nuggets hidden in the scenery, from a poster of the first game among some junk at your first location, to a pissoir just outside it.Being so evidently a labour of love makes it easier to overlook failings, but overarching judgement is impeded by this feeling less than half a game. Broken Sword has always mixed mundane murder with wider conspiracies, and the lack of payoff here sorely hampers the promise of what amounts to a six-hour introduction. You long for George and Nico to be saving the world, but all you can accomplish is proving some insurance fraud, albeit involving a rich Russian Putin-lookalike with a large painting of Gaddafi on his wall.With the second part added, Broken Sword 5 could certainly reach beyond three stars – but, until then, it's wise to remain agnostic about Charles Cecil's latest offering.• Charles Cecil talks Broken Sword Directors Cut and why point and click adventures are back• Broken Sword 5: The Serpent's Curse announced as Kickstarter project
2013 was a very good year for Android games, as more developers recognised the potential of Google-powered smartphones and tablets. From action and puzzle games to sports and strategy, Android was well-served with impressive and inventive games to suit all tastes.Trends? As on Apple&apos;s iOS, the dominant business model for mobile games this year was freemium: you could play for free, but the games made their money from in-app purchases and ads (but mainly the former).It can be controversial, especially when previously-paid game franchises go freemium – Plants vs Zombies 2 and Real Racing 3 were examples of that in 2013 – but the model appears here to stay. That said, there were some excellent paid Android games too this year, many of which feature in this roundup.The title of each game is a link to its Google Play store listing, so if your device uses another app store – Amazon&apos;s in the case of Kindle Fire tablets – you&apos;ll need to search for them manually to check if they&apos;re available. Disagree with the inclusions or think a favourite game has been cruelly left out? Make your case in the comments section.A roundup of The Guardian&apos;s 50 favourite non-game Android apps of 2013can be found here. Meanwhile, if you want a deeper dive into 2013&apos;s Android recommendations on this site, browse the archive ofweekly Best Android apps roundups.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas for Android.ACTIONAngry Birds Star Wars IIThis was the second Angry Birds game to be set in the Star Wars universe, with characters turned into birds and pigs, and 120 levels to fling them through. This time round, you could play as both sides, and there&apos;s a range of Telepods toys that interact with the game too, Skylanders-style.BadlandBadland was one of many well-loved indie games to make the leap from iOS to Android this year, as developers recognised the growing potential of Google&apos;s platform for games. It&apos;s a platform-adventure set in an eerie forest, with beautiful visuals, slick physics and plenty of exploration.Call of Duty: Strike TeamActivision&apos;s latest Call of Duty game was made for mobile devices from the ground up. Some elements were familiar – ie all the shooting – but new twists included the ability to swap between first-person action and a more tactical third-person view to plot your squad&apos;s tactics.Dead Trigger 2The original Dead Trigger was a made-for-mobile first-person-shooter by developer MadFinger Games, and its sequel amped up the action: more zombies, including bosses, and more weapons to dispatch them with. The graphics were also a big draw: one of the best-looking Android games of 2013.Despicable Me: Minion RushThis was publisher Gameloft&apos;s official game for the Despicable Me movies, putting you in the shoes of a scampering minion for this Temple Rush-style endless runner. Leaping, sliding and dodging obstacles while earning or buying costumes and power-ups proved hugely popular among children and adults alike.Grand Theft Auto: San AndreasJust in time for Christmas came this Android version of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, originally released in 2004 for consoles. It&apos;s nostalgia, yes, but the game still packs a mighty punch with its sandbox gameplay. It plays nice with Bluetooth controllers too.Mushihimesama Bug PanicGood luck pronouncing the title to this shoot &apos;em up, although you needed even more luck (and plenty of skill) to play it well. This was an old favourite from Japanese developer Cave, with bullets flying all over the shop, and a punishing-yet-rewarding difficulty curve.Nimble QuestHaving made its name with Tiny Tower and Pocket Planes, developer Nimblebit turned to the action genre, blending Snake gameplay with RPG-style characters and upgrades. You swiped your party of heroes to guide them through levels of increasing difficulty. It&apos;s genuinely addictive.Papa Pear SagaThe last word is the clue here: Papa Pear Saga came from the same company (King) that made puzzle phenomenon Candy Crush Saga. Where that game was a Bejeweled-style match-three puzzler, this is essentially a rewrite of another game, Peggle, firing balls to destroy pegs.Ravensword: ShadowlandsCrescent Moon Games has won plenty of fans for its Ravensword RPG games, and its latest Android instalment was very impressive. It involved exploring a vast fantasy world fighting and questing, in the vein of some of the impressive open-world adventures on consoles.Ridiculous FishingRidiculous Fishing is, yes, ridiculous: you lower your bait down as far as possible while avoiding a variety of creatures, then haul it back up again catching as many as possible along the way, hurl them into the air, and blast them to bits with a shotgun. Bad in real life, but fun virtually.Ski Safari: Adventure TimeCartoon Network&apos;s Adventure Time show appeals to kids and grown-ups alike, as does this game. It sees the stars of the show sliding down hills on their bottoms to evade avalanches, pulling stunts as they go. It captured the quirky charms of the show perfectly, whatever your age.Sky Gamblers: Air SupremacyNamco Bandai&apos;s Sky Gamblers series has spawned a succession of visually-impressive dogfighting titles. This was the latest version, offering more solo modes than before, as well as online multiplayer with a choice of teaming up with friends, or blasting them out of the skies.Super HexagonSuper Hexagon may have been the most hardcore Android game of 2013: a &quot;minimal action&quot; arcade game with a punishing difficulty level – yet intensely rewarding once you got to grips with it. Its pulsating chiptune music was also a standout mobile-game soundtrack this year.Temple Run 2Temple Run was one of the biggest &quot;endless runner&quot; games on mobile devices, and the sequel did a good job of bumping up the graphics and adding more depth to the gameplay. At its core, you&apos;re still swiping to jump, slide and turn your way through paths to escape an angry giant monkey.The Blockheads&quot;Explore, mine, craft and build in this giant and detailed sandbox game,&quot; explained the Google Play listing for this, with the two key words being &quot;mine&quot; and &quot;craft&quot;. Unashamedly inspired by Minecraft but with a 2D spin, it&apos;s an excellent sandbox to explore.Tiny ThiefTiny Thief was a release from Rovio Stars, the new publishing business that&apos;s part of Angry Birds-maker Rovio. Inspired by classic point&apos;n&apos;click adventure games, it sees the titular hero exploring six quests, with some delightful puzzles and surprises in store.The Room for Android.PUZZLEBejeweled BlitzPart of the rush of freemium games on Android this year, Bejeweled Blitz was a reengineered version of the classic match-three puzzle game, with rounds lasting 60 seconds each, and the emphasis on power-ups and high-score tables of friends to compete against.Blip BlupBlip Blup was a hypnotically-addictive puzzle game from UK studio ustwo, which sees you tapping to fill a screen-full of tiles with colour. The complication being walls and obstacles that get in the way of your colour-pulse&apos;s path. More than 120 levels to work through provided plenty of challenge.Cut the Rope: Time TravelCutesy monster Om Nom&apos;s proper Cut the Rope sequel will hit Android early in 2014, but this intermediate game proved a hit in 2013, with a time-travelling theme and similar action: cut ropes to solve physics puzzles across six locations, while feeding sweets to the monsters.Doctor Who: LegacyThe latest Doctor Who game was instantly familiar to anyone who&apos;s played Puzzle &amp; Dragons – one of the few mobile games to be making as much money as Candy Crush Saga. It sees you swapping colourful orbs around to attack monsters while building a team of the Doctor and his companions.Dots: A Game about ConnectingDots was the most addictive Android game this year, thriving on the simplicity of connecting same-coloured dots on a grid in 60-second rounds. Twitter and Facebook are plumbed in to compare your scores to friends, and there is also an untimed mode for practice.Dr. Newton: The Brain AdventureBritish developer Brainbow was hoping to become the new Dr Kawashima-sized brand in the brain-training world, with Dr. Newton: The Brain Adventure. It&apos;s a familiar mix of mini-games and score-tracking, and very polished – perfect for short daily bursts of brain workouts.HundredsCircular puzzle game Hundreds sees you tapping on circles in each level to make them (and the numbers inside them) bigger – adding at least 100 points overall without them touching. Which sounds slightly tortuous written down, but the game&apos;s genius is its stripped-down simplicity.Juice CubesEssentially Candy Crush Saga with square-shaped fruit rather than sweets, but it&apos;s very well done. Published by Rovio, it features hundreds of levels of fruit-matching puzzling, with combos, Facebook integration and in-app purchases used to buy power-ups when it gets too tough.KamiKami is a beautiful, relaxing game based around folding colourful virtual paper in squares, trying to fill the screen with a single colour in as few moves as possible. No time pressures or impossible levels trying to make you buy in-app purchases. A marvellous de-stress tool.Pixel Defenders PuzzleThis addictive puzzler sees you matching pixels and characters to make more-powerful characters, who then attack enemies at the top of the screen. If you&apos;ve ever played the (also gripping) Triple Town, it&apos;s a bit like that but with extra fighting, and a fantasy-RPG theme.The RoomAtmospheric puzzler The Room passed the 1m sales mark on iOS in mid-January before crossing to Android. The gameplay involves exploring a beautifully-crafted 3D room solving puzzles with tactile touchscreen controls, providing a genuine challenge for your grey cells.Real Racing 3 for Android.RACING / SPORTAngry Birds GoThe latest Angry Birds game was controversial for its enthusiastic adoption of pretty much every free-to-play gaming mechanic going, but underneath that is a genuinely impressive karting game with smooth handling, well-crafted tracks and familiarly-fun characters.CSR RacingFreemium drag-racing game CSR Racing roared onto Android with its blend of buying, upgrading and racing a range of cars from Audi, BMW and other manufacturers, with an emphasis on customisation – and in-app purchases used to fund the action.Fast &amp; Furious 6Social publisher Kabam was the latest Fast &amp; Furious licence-holder, aiming to do for the cars&apos;n&apos;guns movie franchise what it had already done for The Hobbit. Which is? This involved more racing, customising cars and trying to work your way up the global leaderboards.FIFA 14Even FIFA went free-to-play this year with in-app purchases to unlock all the single-player modes, and for packs of players in the Ultimate Team mode. Otherwise, it was business as usual: slick action, thousands of licensed players, and inventive touchscreen controls.Flick Kick Football LegendsThe original Flick Kick Football was fantastic, but returned this year as a freemium game with a retro look, and an emphasis on team-building as well as goal scoring. The gameplay was richer too: besides pinging shots you also have to master tackling, intercepting and passing.Fluid Football VersusAnother polished football game, with more of a focus on multiplayer matches as well as a single-player mode. As in its predecessor, it sees you trying to score goals by drawing lines for your players&apos; runs, then (hopefully) flicking the ball into the net. A real tactical challenge.Football Manager Handheld 2014The latest Android version of the world&apos;s best football management franchise adds more depth, a redesigned user interface, the ability to create your own club (yes, with you as the star striker if you&apos;re in that frame of mind), and the ability to manage in more than one country. Engrossing.Real BoxingOne of the best-looking sports games on any mobile device, this sees you battling through a 30-fight career mode against 20 beefy boxers, while training your fighter up in between matches. The chunky boxers and smooth animation made for impressive fight scenes.Real Racing 3Another game whose switch to freemium was controversial, but after some tweaks to its timers, Real Racing 3 really impressed. Dozens of cars, hundreds of events and genuinely console-quality graphics, plus clever asynchronous multiplayer races to compete against offline friends.Galaxy on Fire 2 HD for Android.STRATEGYAdventure TownSupersolid had a big free-to-play hit with Super Penguins, with Adventure Town the follow-up. Familiar elements – build a town, harvest crops, compare with friends etc – have some neat twists and lots of gameplay polish. A cut above the FarmVille-style herd.Anomaly 211 Bit Studios&apos; gameplay is described as &quot;RTS tower offense&quot; rather than tower defence. Still, that gives you an idea of the rough genre, as you play humans trying to fight back against a wave of nefarious machines who&apos;ve taken over the world. Multiplayer lets you pick either side too.Clash of ClansIt took a while, but Supercell&apos;s popular iOS game Clash of Clans rampaged onto Android this year. New to it? The game involves building up a village and army, sending them out to attack others, and planning your defence for when people attack you. A long-term pleasure.Fieldrunners 2The original Fieldrunners was one of the best tower-defence games for mobile devices, and its sequel lived up to its reputation. It involves placing towers to fend off increasingly tough hordes of enemies, building mazes to contain and destroy the marching troops before they reach your base.Frozen SynapseIf you like a real challenge with your mobile games, then Frozen Synapse was a fiver well spent this year. It&apos;s a turn-based strategy game originally released for computers, as you guide your squad through a succession of levels. 55 missions to play by yourself plus five multiplayer modes.Galaxy On Fire 2 HDFishlabs&apos; sprawling Galaxy on Fire space epics have always been a reliable source of mobile entertainment. The latest saw you shooting and trading your way across the galaxy, with more than 10 hours in its main campaign mode, and additional quests unlocked through in-app purchases.Hay DayGames developer Supercell was the firm behind Clash of Clans, but Hay Day is just as fun: a social farming game that takes the FarmVille formula and polishes it to gleaming levels. Crops, animals and helping out friends may be familiar, but here they felt fresh and fun.Plants vs Zombies 2Another game switching to freemium, but Plants vs Zombies 2 just about survived the transition: a strategic defence game where you fend off zombie hordes by placing plants. It was also an example of a game that got more features over time through updates, keeping fans playing.RymdkapselAn addictive, accessible game that offers a sci-fi twist on the real-time strategy genre. The emphasis is on building a space-base through Tetris-like block-placement, while fending off waves of enemies. It was simple in all the best ways, and well worth the purchase price.Samurai SiegeAnother big free-to-play success story on Android this year was Samurai Siege, as you built a thriving village and constructed an army capable of fending off other players. The samurai and ninja characters put a neat spin on the real-time social strategy genre, too.Star Wars: Tiny Death StarThis game was based on the equally-marvellous Tiny Tower, where you had to build a tower level-by-level, populating it with &quot;bitizens&quot; to work, play and rest. In this officially-licensed Star Wars version, the tower is a Death Star, and the bitizens are characters from the films. Very moreish.The Simpsons: Tapped OutOne of EA&apos;s biggest mobile hits ever, this Simpsons game sees you rebuilding Springfield, fuelled by the in-game donuts currency. Pretty much all your favourite characters from the TV show make appearances, and regular content updates throughout the year provided reasons to keep visiting.Transport TycoonFinally, a famous old game revived for modern devices. The task remains building your own transport company, moving cargo and passengers through a mixture of road, rail, sea and air transport. It was as engrossing and challenging an affair as the original PC game.• The 50 Best Android Apps of 2013
Tis the Monday before Christmas...
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDIY toilet paper tube organizer is ugly, but it's a helluva cable organizer &gt;&gt; LifehackerIf you are a tech head, you've probably amassed quite a collection of miscellaneous cables that you aren't currently using, but might need later on. Keep them organized and tangle-free with a few toilet paper tubes in a box.We can attest that this is cheap, effective and environmentally friendly.Gates Foundation awards grants to develop urine-powered fuel cells, waterless toilets and solar steam sterilizers &gt;&gt; Bill &amp; Melinda Gates FoundationNew Phase II grants were awarded to five organizations working to improve water and sanitation conditions in the developing world:University of the West of England, Bristol in the U.K. to develop microbial fuel cells that can be powered by urine. The electricity generated can be used to power sanitation of the waste, and even to charge a cell phone.Difficult task: placing an economic value on GPS &gt;&gt; Inside GNSSThe nation's leading GPS experts are struggling to quantify how the world's premier navigation and timing system affects the U.S. economy, an effort critical to building a political firewall around GPS spectrum in the face of ballooning demand for broadband capacity."It is an impossible question," said James Schlesinger, chairman of the National Space-Based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing (PNT) Advisory Board. "It's methodologically harder than evaluating the Gross Domestic Product. What we are being asked to do is calculate something that is incalculable."The research challenge was highlighted incomments by Jules McNeff, vice-president at Overlook Systems Technologies, in the current issue of Inside GNSS: "In the case of GNSS services, these [benefits] are more difficult to quantify because they are both direct and indirect, include second- and third-order benefits, and are not simply revenue streams from direct subscription services. They are spread across all economic sectors and represent revenues from increased efficiencies in logistics and related economies of operation, improved safety, reductions in personnel costs and exposure to hazards, and others."GPS is paid for by US taxes, but almost certainly generates far more than it costs. The question is, how much more? (A version of this "how much is it worth?" question had to be answered to make Ordnance Survey data free.)Symposium on Google Books &gt;&gt; Concurring OpinionsThe Google Books decision (which came down in Google's favour for its book-scanning project) relied on "fair use" laws in the US. Having that result opens the doors to many other projects:The Google Books and Hathi Trust decisions both highlight the transformative nature of digitization of  works in order to make them searchable, and in order to make innovative analyses of mass bodies of works. This might be relevant for users who want to:• digitize a collection of VHS tapes recorded off broadcast television in order to create a database or other record of which ads appeared in which order in relation to which shows, or in order to transcribe and perform computational analysis on the advertising content•digitize a large chunk of the comic-book art of a particular illustrator, and run image analysis programs to detect patterns in the illustrator's composition and figure drawing over timeAnd many more.BYOD continues as major mobile device trend for 2014A survey of 4,100 IT professionals found that 73% said their company will give more staff mobile computing devices in 2014; 41% with smartphones, 40% with tablets (there's overlap). And this tidbit:when asked what the main goal is for companies that implement tablets for employees, 52% said they would be used to accommodate end users on their corporate network, 27% to implement dedicated devices for mobile workers, and 21% to reduce costs for personnel with limited tasks."Reduce costs", aka "replace more expensive devices". Such as PCs.Python displacing R as the programming language for data science &gt;&gt; ReadWriteSure, R isn't a programming language. It's more an environment. But:all sorts of developers are familiar with Python and use it for a wide array of applications. Unlike R, which is pretty much only used for data analysis, a developer could experience Python when first scripting her website or any number of other applications.As enterprises struggle to put data to work, they're also struggling to find qualified data scientists. More often than not, however, such data scientists may already work for them and likely have some familiarity with Python.Google announces ban on "multi-purpose" Chrome extensions &gt;&gt; ZDNetEd Bott:The new policy seems to be aimed at extensions that use ad injection as a way of making money. The policy mentions that a bundled extension that "[shows] product ratings and reviews, but also injects ads into web pages" would be prohibited. The blog post acknowledges this possibility: "Developers may need to switch to a different approach to monetization," it says, conveniently adding that Google has recently "add[ed] payment options to extensions."Bott points out that Google's own practice regarding Internet Explorer (where it bundles Mail, YouTube, Calendar and others into a single toolbar) wouldn't be allowed under its own new rules.Can Microsoft get the Nokia branding right? &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionAt the heart of the problem for Microsoft is the name "Nokia". It has real value, particularly outside the US, and Microsoft has to be very careful about how it transitions away from using it. I think there are fewer issues with the Lumia (and Asha) brands, but also no reason to move away from those. Lumia is a better brand for Windows Phones then "Windows Phone". It's not even close actually.If you think about some of the previous dumb branding by Microsoft we could end up with the "Microsoft Nokia Lumia 666 Windows Phone", in which case I'll dump my stock. Microsoft has to be much smarter about how they do this.What's wrong just with "Lumia"? It's been fine for Xbox - arguably better than if it had been called "Microsoft Games Console".Keeping Chrome extensions simple &gt;&gt; Chromium BlogErik Kay, engineering director:To keep with our principle of simplicity, we decided to take a different approach. Chrome extensions would be simple and single-purpose in nature, and each would only be allowed a single visible UI "surface" in Chrome, a single browser action or page action button. Toolbars wouldn't be supported by design, and users would have more control over which features they added to their browser.Unfortunately, in some cases, we couldn't enforce these design goals technically. With content scripts, extension developers have full control over the page, so they can put up as much UI as they want, even going as far as to create toolbars in the page. Others used content scripts to create extensions with more subtle features bundled together that were harder to attribute to specific extensions. In many cases, the Chrome Web Store helped by showing poor reviews when users had noticed bad behavior from a particular extension, but in other cases the connection wasn't clear.As Bott points out above, Google built an extensible browser and then found that people were writing extensions for it. Unsurprising. And what's more, it's creating a locked-down store for it. As Ron Amadeo of Ars Technica says in the comments there, what happens when the Chromium Store and the Google Play Store - whose policies are polar opposites - meet?Also of note: to illustrate the terrors of browser extensions, it uses a screenshot of IE6 - not Chrome. (Can you create horrendous toolbar layers with Chrome?)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
How many highlights of 2013 can you remember? The Guardian&apos;s Technology team think 128 is a pretty good number, so we&apos;ve picked the highs, lows and huhs of the entire year and distilled them into a handy list form.It only took us three very intense weeks of negotiation and some minor fisticuffs, but we&apos;ve managed to plot out everything we think 2013 will be remembered for, and we&apos;ll be publishing them across eight lists every day until 1 January.AirbnbFast becoming the default way to travel, Airbnb opened up a whole new holiday market for international hipsters – with only a small amount of controversy about encouraging sub-letters to escape tax. Also notorious for being the startup model every aspiring entrepreneurs wants to aim for: &quot;We&apos;re like Airbnb for the [insert name of industry here]&quot;.•Three million people stayed in Airbnb-booked accommodation in 2012Amazon Prime AirWhen Amazon announced that it was planning to deliver packages via drone by 2018, the press went wild. Even the airtime it was given for the announcement – a 15 minute slot on CBS&apos;s 60 Minutes – would cost over $3m if bought as advertising. So it&apos;s not surprising they pre-announced it. The question is: will they be able to live up to their promise? The answer, probably, is no.•Video: Drone helicopter delivery to your door in 30 minutesAndy RubinGoogle's Andy Rubin is now leading the company's robotics projects.&nbsp;Photograph: Joi Ito/flickrRubin made his name as the head of Google&apos;s Android division, but in March 2013 he stepped down from the role, having built the company up into the mobile behemoth it is today. His new job, quietly gathering steam over the year, is leading Google&apos;s robotics initiative. Over 2013, Google acquired eight robotics companies, and Rubin says the company has a &quot;10-year vision&quot; for where the project will take it.•In April Google&apos;s chief executive Larry Page nearly let slip that Rubin was starting on &apos;a new chapter&apos; in robotics...Ask.fmThe Q&amp;A site was little known outside teen circles at the start of the year, but faced intense scrutiny over its user policies after a spate ofteenage suicideslinked the site to cyberbullying.•Ask.fm pledged new safety features in response, including new moderators to be recruited by JanuaryBeyoncéBeyonce took the music world by surprise by releasing her new album on iTunes. Photograph: Robin Harper/Invision/APWhen Queen Bey dropped her new self-titled album with no advance publicity, the internet went wild. Obviously not every artist can expect a surprise release to have quite the same effect; one particularly cruel joke went, &quot;Beyoncé is so unoriginal, the other members of Destiny&apos;s Child release albums no-one knows about all the time.&quot;But there&apos;s no doubt that she single-handedly made the case that buying music isn&apos;t dead yet, when in just three days her iTunes-exclusive album sold 829,000 copies worldwide.•&apos;I didn&apos;t want to release my music in the way I&apos;ve done it. I&apos;m bored with that,&quot; Beyonce saidBig dataThe term &quot;big data&quot; might have been overcooked by the corporates and marketeers, but it&apos;s still a powerful trend. Whether big business or the intelligence agencies, there has never been more usefulness, more value or more awareness about the data trails our digital lives create. Even the CIA&apos;s own website states it loud and clear: &quot;Big Data is a Big Deal at the CIA.&quot;•What exactly is a data scientist, and what do they do?Binge-watching TVThe rise of streaming websites has created a new legal way of watching TV: watching entire series in one go. Netflix accelerated this new trend, famously releasing original series such as House of Cards and Orange is the New Black, in one go. Netflix recently studied viewers that watched an entire series in one month and found that 50% of them finished an entire season within a week.•I just binged on ten hours of TVBitcoinAt the beginning of 2013, onebitcoincould be bought for $13. At its peak in November, that same bitcoin could have been sold for nearly a hundred times that, $1,242. That astonishing increase in value isn&apos;t the whole reason why the decentralised crypto-currency has made headlines across the world, but it doesn&apos;t hurt.A bitcoin has no physical counterpart. Instead, just like a £5-note is technically a &quot;promise to pay the bearer the sum of five pounds&quot;, a bitcoin is a digitally signed public contract asserting that one user is giving another bitcoins. That lets the currency operate without any central authority certifying transactions, which gave it credibility in the techno-libertarian circles it arose from.Over the course of this year, bitcoin has been used to buy drugs on the Silk Road and evade currency controls in Cyprus and China. It has gone to space, and filled shipping containers in Hong Kong. One early adopter bought a house with bitcoin he&apos;d paid $27 for, while another lost a hard-drive with over £4m worth of it on. And at the end of it all, it&apos;s on a downward streak that might just kill it any way.•Nine other alternative currenciesBlackberryThe phone once beloved of the email-addicted and workaholics – including President Obama -couldn&apos;t stem the declineas it failed to compete with touchscreen rivals.Blackberry&apos;s much hyped Z10 flopped, costing the company $935m. The end of the fixed keyboard era is upon us.•Why Blackberry failedBloom.fmReportedly upping the pressure on Spotify, the music appBloom.fmhas exploited the demand for streamed music and Pandora&apos;s failure to launch in the UK. Undercutting Spotify by charging just £1 per month for ad-free streamed music, Bloom.fm is rapidly building its userbase. One to watch.•Bloom.fm review - intriguing and differentBurberryBurberry at London Fashion Week 2013. Photograph: Ian Gavan/Getty ImagesUnder the direction of Christopher Bailey, the British label led a new wave of tech-savvy fashionistas who finally showed the confidence and skill to make technology work for them. From London&apos;s fashion startups cluster and the Decoded fashion tech events to 3D printed clothes, Apple&apos;s iPhone 5S Burberry deal and Instagramming on the front row, tech is set to be a wardrobe staple.•Fashion was &apos;scared of digital&apos;, said Topshop former marketing head Justin CookeChelsea ManningIn August the whistleblower was sentenced to 35 years for passing 700,000 military documents to Wikileaks. A hero to many for her courage in speaking out, her sentence was condemned by many civil rights groups includingBen Wizner, director of the American Civil Liberties Union&apos;s Speech, Privacy &amp; Technology Project.&quot;This is a sad day for Bradley Manning, but it&apos;s also a sad day for all Americans who depend on brave whistleblowers and a free press for a fully informed public debate,&quot; he said.&quot;When a soldier who shared information with the press and public is punished far more harshly than others who tortured prisoners and killed civilians, something is seriously wrong with our justice system ... it will deprive the public of critical information that is necessary for democratic accountability.&quot;•A row broke out at Wikipedia over whether to label the page as Chelsea or Bradley ManningCitymapperIt&apos;s like a navigation app – only far, far better. Citymapper&apos;s evangelical fans rave about its features, which include live status information for public transport, bike routes and jet pack travel times, just for amusement. Only for London and New York, for now – but world domination is only a matter of time.•Citymapper first popped up at Seedcamp in 2011Clash of ClansFinland&apos;s uber-cool games company Supercell is small but tookinvestment this yearvaluing it at $3bn. Whatever its secrets (recruiting the industry&apos;s best talent and rewarding them handsomely) the strategy worked for its standout game, Clash of Clans, which was thehighest grossing game app of 2013.•Fun games &apos;can&apos;t be created on a spreadsheet&apos;, say SupercellClumsy NinjaPreviewed during the iPhone 5 launch, the game app became the most addictive of the year and demonstrated some astonishingphysics-based movementsto boot.•The best 50 apps of 2013CrowdfundingFrom smartwatches to 3D printers and indie films,crowdfundinghas cemented itself as a barometer of consumer appetite and interests, withKickstarter, Indiegogoand others launching tens of thousands of creative, technological and humanitarian projects onto the world – and killing the dreams of millions more.•UK Kickstarter raised £22.5m in 2013 for more than 1,500 projectsThe next instalment of the 2013 Tech 128 review of the year is tomorrow...
The company behind the ubiquitous iPhone and iPad is famously secretive, but there a few little known facts about the California-based company.1 Steve Jobs was adopted and half SyrianSteve Jobs was adopted and was half Syrian. Photograph: Bloomberg/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesApple’s legendary co-founder and chief executivedied in October 2011, but while heading up the company Steve Jobs revealed that he was actually adopted and half Syrian. His biological parents, Joanne Schieble and Syrian immigrant Abdulfattah Jandali met as 23-year-old students at the University of Wisconsin.Jobs was put up for adoption in 1955, through pressure from Schieble’s parents. Schieble and Jandali later married and had a daughter, Jobs’ biological sister.2 Apple’s first computer was satanically pricedThe Apple-1 cost $666.66 as Steve Wozniak was apparently fond of repeating digits. Photograph: Tony Avelar/EPAApple’s first computer, the Apple I, was priced at $666.66. Steve Wozniak apparently priced it without realising that the triple-six configuration had Satanic connotations, instead pricing it at one-third over the wholesale price of $500, and preferring one repeating digit over 667 because it was &quot;easier to type&quot;.3 Apple ships everything by air, not seaApple is Cathay Pacific's biggest freight customer. Photograph: Christopher ThomondApple is Cathay Pacific’s biggest freight customer, as it prefers to move most of its stock by air instead of boat. The benefit is being able to move stock quickly rather than cheaply, with stock moved from China to the US in 15 hours instead of 30 days. It means that less money is tied up in stock (normally on credit) before it can be sold on.It also means that phones, tablets and computers all worth in excess of £500 each are not sitting in a container at sea which might sink or get hijacked.4 A Macintosh is an apple varietyThe Macintosh computer was named after Apple, as you might expect. Photograph: DPA/Press Association ImagesThe Apple Macintosh is so called because the macintosh was Jef Raskin’s favourite variety of Apple.At the time it was just a codename, which Steve Jobs reportedly tried to change to “bicycle” while Raskin was out of the office, but Macintosh stuck until the end of product development and made it onto the box.5 Apple’s hero shots aren’t computer generatedApple's product shots look computer generated, but are actually hundreds, if not thousands, of real photos stitched togetherThe big, glossy super-high-resolution photos of Apple’s latest products in adverts and on its site are not computer generated. Instead, they are a painstaking blend of hundreds of high resolution, super-close up photos all with narrow depths of field.The individual images are stitched together, in a similar way tohigh dynamic rangephotography which blends photos with different exposures, into one massive, ultra-high-resolution image entirely in focus.6 Steve Wozniak is still an Apple employeeSteve Wozniak, Apple co-founder, is still an Apple employee. Photograph: David Paul Morris/Getty ImagesApple co-founder Steve “Woz” Wozniak set up the company in 1976 with Steve Jobs in his garage. He no longer actively works for Apple, but is still officially an Apple employee and receives a stipend estimated to be worth $120,000 a year.7 Oh wow. Oh wow. Oh wowSteve Jobs' sister said that death didn't just happen to her brother, but that Jobs had 'achieved death'. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesSteve Jobs’ last words were &quot;Oh wow. Oh wow. Oh wow&quot; while looking over the shoulders of his family, according to his sister Mona Simpson, who allowed the eulogy she gave at Jobs‘ memorial service to be published in the New York Times.8 Apple had three foundersRonald Wayne was the little-known third co-founder of Apple, missing from this iconic photo. Photograph: DB Apple/DPA/Press Association ImagesApple was founded in 1976 by three people, Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak and Ronald Wayne.Ronald drew the first Apple logo, wrote the original partnership agreement and the Apple I computer manual, but sold his 10% stake two weeks in for just $800 because of concerns over debt.That same stake would have been worth over $35bn today.9 Thank Ive for the white iPodSir Jony Ive was the man behind the iconic white coloured Apple products like the iPod. Photograph: David LeveneSteve Jobs was opposed to the idea of white products initially, but was convinced to use white as Apple’s primary colour for its products by Apple’s designer Sir Jony Ive.In Ive’s recent biography, former Apple designer Doug Satzger has said that Jobs was only won over by white when shown a different shade called “moon grey”.Ive’s love for white originated long before he joined Apple, right back to the work he produced while still a design student at Newcastle.10 Packaging obsessionApple's obsessive attention to detail extends to packaging. Photograph: Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesApple pays as much attention to its packaging as it does to its products. So much so, that it has a dedicated secret packaging room within its headquarters in Cupertino, California.Packaging designers spend countless hours opening boxes within this special room, attempting to elicit the correct emotional response in customers opening new products for the first time. In his book, Inside Apple, Adam Lashinsky describes the level of obsession and attention to detail Apple commits to packaging:“One after another, the designer created and tested an endless series of arrows, colours, and tapes for a tiny tab designed to show the consumer where to pull back the invisible, full-bleed sticker adhered to the top of the clear iPod box. Getting it just right was this particular designer&apos;s obsession.”11 BallsIn his recent unauthorised biography of Jony Ive, author Leander Kahney included a photo of an iMac G4 inside its box. The stem connecting the screen to the domed base is encased in polystyrene, with the two ball-shaped speakers carefully and very deliberately placed either side of the shaft. The idea of arranging them to look like male genitals was apparently the idea of the design team.For good measure, the book also features a high school photo of Ive, arguably the world&apos;s most famous designer and tastemaker, with a very impressive mullet.• Apple&apos;s iPad came top in theGuardian&apos;s tablet takedown of 2013
Sean Rad of Tinder. Photograph: Ringo ChiuThe moment that I realised we had lightning in a bottle was when, of the first couple of thousand users who signed up in the first week, 95% were usingTinderevery single day when we checked back 30 days later. In January, two or three months after launch, we grew 10,000%. Now we create more than 4.5m matches a day. The first Tinder users were people we went to college with. Within days we started getting phone calls from our friends saying: "Oh my God, I just matched with this girl and we started talking, and now we're going on a date next week."We launched it in our backyard in Los Angeles 12 months ago, and it's sort of exploded from there. It travelled through word of mouth, and within months it had spread to all the states. Tinder isn't making any money right now. We're sustaining ourselves through capital we've raised from investors. But it has definitely become the focal point of my life – I go to sleep and I dream Tinder. I feel sometimes as&nbsp;if I'm working as I sleep.It has affected my life in a very big way. I met my girlfriend of six months on Tinder, and we've been happily together ever since. I was the one who messaged her. I don't remember what I&nbsp;said; I think it was "Hello".I've had no time off in the last year – I had one weekend with my girlfriend but I was still working. It's a very stressful existence, but I would not trade it for anything. I get messages every day from friends telling me what the app has done for them.
Price £58,243MPG 34Top speed 156mphBeing out of tune with the rest of the choir is a&nbsp;disconcerting experience. They go up, I go down – and what's that strange droning I hear, like a&nbsp;punctured bagpipe but less melodic? Ah yes, of course, it's me – singing. People often say they can't hold a tune, but I am properly rubbish. My own children used to ask me to stop when I&nbsp;sang them a&nbsp;lullaby. Don't believe me? Ask the music teacher at my school. I was the only pupil he actually asked to leave the choir: "I think we'll manage without you, Love."Anyway, that's the feeling I've had this past week. I've been drivingPorsche's Cayenne S Diesel. A high-performance V8 engine has been hefted into the German marque's bestseller with the intention of generating prodigious power at more palatable levels of fuel consumption. Porsche has succeeded in both: the hulking 2.3-tonner hits 62mph in 5.7 seconds (imagine an elephant in running blades and you'll get some idea as to how unnerving it is to be in vehicle that's so heavy and yet so fast); and yet it still does 34 miles to the gallon. The manufacturers claim a range of 700 miles – which is impressive, but to brim the 100-litre tank will cost you up to £150, so it's hardly cheap motoring. Palatable, but only in a bush-tucker trial way.This Porsche SUV has sent the motoring press into a frenzy of delight.Top Gearadvises: "Sell the hot hatch, the big estate and the 4x4 wagon. This one will do all that and more…" While MSN Cars lists 16 reasons, with all the breathless panic of an asthmatic, as to why the Cayenne S Diesel is the ultimate family car. But I must have been out&nbsp;of tune with the choir (again), as I&nbsp;couldn't stand it.Inside story: the luxurious interior of the Cayenne.It is indubitably a wondrous feat of technical brilliance, the pinnacle of sophisticated super-luxe motoring. But it doesn't half make you feel sick, and the drive is as lumpy as hospital custard. The nausea starts when you first see the car. I've never been a&nbsp;fan of its bulging aesthetics, but the test model I drove in ice white with black trim and smoked alloys would have felt more at home in aStar Warstribute night in Chelmsford. The huge grill is as widely spaced as a cattle grid, while its foot-thick wheels and aggressive stance seem tiresomely 80s. Greed doesn't seem quite so good in these post-red-braces-and-a-magnum-of-fizz days, no matter what Boris says.Clamber in and everything feels heavy and lumbering. Even the door is too heavy. My wife (who is admittedly pretty feeble) parked the car facing up the hill we live on and claimed she couldn't prop the door open with her leg.The interior is as you would expect: a symphony of stitched leather, chrome and glossy piano plastics. But for a car with such a&nbsp;gigantic footprint it feels cramped. A Range Rover aspires to feel light and airy, but the Cayenne wraps itself around you like a dark, furtive glove.And what about the engine that had so many hacks drooling? I found that heavy, too. The engines I love lift a car and send you skittering across the tarmac, weightless and agile. This one is a grinder. It shoves you along with all the brutal finesse of an ice breaker. Once up to speed it was impressive, but today driving is rarely about bounding along open roads.For me, this Cayenne was a dirge, and I was expecting an aria.Race2Recovery rally teamTheDakar rallybegan back in 1977, when Thierry Sabine got lost on his motorbike in the Libyan desert during the Abidjan-Nice rally. Saved from the sands in extremis, he returned to France still in thrall to this landscape and promising himself he would share his fascination with as many people as possible. He proceeded to come up with a route starting in Europe, continuing to Algiers and crossing Agadez before eventually finishing at Dakar. The founder coined a motto for his inspiration: "A challenge for those who go. A dream for those who stay behind." Courtesy of his great conviction and that modicum of madness peculiar to all great ideas, the plan quickly became a reality. Since then, the Paris-Dakar, a unique event sparked by the spirit of adventure, open to all riders and carrying a message of friendship between all people, has never failed to challenge, surprise and excite. Over the course of almost 30 years, it has generated innumerable sporting and human stories. And one of the most remarkable is that of theRace2Recoveryrally team – the only disabled rally race team in the world. This video is about the team and the race.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
As Mark Twain observed: "A lie can travel halfway around the world while the truth is putting on its shoes." And that was a long time before the web. Which brings us to a meme that was propagating last week though social media. Its essence was an assertion that Facebook monitored – and stored – not only the stuff that its subscribers post on their Facebook pages, buteven stuff that they started to type and then deleted!Shock, horror!The source of the meme was anarticle by Jennifer Golbeck in the venerable online magazineSlate. "The code in your browser that powers Facebook," it states, "still knows what you typed – even if you decide not to publish it. It turns out that the things you explicitly choose not to share aren't entirely private. Facebook calls these unposted thoughts 'self-censorship'."Creepy, eh? The peg for Ms Golbeck's article wasan academic paper published by two Facebook researchers, Sauvik Das and Adam Kramer. They were interested in studying "last-minute self-censorship" on Facebook, ie content that is filtered by its author after it has been written. Their motivations were not, of course, purely academic.As they put it: "Last-minute self-censorship is of particular interest to SNSs [social networking services] as this filtering can be both helpful and hurtful. Users and their audience could fail to achieve potential social value from not sharing certain content, and the SNS loses value from the lack of content generation." Which, being translated, reads: "Anything that Facebookers fail to post means lost revenue for us."Well, at least they were being open about it. Das and Kramer studied about 5 million Facebook users over a period of 17 days. Their findings are mildly interesting but not surprising. Some 71% of the sample self-censored at least one post or comment over the experimental period, for example, so "self-censorship is common". Big deal: anyone who's ever typed anything into a text box could have told them that. Posts are more censored than comments (again, big deal: posts require original composition; comments are generally just reactive). Males censor more posts than females, especially if their audience is predominately male. And so on.If I'd been refereeing the paper I'd have put it in the "unexciting but worthwhile" category. The researchers' methodology seems OK – data anonymised, the content of the self-censored posts was not monitored (just the fact that they were deleted), it's clearly written and the findings are presented with due reservations.So why the fuss? It all seems to hinge on Ms Golbeck's assertion that: "It turns out that the things you explicitly choose not to share aren't entirely private." This has understandably alarmed people and caused steam to issue from some orifices – for example those ofan excitableDaily Koscolumnist. "I'm astonished at how wrong author Jennifer Golbeck gets this," he fumes. "Facebook does not 'monitor our unshared thoughts' ... It does not 'collect the text you type' or 'automatically analyse' your 'unposted thoughts'. There is no rational way to 'connect this to all the recent news about NSA surveillance'. There is not a single significant word or phrase in this story that is supported by the information provided. It is completely, categorically, profoundly, utterly wrong."Er, not quite. While it's true that theresearchersdid not read the censored posts, there's no reason to suppose that Facebook's software doesn't, as a matter of course, do so. And this is something that Ms&nbsp;Golbeck tried to confirm. She points out that in Facebook's data use policy it's made clear that the company collects information you choose to share or when you "view or otherwise interact with things". Typing and deleting text in a box, she argues, could be considered a type of interaction, though very few of us would expect that data to be saved. But when she contacted the company for clarification, a representative told her that "the company believes this self-censorship is a type of interaction covered by the policy".Indeed, given that the essence of Facebook's business is"strip-mining human society", to use Professor Eben Moglen's colourful phrase, it would be surprising if the company viewed any online activity engaged in by its wretched subscribers as lying beyond its corporate reach. In that sense, Mr Zuckerberg's empire is thespiritual heir of the Chicago pork-packers of the 1920s, of whom it was memorably said that they "used every part of the hog except the grunt". The only difference is that Facebook can now also utilise the grunt.
The year was dominated by the promise of a sense of renewal thanks to the early announcement ofnext-generation consoles PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. Videogames are bound to hardware in a unique, compulsive way, and to witness the frenzied mobilisation of marketing forces and consumer lust was to see the full rage and noise of the industry brought to bear on a race that is, for now, largely ceremonial. Both machines are slick, blank portals of potential; together they provided just one of the year's outstanding games –Resogunon PS4, an old-fashioned arcade shooter that reinvents Armageddon as a frantic cascade of beautiful particle effects.In the face of this symbolic rejuvenation, elsewhere the year seemed to be doing its best to prove that excellent games could exist on any format regardless of age and power. Three very different handheld titles made the cut:Fire Emblem: Awakening, a devastatingly polished tactical role-player on 3DS; the archaic dystopia ofDevice 6("I am not a number!") which builds a landscape from text and cryptic puzzles on iOS, and PlayStation Vita capped a much improved second year withTearawayfrom British studio Media Molecule, a platform adventure of rare delicacy, invention and meaning, exploring and celebrating the act of creativity.Grand Theft Auto V: 'immense ambition'.Aside from the console race, the story to attract most media attention was the arrival and extraordinary success ofRockstar'sGrand Theft Auto V,a game which makes my top 10 list by force of will and by virtue of immense ambition, its detached fascination with America and the staggering achievement of its recreation of Los Angeles overshadowing occasionally outmoded approaches to mission design and,more troublingly, female characters. Another nonconformist giant that made fewer headlines was developerValve, although the unveiling of plans to move its vast Steam platform into the living room with open-source hardware and a new controller might prove the more influential in the long term. The company also officially released its long-in-beta arena battlerDota 2, a game of complexity and compulsion.On the eve of a new era, two of the year's finest games also made a point of looking backwards.The Legend Of Zelda: The Wind Waker HDis a carefully crafted remake of the 10-year-old adventure that marries nostalgia with advancing technology, playing like a idealised memory of the original. AndGone Home, by indie startup The Fullbright Company, turns the exploration of an empty house in 1995 into a moving study of family and identity.Finally, if the dominant model of the PS360 age was the 10-hour scripted single-player showcase, it reached suitably climactic heights as the era closed.Bioshock Infinitewas a visually glorious dash of American imagery and ideology, a dazzle of cultural references and intellectual invention. But the year's best game was Naughty Dog'sThe Last of Us, which achieved a level of emotional intimacy generally considered impossible for big-budget releases, matched and intensified by lean, brutal gameplay.
This monthBloomberg Businessweekmagazine's cover showed a range of archaeological objects – a flint arrowhead, a skull – and a BlackBerry handset. The label? "Relic".On Friday BlackBerry's interim chief executive John Chen outlined a new strategy for the Canadian company in which he acknowledged that making smartphones was a thing of the past. Instead, the company will focus on intangible services such as offering cyber-security for businesses and not making physical handsets.Making smartphones has not been a good business for anyone who isn't Apple and Samsung recently, as they have squeezed the profits out of the rest of the industry. BlackBerry has been crushed. On Friday it announced a loss of $4.4bn (£2.7bn) on revenues of just $1.2bn; only a tax rebate of $624m saved its net figures from being worse.Those three months to the end of November marked a turning point: for the first time, BlackBerry now gets more money – 53% of revenues – from selling "services" such as sending data including email and web pages, than it does from selling handsets, which generated 40%. Software made up the other 7%.But that has come as the company's revenues have shrunk to levels smaller than at any time since May 2007, and the number of phones shipped, 1.9m, is the smallest since December 2006. BlackBerry, whose founders laughed at the iPhone's lack of a keyboard, is out of the smartphone race. In future Foxconn, which makes the iPhone, will co-design and manufacture BlackBerrys too, and hold the stock. BlackBerry will effectively become a reseller of its own phones."The smartphone business is brutal," says Kevin Restivo, global smartphone analyst at the research company IDC. "It's one where the big players – Samsung, Apple, and a few Chinese companies – are going to have success, and the others are scratching for crumbs."Andy Perkins, an analyst at Société Générale, told Bloomberg: "At some point it becomes uneconomic to make handsets in such small quantities."Chen is a turnaround artist. He was brought in to the software company Sybase, where he executed a successful reorganisation. Since taking over 45 days ago (following the ejection by the board of former chief executive Thorsten Heins) he has overseen a number of departures of existing senior executives, and hired some former colleagues. The obvious conclusion is that he is reshaping BlackBerry as a services and software company.Unlike other struggling smartphone makers, BlackBerry can fall back on tens of millions of customers in large businesses, who rely on the security of its products. Chan said that 80% of Blackberry users were business customers. That could be anywhere up to 50 million users worldwide, offering a substantial base for rebuilding any corporation, even the struggling BlackBerry.But the data also confirmed that BB10, the operating system launched in January by Heins, has been a flop. Since March, BlackBerry's customers have bought a total of around 17m phones, but only 5.6m have been BB10 devices.The new products have fared poorly with consumers and the large businesses that rely on BlackBerry. Consumers have been turned off because the BB10 functions differently from the old BB7 model, while businesses have backed away because BB10 devices can't be hooked up to the older BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES) systems so many big customers use.So while consumers have dumped them in favour of other makes, BlackBerry-using businesses have taken one of two paths: either sourcing old BB7 handsets to keep their existing users happy, or abandoning BlackBerry altogether. Even Goldman Sachs, once a BlackBerry fortress, has begun letting some executives use iPhones for email, a move that would have been unthinkable a few years ago.Chen has an answer to both. For consumers, BlackBerry will try to somehow make money from the millions of people who have downloaded the BBM messaging software and installed it on to iPhones and Android phones. "Revenues might come from a per-user per-month model, or rolling out advertising," he said on Friday. "We're a long way from knowing how to do it."For businesses he will offer "mobile device management" software that will be able to control not just BlackBerrys, but also iPhones and Android phones. But there are plenty of rivals there, and it's not a big business – worth only about $560m (£343m) this year globally for all vendors, and growing at 12% annually, according to ABI Research. Even if a reshaped BlackBerry captures more than half of that, it would still look tiny compared to what it was.That means, says IDC's Restivo, that "BlackBerry's not out of the woods yet." He explains: "First and foremost, Chen needs to figure out how to make money from products that have a significant customer base and are growing. The handset business isn't growing. And how they're going to generate significant revenue from BES and BBM, and create a company driven by those two parallel paths – right now, the path isn't clear."
At last! This is what I&nbsp;got into this for – not&nbsp;the Kias and the Seats they keep sending, but a proper Italian sports car ending in i. And possibly the only one you – or I – can actually get away&nbsp;with. Modern Ferraris and Lamborghinis are so ostentatious, they're really only for footballers and Saudi princes. Or City traders with massive bonuses and tiny penises. A Maserati GranTurismo is&nbsp;less vulgar, less shouty, classier. More me, I think. I don't feeltootwatty driving around in it.I only wish it had arrived a couple of days earlier: then I could have used it to get to the first (and probably last) school reunion I've been to. Yes, that one's mine over there. That's right, the Maserati. Oh, you know, it's not much, just a little run-around. I find it keeps me young. I have been very lucky, and things have worked out well. Surprisingly well. What did you say you were driving again? A Mondeo, is it?But it wasn't to be. The reunion coincided with a Nissan Leaf, the reunion was out of range of the Nissan Leaf, so the Leaf stayed at home and I reached the reunion by&nbsp;train. The shame of it.This isn't even just a regular Maserati GranTurismo; it's a more expensive, more powerful, lower, lighter, stiffer GranTurismo MC Stradale. I'm pretty sure Stradale translates as "straddle me".Press the start button, and the 454bhp, 4.7-litre V8 engine explodes delightfully into life. Well, delightfully unless you're a neighbour having a lie-in. Or a highly strung dog. OrGeorge Monbiot.In Auto mode, it's a very quick car, but one that it's possible to drive sedately, unostentatiously – to&nbsp;Sainsbury's, even. However, you can ramp up the car's attitude by pressing buttons marked Sport and – angrier still – Race. Race means peak performance; gear changes (we're flapping on flappy steering wheel paddles now) take place in just 0.06 of a second. And the exhaust bypass valves are held open, meaning those 454 horses start kicking and whinnying simultaneously and magnificently. More of a roar, actually. My little boy calls it the farty-farty Maserati.Luckily, we hate all our neighbours. And their jumpy dogs – ha, look, that one's 3ft in the air. Plus George can't catch us, chasing down the road in his hemp sandals.Performance in Race mode is blistering as well as loud, and pretty much pointless anywhere except for on a racetrack. That's what this is: a track car you're allowed to drive home. There's really absolutely no excuse for it, and I do know it's wrong, George. But I do kind of love it a teeny bit, too.Maserati GranTurismo MC StradalePrice£110,110Top speed188mphAcceleration0-60mph in 4.5&nbsp;secondsCombined fuel consumption19.6mpgCO2emissions337g/kmGreen rating1/10Cool rating8/10
This year saw the launch of an unprecedented number of games consoles. Leading the next generation were the high-profile arrivals ofPlayStation 4(£349) andXbox One(£429), Sony and Microsoft's latest volleys in the ongoing war for sitting-room domination. Away from the big boys there were many other smaller, yet intriguing, alternatives.Ouya(£99) is a budget-priced Android console about the size of a Rubik's cube that lets you buy games from the Google Play store. The even cheaperGameStick, (£79) does the same with a slightly inferior controller and a console the size of a USB thumb drive. The crown prince of Android consoles, though, is Nvidia'sShield(£299), which lets you stream games from a compatible PC or use it as a handheld with its own built-in screen. This year also saw Nintendo abandon 3D in favour of something cheaper and more robust: the child-friendly2DS, £99. At the avant garde end of things,Oculus Riftoffered gamers the chance to don its virtual reality headset and look like a baddie from Red Dwarf.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewHaving successfully made Assassin's Creed IV's naval combat into something fun and exciting rather than a lumbering grind followed by the inevitable onset of gangrene and septicaemia among your injured crew, Ubisoft has created a new app spun off the success of Black Flag. Assassin's Creed: Pirates strips away all that messy running around assassinating people in favour of a game about maritime battles and attempts to expand your armada and crew. Your salty sea dog still meets Templars and Assassins, but this time out it's only during brief conversations rather than the customary running battles. The rest of your time is spent sailing, harpooning loot and engaging in the game's neat two-stage combat where you first dodge enemy fire before returning as many broadsides, cannon balls, mortar bombs and shots of the swivel gun as you can before they're ready to fire again. The game's sea shanties, while not quite up to the repertoire of Grand Theft Auto's radio stations, provide agreeably piratey background music, and it's hard to tire of hearing your crew yell, "And now we drink!" after sinking an enemy. A pleasant little diversion.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewIt's both good news and bad news that Gran Turismo 6 retains so much of its ancestry. The driving experience is still one of the most authentic in gaming, and each upgrade to your car provides a palpable improvement in its performance. But the menus are cumbersome and opponent AI is resolutely old school, letting you use rivals as handy rolling crash barriers to slow your approach into corners, without any sort of censure from the game or need for measured braking. You'll also need to endure hefty load times, but once you're on the track you'll forgive most of these foibles, as the simple joy of stringing together a nasty set of curves makes you feel better about occasional clunkiness elsewhere. There are go-karts, rally cars and even a lunar rover (you can't give it a body kit and sports suspension) as well as mini-games, single-make events and races on tracks made familiar by years of Gran Turismos, here looking more beautiful than ever. It's the definitive driving game, and you can play it without shelling out for a new console.
Google's latest doodle marks the first day of winter, otherwise known as the winter solstice, which is the shortest day and longest night of the year.The solstice, regarded as the beginning of the winter season, occurs when the Earth's axial tilt is farthest away from the sun. For the next six months, the days will continue to grow longer as the sun spends more time above the horizon.Hundreds of people, including modern day druids and pagans, are expected to turn out as usualto celebrate the date at Stonehenge, where they will watch sun rise in perfect alignment with the stones.This year's winter solstice at the site is a little different, coming only three days after the opening of the first phase of a £27m rebuild of facilities at the prehistoric site in Wiltshire. Demand to take part in the annual celebrations, which have already been attracting increasing numbers, had been expected to beat all previous years.Although this is the most expensive capital project yet undertaken by English Heritage, the organisation has been concerned not to imply there is any greater capacity for visitors who want to join the druid and pagan ceremony among the stones. Three years ago, only 2,000 people attended winter solstice; in 2012 more than 5,000 turned up.Elsewhere, a lucky 120 peoplewill get the privilege of standing inside Newgrange tomb in County Meath, Ireland, to witness the remarkable illumination that occurs when a beam of sunlight shoots down into the narrow corridor that leads into the chamber, flooding the entire 19-metre stone passage in a warm orange light.To manage the incredible demand from those hoping to experience this enchanting spectacle, the Brú na Bóinne visitor centre runs a lottery to decide on the lucky few who will be allowed inside.
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (free) may mean (freemium) in some cases.There&apos;s a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day. There&apos;s also a recently-introduced format change, separating out games and non-game apps. For now, read on for this week&apos;s iOS selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).APPSThe Hobbit: Official Visual Companion (£2.99)With good timing for the release of the second in Peter Jackson&apos;s movie Hobbit trilogy, this app from HarperCollins offers a giant 3D map of Middle-earth, articles on places, people and items, and a quiz on all things Hobbity. It&apos;s a very well-done companion piece to the films (and books).iPhone / iPadJourneys of Invention (Free)Journeys of Invention is a marvellous, marvellous app: developed by Touch Press for The Science Museum to tell the stories behind 80 of its objects, from the Apollo 10 Command module to the Enigma cipher machine. Text, photos and video tell the stories engagingly.iPadJohn Lewis for iPad (Free)There hasn&apos;t been much fuss made about John Lewis&apos; iPad app – maybe they&apos;re distracted by the bear and hare business. Still, this will be useful for shopping beyond Christmas: the retailer&apos;s full catalogue of products, with browsing and buying elegantly easy.iPadFLTR: Smartphone Photography Magazine (Free)Here&apos;s a sign of the times: there&apos;s now a magazine all about smartphone photography. Naturally, it&apos;s on iPhone rather than a print product. FLTR is interesting too: produced by the British Journal of Photography, it&apos;s part inspiration and part practical tips on taking snaps with your smartphone.iPhonePopbitch Magazine (Free)Popbitch is 13 years old, which as a longtime lurker on its messageboards, makes me feel old. Its iPad app is excellent though: it takes the ethos of the British gossip website and translates it into a sharp, thought-provoking digital publication. With otters.iPadSago Mini Music Box (£1.99)Sago Sago is the sister studio to Toca Boca, one of the most trusted children&apos;s app publishers. Its focus is more on toddlers and pre-schoolers, with this being a fun, accessible music app that gets kids tapping along to Twinkle Twinkle and Row, Row, Row Your Boat.iPhone / iPadWriter Pro (£13.99)As a journalist, I&apos;ve been using the iA Writer word processing app for a while now. Writer Pro is a step on from the same developer though: a similarly-minimalist writing app, but with more tools for professional writers (and hacks!), synchronising everything across iOS devices.iPhone / iPadBatman: Arkham Origins (Free)Not a game, as such, but a &quot;MultiVerse story&quot; – a planned series of eight interactive comic stories based on Batman, with chapters available as in-app purchases. It&apos;s a bit like Choose Your Own Adventure, as you choose plot branches to explore the stories – and consequences.iPadReplay (Free)You might have had your fill of photo-sharing apps on iOS this year. Replay is worth a look though: it takes photos from your Camera Roll and turns them into video slideshows, complete with themes, filters and music. Everything is shareable to various social networks, of course.iPhoneTilly and Friends (£1.99)Tilly and Friends is a popular series of books, and now a TV show on children&apos;s channel CBeebies. Now it&apos;s an app too, with 32 mini-games starring Tilly, Doodle, Tumpty, Pru, Tiptoe and Hector, with a light emphasis on educational concepts like sorting, matching and spellingiPhone / iPadWalking Dead: The Game - Season 2 for iOS.GAMESWalking Dead: The Game - Season 2 (£2.99)Developer Telltale Games&apos; first Walking Dead game was a justified hit, packed with atmosphere (and zombies). This follow-up is thus hotly anticipated, and early indications are it&apos;s well worth the hype: impressive action, but it&apos;s the creepy feel that stays with you.iPhone / iPadCut the Rope 2 (£0.69)There have been a succession of Cut the Rope games in the last few years, but this is the first proper sequel: 120 levels of rope-slashing puzzle action, as you try to guide sweets into cute monster Om Nom&apos;s mouth. This time round, there are new gameplay elements – &quot;nommies&quot; – to push the gameplay on.iPhone / iPadRepublique (£2.99)Another app with a lot of excitement pre-launch, which is turning out to be justified. This is a stealth-action adventure with startling graphics, properly challenging puzzles, and a storyline that draws you in. The Metal Gear Solid of iOS? That sounds like hyperbole, but this game has a shot.iPhone / iPadRidge Racer Slipstream (£1.99)Here&apos;s a famous console brand with its latest mobile conversion. Ridge Racer Slipstream offers 12 cars, lots of vehicle-pimping, and a decent challenge in its career mode. The feel isn&apos;t quite classic slippy-car Ridge Racer, but it&apos;s a very polished driving game nonetheless.iPhone / iPadTomb Raider I (£0.69)Talking of popular console games, this is an accurate conversion of the very first Tomb Raider, as Lara Croft goes artefact-hunting. Selling points include two new chapters, support for iOS game controllers, and a healthy dash of gaming nostalgia.iPhone / iPadColossatron: Massive World Threat (£0.69)Best known for Fruit Ninja, developer Halfbrick&apos;s latest game gets you to &quot;take control of a giant robotic snake and smash through cities with ease&quot;. Marvellous fun, like Snake meets Katamari Damacy (a bit) with bags of character and plenty of depth.iPhone / iPadDisney Hidden Worlds (Free)The hidden-objects game genre is tailor-made for touchscreens, and this new game from Disney shows why. It presents famous scenes from Disney movies and gets you to find the hidden objects. Aladdin, The Little Mermaid, Tangled and other films play starring roles.iPhone / iPadNo Brakes Valet (£1.99)I first played this game on the Ouya micro-console, but now it&apos;s made the leap onto handheld devices, including iOS. Your job is to park cars in a top-down-view car park as quickly and efficiently as possible. Although very soon, the latter goes out of the window in favour of blind, crashy panic.iPhone / iPadMoshi Monsters Village (Free)Children&apos;s online virtual world Moshi Monsters is going mobile, although this is a standalone social game based on its characters. Kids build a village, rescue Moshlings monsters, play mini-games and check out friends&apos; efforts. Parents, note the in-app purchases though: set your restrictions before handing your device to your child.iPhone / iPadSuper Mega Worm Vs Santa Saga (£0.69)Finally, one of my favourite older iOS games – Super Mega Worm – gets a Christmas-themed spin-off. You still play a giant worm (with distinct shades of film Tremors) munching everything in your path. Except this time, the end-of-game boss is Father Christmas. Very fun.iPhone / iPad
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (free) may mean (freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later today.There&apos;s a new structure based on feedback from readers of previous posts. The non-game apps are listed first, followed by the games. Read on for this week&apos;s Android selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).APPSDolphin Zero (Free)Developer Dolphin is pitching its new app as a Snapchat of browsing. No, not because it&apos;s full of nudes. It&apos;s about privacy: a browser that automatically deletes (or &quot;shreds&quot; in its terminology) your browsing history, cache, passwords and cookies.Solar : Weather (Free)Apparently more than 2m people have used the iOS version of weather app Solar. Now it&apos;s on Android with the same minimalist design that made that version such a hit. It&apos;s simple, colourful and pulls its weather data from the well-respected Wunderground service.Cross DJ (£3.29)Budding Android superstar DJs (or, indeed, super round-a-friend&apos;s-house-commandeering-the-stereo DJs) will be flocking to Cross DJ, a DJing app with a clean, uncluttered design to get you mixing and scratching your digital music files.The Box+ (Free)The Box runs a network of music video TV channels here in the UK, and now it&apos;s got an official app. You can stream the main The Box channel to your device, as well as 4Music, Heat, Smash Hits, Kiss, Magic and Kerrang – which just about covers most music tastes.TalkSide Full Screen Caller ID (Free)This is an intriguing prospect: an app that &quot;prepares the talk for you&quot; when calling someone by pulling in recent Facebook updates, trending news stories, suggestions for nights out and more, as you talk. A smarter, social phone-calling app, in other words.Lingualia - Learn Languages (Free)Talking of &quot;smarter&quot;, this app wants to help you learn languages – initially Spanish or English, although I suspect more will follow in 2014. Its courses include vocabulary, grammar flashcards, audio clips and lots of dialogue practice, with your progress shared with the Lingualia website.VUE Magazine (Free)You may already know the print version of VUE magazine if you go to the cinema regularly in the UK: it&apos;s the mag about films that&apos;s distributed in the cinema chain of the same name. This is its digital version, offering the same news and reviews, with added video trailers and interactivity.PNP - Portable North Pole 2013 (£2.31)The Portable North Pole website enables parents to order video messages from Father Christmas to their children, with its app version used to order and watch video messages, with a Kids section containing an advent calendar, countdown and map radar to pinpoint Santa&apos;s home.Clip It (Free)Clip It is new from mobile operator O2, and only for the Samsung Galaxy S4 and S3 smartphones at the moment. It&apos;s interesting though: a rebadged version of an existing app called Six3, which involves sending private video messages to friends or family individually, or in groups.Happy Geese (£1.94)Happy Geese could be in the games section too: it&apos;s a pair of board games (Snakes &amp; Ladders and The Game of the Goose) designed specifically for children with special needs to play with their parents, carers and/or teachers. It aims to help children with autism and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, among others.Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas for Android.GAMESGrand Theft Auto: San Andreas (£4.99)Hot on the heels of its iOS reboot comes this Android version of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, originally released in 2004 for consoles. It&apos;s nostalgia, yes, but the game still packs a mighty punch with its sandbox gameplay. It plays nice with Bluetooth controllers too.Colossatron (£0.58)Best known for Fruit Ninja, developer Halfbrick&apos;s latest game gets you to &quot;take control of a giant robotic snake and smash through cities with ease&quot;. Marvellous fun, like Snake meets Katamari Damacy (a bit) with bags of character and plenty of depth.Blocky Roads (Free)Blocky Roads looks like someone turned Minecraft into a racing game: you zip through 12 tracks with a choice of nine vehicles, or can craft your own pixelly car &quot;block by block&quot;. And while it wears its influences firmly on its sleeves, it&apos;s very good fun indeed.Disney Hidden Worlds (Free)The hidden-objects game genre is tailor-made for touchscreens, and this new game from Disney shows why (give or take the odd teething difficulty on some Samsung devices). It presents famous scenes from Disney movies and gets you to find the hidden objects.The Cave (£3.06)The marketing for this game understandably stresses creator Ron Gilbert&apos;s role as the father of the Monkey Island games, but it&apos;s good enough to stand on its own merits. It&apos;s a rich, characterful adventure that sees you exploring a mysterious cave with three of seven characters.Kami (£0.69)Kami is a beautiful, relaxing game based around folding colourful virtual paper in squares, trying to fill the screen with a single colour in as few moves as possible. No time pressures or impossible levels trying to make you buy in-app purchases. A marvellous de-stress tool.No Brakes Valet (£1.69)I first played this game on the Ouya micro-console, but now it&apos;s made the leap onto handheld Android devices. Your job is to park cars in a top-down-view car park as quickly and efficiently as possible. Although very soon, the latter goes out of the window in favour of blind, crashy panic.MIMPI (£1.22)Another beautiful game: it&apos;s a really strong week for quirky, creative indie Android games, reflecting a wider trend in 2013. Here, you play a dog searching for his master across eight levels, solving puzzles as you go. There&apos;s a real sense of craft here: it&apos;s well worth paying for.RPG Record of Agarest War (£5.29)If you like your Japanese tactical RPGs, don&apos;t be put off by the price of Record of Agarest War, as there&apos;s plenty of game to get your teeth into. It sees you taking your crew through a series of fantasy battles, with a sprawling plot and cast, and plenty of challenge.Hopeless: The Dark Cave (Free)Finally, another indie surprise for Android owners ahead of Christmas: a reflex-based action game where you&apos;re trying to shoot monsters and spare friendly blobs. It has the just-one-more-go factor in spades, as well as a surprisingly creepy feel as the monsters appear out of the darkness.
The Indian government is expanding its scheme to bring affordable computing to the education sector by announcing that a tablet costing just £14 will launch in India in 2014.India&apos;s telecoms minister, Kapil Sibal,announced yesterdaythat the Aakash 4 tablet will be built from January, and although it will initially go on sale for 2,500 rupees (£24.60), it will eventually be sold to the public for only 1500 rupees, or £14.The Aakash 4 will feature a seven-inch scratch resistant touchscreen. It will support wifi, 3G and 4G connectivity and will have 4GB of internal storage. Users will be able to add external memory cards with storage capacity of up to 32GB.Sibal said that children no longer only learn from books, teachers and parents, as technology now plays an important part. &quot;No longer is the teacher the sole repository of knowledge. Children get knowledge from all sorts of sites,&quot; he said.The new tablets will be built by a number of manufacturers, Sibal said, speaking at the Modern School in New Delhi on Thursday.The announcement suggests the Indian government&apos;s partnership with UK-based Datawind, who built the previous Aakash products, has come to an end. Datawind built previous Aakash products including the Ubislate 7Ci, which at£30 is currently the cheapest tablet on the market.The Indian government launched the Aakashseries of tablets (which means “sky” in Hindi) as part of India’s effort to put ultra-low cost tablets in universities and colleges. Datawind laterwon the tender to build the tabletsfor the Indian government in 2011, beforeshipping them to Indian students in 2012and following up with the Aakash 2 tablet.The announcement was made at Access, a yearly conference run by Modern School in New Delhi, which brings together 1,000 students from more than 100 schools in the region.The Modern School also has a partnership with Samsung, whereby one classroom is fitted with 40 tablets and a 72-inch LED TV. Although the classrooms have smart (or interactive) boards, the tablets enable a two-way communication between the teacher and children, according to Gautam Sarkar, the Modern School&apos;s head of IT.•Samuel Gibbs and Charles Arthurreview the best and worst tablets of the year• This article was amended on 23 December 2013 to correct the name of the Indian communications minister, Kapil Sibal.
BlackBerry's new chief executive John Chen signalled a new strategy focusing on providing secure email and device management to large businesses as the company plunged to a quarterly net loss of $4.4bn, on revenues down 56% to just $1.2bn.The huge loss, driven partly by enormous writedowns on existing inventory, is the largest in the company's history – but Chen insisted that the company is "very much alive" as he tries to shift it away from making handsets.The company announced a five-year partnership with Taiwan's Foxconn, which already makes products for Apple and Microsoft, that will see it jointly develop and manufacture smartphones for the Canadian company, effectively taking over manufacturing operations and much of the risk of being left with unsold inventory.BlackBerry shipped just 1.9m handsets during the quarter, but customers bought a total of 4.3m handsets from outlets – of which 3.2m were the ageing BB7 model. Since its launch in January, only 4.6m BB10 handsets have been sold, making up less than half of total sales.BlackBerry stock began falling as markets digested the news, which was released ahead of their opening.Chen, who only took over 45 days ago following a radical boardroom shakeup that ousted previous chief Thorsten Heins, acknowledged that the company has lost money on its handset business as part of the business's degradation over the past two years. Competition from Apple and Samsung has squeezed it from a commanding position in the consumer market back to its origins as a provider of secure email and communications for large "enterprise" businesses."The most immediate challenge for the company is how to transition the devices operations to a more profitable business model," said Chen, who formerly managed a turnaround at the software company Sybase.But Chen said that more than 80% of BlackBerry's existing subscriber base are enterprise customers, which could provide a platform for future business selling "mobile device management" (MDM) services for Apple and Android devices as well as BlackBerrys.Analysts expressed some doubts about the move to Foxconn. Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners, told Associated Press that allowing BlackBerry to be made in China could pose a problem for a company that relies on governments for a lot of its business. "It opens up some security concerns. If you are a government agency with national security data running through your phones, do you have concerns now that they are made by Foxconn?" Gillis wondered.
The European Commission has rejected Google's revised proposals to settle a three-year antitrust row, its competition commissioner Joaquin Almunia said today."The latest offer as submitted by Google in October ... the latest proposals are not acceptable in the sense that they are not proposals that can eliminate our concerns regarding competition," Almunia said in a Spanish radio interview, according to a partial transcript provided by the European Commission.Almunia said that, in particular, Google's latest offer did not remove the Commission's concerns about the way Google's rivals in so-called vertical searches – searches for price comparison products – were being treated.Asked if there would be sanctions against Google, Almunia said: "No, no, no ... At this moment, there is little time left, but the ball is still in Google's court. But within a short time frame, the ball will then be here (with the Commission) and then it will be the moment to take decisions."Almunia has indicated that he wants to settle the case in 2014, but it is unclear how he would do this without either Google yielding on some parts of the complaint, or by his overriding objections from complainants.Google initially proposed changes to the way it presents some search results in April, but saw those rejected by complainants after Almunia's office made them public for "market testing", which seeks to gauge whether suggested remedies are acceptable. In September it sent revised proposals to Almunia's office – but those too were generally rejected in the market testing phase.Google said in a statement: "We've made significant changes to address the EC's concerns, greatly increasing the visibility of rival services and addressing other specific issues."A key element of its most recent proposals would have given some rival shopping sites limited space as part of a larger Google Shopping box when people made what looked like commerce-related searches. Sites would have had to bid in an auction system to be included in the space – which led to complaints that Google would make money whether or not people clicked on its own links or those of rivals.Complainants including Microsoft-funded lobbying group Icomp expressed delight at Almunia's decision. David Wood, legal counsel for ICOMP, said: "Our members will welcome vice president Almunia's decision that Google's second set of proposals are 'unacceptable'. Google was offered not one but two unique opportunities to reach an agreement with the Commission and yet their actions show a deep lack of willingness to change their harmful practices."Vice president Almunia now has the opportunity to ensure a legacy that will see European online businesses flourish. It is now vital that the Commission use this opportunity to enforce the competition rules and ensure that a level playing field is restored not only for those companies that have been harmed but also to support consumer choice and the wider European economy."If Almunia were to issue a formal statement of objections against Google, it would lead to a court case, which could lead to a fine as high as $5bn – 10% of the company's global revenues. But if he overrides objections from complainants, they might sue the EC and argue that it has failed to maintain a competitive market.
Electronic Arts is preparing for court once again. On Tuesday, law firm Robbins, Geller, Rudman and Dowd filed a class action lawsuit against the publisher on behalf of investors who bought stock in the company between 24 July and 3 December.The suitalleges that EA violated the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by allegedly providing &quot;materially false and misleading statements&quot; about military shooter, Battlefield 4. Before the release of the game, Electronic Arts issued strong fiscal guidance to investors, based on the &quot;purported&quot; strength of the latest Battlefield title. &quot;The price of Electronic Arts’ stock steadily climbed on these statements,&quot; reads the law firm&apos;s statement, &quot;reaching a Class Period high of $28.13 per share by August 23, 2013 and allowing certain of Electronic Arts’ senior executives to sell their Electronic Arts stock at artificially inflated prices.&quot;However, after the launch of the game on 29 October – but most obviously following the arrival of the PlayStation 4 version on 15 November – there have been numerous problems with the software, especially its online multiplayer component. Hundreds of players hit game forums and news sites complaining that they were unable to connect or were being continually booted from servers. Earlier this month developer EA DICEannouncedthat it would put all other development projects on hold until the issues with Battlefield 4 had been resolved.The lawsuit goes on to point out that after EA&apos;s announcement stock value fell, closing at $21.01 on 5 December, &quot;sending the share price down more than 28% from its Class Period high&quot;.The allegation, then, is that Electronic Arts executives raised expectations about Battlefield 4 in October knowing that the game was &quot;riddled with bugs and multiple other problems&quot;.The lawsuit alleges: &quot;With an inflated share value, senior execs were then able to offload shares, selling more than $13.2m of stock at fraud-inflated prices.&quot;&quot;Meritless action&quot;Ina statement issued to US games site Polygon, Electronic Arts has said: &quot;We believe these claims are meritless. We intend to aggressively defend ourselves, and we&apos;re confident the court will dismiss the complaint in due course.&quot;So is this a meritless case? &quot;Robbins, Geller, Rudman and Dowd handled the Enron class action,&quot; says Alex Tutty from UK law firm Sheridans. &quot;They are a securities law firm, this is what they do. The firm obviously believes there is a case to answer, and in order to take it forward they need to find a plaintiff – someone who has suffered financial harm in this period due to purchasing shares on the basis of the statements made.&quot;This is a problematic case, and it doesn&apos;t look good for EA, simply from a PR point of view. Looking at the fact as presented by Robbins, Geller, Rudman and Dowd, there does seem to be a case to answer. However, we&apos;ve only seen one side of the argument. Companies do give this sort of guidance, and it is important to be accurate, but it is just guidance based on what they know at the time. You&apos;d have to prove that they knowingly gave false information, and it would be difficult to know about all the bugs that would crop up on the PlayStation 4 version. EA can probably produce a lot of evidence to suggest they didn&apos;t perceive the extent of the problem, or didn&apos;t have sight of it until after launch.&quot;Robbins, Geller, Rudman and Dowd now has until February to find a lead plaintiff – if it succeeds, court beckons. In the background, Battlefield 4 has not performed as well as its predecessor at retail –according to industry news site, MCV, UK sales are down 69% compared to Battlefield 3. However, several Triple A franchises, including Assassin&apos;s Creed and Battlefield&apos;s rival Call of Duty have found the transition from current consoles to the next-gen machines difficult, with sales down across the board.Whatever the case, this lawsuit has the potential to set an interesting precedent in terms of publisher culpability for problematic launch software. Several major titles have similarly suffered from bugs, glitches and server failures this year, including Diablo III and GTA Online, the multiplayer component of Grand Theft Auto V.This is not the first potentially expensive legal action EA has had to contend with. Earlier this year, the publisher settled on a lawsuit filed against Zynga for copyright infringement concerning the latter&apos;s game, The Ville. And in 2012, EA alsosettled on a complicated lawsuit with Activisionover the departure of game developers Jason West and Vincent Zampella from the Activision-owned Infinity Ward to the EA-published Respawn Studios.• Battlefield 4 – review
Twitter users in London woke up to trending terms of a sexual nature on Friday morning as spammers took advantage of Twitter&apos;s automatically generated trending topics list.SEO consultant @SEOTipsandTricks tweeted:Some users complained of the problems caused by the social network&apos;s decision not to edit the hashtags from the trending list with others left baffled by the trends:Twitter&apos;s CEO Dick Costolo has previously admitted that offensive topics such as #reasons...beat...girlfriend are edited from the trending list. But it looks like tweets relating to sexual services and content are allowed.Twitter&apos;s algorithm generates the trending list based on what people are talking about more now than previously. Total number of tweets as well as the number of people tweeting are crucial in sending a topic to its all important list.Spammers took advantage of this algorithm by having new accounts tweet the hashtags in close succession. At the time of writing #escort #adultprofile #massages were still trending after at least four hours on the top ten list. The algorithm will see them fall off eventually as they lose their &quot;breaking news&quot; status.Do you think Twitter should have edited the terms #adultprofile #escorts #massages? Have the trends caused you any problems or embarrassment?Share your thoughts in the thread and we&apos;ll add a selection above the line.
TheScience Museumis inviting visitors to interact with 80 of its most precious artefacts with a new iPad app that allows users to study, rotate and operate objects hand-picked by the museum&apos;s curators.Journeys of Invention includes the examination of a flea using Robert Hooke&apos;s 17th century microscope, encoding messages using an enigma machine from the second world war and a tour of the control panel of the Apollo 10 command module – an area that museum visitors cannot normally explore.Users are also given access to photographs, archive film footage and contemporary artworks.“Journeys of Invention is at once awe-inspiring and intimate,&quot; said Andrew Nahum, the Science Museum’s lead curator. &quot;It is like having a curator take you on a series of guided tours through some of the most magnificent objects in our collection, with each journey bringing to life the story of a key scientific idea.”Journeys of Invention includes, a tour of the control panel of the Apollo 10 command module &ndash; an area that museum visitors cannot normally explore. Photograph: /Science Museum/Touch PressNahum added that the app allowed the curators to &quot;take off the shackles of geography&quot; and allowed users to explore objects that normally would require them to visit three floors of the Science Museum.The 80 inventions are curated into 14 stories, two of which are free when theapp is downloadedand the others can be accessed through one in-app purchase of £6.99.One story, Connected, traces how technology, from the steam engine to the iPad, has made the world a more connected place and brought people closer together. Another, called New Science, focuses on modern science, allowing users to look at various objects through Hooke&apos;s microscope before comparing it to the scientist&apos;s original drawings.New Science allows users to look at various objects through Hooke's microscope before comparing it to the scientist's original drawings. Photograph: /Science Museum/Touch PressThe app designers have formThe app was created byTouch Pressin partnership with the Science Museum, who are celebrating an earlier app being named Apple&apos;s Best iPad App of 2013.“Science is a journey of discovery through time and space. So is this app,&quot; said Theodore Gray, Touch Press&apos;s chief creative officer.The London startup previously created an app with Disney that allowed users to go behind the scenes of every film Disney has ever released. Amongst a variety of actions, users can see hand-made drawings of the cartoons, as well as scroll to look at individual stills from the movies.•Clash of Clans is 2013&apos;s most lucrative gaming app, data shows
An online campaign asking Amazon&apos;s chief executive, Jeff Bezos, to pay the agency staff working for Amazon UK the living wage has received more than 40,000 signatories in two days.Launched on Change.org,the petitionfeatured an image of workers in a warehouse with the caption, &quot;Amazon UK: all we want for Christmas is a fair wage&quot;.Within the description of the petition, it saidthe 15,000 workers the e-commerce company has employed for the holiday rush&quot;won&apos;t earn enough to buy the bare essentials of life&quot;.Emily Kenway, who works atShareActionand started the petition, told the Guardian that she launched the campaign to urge people to rethink their position on the company. She added that the company&apos;s tax affairs are a very different issue from not paying staff an adequate salary.&quot;It is a company that has really permeated all of our lives – and a lot of my friends and family are buying their Christmas presents from there – but Amazon aren&apos;t paying the people who are packing them enough to live off,&quot; she said.&quot;For a lot of peoplethe tax issue[the company paid £3.2m in corporation tax last year] doesn&apos;t stop them buying from Amazon. But this is real people&apos;s lives. When you hear about people who are feeling really insecure [about their jobs], and aren&apos;t treated properly, that really hits home a lot more and makes you think.&quot;Referring to anundercover report by the Observer, Kenway claimed in the petition that workers within the warehouse are unfairly treated, claiming that the following policies &quot;demean its workers&quot;:• A sack-if-you&apos;re-sick policy that sees you turfed out if you take three sick breaks in a three-month period• Giving workers 15-minute breaks that start wherever they are in the giant warehouses• 10-hour days• Compulsory overtime• Monitoring and timing toilet breaks• Half-a-point if you&apos;re one minute late or more (three points and you&apos;re out)• Paying the minimum wage or just above it, when it could well afford to pay the living wage• A &quot;performance console&quot; that tracks and logs workers&apos; activities so they can be released if their &quot;pick rate&quot; is too slowMike Hobson, a signatory, claimed that better paid workers were more productive. He wrote: &quot;Before retirement, I ran supply chain companies that relied upon warehouse pickers. Customers were always served best and the operation improved by the input and enthusiasm of the workforce.&quot;When they are paid at least the living wage, the pickers feel valued and draconian punishments for lateness etc are then not needed.&quot;In response to a request for comment, an Amazon spokesperson sent the Guardian alink to details of working arrangements at their fulfilment centresatamazon.co.uk/fcpractices.The page states that of 20 fulfilment centres across Europe, eight are based in the UK. New members of staff receive a median wage of £7.05 and this tends to increase to £8.02 after 24 months, according to the page.Permanent staff are also offered stock grants, which have added an average 12% to base pay.It states that seasonal employees earn 90% of the starting wage of Amazon&apos;s permanent staff, while 95% of seasonal employees also work a 40-hour week.Criticised againThis isn&apos;t the first time that Amazon have been criticised for their warehouse policy.One of Britain&apos;s leading experts on stress at work claimed that conditions at an Amazon warehouse could cause &quot;mental and physical illness&quot; after being shown undercover filming for aPanorama investigationinto a UK-based Amazon warehouse.Carole Cadwalladr, a features writer for the Observer, also spent a week undercover working at an Amazon warehouse andreported that agency workers get paid £6.50 an hour - 19p above the minimum wage - and shifts are 10.5 hours long.AllThingsD reported on Tuesday that an employee working at an Amazon fulfilment centre in the USdied after being crushed by a piece of equipment. Although Amazon owns the facility, the operations are run by a third-party logistics firm, Genco.• What&apos;s it like to work at Amazon?Read about Carole Cadwalladr&apos;s experience
And so we come to the end of the Top 25, with the final five titles. So far we've had military shooters, heartwarming family adventures and idiosyncratic island exploration games. What will be at the very head of our selection?Well, you can scroll straight down there is you like, but you'll miss four pretty amazing games on the way.Thanks for reading – even if you haven't agreed with the (extremely subjective) choices. This was never meant as a buyer's guide – it's a reflection of the games that we've written and thought about and enjoyed. You may have had very different experiences this year. Which is, of course, the beauty of this medium.Have a lovely Christmas.5. Papers, Please (Lucas Pope, PC)There have been many and varied virtual vocations to be experienced through video games in 2013 but none quite so affecting as that found inPapers, Please, Lucas Pope's harrowing game set in a fictional communist country's border control booth at the dawn of the 1980s. Your task, assigned to you by the state, is to process the winding line of would-be immigrants each day, checking their passports and other supporting documents and, quite simply, confirming or denying their entry.Each day you must contend with further bureaucracy and rules issued down from on high, a dual frustration as the fewer people you manage to process in a day, the fewer wages you take home. The quietly agreeable administrative power quickly dissipates in the face of the burden of your family – at dusk you must daily choose whether to buy food, medicine or heating to support them and there's never enough money to go around. Likewise, the gently heart-breaking stories of the people you meet in the line make this a game quite unlike any other, one that, despite the rudimentary graphics, reveals the largely unexplored potential of the medium to build true empathy and understanding.4. GTA V (Rockstar, PS3, Xbox 360)Rockstar's record-breaking behemoth crushed everything else this year in terms of sales, its super-charged mix of ultra-violence, scattergun satire and visual beauty ensuring hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue. Los Santos is a world realised in incredible depth and the fact that this sprawling landscape is still giving up secrets to obsessive players months after release says much about the care, attention and passion lavished on the game. We'd dearly love to have seen a female protagonist and we could have done with waaaay less bickering between Trevor and Michael in the main campaign. But for bombastic, brain-bludgeoning set-pieces, GTA V could not be beaten – and as flawed and broken as it was, GTA Online provides an intriguing vision of where online multiplayer can go. Enhanced PC version next year? Everyone knows it makes sense.• GTA V – review3. Gone Home (Fullbright Company, PC/Mac/Linux)Like Proteus, Gone Home is a game that makes people really think about games – what they are, what they mean and how they tell us things. This very enclosed, almost neurotic experience is like a modern day epistolary novel, its narrative told voyeuristically through private communications – letters, journals, answer phone messages. The house is as much a symbolic space as it is a real one – a place haunted by memories and disappointments. Ostensibly, it is Kaitlin Greenbriar's story, as she returns from a long trip away to find her parents and sister gone, but of course, the ghost of Samantha haunts it.Steve Gaynor and his team play brilliantly with notions of memory, nostalgia and love, and the psychogeography of home and family. Some see in this game a sallow ode to the point-and-click adventure, but actually it explores the first-person perspective, and the conventions of interactive narrative, in interesting and meaningful ways. We thought about this game all year, that is the main thing. The message lingers like an answerphone message you can't bear to delete.• Gone Home – and how games can tell stories about everyday lives2. The Last of Us (Sony, PS3)In Joel and Ellie's story of survival against the odds – and against all reason – Naughty Dog provided us with one of the most mature and gruelling mainstream action adventures of the decade. While some saw it as little more than a post-apocalyptic palette swap for Uncharted, this is a very different beast – a true narrative journey in which characters and relationships eclipse all other concerns. But it is also exciting and involving, with a thuddingly violent combat mechanic and a continual sense of raw peril. So many wonderful dramatic moments too, from lovesick survivors committing suicide to giraffes wandering the sun-scorched city streets. Whatever you make of its devastating conclusions, the Last of Us was the moment that cinematic gaming started to mean something – something that went beyond form and into feeling. It hints at amazing things for the future.• Last of Us – review1. Super Mario 3D World (Nintendo, Wii-U)It may not have the pioneering spirit of some of the strongest games released this year, but Nintendo EAD's latest displays a restless brilliance in its reinvention of one of the medium's most valuable and inspiring heritages. Super Mario 3D World is an undeniable retreat from the farthest reaches of space, which were so gloriously brushed against in the two Super Mario Galaxy titles on the Wii-U's predecessor. But there is no such withdrawal in terms of its design and finesse; this game ranks amongst the company's finest.There's an easy familiarity to the world, the way its stages are arranged, Mario's suite of furry costumes and, of course, the seemingly endless levels themed around the seasons and elements. But the riotous imagination on display in its design ideas has an unexpected freshness: quite how these designers manage to mine gold from such a relatively thin rulebook is dumbfounding. Then there are the social features: the multiplayer that allows up to four players to sprint through the game's levels in a heady concoction of competition and cooperation, and the online ghost data, beamed into your game without fuss in order to provide a person against whom to race. Super Mario 3D World is a warm and contemporary exploration of the medium's past, rather than a bold signpost to its future, but celebrations are rarely so wonderfully unrestrained and stirring.• Super Mario 3D World – review
It's Friday.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFacebook self-censorship: what happens to the posts you don't publish? &gt;&gt; SlateWe spend a lot of time thinking about what to post on Facebook. Should you argue that political point your high school friend made? Do your friends really want to see yet another photo of your cat (or baby)? Most of us have, at one time or another, started writing something and then, probably wisely, changed our minds.Unfortunately, the code that powers Facebook still knows what you typed—even if you decide not to publish it. It turns out that the things you explicitly choose not to share aren't entirely private.Facebook calls these unposted thoughts "self-censorship," and insights into how it collects these nonposts can be found in a recent paper written by two Facebookers. Sauvik Das, a Ph.D. student at Carnegie Mellon and summer software engineer intern at Facebook, and Adam Kramer, a Facebook data scientist, have put online an article presenting theirstudy of the self-censorship behaviourcollected from 5 million English-speaking Facebook users. It reveals a lot about how Facebook monitors our unshared thoughts and what it thinks about them.Update:the precise phrase in the paper is that the researchers checked whether five characters or more had been entered: "using this threshold allowed us to record only thepresence or absenceof text entered, not the keystrokes or content." So Facebook doesn't strictly speaking know what you typed - only that you began to type it.Smartphone And Tablet Penetration - Business InsiderWith a little perspective offered by historical data, the story of smartphone and tablet growth is truly amazing. By the end of this year, 6% of the global population will own a tablet, 20% will own PCs, and 22% will own smartphones.And they reckon smartphone ownership passed personal PC ownership in mid-2012. Data point. (There's a graph too.)Sun.com Design, Usability &amp; Other Stuff &gt;&gt; Sun.comVia the Internet Archive, a little tale about the king of visual layout, Edward Tufte, told by Martin Hardee:we were very proud of our user interface and the fact that we had a way to browse 16,000(!!) pages of documentation on a CD-ROM.  But browsing the hierarchy felt a little complicated to us. So we asked [Edward] Tufte to come in and have a look, and were hoping perhaps for a pat on the head or some free advice.He played with our AnswerBook for about 90 seconds, turned around, and pronounced his review:"Dr Spock's Baby Care is a best-selling owner's manual for the most complicated 'product' imaginable -- and it only has two levels of headings.  You people have 8 levels of hierarchy and I haven't even stopped counting yet.  No wonder you think it's complicated."Q4 2013 Mobile development trends report &gt;&gt; Appcelerator (PDF)Note this is a PDF:There was little material change in developer interest among the mobile platform leaders. The iPhone (84.2%) and iPad (81.7%) still capture the most interest, with Android phones (79.4%) and Android tablets (66.1%) next in line.1 However, the number of developers reporting to be "very interested" in building apps on HTML5 fell to 59.9% – the lowest level since we began tracking the specification in April 2011. Interest in HTML5 peaked in July 2012 at 72.7%, and has shown an uneven but downward slope since.Google Nexus (which gets its own segment, strangely) comes out well ahead of Windows (tablets and phone), which comes out well ahead of BlackBerry.Black Friday TV after-effects continue &gt;&gt; DisplaySearch BlogAccording to DisplaySearch's Global TV Replacement Study, 32" is the leading size of flat panel TVs owned by consumers in the US; nearly 60% of households have a 32" or larger TV. So if so many consumers already own at least a 32" TV, why would demand surge so strongly for a 32" still? Some may be purchasing for a second room, and some may be upgrading from a smaller LCD or even still a CRT. However, many consumers may have simply treated it as an impulse buy, perhaps to turn around and sell for a small profit on the secondary market.A quick check of Craigslist in 5 top markets reveals no fewer than 70 Funai or Emerson 32" LCD TVs for sale, brand new, in-box models that match what was sold on Black Friday, with prices ranging from $160 to $225.Arbitrage can be found in every market.Google search dominance challenged by Canada's competition watchdog &gt;&gt; The Globe and MailA spokeswoman for the [Canadian] Competition Bureau said the decision to seek the order was based on the fact that Google has, or is likely to have, information relevant to the bureau's probe of the company's practices.Google did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The scope of the Canadian investigation is similar to those being conducted in the United States, European Union and elsewhere.The bureau said it has reason to believe Google has, since at least 2005, engaged in anti-competitive behaviour. That includes signing exclusive deals with mobile operating system developers, web publishers and web browser developers, and giving preference to its own services, such as Google News, over its competitors' content.Calxeda, chipmaker who sought to bring ARM to servers, has shut down &gt;&gt; AllThingsDSources tell AllThingsD that Calxeda, the Austin-based chip design startup that had raised somewhere north of $90 million in venture capital funding, has effectively ceased operations today.A source said the company had sought to raise a fourth round of capital but was unsuccessful. "They just ran out of runway," as one source put it.The shutdown will idle nearly all of Calxeda's roughly 125-strong work force, who have been informed of the move. Some have already started changing their LinkedIn profiles to reflect that they're now looking for new jobs.It's unclear exactly how the company will unwind its operations, or if it will file for bankruptcy. One asset it does have is intellectual property regarding the design of ARM-based chips for use in servers. A source said that Hewlett-Packard and Dell, both of which have been making plans to add ARM-based chips to new small server designs, may be considering a scenario where they buy out the company's patents.Tor is supposed to hide you online. In this Harvard student's case, it did the opposite &gt;&gt; Washington PostAt 9 a.m. Monday, fire alarms went off in Harvard's Emerson Hall. Minutes before, university officials had gotten e-mails alerting them to a possible bomb threat on campus. The students in Emerson were evacuated, and after a good bout of searching, everything turned out okay. But not for the kid who sent the e-mails.According to an affidavit, sophomore Eldo Kim told an FBI agent on Dec. 16 that he was responsible for the false threats. Kim wanted to avoid a final exam, the affidavit said.But how did law enforcement identify Kim in the first place?It turns out that Tor, the service that ordinarily helps users avoid online detection, wound up fingering Kim as the alleged culprit.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
No piece of technology knows as much about you as your smartphone. It goes where you do, so knows your movements, holds your contacts, your mesages, emails, web browsing records - and all the apps you use, perhaps including credit card details (suitably obfuscated to prevent casual theft). Given untrammelled access to someone's smartphone, you could find out almost everything about their life.Smartphones are intensely personal (which is also why people can get so worked up if they think you're insulting their choice of smartphone; it's tantamount to insulting their personality). And when it comes to data, the events of the past six months - starting with the Guardian's revelations about NSA and GCHQ surveillance - have heightened peoples' awareness of the idea that it is their own data.In fact the Information Commissioner's Office released app guidelines on Thursday which pointed out thatthese concerns are becoming significant:A survey of 2,272 British people conducted by YouGov and commissioned by the ICO found that 59% have downloaded apps, but that 62% of them are concerned about resulting privacy issues. Over 40% said they have decided not to download at least one app due to these fears.So why would you let an app get that sort of access to your contacts, location, or storage? If you're using Android, the answer is that you don't get much choice, unless (like those 40%+ in the survey) you decide not to download the app. And the peculiar thing is that Google seems to be quite OK with that - and in fact has gone as far as to reverse an update which let users block apps from accessing data they shouldn't.The consequences of that are already beginning to play out as people notice the difference - and complain in the only way they can, by giving apps lower ratings for what they see as excessive demands.The problem surfaced at the end of last week, when the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) firstpraisedand thendoled out brickbatsto Google for implementing, and then reversing, a function which allowed users to set per-app permissions to data such as their contacts, call log, location and so on. To access it you had to download a free third-party app called App Ops Launcher.Once you installed and ran it, you could see and control all sorts of individual permissions - as shown below.App Ops allowed users of Android 4.3 to fine-tune app permissions.But the exposure of App Ops had only a short life. Bip! There it was in Android 4.3, which arrived in mid-November. Bam! There it was, gone in Android 4.4.2, released about three weeks later.In fact it only seems to have appeared in 4.3 by virtue of a brief edit war in the Android code tree between Dianne Hackborn, an Android product manager, and Dave Burke. Hackbornremovedthe feature on 1 August; Burke put it back in the next day. The change made it through, but then was reversed once again, and 4.4.2 rolled out to squash it. And according to app developers, 4.4.2 properly kills App Ops: it simply won't function unless you take the extreme measure of rooting your phone. (Very, very few people do this.)The upshot is that Android users once again can't control what permissions an app takes for itself - unless they reject the app wholesale ahead of installation.And the effects of that reversal are showing up. OpenSignal, a crowdsourcing app which feeds back data about signal strength in various location, has suddenly seen a rash of bad reviews, says James Robinson, the company's chief technology officer. "The decline is all due to poor ratings on Android 4.4, where the ratings have dived from 4.3 to less than 4 in under a week,"says Robinson.He points to flaws in how 4.4.2 records changes to requests for permissions: though it appears to ask for access to USB storage, contacts, messages, phone status (which appears as "phone calls", location and network communication ("connect and disconnect from Wi-Fi"). The app, he says, used to need "Read Contacts" permission before Android 4.1 to count how much time you'd spent on calls; "Call Logs" was added later. And he's insistent that it never reads SMS or contacts.But thebad reviewshave been coming in - and in a number of cases they're related to the app's apparent demand to read contacts.The reviews also show that nobody knows why the app might want to access your contacts - but they do want to block it.The bizarre thing is that Android, which has always led Apple's iOS in terms of customisation - choose your own keyboard, choose your own default apps - has now lagged in this key area by more than a year, in a field where people have become more and more aware that data matters, and permission matters - and the ability torevokepermission matters even more.Path to problemsAndroid used to be ahead of Apple's iOS by virtue of the fact that it did at least tell you what elements of your phone an app might access. That was in stark contrast to iOS, where before 2012 you didn't actually know what an app was up to after you downloaded it. That led to the furore in February 2012 when it was revealed that the social startup Path was grabbing iPhone address books and uploading them to its servers.Path said sorry (raising the question of why it needed to be sorry for something that obviously wasn't an accident; shouldn't it have just not done it in the first place?). But the fallout was considerable.Path wassubsequently fined $800,000 by the FTC. Apple faced a congressional inquiry. But it took action: in September 2012 iOS 6 let you block apps' access to system-wide elements such as location, contacts books, Twitter and Facebook. (In 2013 it added microphone access to the controllable elements.)The result is that any time app tries to access your contacts, or location, or photos without your having given permission, you'll be asked whether to allow it or not. You can simply block apps from ever getting access.Permission not deniedBut Android, which was on version 4.1 in July 2012, hasn't done anything about permissions.That has led directly to user problems such as the Brightest Flashlight Free app, whichgrabbed the location and device ID of millions of peoplein order to show them ads - even if they didn't agree to it. And there are still thousands of pieces of Android malware about which exploit the fact that nobody really understands why apps are so demanding in permissions.Yet when you add in the revelations about the NSA and GCHQ's surveillance of citizens, and that the NSA allegedly spied on Angela Merkel's phone, it creates an atmosphere where people are less willing to let their smartphone - which is, remember, the most personal device you own - be open to all and sundry.Google, however, doesn't seem to be hearing this. In aGoogle+ thread, Hackborn defended her actions. (Google+ is now the only place where you will find out what Google engineers are thinking.)"It wasn't intended to be available [to users]. The architecture is used for a growing number of things, but it is not intended to be exposed as a big low-level UI [user interface] of a big bunch of undifferentiated knobs you can twiddle."She suggested that the per-app settings are "mostly for platform engineers… maybe some day for third party developers."This didn't really wash with the people in the thread, who all appear to be Android users, and had plenty of counter-examples to explain why they most certainly did want some undifferentiated knobs they could twiddle. Such as Jon Sykes, who pointed out:The Facebook app is a perfect example of an app I want to have , but refused to install on my phone because of the excessive permissions it wants:Directly call phone numbersRecord audioRead call logWrite call logDownload files without notificationRetrieve running appsDraw over other appsPrevent phone from sleepingTurn sync on and offInstall shortcutsSend sticky broadcastNot one of those is justified for Facebook to show me updates from friends and family. Being able to go in and turn them all off is exactly what Android needs to let users do.Possibly Facebook wants those permissions so that it can run Facebook Home, but the problem with the Android model is you just don't know. And moreover, without App Ops and 4.3, there's no way to prevent that short of not installing the app (as Sykes did). And even though Android is good in the way that it does tell you what an app will demand to access, it's terrible in letting you knowwhyapps want that access.increasing warinessAny iOS user will be alerted to its privacy settings the first time an app tries to access something, whether it's location or contacts. The more technical Android users are clearly pained to be passed by Apple - especially in the provision of knobs you can twiddle.iOS users can revoke or allow app permissionsHackborn's tone comes across as exasperation and faint disdain that people should want to be able to change such settings. She seems to be underestimating a significant chunk of Android users.Quite why Hackborn is so against the idea of people having this sort of control is a puzzle. Google has officially described the exposure of the App Ops interface as "experimental", and there have been indications that it's worried that apps might crash if denied access to data they expect."We aren't attempting to break anything for users," Hackborn insisted. "We are fixing security holes in the platform that developers have been using to get access to parts of the system that were never intended to be accessible."Except they aren't really security holes. App Ops doesn't exploit a security hole; it just exposes something that's already there. By removing access, Hackborn is making securityworse, not better.She said that the UI for App Ops "is there forplatformdevelopment purposes. There isn't really much utility for third party developers. As I said, App Ops is a part of the platform framework that is being used for an increasing number of things, which are visible in the UI - per-app notification control, location access history, current SMS app - and this UI is just a tool for people working on the platform itself to more easily debug and interact with it."But why should that only be for developers? Don't users want to be able to control it too? Remember, if the response is "but users don't care about that stuff, and would find it confusing", Appledoesmake that stuff available. If Apple users can understand it, so can Android users. And the ICO survey shows that this lack of control is hurting Android developers - over 40% of people in its survey have decided not to download an app because of the data it wants. Given that iOS doesn't tell you what permissions an app will request, it can only be Android that they're referring to.There's another argument that defenders of the current poor state of Android's permissions put forward: apps would crash if denied such permissions. That might be true, but it suggests that the apps (and/or Android's APIs) are poorly written: if they "need" access to your contacts, what happens if you don't have any contacts? If they "need" network access, what happens when that's off? If they "need" access to your call logs, what happens if those are blank? Android must return some sort of result in that case, and the fact that users of App Ops on 4.3 didn't storm the barricades complaining about crashing apps suggests that this isn't a problem.And to those who say "you should just download a Permissions App" - implicitly acknowledging that the problem exists, but thatyouhave to fix it on your personal device, not the maker of the software - that in turn suggests that apps won't crash left, right and centre if denied permissions. Which in turn suggests that Hackborn's description of "security holes" doesn't stand up. The security holes are the ones allowing apps to siphon your data, not the existence of App Ops.Furthermore, the claim (also made) that "if the permissions change, I can just get rid of the app" points to the problem highlighted by OpenSignal above: 4.4.2 doesn't actually give the correct information about permissions changes.Follow the money?It's known that Google makes its money from pulling in data from users of smartphones - an increasingly important sector. That's why theloss of maps provision on Apple's iPhones(and to a lesser extent iPads) was such a blow, though Google Search is still the default on iOS. (One might wonder: for how long? Would an incoming chief executive at Microsoft make a better offer than Google for Bing to become the default search on iOS?)So is the reason why it hasn't given users more control over their data that doing so would threaten its revenue stream from Android?Or is it that, as it tries to take more control of Android by removing various elements from the open-source Android code (AOSP) - which now lacks a browser among other things - that it also wants to take this privacy control out, and make it a separate downloadable app, as Google Play is?That doesn't seem likely; I asked the team at CyanogenMod (who have their own Privacy Guard software which exposes the App Ops interface) whether you could take that functionality out and re-enable it with an app. The consensus was that virtually impossible given the Unix model that Android is built on.So where does that leave Android? Still without a decent permissions model, unless you're running 4.3 - which, according toGoogle's own statistics, is just 4.2% of those whose devices accessed Google Play in the last week of November.That leaves a whopping 95.8% of Android users - probably a billion or so - who can't control whether rogue apps grab their data, nor what they do with it. Contrast that toApple's figures for the proportion of devices using iOS 6 or above- 96% - and you have a stark contrast in the platforms' approach to apps and data.Update:added extract from article about the Information Commissioner's survey on app privacy and guidelines.
Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg plans to sell shares in the social network worth close to $2.3bn as the company's early backers take advantage of the first share sale since the company went public last year.Zuckerberg is selling 41.35m shares, Facebook said Thursday, representing the largest slice of the 70m shares being offered. Facebook's shares closed at $55.57 Wednesday.Facebook said Zuckerberg would use the majority of his proceeds to pay taxes he will incur in connection with his exercise of an option to purchase a further 60m class B shares. Facebook has two types of shares, the commonly traded class A share which is entitled to one vote and class B shares that are entitled to 10 votes.Following the offering, Zuckerberg is expected to retain control of 62.8% of the company's voting power, down from 65.2%. This is Zuckerberg's second share sale. He sold 30.3m shares, then worth $1.1bn, in Facebook's initial public offering (IPO) last year.Facebook said Zuckerberg would use the majority of his proceeds to pay taxes he will incur in connection with his exercise of an option to purchase a further 60m shares.The company itself will sell about 27m shares, worth about $1.5bn. "We do not currently have any specific uses of the net proceeds planned," Facebook said in a statement. "We may use a portion of the proceeds to us for acquisitions of complementary businesses, technologies or other assets."Other stockholders, including early investor Marc Andreesen, the multi-millionaire Netscape co-founder, will also sell shares. Andreesen is selling 1.6m shares, a stake worth nearly $89m.Facebook will join the S&amp;P 500 index of the US's top companies on Friday. The share sale will primarily be offered to index funds that track the index of the most influential companies in the country.The sale, the first that Facebook has filed since its initial public offering (IPO) in May 2012, could raise about $3.9bn. It comes as Facebook has shaken off the aftermath of its disastrous IPO.Facebook's shares sold for $38 initially in a massive share sale that was marred by technical glitches. After the IPO, Facebook's shares plummeted, dropping as low as $17.73, as investors worried about mobile advertising revenue. The shares took more than a year to pass $38 again.The company has since reported significant gains in mobile advertising. In October Facebook said mobile ads had driven a 60% increase in revenues in the third quarter. Mobile ads brought in $880m, 49% of the $1.8bn in ad revenue the company made that quarter.The share price recovery has added tens of billions to Facebook's value. The company was valued at more than $100bn at IPO and is now valued at over $130bn - more than Home DepotThe recovery has further boosted the fortunes of the 29-year co-founder. Forbes estimates his wealth at $19bn. Thesecurities and exchange commission filing that detailed the share sale said Zuckerberg intended make a gift of 18m shares to an an unnamed charity this month. Based on the current trading price, the shares would be worth $1bn.
Google revealed a sharp rise in requests from governments asking for political content to be removed from the web in its latest transparency report published on Thursday.From January to June the search giant received 3,846 government requests to remove content from its services – a 68% increase over the second half of 2012.“Over the past four years, one worrying trend has remained consistent: governments continue to ask us to remove political content. Judges have asked us to remove information that’s critical of them, police departments want us to take down videos or blogs that shine a light on their conduct, and local institutions like town councils don’t want people to be able to find information about their decision-making processes,” Susan Infantino, legal director, said in a blogpost.“These officials often cite defamation, privacy and even copyright laws in attempts to remove political speech from our services. In this particular reporting period, we received 93 requests to take down government criticism and removed content in response to less than one third of them. Four of the requests were submitted as copyright claims,” she said.Google reported a large increase in requests fromTurkeywhere it received 1,673 requests from the authorities to remove content, nearly a ten-fold increase over the second half of last year. About two-thirds of the total requests – 1,126 – called for the removal of content related to alleged violations of internet law 5651, which censors online speech.InRussiaGoogle reported a rise in requests after the introduction of ablacklist lawlast year. The law aimed to crackdown on criminal websites, paedophilia and suicide promotion. But critics charge it has been used to censor political speech online. Google received 257 removal requests during this reporting period, more than double the total number of requests it received in 2012.In the US Google and its peers are fighting to be allowed to disclose how often they receive legal demands for information from the National Security Agency (NSA). Those requests are made through the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (Fisa) court and the companies are legally barred from disclosing them.On Wednesday a presidential review panel, looking into the NSA in the wake of whistleblower Edward Snowden’s revelations,suggested tech companies should be allowed to disclose Fisa requests.“While the information we present in our transparency report is certainly not a comprehensive view of censorship online, it does demonstrate a worrying upward trend in the number of government requests, and underscores the importance of transparency around the processes governing such requests. As we continue to add data, we hope it will become increasingly useful and informative in policy debates and decisions around the world,” said Infantino, the legal director.From January to June 2013, the following countries made the most requests to remove content:Turkey (1,673 requests for 12,162 items)United States (545 requests for 3,887 items)Brazil (321 requests for 1,635 items)Russia (257 requests for 277 items)India (163 requests for 714 items)In the US Google received 545 requests for the removal of 3,887 items. Among those requests was one from a local law enforcement official to remove a search result linking to a news article about his record as an officer. Google did not remove the search result.In the UK Google received 117 requests for 556 items to be removed. One request came from a law firm representing a former member of parliament to remove a preview from Google Books that allegedly defamed the MP by suggesting he was engaged in illegal activity. The preview was removed. Another came from a local government council to remove a blogpost that allegedly defamed the council. Google did not remove the blogpost.
I was shopping online for some new microSD cards and got thoroughly confused by the different classes/speeds. Reading an article by the organisation that sets and regulates SD card performance standards (Greater Performance Choice) made me even more confused.We use microSD cards in compact cameras, Samsung and Nokia Lumia smartphones, and for storing and saving games in our original Wii. Does it matter which class of card is used?Mark CampbellSecure digital (SD) cards started out as a wonderfully simple Flash storage format, and quickly replaced CompactFlash, MMC and other types of card. But as usage grew, people began to need different speeds and sizes. The result is the chaos we enjoy today.For standard applications like single-shot compact cameras, it doesn't matter which class of SD card you buy, as long as it's compatible. Storing a 500K to 2MB file is not hard. However, if you want to shoot a rapid sequence of photos, the card has to be fast enough to keep up. If you want to shoot high-definition videos, keeping up can be a challenge. For this sort of application, you'll probably need a fast card.When buying an SD card, you have to consider three things: the physical size, the storage capacity, and the speed at which it can write data.Physical sizeThere are now three sizes of SD card. The original format started with cards measuring 32 x 24mm, which was very small for the time. These are still common in digital cameras, audio recorders and similar products. Smartphone makers wanted smaller cards. This resulted in the miniSD format, measuring 21.5 x 20mm, and then microSD cards, measuring 11 x 15mm.You can use a miniSD or microSD card in an SD card slot by plugging it into an SD-sized adapter, and some mini/micro cards are sold with them. Obviously, you can't fit an SD card into a miniSD or microSD slot.I assumed most of us needed different sizes, so it's handy if all your devices use the microSD format. However, other things being equal, full-size SD cards are generally faster than small ones.Data storageWhen it comes to storage, there are three different types of card: SD, SDHC (High Capacity) and SDXC (eXtended Capacity).Originally, an SD card could hold up to 2GB of data using Microsoft's FAT-12 or FAT-16 file format. This was a huge amount in 1999, and most cards stored a lot less. In 2006, when the 2GB limit was becoming a problem, the industry introduced high capacity SDHC cards that could store up to 32GB using FAT-32. After that, in 2009, came SDXC cards able to store up to 2TB using Microsoft's proprietary exFAT (Extended File Allocation Table) format.Applestarted supporting exFAT with Mac OS X 10.6.5 (Snow Leopard), which makes exFAT the best choice for shared hard drives or transferring very large data files. It also means that future SD cards will be able to use exFAT up to 512TB and, in theory, beyond. Either way, the SD Card Association provides a freeSD Formatter 4.0 for SD/SDHC/SDXCprogram for Windows and Mac OS X for people who want to check or reformat cards. This optimises performance and protects the Secure Digital card's secure "Protected Area".Today, 8GB and 16GB cards are big enough for most purposes, though people may well choose a 32GB or 64GB card to expand the storage in an MP3 player or mobile phone. If buying a 64GB or 128GB card, it's very important to check that your device can support it. The Samsung Galaxy S4 can handle 64GB cards, but most phones can't, and I don't know of a European or American phone that supports 128GB cards. If you need 1TB or 2TB of storage, you'll have to buy an external hard drive.Card speedsThings get confusing when it comes to speed ratings. The SD Card Association has different classes of cards, and produced a bunch of mandatory logos with the class number inside a big C. However, Class 2 is 2MBps, Class 4 is 4MBps, Class 6 is 6MBps, and Class 10 is 10MBps or faster -- sometimes much faster. For this reason, faster cards are often marked with the speed in large letters, such as 45MB/s or 90MB/s.If you check the specifications of your devices, you should be able to find out how fast it can write data to an SD card. As long as your cards can handle that data rate, you should be OK.Note that the class rating shows a minimum speed, not the actual speed. A good Class 2 card may work faster than a Class 6 or even a Class 10 card. The only way to find the real performance of a card is torun a benchmark test.Also bear in mind that megabytes per second -- MBps, usually written as MB/s on cards --  are eight times faster than megabits per second (Mbps), because there are 8 bits in a byte. A 2MBps card is a 16Mbps card.Finally, SD card speeds are sometimes cited as "100x Speed" or whatever. This is somewhat akin to measuring things in football fields or areas the size of Wales. It's based on the speed of an original CD-Rom drive: 150 KBps. You will recall that you ended up with a 16x or 48x CD-Rom drive, and you can extend the idea to 48x or 400x SD cards. I don't find this a particularly useful way of rating SD cards, unless your camera manufacturer specifies 50x or 100x cards, or whatever.Bus speedsUnfortunately, it takes two to tango. The speed of the card is one factor. The other is the speed at which a particular device can send data to the card. This depends on the speed of the input/output bus that connects them.For the first types of card, everybody used a standard bus, so nobody had to worry about it. When speeds reached 10MBps and above (Class 10), we needed a faster bus, so the High Speed Bus was introduced. After that came the Ultra High Speed Bus UHS-I and the even faster UHS-II, which guarantees a minimum data rate of 30MBps. These also have their own logos, with cards being marked U1 or U3.As mentioned, some SD cards support speeds of 95MBps or more, but very few applications need such fast cards. A 2MBps card should be able to record standard video, a 4MBps card should record HD (ie 720p) video, and a 6MBps card should handle Full HD (ie 1080p) video, depending on the camera or camcorder.Buying cardsFor most purposes, you can buy any card that your device supports, and ignore the speed ratings. For example, your camera's spec will say that it takes microSD, microSDHC or microSDXC cards, so just buy whichever type it says. Other things being similar or equal, buy whichever card is faster.Not many devices have UHS-I buses at the moment, and usually they are more advanced models. For example, looking at Canon DSLRs, the EOS 500D takes SDHC cards, the 600D can use SDXC cards, and the 650D is the first model that can handle UHS-1 or U1 cards. (The EOS M also sports UHS-1, as do the Nikon D5100 and D7000.)In general, I'd avoid buying UHS-1 cards unless your device specifies them, because the new bus has new pins and reassigns some old pins. Cards with both logos – ie C10 and U1 – may work in most (but not all) other devices, but will usually cost more. They still won't write data faster than your camera can send it.You could argue that UHS-1 will become common and that people will reap the benefit when they buy new cameras, or whatever. That might be true for people who are planning to buy more advanced devices fairly soon. The rest of us can wait until UHS buses filter down to cheaper devices, by which time, UHS cards will be cheaper.I'm not against spending money on SD cards, but I think it's better to spend it on respected name-brand cards and not on cheap ones. As was the case with CD-R discs, not all Flash memory chips are created equal. Personally, I use SanDisk and Samsung cards, but Toshiba, Panasonic, and Lexar Pro and Platinum II cards also have good reputations. Panasonic invented the SD format, and developed it with SanDisk and Toshiba.
The UK’s Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) haspublished new guidelinesaimed at helping app developers abide by data protection laws.The ICO has also published advice for smartphone and tablet users on how to keep control of their personal information, after finding that many are concerned about how their data is being used by apps.A survey of 2,272 British people conducted by YouGov and commissioned by the ICO found that 59% have downloaded apps, but that 62% of them are concerned about resulting privacy issues. 49% said they have decided not to download at least one app due to these fears.“On one hand, these are classic data protection problems. The Data Protection Act itself is technology-neutral, and just as applicable to apps as it is to websites and other businesses,” Simon Rice, the ICO’s principal policy advisor for technology, told The Guardian.“But apps are slightly unique in that they’re often driven by a particular need – you need an app to show train times when you’re standing at the station, for example – and consumers may be more willing as a result to just press ‘OK’ and accept all the data permissions that an app requests.”The ICO’s new guidelines are intended to help developers understand their data protection responsibilities, including making it clear what information they are getting from their users, and what it will be used for.“We want to raise awareness of the DPA and show that it shouldn’t be an onerous task to remain compliant,” said Rice. “It’s not generally about saying ‘you’re not allowed to do such and such’, but rather saying ‘are you really doing it in the best way, and how have you communicated it to your users?’”Rice said the ICO will be following up its guidelines in the new year to check that they’re being implemented, although he stressed that any action taken against developers would be the result of specific complaints from consumers.The ICO’s privacy advice for app users&quot;1. Only download apps from official and trusted app stores. Be extremely careful if using untrusted sources.&quot;&quot;2. Read the information available about an app in the app store before you download it. Check you are happy about the personal information it will be using.&quot;&quot;3. Have a regular clear-out. Many of us have downloaded an app and only used it once. If you no longer use the app, uninstall it.&quot;&quot;4. Consider downloading mobile security software to help keep your device secure.&quot;&quot;5. Make sure you erase any apps from the phone before you donate, resell or recycle an old device, as these may have to access to your personal information. You should be able to find a ‘factory reset’ option in the device settings.&quot;
Bill Gates has shown that even billionaires like to have a bit of fun at Christmas, taking part inReddit’s secret Santa present exchangeand making one lucky girl’s jaw “hit the ever loving floor”.Gates apparently took part in the secret Santa event held by social news site Reddit, which matched participants online around the world and broke the world record for the largest secret Santa gift exchange in 2012.The lucky girl, who goes by thename of NY1227 on Reddit, was unknowingly allocated Bill Gates by the system, who diligently shipped a secret Santa package.From &apos;Bill&apos;Inside was travel book with personal inscription, a stuffed cow and a charitable donation to Heifer International, which “gives families in need the right tools such as animals, seeds, clean water, safe stoves or a chance for girls to go to school”, all signed “Bill”.Oblivious as to who “Bill” was, it wasn’t until NY1227 discovered that Gates had also included a photo of himself holding the stuffed cow and donation card that she realised “Bill” was Mr Gates himself.“Oh.... wait. Holy shit. Time out. And then it finally hit me. All the presents I had just torn open, the charity, everything – was from Bill GATES ... my jaw hit the EVER LOVING FLOOR,”said NY1227.Nearly 60,000 users took part inReddit’s secret Santa last year, twice as many as the year before, showing the power of leveraging the social news site’s critical mass of users, many of which have been long-time contributors to Reddit across over 120 countries.• Still need a Christmas gift? Check out ouremergency, last minute, instant delivery Christmas gift guide
Apple&apos;s new Mac Pro computer won&apos;t feature on any budget gift guides this Christmas, as it goes on sale in configurations which near $10,000.The hardware starts at £2,499/$2,999 (the US price is equal to just £1,831, although it doesn&apos;t include local taxes) for a version of the computer with a 3.7GHz Quad-Core processor, 12GB of RAM and 2GB of video memory. The other base configuration, costing £3,299/$3,999, ups the specs to include a 3.5GHz 6-Core processor, 16GB of RAM and 3GB of video memory.But it&apos;s when customers decide to customise their hardware that prices go through the roof. A fully tricked-out Mac Pro includes this hardware:A 2.7GHz 12-Core processor (for an extra £2,400/$3,000)64GB of RAM (for an extra £960/$1,200)An increase from 256GB of flash storage to 1TB (for an extra £640/$800)6GB of video memory on the graphics cards (for an extra £480/$600)That takes the total cost of the computer up to£7,779/$9,599– so congratulations tothe 5% of readers who correctly guessed that priceyesterday. Although it appears Apple is more frugal than many of you expected, with the most popular guess being &quot;$20,000 or more&quot;. The median guess was within a hair&apos;s breadth of correct: $10,000 to $10,999. Bad luck.Extras, extras, everywhereBut even after spending almost $10,000 on the computer, what ships to your house isn&apos;t just plug-and-go. The Mac Pro comes with no keyboard, monitor or mouse, nor many other accessories which are necessary when using it in the sort of jobs it&apos;s designed for. Thankfully, Apple sells those alongside…Firstly,displays. The Mac Pro supports up to three 4K displays – a type of super-HD resolution which is now the norm for film production. Sadly, Apple won&apos;t actually let you just add three to your order, though its online store does offer one 32-in model by Sharp, for just£3,499/$3,595(and yes, that is the worst pound-to-dollar conversion rate in the entire store). Still, why work on just one screen when two will do? Shoppers can add a second screen, but it has to be the Apple 27&quot; Thunderbolt display, a steal at just£899/$999.Compared to those, the keyboard and mouse (or touchpad) are basically free. No self-respecting Mac Pro owner would settle for wires, though, so the wireless options of each, at£59/$69, go in the basket.But the most expensive addition – more than the base cost of the Mac Pro, even – is storage. Admittedly, most users won&apos;tneeda 32TB array of external hard drives, but if the option&apos;s on the table, who wouldn&apos;t spend£3,799/$4,599on it? And a wireless back-up system is great for keeping the more sensitive documents in a different room, just in case something goes disastrous, so a£349/$399Airport Time Capsule makes sense as well.After spending the deposit on a decent-sized house on a computer, you&apos;re going to want to make sure it doesn&apos;t stop working eighteen months later. So as a final expense, best to buy Apple&apos;s three-year warranty, just£199/$249.With everything included, the computer tops out at£16,642/$19,578– exactly the price ofa brand-new Dodge Avengerfrom a dealership in North Carolina. That means that the extras cost$9,979, which just 2% of readers correctly guessed. And most were way under – the median guess was the $4,500-$4,999 bracket. But the most popular choice was the other end of the range, with 13% thinking the extras would cost over $30,000. It&apos;s expensive, but it&apos;s notthatbad.Still, at least you get free shipping. We look forward to all the 4K-quality unboxing videos.•Charles Arthur gets hands-on with the new Mac Pro
Here we go then, the top 10 games of the year begins today! As mentioned previously, this is a highly subjective list compiled by the Guardian's games writers and reflecting our personal favourites from the past 12 months. Feel free to debate it out in the comments section.Seemingly though, the selection does seem to have met with approval so far, although most of the predictions about our top five are way off the mark, and a few titles that commenters have said should-nay-mustbe on there… aren't.Intrigued? Well, step this way into our grotto of games...10. Proteus (Ed Key/David Kanaga/Curve Studios, Mac, PC, PS Vita, PS3)You begin waist deep in the ocean and your eyes open to an island of woozy colour, like something painted by a Die Brücke artist. The trees shed vast flakes of blossom, weird creatures dart about in the undergrowth. And you're just here, just drinking it in. And that's really all you have to do, unless you want to follow the seasonal flow of lights, over the hills and into the swirl that advances the calendar. Asking if this is a game is like asking if Brian Eno's Ambient albums are music – it is because you play it. Even if you think it's like an unfinished Commodore 64 classic, a blocky landscape lacking a pixellated hero, it is a thing of soul and idiosyncratic beauty. This isle is full of noises that give delight and hurt not. Proteus is the setting for a digital production of The Tempest that will never take place.• Proteus – review9. Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons (505 Games, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Like Papo and Yo before it, this heart-wrenching adventure seemed to come out of nowhere to teach every multimillion dollar, 200-person mega-studio a thing or two about emotional storytelling. The fairy tale narrative follows siblings Naiee and Nyaa as they embark on a quest to find the tree of life and save their ill father. But at its very heart is the audacious control system, with each analogue stick controlling a different brother. It is, then, a story of family love in which the central relationship is symbolised by the interface – if that's ever happened before it certainly hasn't been done with such power.8. Assassin's Creed IV (Ubisoft, PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One)Pity Ubisoft's Assassin's Creed development teams, scattered around the globe, tasked with creating and launching a new sprawling adventure for the series every 12 months. Each game is set within a discrete period within time and space requiring unique architecture, costume and props. It's a tall order and more recent entries to the series have struggled to funnel all that workload into a coherent game. Black Flag, however, is a bold return to form, starring the grizzled privateer Edward Kenway as he swashbuckles through the Caribbean Sea, boarding and stealing ships, landing upon and plundering islands and, section by section, taking grim control of the high seas. It's a vast game, but not quite so needlessly bloated as its recent predecessors. It may lack the cinematic finesse of Grand Theft Auto V, but the life to live within its high seas is one of the year's most enjoyable.• Assassin's Creed IV – review7. Animal Crossing: New Leaf (Nintendo, 3DS)There is no revolution within the latest Animal Crossing's gentle village; the game's lazy rhythms remain identical to how they first appeared in 2001 except now, when your character arrives jobless, homeless and penniless in town, they're mistaken for the new mayor. You still work for the local landlord and shopkeeper to pay the mortgage, delivering items to the village's various twittering inhabitants while you fly-fish, bug-catch and fossil-excavate for supplementary income, but there's a new urgency to everything now that you're a cog in the municipal machine. On the 3DS, Katsuya Eguchi's long-running village simulator (originally designed as a means for him to connect with his children when working long hours) makes wonderful use of the system's features with multiplayer and Street Pass connecting better than ever before, and a far greater opportunity for self-expression. It's a game that lodges itself into your daily routine, and once there, it won't be easily removed.• Animal Crossing: New Leaf – review6. Zelda: Link Between Worlds (Nintendo, 3DS)A smart, brisk sequel-cum-reimagining of 1991's seminal Super Nintendo game A Link to the Past, this, the final big-hitting 3DS release in a year of big-hitters on the system, is more eager than most to tread carefully in the series' tradition. And who can blame it? A Link to the Past remains one of the two tallest peaks in Shigeru Miyamoto's fantasy series – small wonder this game copies its structure, Hyrule map and, even, the names of the dungeons from its esteemed predecessor. But there is fresh invention here too: the way that Link's armory is now rented from the shops rather than plundered from dungeons and the ability that allows the hero to gloop onto walls by turning into a mural and shuffling around. A brightly curious and wonderful game in a series defined by curiosity and wonder.Tomorrow: the big five
From today, British Airways has become the first UK airline to take advantage of the new European rules allowing in-flight use of electronic devices during all phases of flight.The agreement with the UK’s Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), which lifted previous restrictions after anEuropean Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) ruling in November, allows passengers on BA flights to use their phones, tablets, e-readers and music players set to “airplane mode” throughout their entire journey, including take off and landing.“We know that our customers want to use their handheld electronic devices more, so this will be very welcome news for them,&quot; said BA flight training manager Captain Ian Pringle.30 minutes extraBA estimated that the new regulations would provide an average of 30 minutes extra screen time for those attempting to watch TV programmes or movies on tablets and smartphones or reading on e-readers.The go-ahead was given to BA by the CAA after the airline presented a satisfactory safety case displaying rigorous testing of small electronic devices on board its aircraft to the governing body, as is required for any airline wishing to take advantage of the new regulations.“The airlines now have access to new methodology for the safety testing of devices, which could be a relatively quick process, especially as some airlines are likely to have already done a fair bit of testing,” said a CAA spokesperson talking to the Guardian.First of manyOther British airlines are expected to follow suit, including Virgin Atlantic and Monarch Airlines, in the near future once they have presented their safety cases to the CAA.The European commissionrecently approvedthe use of 3G and 4G mobile services in-flight, above an altitude of 3,000m, which could see mid-air calling and mobile data over traditional mobile phone services a reality.• Is it dangerous to use theinternet and mobile electronics on planes?
The first time hundreds of millions of people heard aboutBitstripswas when its customised comic strips started appearing in their Facebook news feeds in October, en masse.Bitstrips has since gone on to become the second most-downloaded iOS app in the world in November, with the Canadian companyraising $3m of fundingjust as its app topped app store charts around the world. But who is Bitstrips, why did it become so popular so quickly, and what will it do next?A chat with chief executive and creative director Jacob Blackstock (known as &quot;BA&quot; to friends and colleagues) provides some answers hinting that Bitstrips may be more than just the latest short-lived app craze. Starting with the fact that there&apos;s a longer backstory than you might think.&quot;I&apos;ve been drawing since I was a little kid. I started taking animation classes when I was six years old, using stop-motion animation and Super-8 film,&quot; says Blackstock. &quot;My mom has boxes and boxes of my old sketchbooks and comics! I would either draw comics in class instead of paying attention, or draw comics for my school projects. So I&apos;d either get in trouble for doing them or get good grades depending on the situation, but comics have been a lifelong passion.&quot;Blackstock was also a voracious comics reader and cartoons viewer from an early age, falling in with a group of close friends who shared these interests, and would gather after school to read comics, but also draw their own, selling some of them at the local comics store.&quot;As we got older, in high school we&apos;d really use comics as a way to interact. We&apos;d put each other into comics to make each other laugh, to embarrass each other, or to get each other into trouble,&quot; he says, adding that even when Blackstock and his co-founders had jobs, they&apos;d still fax &quot;embarrassing pictures&quot; of one another as pranks.&quot;We were always engaged in what you could call the analogue version of Bitstrips,&quot; he says. Blackstock spent 18 months developing an animated TV series which wasn&apos;t made, then spent three years making it himself, frame-by-frame, funding it by running animation workshops for children. Next, he set up a creative studio with those friends, with the idea for Bitstrips born in 2007, and launching as a standalone website in 2008.The idea was pretty much the same as the mobile app that&apos;s been so popular in 2013: people created an avatar of themselves, then customised various comic-strip &quot;scenes&quot; created by Bitstrips to create their own pithy stories, regardless of drawing skills or digital abilities.“We kind of saw it as YouTube for comics. The technology had gotten to a point where we could share the fun that we’d been having with the rest of the world, and that might actually create some really amazing results,” says Blackstock. “We basically gave people a character-builder tool and a comic-builder tool, and let them go nuts. Which they did! We saw all these creative uses for it: people doing things with the tools that we’d made that we’d never even thought would be possible.”Bitstrips explained its growth to users with, yes, a comic strip.That included teachers in North America starting to use Bitstrips in the classroom, leading the company to launch a version calledBitstrips for Schools. That&apos;s the second surprising thing about Bitstrips: its roots are as much in education as in entertainment, with its software licensed to all publicly-funded schools in its home province of Ontario thanks to a partnership with its Ministry of Education.“Kids were getting really engaged with their schoolwork. It was a combination of the fact that they’re using this medium that they love – comics – which is really visual, appealing and expressive, and also the fact that they had the avatars in their work. They weren’t just communicating through comics, they were communicating through their own avatars,” says Blackstock.“It’s thrilling, the idea that this gets kids excited about writing and reading. And we’ve heard incredible stories about kids who were having difficulties with the standard mode of writing text on blank paper, who then became prolific comic authors. We’ve also heard about autistic kids who were barely able to communicate, who were able to find a voice through Bitstrips. It’s been a really rewarding aspect of the tools we created.”Bitstrips for Schools was also rewarding enough financially to fund the company as it worked on a new version of the main website, retooling it asa Facebook application which launched in 2012. By then, though, Blackstock and his colleagues had already realised that the service needed to go mobile.“As soon as we launched the Facebook app, we were working on the mobile app, which we spent another year developing, and finally finished at the end of this summer,” says Blackstock. “We launched on Android at the end of August, then on iOS on 1 October. And two weeks after the iOS launch, it reached this tipping point and went mega viral.”The proof of that was in hundreds of millions of people&apos;s Facebook news feeds in October and November. Until the mobile apps launched, people had created 10m avatars using Bitstrips&apos; website and Facebook app – this is a rough measure of registered users, specifically those who&apos;d signed upandcreated their character – but in the two months after its iOS and Android launch, another 30m were created.Bitstrips isn&apos;t giving out more detailed statistics for now – for example on how many of those 30m new users are still active – butthis chart published by Inside Facebookbased on analytics from industry database AppData, shows the jump in monthly active users:Bitstrips' monthly active users, according to AppData.The huge spike came as a surprise to Bitstrips: “We were in testing mode. We thought of it as a stealth launch where we could find the bugs and put in more features, before officially launching it,” says Blackstock. “We never told anyone about it, never spent a penny on marketing, yet all of a sudden it was just exploding everywhere.”Mobile analytics company App Annie claims thatBitstrips was the second most-downloaded app globallyon Apple’s App Store in November, behind only MomentCam – a different personalised-comics app – but ahead of YouTube, Facebook, WhatsApp and other big apps.“It feels like one of those ‘overnight successes’ that was actually the product of seven years of toil,” says Blackstock, who notes that the viral effect – the average Bitstrip user has 50 friends who’ve created an avatar using the app – has been a big factor in the recent spike. “We see this as the app that turns your circle of friends into your own personal Springfield,’ he says, referencing The Simpsons.What next? Continuing to feed this community, avoiding the Draw Something trajectory of burning brightly on the app store then fading away, and actually making money from the app. On the former count, Bitstrips launches four new comic strips a day, as well as a recent batch of more than 150 Christmas-themed strips for users to customise and share. More than 2,000 scenes are already available in the app, with plans to continue this approach.“We’re able to do things that are really timely: when there are current events, we can have a comic about that within 24 hours. It’s a way for our users to participate in news, media and memes,” says Blackstock. “When the royal baby was born, we had a comic out that day in which you were the baby, and Prince William was holding you up Lion King style.”This may sound like novelty territory, but the ability to respond to topical events – or more accurately, to give people the tools to respond to them – is one of Bitstrips’ most interesting features, and part of a wider trend for tools (often apps) that remove the need to have, say, Photoshop skills to create and share visual content.“It’s not just about jokes: it’s a really powerful way to communicate,” says Blackstock. “People are using this as a political platform for example. Whatever your message is, a picture is worth a thousand words.” Bitstrips is already fielding calls from some celebrities too, wondering how they can work with the company.Bitstrips' iOS app was the second most-downloaded in the world in November.What about the second challenge: avoiding becoming another flash-in-the-pan app? Especially if Bitstrips becomes known as “that annoying comics app” by people who don’t really like the strips, and specifically don’t like dozens of them clogging up their Facebook feeds?Bitstrips can&apos;t stop your friends and family over-sharing, but it does seem aware of the risks. It has already tweaked the app so users aren’t forced to share their comics to Facebook every time, for example: they can now choose to share them within Bitstrips alone, or via other means like Twitter and email.“We’re working on more stuff that’s really going to improve the experience of reading these comics within the app, receiving and even interacting with your friends’ content,” says Blackstock. He doesn’t talk about other forthcoming features, but I wonder if animation – moving Bitstrips – are on the company’s roadmap too: cartoons in the TV sense of the word, as well as the comic-strip sense.The third challenge is how Bitstrips makes money, given that it doesn’t currently charge for the app or its scenes, nor does it carry advertising. In-app purchases are one likely avenue – premium scenes perhaps, in the same way that messaging apps like Line offer a mixture of free and paid stickers for people to send to friends.Premium scenes might also be a way for Bitstrips to partner with celebrities, film studios and other popular brands – although it might also be able to charge brands to sponsor free scenes in the same way that websites like BuzzFeed sell “native advertising” that look like normal articles on the site.“We’ve thought about those things, and we do have pretty detailed ideas. But we are really focused on growth and improving the experience right now,” says Blackstock, mirroring the words of other rapidly-growing-app entrepreneurs before him (see: Instagram, Snapchat, etc). “We still have a lot of work to do on the app to get it to where we want it to be before we start to look at those things. We don’t like apps that do things that detract from the experience, so we’ll make sure whatever we do is really true to the brand, and adds value.”There are plenty of dangers for Bitstrips in the months ahead. Although it&apos;s broadening the ways people can share their comics with friends beyond Facebook, its reliance on the social network for viral growth so far puts it at risk if that virality is suddenly checked by a change in the news feed algorithm, as happened to video-sharing app Viddy last year.&quot;Starting soon, we’ll be doing a better job of distinguishing between a high quality article on a website versus a meme photo hosted somewhere other than Facebook when people click on those stories on mobile,”announced Facebook in a blog poston 2 December. “This means that high quality articles you or others read may show up a bit more prominently in your News Feed, and meme photos may show up a bit less prominently.”Bitstrips will have to negotiate the ups and downs of news feed changes, but Blackstock says his company wants to prove that personalised, socially-shared comic strips are much more than a viral annoyance. In fact, he&apos;s got big ambitions for comics as tools of self-expression.“If you think about comics as a communication tool – this medium for self-expression – that’s a no-brainer for people making comics on their own already, but when you think about it as something that could be accessible to everyone, it’s potentially revolutionary. It’s like giving people typewriters for the first time,” he says.“Comics are this visual language that combines images, symbols, composition… When you have characters conveying things about emotion, it’s more like the way humans naturally communicate face-to-face, with facial expressions, body language, hand gestures. It’s a really powerful medium of expression, especially when you combine this aspect of identity into it – you and your friends – it goes beyond just being a medium for expression and becomes a really powerful social mechanism as well.”•The 50 best apps of 2013This article was edited on Friday 20 December to reflect the fact that Ontario is a province, not a state.
Stephen Bernasconi walked into Trafford shopping centre on 25 November intending to buy a laptop for £800 or so. His three-year-old Dell Inspiron had broken down and he wanted something to keep up with gaming. Instead, the 23-year-old walked out of PC World with an iPad Air. "I decided that this would be a more effective purchase as it allows me to do everything I require – Netflix, Spotify, Twitter, good games. It's light and can run loads of apps at once and doesn't slow down." He'd considered buying a Google Nexus 10 tablet, but having recently switched to an iPhone he decided to stick with Apple.Emma Gilliam, meanwhile, hasn't replaced the Toshiba laptop she used at home since it died in June 2012; she also bought an iPad. A lecturer at  Cardiff University, she has a PC for work, but says "I don't need more than a tablet for domestic or social use." She says a big benefit is that because the iPad doesn't run Microsoft programs: "I keep work and home separate. I don't bring PC-crucial work home now, so I'm far more disciplined about finishing tasks rather than letting them spill over." She's using the iPad to learn Greek ("using a Greek keyboard has been great") and watch iPlayer.She has discussed this with the  (unrelated) man opposite her on the train: "His wife – probably around 50 – is also tablet-only. As is his mother."It's people like Bernasconi and  Gilliam, and the man on the train's family, and millions like them, who are causing a tectonic shift in the world of computing – one which has seenSteve Ballmerpushed out of his job as Microsoft's chief executive after 13 years, andthe chairman of Taiwanese PC maker Acer replaced, and thousands of jobs, and pounds, lost at computer manufacturers.The traditional PC business has a problem: it's in decline. The research company IDC reckons PC shipments will drop by 10.1% this year compared with 2012 – from 349.2m to 314m – andcontinue to dwindlefrom there, down to 305m by 2017, with no expectation of growth. Sales peaked in 2011, at 361.5m, and they're never coming back. And the examples of Bernasconi, Gilliam and many more show why: people have discovered that tablets  can do pretty much all the computing jobs they want done. They didn't  really need a PC in the first place; all the start menus, "unused icons on your desktop", "New hardware detected" and so on were just distractions from what they wanted to do – which might be answering (or just deleting) email, browsing websites, writing something, calling someone, or playing games. For tasks like that, a fully fledged Windows PC is overkill, as well as unwieldy and short on battery life. A tablet is neat, focused, and its battery lasts longer than a laptop.Tablet sales are booming. In the three months up to and including Christmas, tablets will outsell PCs worldwide – and by 2016 they'll be seriously outselling them for the whole year.The PC business, meanwhile, has turned into a replacement market. There are about 1.5bn PCs in use worldwide; the majority are used by businesses. For years, consumers have been buying about half the PCs sold; now they're turning to tablets, and only replacing their PC if they absolutely must. Businesses, too, are discovering that tablets have some advantages over PCs.For instance, the 2012 Greek bailout – the biggest in history, requiring the renegotiation of €146bn of bonds among 135 principal bond owners in just 30 days – was completed using iPads. A specialised visualisation app (written by a British company, Bondholder Communications Group) ran on the encrypted, 3G-connected tablets that banks were happy to allow on their premises – something they'd never have agreed to for Windows  laptops, because of security fears about viruses. Because the iPads could be updated in real time, used while on the move, didn't constantly need charging and the progress could be shown  visually, the deal was done.More prosaically, when a loss adjuster came to assess a water leak at my house recently, he documented the damage on a tablet, and took pictures with it as he went. All were included in the report which he compiled and sent off as he stood on our sodden carpet. Try doing that with a desktop or laptop computer.This change has happened at  amazing speed. In January 2010,  when talk of an Apple tablet was just a well-sourced rumour, Iwrotethat nobody was quite sure what the new "iPad/iSlate" (the name wasn't yet known) would actually do for us, nor why we might like it.Then, I noted: "Everyone reckons that tablets just aren't that workable, because they are neither fish nor fowl in computing terms. Yet still they believe Apple can create the device that will be on everyone's menu. 'There's no really clear series of applications which define what a tablet is for,' says [analyst Ian] Fogg. 'It is more defined by its form factor – its shape and appearance – than its use.'"Then the iPad arrived –to sneers from many bloggers. It's great fun to go back and re-read the opinions of those who hadn't tried it, but were sure it would be a flop: no physical keyboard, no slot for USB sticks or SD cards, couldn't show Flash video, no camera, no HDMI port for TV-out. (Apple did later add front and back cameras, and adaptors for SD cards.)But none of those omissions  mattered, because it was what the iPad, and the tablets that followed it, brought which did count. They were mobile and really handy: you could pick one up and do a task (search for something, buy something with an app, send a tweet or email) in a moment and then put it down and get on with something else. Tablets brought us what you could call three-second computing. (At least one of the pundits who called the original iPad "a dog … absolutely completely ridiculous"  can now be seen touting his use of the latest iPad on his blog.)And this huge shift has also created upheaval in the boardrooms of the businesses that the PC made rich. At Microsoft, where Bill Gates's mantra was "a PC on every desk, running Microsoft software",Steve Ballmer is on the way out, following pressure from other board members because his strategy to recreate the Windows desktop monopoly has been a failure in smartphones and tablets. Three years after its launch, Windows Phone has around 5% of world sales (by comparison, the iPhone had 16% of sales after the same period; Android, 35%), while Windows-based tablets have sold so poorly that in JulyMicrosoft took a bigger writeoff – $900m – on unsold models of its Surfacetablet than it collected in revenues from their sales.This moment, where tablets outsell PCs, also marks another watershed: the end of the Windows monopoly on computing. It used to be that if you wanted to get something done, you would end up using Windows to do it. But as smartphone sales have exploded (they passed those of PCs three years ago), followed by tablets, the need to press the "Start" button has stopped. Ask yourself – what was the last consumer app whose popularity depended on being available for Windows? Quick research turns up the file backup service Dropbox, which arrived in September 2008, and the music service Spotify, which landed on desktops in October 2008 with no mobile equivalent.At the same time Google launched the Android App Store, while Apple's App Store was already four months old. Smartphone sales began taking off – followed soon after by tablets. "You'd have to have been insane to launch a desktop-only app after the launch of the App Store," says Alex Guest, a London-based media and technology entrepreneur.Now, developers focused on the consumer market aim for a mobile app first:Instagram(founded October 2010, now at 150m users) andSnapchat(founded September 2011, estimated 30 million users every month) have never bothered with the desktop. If you only have a Windows PC, you can't do anything with either. For those who have grown up on PCs, such an attitude is puzzling; for the digital natives who use those apps it's natural.For most people not working in specialist industries, the only everyday desktop essential is Office, Microsoft's other monopoly. But that is challenged too by Google's online Drive, which offer cheap online collaboration, and to a lesser extent by Apple's iWork apps – now free with the latest iPads – which also  run in any browser. But if people don't need or want PCs to do things, and buy fewer of them, that means Microsoft gets less and less revenue first from Windows, and than from Office.For the incoming Microsoft chief executive, that means a landscape very different from the one Ballmer faced when he took over in January 2000. Rather than the slowly changing world Ballmer dealt with, the newcomer will face battles on multiple fronts – while facing a loss of revenue.Horace Dediu, who runs his own Asymco consultancy, likes to describe how we buy technology as "hiring [things] for a job to be done". In the past, a PC's "jobs" have included education, bookkeeping, business workflows (where Office especially dominates), media creation and consumption, internet-based communication (text, audio or visual) and social media.A PC doesn't do just one of those jobs – it can do them all. Yet paradoxically that makes it vulnerable to having particular jobs – such as email or educational uses, insurance reports or streaming Netflix – "peeled away", suggests Dediu."The PC is a strange beast in that it seems to be a complicated, multi-dimensional product that was hired for different jobs throughout its life," he says. "It seems to depend on new jobs to keep going and these jobs are peeled off by other devices over time. Once it runs out of new jobs it will inevitably decline. At least that's my hypothesis."Looking at IBM data about how people shopped online this year is revealing, he says. There has been a 40% drop in the use of PCs for online shopping over the past two years.That, he says, could suggest that PCs just won't be used for that kind of transaction in eight or nine years. "What's worse is that it looks like PCs will never reach saturation. The penetration of US households, for example, peaked well below 80%. Also, the replacement of PCs will be swifter than the rate of their penetration."We think that our love affair with PCs was intense but, says Dediu, PC adoption rates lagged behind other technologies including radio, colour TV, microwave, VCR, HDTV, DVD, mobile phone, smartphone and tablets.For PC companies, making PCs has never been a particularly profitable business; even five years ago, on average they made a profit of around $25 (£15) per PC, on machines that they sold for an average $640 (£390). Wholesaler and retail markups pushed the price higher to the end user. That's about a 4% margin. By September this year, that had dropped to just $14.90, on machines that on average cost $545. That's a 2.7% margin – vulnerable to rises in component pricing as volumes fall. If making PCs isn't profitable, why do it at all?In short, it's the end of an era. It's not that we will abruptly stop using PCs – specific applications such as professional video editing or machinery control, and uses of Office inside big organisations, won't change for ages. But the PC's position as the only place to do tasks we thought of as "computing" is in danger of vanishing for ever.Why Microsoft has a huge headacheMicrosoft CEO Steve Ballmer … forced out. Photograph: Kay Nietfeld/ CorbisSteve Ballmerannounced in Augustthat was to step down as its chief executive. A successor is expected to be unveiled early in 2014 but Ballmer has already set in train a corporate reorganisation, as well as a focus on selling "devices and services". So the new boss will come into a company struggling with both exterior and interior change.By going for "devices and services" Microsoft is making itself a bit more like both Apple and Google. The problem, asdescribed by technology analyst Sameer Singh, is: what does it want to make money from? Apple makes its money from the devices, and uses services (such as iTunes and Maps and iCloud) to keep users tied to its platform. Google gives its services away to run on all sorts of devices, and makes money from users through showing them adverts.So which way does Microsoft want to go? If it prices its devices to make money, it will be undercut. It has a better chance with its services (Office and Windows are facts of life for many corporations) but rivals such as Amazon and Google are chasing its nascent "cloud" business. "Devices and services" might have to mutate into "devices OR services". It's another headache for the new arrival next year.
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhat does mobile scale mean? &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansEvans, of Enders Analysis:the entire internet is being changed fundamentally - both the size and the character of the internet are going to look quite different from what we have been used to.First, scale. There are perhaps 900m consumer PCs on earth, and maybe 800m corporate PCs. The consumer PCs are mostly shared and the corporate PCs locked down, and neither are really mobile - at best you can take them from table to table. Those 3bn smartphones will all be personal, and all mobile. So the internet goes from a shared device at home to a screen in everyone's pocket. And that's without considering several hundred million tablets, which blur all of these boundaries.This means that the internet gets several times bigger. One could talk about time, or engagement, or use, or value, and all of these metrics are problematic, but we go from 1.7bn shared and/or locked down devices on tables to close to 5bn devices most of which are personal and go anywhere. Mobile becomes the dominant part of the internet - we will stop talking about 'mobile internet' in much the same way that no-one talks about 'new media' anymore.Lots to consider there.What's the Titan supercomputer been up to? You won't believe It &gt;&gt; AllThingsDUsing first a smaller supercomputer named Anton, scientists at Oak Ridge, the University of Tennessee and the UT-ORNL Joint Institute for Computational Sciences simulated the behavior of 140,000 atoms from the biological signaling mechanisms in E. coli cells…Researcher Igor Zhulin likened it to a "crazy light switch." Previously it had been thought to be more static.Here's why the discovery is important, and it's not in any way trivial. Identifying this amino acid is the first step on a presumably long path that could in time lead to ways of controlling the signaling process in cells. Once that's understood, it could lead to drugs that couldcripple the ability of disease-causing cells to make people sick.Emphasis in orginal article. Except it almost certainly won't lead to that, but it's a good way to get funding. "Cure illness" is always the claim made. "Understand illness and ameliorate it" is almost always the actual result.Research shows how MacBook Webcams can spy on their users without warningMarcus Thomas, former assistant director of the FBI's Operational Technology Division in Quantico, said in a recent story in The Washington Post that the FBI has been able to covertly activate a computer's camera — without triggering the light that lets users know it is recording — for several years.Now research from Johns Hopkins University provides the first public confirmation that it's possible to do just that, and demonstrates how. While the research focused on MacBook and iMac models released before 2008, the authors say similar techniques could work on more recent computers from a wide variety of vendors. In other words, if a laptop has a built-in camera, it's possible someone — whether the federal government or a malicious 19 year old — could access it to spy on the user at any time.There's a market for a new accessory there.. or just duct tape.Sent $35,104.11 USD to CoinBase. Never received Bitcoins &gt;&gt; Hacker NewsThis story dates back to December 8th when I initiated an ACH transfer with CoinBase.com for a total sum of $35,104.11. On that very same day, the system informed me that I would be credited with the bitcoins come December 13th.December 13th came by and it was this past Friday. No coins ever came in, the only thing CoinBase did was lock in a price for me @ $868.91. Again, they locked in a price and didn't give me coins on the day they told me they would deliver the coins.Ever since the 13th, my transaction page has been showing the following...Nada, zilch... and lots of lost value. Then again, $35,000?NSA claims it thwarted BIOS plot to destroy US computers. Nonsense! &gt;&gt; Graham CluleyHere's my take.Q: Are BIOS attacks by malware possible?Yes. For instance, way back in 1998 the CIH (aka Chernobyl) virus was discovered, capable of overwriting the BIOS chip of some computers to make them unbootable. You can read my memories of the Chenobyl virus over on the Naked Security site.If you were unlucky enough to have a computer which fell foul of the Chernobyl virus, your PC would have been useless. The only fix would have been to open it up and replace the chip.Q: So, the NSA's description of the BIOS plot is plausible?Woah. Hang on a minute.Come on, next you're going to tell us that Amazon isn't going to deliver stuff by drone.Why wearable tech will be as big as the smartphone &gt;&gt; Wired.comFascinating feature which looks at many companies - including Recon - and makes this key point about what wearables really need: to be fashionable.Google Glass seems almost fashionable. But the evidence suggests that out in the real world, it simply isn't; six months into the experiment, even hardcore tech boosters who once wrote glowingly of Glass were seldom seen actually wearing the thing. (And these are some of the least fashion-conscious people on the planet.)The problem with Google Glass is not that it's bad industrial design. Google, like the rest of Silicon Valley, has learned a great deal about how to make an aesthetically pleasing product. But Glass is meant to be a highly visible addition to someone's body as they walk around in public. That demands more than just a gorgeous product; it demands a fashionable product. And the tricky task for wearables makers will be to understand the distinction.Things we use are tools. Things we wear need to be fashionable.Walt Mossberg's top products in two decades of tech reviews &gt;&gt; AllThingsDHis final column for the Wall Street Journal is also on ATD. As interesting for the ones he doesn't include as those he does.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
The inventor of the web, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, has collaborated with more than 100 free speech groups and leading activists in an open letter to protest against the routine interception of data by governments around the world.In the letter to the Open Government Partnership, the group condemns the hypocrisy of member nations in signing up to an organisation which aims to preserve freedom while at the same time running one of the largest surveillance networks the world has ever seen.The organisations that have signed up include Oxfam, Privacy International and the Open Rights Group, and the individuals include Satbir Singh of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative and Indian social activist Aruna Roy.The letter calls on member governments to overhaul their privacy laws, protect whistleblowers and increase the transparency around their surveillance mechanisms.&quot;We join other civil society organisations, human rights groups, academics and ordinary citizens in expressing our grave concern over allegations that governments around the world, including many OGP members, have been routinely intercepting and retaining the private communications of entire populations, in secret, without particularised warrants and with little or no meaningful oversight,&quot; the letter states.&quot;These practices erode the checks and balances on which accountability depends, and have a deeply chilling effect on freedom of expression, information and association, without which the ideals of open government have no meaning.&quot;The letter underscores the difficulty the UK and USA have had in maintaining that countries like China and Iran should ease restrictions on the internet in the face ofrevelations from the NSA filesthat they themselves are intercepting private communications.&quot;Laws to limit the state’s power to spy on its citizens are fundamental to democracy’s checks and balances. But these laws are outdated,&quot; said Anne Jellema, the chief executive of the World Wide Web Foundation, which was founded by Berners-Lee to promote a free internet.&quot;With digital technologies making it trivially easy to collect and store billions of pieces of data on entire populations, and with public interest whistleblowers receiving little protection, the whole system of checks and balances on state power is being pushed dangerously close to breaking point,&quot; Jellema continued. &quot;We are calling for an urgent public debate to review and strengthen the safeguards that will keep our societies open&quot;.The Open Government Partnership was formed in 2011 to aid reformers committed to making their governments more accountable, open and responsive to citizens. The UK and USA were two of the first countries to join, and the partnership has since grown to include 62 nations from Australia to Mongolia.
From the launch of Google Glass to Microsoft's Steve Ballmer stepping down, from Twitter's launch on to the stock market to revelations of NSA and GCHQ online surveillance, it's been a big year for the tech team.Aleks Krotoskiis joined byCharles Arthur, Guardian technology editor,Jemima Kiss, Guardian head of technology, and Guardian tech reportersAlex HernandSamuel Gibbs, to sum up the year in technology. Also the team welcomeJemima "Jem" Garthwaite, social media expert and co-founder ofThis Here, a data-led creative start up.
OK, it's day two and we're counting down from 15 to 11. Yesterday we managed to strike a chord with most of our commenters, which is encouraging, so let's see what you make of today's selection, which begins on floating city and ends in a multiplayer arena.Oh and we didn't explain the selection rules before, so here they are. We're not including smartphone games, as Stuart Dredge does a great job of all that with his own list. Also, there are no HD remakes, no add-ons or expansion packs, and no titles that appeared last year on different platforms. This precarious set of guidelines has ruled out the likes of Far Cry 3: Blood Dragon, Spelunky PC, The Stanley Parable and Starcraft II: Heart of the Swarm – all excellent releases.Anyway, enough excuses, let's get on with it...15. Bioshock Infinite (2K Games, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)There is little doubt about the sheer imaginative energy that went into this extraordinary sequel. Managing to draw themes of quantum mechanics, racial tension and parental guilt into a blistering shooter set on a steam punk air city is quite a staggering achievement – and Columbia could be one of the most memorable interactive spaces ever conceived of in this industry. Why 15? Because the combat and power-up mechanics are flawed, the vigors of marginal use outside of the upper difficulty levels. And Elizabeth is under-used as an AI but over-employed as a cipher for exposition and ammo collection. Certainly however, it is one of the most fascinating mainstream games of its era.• Bioshock Infinite – review14. Tearaway (Sony, PS Vita)It swooped in at the close of the year, behind a wall of next-gen hype. Another handicraft masterpiece from Media Molecule, a game of charm, grace, beauty and child-like pleasure – a game built to show off the tactile strengths of the Vita. The story seems so simple – a messenger bringing a note to the player – but it is really a picaresque metaphor about gaming. Everything is joyous, colourful and pleasing, from the platforms that curl out like rolled paper, to the extravagant origami creatures. It just makes you want to hug your console.13. Rayman Legends (Ubisoft, PC, PS3, PS Vita, Wii U, Xbox 360)Rayman Legends and its direct predecessor Rayman Origins represent the first time that the eccentric Gallic platformer has found truly its feet (if not its joints – the character's limbs remain detached from his body). Up to four players work together through a series of early-Mario-style scrolling stages, collecting various items and working together to progress. Despite the old school gameplay, the design feels fresh, while the rich abundance of ideas comes the closest of any series to matching Nintendo EAD's medium-defining work.• Rayman Legends – review12. Pokemon X/Y (Nintendo, 3DS)Where once parents would teach their children to hunt, trap and battle as a matter of survival, today that responsibility falls to GameFreak, the Japanese developer behind the Pokémon phenomenon, in which players must fight and wound small mammals till they are sufficiently weakened to be captured in a tiny ball and, later, set to work enslaving other so-called 'pocket monsters'. The company's steady releases have refined the game's rhythm and style for two decades, but this year's iteration is undeniably the best yet. It features all manner of smoothing systems to make capturing and training your Pokémon as frictionless as possible, while the new aesthetic pops the creatures into 3D with effortless charm. A wonderful reminder of the childlike thrills of discovery, compilation and care, and yet another must-have title for Nintendo's enviably well-stocked 3DS.• Pokemon – from bugs to blockbuster11. Dota 2 (Valve, PC)The rise of the Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA) genre from its origins as a curious fan-made Starcraft mod to the darling of the professional eSports circuit has been swift and inexorable. DOTA2 is, arguably, the finest example of the competitive, team-based sport yet made, a game in which two teams of five players compete to destroy the opposing side's 'Ancient', a MacGuffin that is invulnerable until certain other objectives are first cleared. While the game is undeniably complex and its strategic depths require a certain dedication from would-be players, its elegant balance and vibrant (if unwelcoming) community of players makes this the most exciting place to be in eSports – an accolade it seems likely to hold for the foreseeable future.Tomorrow: we countdown from 10-6!
