Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Plenty of games stuff in the paper today. The topical issue of games and child protection is covered in awell argued piecehere. The reviews are in too.Gran Turismo 5 Prologue(PS3),Viking: Battle for Asgard(360, PS3) andCommand &amp; Conquer: Kane's Wrath(PC) get covered. The game I reviewed - Viking - has had mixed scores but I thoroughly enjoyed the hack n' slash. Plus the lush medieval scenery bought back nostalgic memories of two of my all-time favourites Oblivion and World of Warcraft. Next week I'm doing Dark Sector (360, PS3). It was released last Friday but I've only recently had a chance to play. Initial thoughts? Derivative - yup, Gears of bloody War again - and tedious to play. Still, early days and all that.
"If we deny children access to all computer games, we deprive them of a rich and magical experience," arguesNaomi Aldermanina post published today on Comment is Free. Alderman, an author and game writer, is irked by the decision of the Advertising Standards Authority to ban Kane and Lynch ads from tv on the basis that they are 'too violent". Fromthe post:It is interesting that adverts for last year's "torture porn" film Captivity were not banned, even though they were heavily criticised in the US. And no one even raises the possibility of banning such films outright. But then, computer games are our society's straw man for panic about moral decay, thought to have some special power to harm and corrupt.She speaks as a gamer herself, and one of the authors involved in Six to Start's and Penguin's storytelling experiment,We Tell Stories. While the comments she receives on the whole are positive (it's still early days), some comments are not, and I believe concerns of the detractors deserve to be heard.Two threads seem to obsess them: first, that games may be harmless, but to propose that they may begoodfor kids is to havedrunk too much of the industry's Kool Aid. As Uncle Phaester says,I think most video games are harmless but to pretend that indulging in them in some way opens up children's minds to the world is ridiculous and, coming from someone who writes games, should be give as much credence as we'd give the chairman of Shell arguing that his company was environmentally friendly.The second line of thought from the game skeptics is that kids should be doing thingsotherthan playing games. lierbag, for example, claims that games are - ironically - 'passive' entertainment:The problem with computer games, is that you are essentially leeching off someone else's imagination without making any intellectual or emotional contribution of your own - all possibilities and permuatations having already been programmed in. As such, it's partly responsible for ushering in one of the laziest-minded generations ever to grace the planet, and their 'culture' of completely passive receptivity.Certainly different than your traditional, knee-jerk commentary which floods the interwaves when such pieces are published on less liberal news sources. I'd love to hear what you have to say. Head toComment Is Freeand add your tuppence.
Come closer... closer...Terminal 3 at Changi airport, Singapore has this "installation artwork" - an industrial robot with a fibreglass propellor, which tracks spectators. Hmm.. are we alone in being reminded of Little Shop Of Horrors too?Fractals: now a Class C drug!You know, when Tangerine Dream wrote Phaedra - the accompanying music here - people had to make their own fractals by crossing their eyes. But you try and tell the young people of today that!I shot the one-pixel sheriffAt last, the moment you've been waiting for: Quake 3 Arena on the iPhone and iPod Touch. Next: fingernail-sized versions.Seen a technology or games video you want to share? Tell us in the comments!
If you use an e-commerce site in the UK, how safe are your personal details? Not as safe as you might think, according to SecureTest, a security consultancy that specialises in "ethical hacking". After testing 100 UK websites, it has accused the UK e-commerce community of fundamental flaws in the way it handles customers' details.Ethical hacking is normally done with the target's consent: paid security experts look for holes in the system. In this case, the tests were not sanctioned, and so SecureTest was careful not to breach the Computer Misuse Act (CMA). Instead, its team signed up for customer accounts on each website, and then walked through the standard procedures all customers have access to, drawing conclusions about how those sites handled customer data.For example, almost all sites use a customer's email address as a username, which they ask for when helping customers with a forgotten password. Of those tested, 60% responded to forgotten password requests by explicitly stating whether the email address was in the database or not."That's a fatal mistake," says SecureTest's managing director, Ken Munro, arguing that it lets attackers verify that a particular email address is registered on an e-commerce site. An attacker could then create lists of addresses with which to start testing targeted attacks. "If I wanted to deliver a cross-site scripting attack via email to steal their customers' account details, I now know the email addresses of their customers," he says.Pass the passwordThe sites surveyed recovered user passwords in one of three ways, all via email: sending a link to a web page where users enter a new password; generating and sending a new password; or simply sending the original one.Sending account credentials over an unprotected network is a bad idea, says Michael Owen, head of security management at security consultancy and penetration tester IRM. "I wouldn't recommend any system that mailed back passwords," he says. "You're assuming that you can trust all of the machines that it will pass through, and that the customer definitely has control of his email at the time you're sending it out."Even sending a link to a password reset page is insecure unless the page also asks the user a secret question when they arrive there. Only 14% of sites took that approach, Munro explained.Tom Kellermann, vice-president of security awareness at security firm Core Security Technologies, goes even further. "Passwords themselves are obsolete. It is shocking to me that the standard in e-commerce is pushing people towards stronger passwords," he says, arguing that they're notoriously difficult for consumers to manage securely. "We should be moving towards two-factor authentication".Some banks have started to adopt this approach (which generally combines something you know, such as a pin, with something you have, such as a smart card). Few, if any, e-commerce sites do it, though: the cost of giving away hardware tokens to every user would put most of them out of business. The contention over these basic security issues raises an important question: how can e-commerce companies walk the line between usability and security?These decisions seem to be based on a mixture of de facto approaches to the problem and gut instinct, says Owen: "At the end of the day, it boils down to the risk appetite of an organisation."Compliance complaintThe credit card industry has imposed its own regulations on the storage of credit card details. ThePCI-DSS standardgoverns the security with which companies store credit card information. Unlike most security regulations, it was imposed by the private sector, rather than the government.The credit card companies which designed them have promised to fine companies that don't conform to the guidelines, but most still fall short. LogLogic, which makes software that analyses security logs, commissioned a survey last week of 65 UK firms with at least 500 employees that handled credit card transactions. Only 14% were PCI-DSS compliant.Littlewoods, which also manages the website for Adidas, isn't yet compliant, says spokesperson Anthony Taylor. But they are "well on our way to achieving compliance within the agreed timescales".Nor is retailer New Look, says Shaun Wills, strategy and business development director, who admits thatnewlook.co.ukdoesn't encrypt its customers' passwords either. He's not that worried, though, because the company doesn't hold customers' credit card data. Like some other sites, it forces customers to re-enter their credit card details for each transaction - thus dodging the PCI bullet. "It's a big disadvantage," he says. "But for the time being until we're absolutely confident that we have robust systems in place; we think that's probably a better way to go."For Donal Casey, principal consultant at systems integrator Morse, the most trustworthy websites don't take credit card information at all. "I'm more interested in sites that use things like PayPal or Google Checkout because I don't necessarily want to give my card details out," he says.The LogLogic survey didn't say what level of certification the handful of compliant companies had attained. The PCI standard has several, based on the volume of transactions a company processes. Only tier one (the highest) is externally audited, says James Cronin, CTO of tier one-compliant e-commerce platform provider Venda. "Anyone who wants to can be level two, three or four compliant just by filling in questions on a web form. It's not really a validation," he says.But PCI only addresses the handling of credit card data. Today's websites face other problems. For several years, one way for criminals to infect victims' computers with malicious software was by using shady websites serving porn and pirated software to covertly deliver malicious scripts. Once infected, the computers became part of a botnet, remotely controlled by online crooks. Recently, criminals have refined their tactics, hacking into legitimate websites and turning them to the dark side. A survey by security firm WebSense in January found that 51% of all sites serving up malicious scripts were legitimate sites that had been hacked. "Our figure is 83%," says Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at anti-virus firm Sophos. Every 14 seconds, Sophos finds a site delivering malicious scripts, and eight in 10 are legitimate sites that were hacked, he says.On Valentine's day, the company found an e-commerce site selling flowers that was unwittingly infecting customers' machines. "The florist wasn't really interested, and didn't understand what we were talking about. He was into flowers, not websites," recalls Cluley.Some sites using databases to serve up their content have been attacked using SQL injection, in which criminals manipulate the web server's database by typing carefully crafted text into a web form or the address bar. Another attack involves stealing FTP passwords from an infected PC, says Joe Stewart, senior security researcher at managed security services firm SecureWorks. "Someone gets infected with a bot, it's stealing their other passwords, and so it steals FTP passwords as well," he warns.Web advertisements are another attack vector, warns Stewart's colleague at SecureWorks, senior security researcher Don Jackson. E-commerce companies may have control over their own content, but if banners display advertising content from third parties, how do they know they're not serving malicious scripts?A question of trustSuch trust relationships often extend to a third-party web host looking after a company's e-commerce site, says Kellermann. "Those who host websites, portals and e-commerce engines are not being effectively tested and forced through contracts to remediate exploitable vulnerabilities before the enemy does," he warns.These issues are worryingly real. Last October Fasthosts, a UK web hosting company, was forced to ask all of its customers to change their FTP and email passwords (stored unencrypted) following a data breach. And many e-commerce websites hosted by third parties share servers with other companies' code, so one infected application can affect others' software.All of this makes it difficult for e-commerce customers to know who they're trusting, let alone how secure they are. And with criminals now operating in stealth mode so that they can milk compromised computers of their data for as long as possible, how will we ever really know?E-commerce: the facts14%Proportion of websites tested that ask users a secret question to reset password51%Proportion of sites serving up malicious scripts that are hacked legitmate sites14 secondsThe time it takes Sophos to discover a new website with malicious scripts
You're never going to be that surprised by a C&amp;C mission pack; more maps, a few extra units and tons of cheesy acting. Kane's Wrath dishes them all up in robotic fashion with a single player campaign that hops between the three Tiberium Wars, thus never fully connecting with the story. However, there are some new factions and the 25 extra maps should be plenty to keep Skirmish players happy. Best of the additions are a new Epic unit for each of the races, with blistering firepower and extra abilities that go some way to alleviating the tank-rush mentality of the action. Despite the excellent graphics and finely balanced gameplay, Kane's Wrath feels a little underwhelming.
Of all the bonkers ambitions held by British governments, surely none was as daft as the solemn undertaking to make all public services available electronically. Give or take a little fudge, the ambition was achieved two years ago. Since then, though, bits have been dropping off the government's e-programme like plasma TVs off the back of a dodgy lorry.Prominent casualties include passport applications and reporting crimes electronically. Back in 2000, passport executives were talking enthusiastically about the web doing away with inefficient 20th century traditions like paying personal visits to the office. For obvious reasons, that little ambition went out of the window shortly afterwards. Today, personal interviews for first-time applicants are one of the passport service's main weapons against identity theft. Biometrics will make face-to-face appointments mandatory.Meanwhile, electronic crime-reporting fizzled out for a whole set of reasons. For a start, it was an orphan service, offered by "police.gov.uk", an organisation that does not exist. It also lacked political leadership: the one certain outcome of making crimes easier to report is that the number of reported crimes will soar. Try selling that to any home secretary. A retreat from e-government is also becoming apparent in programmes under development. Last December, the Land Registry of England and Wales scaled back plans for electronic conveyancing. The Treasury's fear, apparently, was that a crooked solicitor with access to the system might pull the modern equivalent of selling Trafalgar Square to a tourist.Over the next couple of years, I think we'll see more retreats as contracts for underused e-services come up for renewal and policy makers get more discerning about choosing at precisely which bits of the government machine computer power should be thrown. Occasionally, this involves thinking the unthinkable - instead of computerising a complex process, why not simplify it, or abolish it altogether?The classic case is income tax declaration. One reason Britain lags behind Denmark and Sweden in the percentage of taxpayers who file returns online is that we chose to "e-enable" our complex self-assessment process. The Nordic countries' "one-touch" system, where all the citizen has to do is accept the state's calculation, lends itself far more to electronic approval, even by text message, so far more people use it.Of course this implies close cooperation between policy makers and IT people, but we can always dream. Another policy area where some lateral thinking may be useful is in free school meals. At the moment, a considerable amount of effort is going into local initiatives to join up social security benefits systems with school meal registers so that parents who qualify for free meals for their children don't have to apply separately. The aim is worthy, so free school meals has become the standard bearer for joined-up government.What seems to be missing is any connection between these heroic efforts and the wider debate over whether to extend free meals to all comers. Free meals are already being piloted in Scotland and North Tyneside; the argument is that the benefits for social inclusion outweigh extra costs.Of course, there's a slippery slope to this argument: do we abolish all means tests and even identity checks just because they are costly to administer? I doubt it very much. But an honourable retreat from IT should definitely be on the agenda in any grown-up debate about the future of public services.
Yahoo last night moved to outflank Microsoft, which is threatening to launch a hostile takeover for the business, by agreeing to surrender some of its advertising revenues in a landmark deal with bitter rival Google.Yahoo said it would run a limited test of Google's online advertising system on its US website, one of the most popular destinations on the internet, to see whether the two companies could work more closely together in future.The test, which is expected to last about two weeks, involves the placing of advertising sold through Google's AdSense service alongside search queries made by users of the Yahoo.com website. Yahoo said the test would involve no more than 3% of search queries, but its ramifications are much wider.Insiders said the deal was designed to counter the threat of Microsoft as it took a more aggressive stance in its attempt to buy out the business. Microsoft's initial $31 a share offer, made more than two months ago, was dismissed by Yahoo as undervaluing the company. But at the weekend Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer warned Yahoo that if it did not agree a deal by April 26 he would "go hostile" and take an offer direct to shareholders. He warned that he could reduce the value of the cash and shares bid, which values Yahoo at about $40bn (&pound;20bn), in the process.On Monday, Yahoo's chairman, Roy Bostock, and chief executive, Jerry Yang, wrote back to Ballmer attacking Microsoft's bullying tactics but admitted they were not opposed to a tie-up if the software company made a higher offer.Wall Street analysts said last night that Yahoo's tie-up with Google may be an attempt to show Microsoft that if it is unwilling to come up with a better offer, Yahoo could end up an even fiercer competitor through a tie-up with Google.Google, which dominates the global search advertising market, would face fierce regulatory scrutiny if it attempted to buy Yahoo outright but a commercial deal between the two firms might be possible. Together the two companies control about 81% of the lucrative US search market. Merging Microsoft and Yahoo would create a company with control over 31% of the market compared with Google's current share of 59%.Yahoo said last night that the Google test was part of its stated aim to explore "strategic alternatives" to the Microsoft deal that would "maximise stockholder value, including exploration of potential commercial business arrangements".Yahoo stressed that "the testing does not necessarily mean that Yahoo will join the AdSense for Search program or that any further commercial relationship with Google will result".
I am in the process of reviewing my PC security. What I would like is a simple list of what is the essential free software to have loaded in Windows XP.John WalkerThe main things are to make sure you have installed the XP SP2 service pack and Internet Explorer 7, which provide a dramatic increase in security, and that you are running a firewall. (You should install IE7 even if you use Firefox.) It's also a good idea to have auto-updates turned on. You can survive with these, if you are careful: I've done it. But if you can be accident-prone or surf some of the less savoury parts of the net, it's important to install an anti-virus and an anti-spyware program.It's not easy to recommend products, because it's partly a matter of taste. You have to find ones that don't conflict with your other programs, don't use too many resources, and don't feel too intrusive. However, my first choice among the frees is usuallyAVG FreeandAVG Anti-Spyware, formerly called Ewido. Alternative anti-virus products includeAvastandBitDefender, while alternative anti-spyware programs include Spyware Doctor Starter Edition (from Google's software pack),SuperAntiSpyware, andWindows Defender. I'm currently runningAvira AntiVir, which isn't the easiest to use but has a draconian Guard utility. From time to time, you should run double-checks using one of the many good online scanners, and for maximum security, alsoscan for rootkits.Many people install a firewall to replace the one built into XP SP2. I useSunbelt's KerioPersonal Firewall.Comodooffers an alternative, andZone Alarmhas its fans.It's also a good idea to keep an eye on which processes and programs Windows is running. Simple options includeStartup Inspector for Windowsand the built-in Windows Task Manager. I use two much better but more complicated alternatives:AnVir Task Manager Freeand SysInternals'Process Explorer(now owned by Microsoft).
I have half a cupboard full of floppy disks that contain confidential data, and I want to destroy them. I don't need the disks - who uses them any more?Mike WhitakerMany"heavy duty shredders"bought by companies can now destroy floppy discs, CDs, DVDs, credit cards, name tags and sometimes audio and video cassettes, but they are too expensive for one-off jobs or home use. Cheap machines might be able to shred the magnetic disks if you remove these from their cases, but that would be a long, tedious job. Alternatively, lots of companies now do commercial shredding up to a specified security level. Try searching for"shredding solutions"or "security shredding".I imagine a large hammer and a stake would do enough damage to a small tower of 3.5in floppies, but have not tried this myself.
A subscription website has my IP address. They claim to be able to identify me by name, address, etc. Is that possible?David GriffithThe IP (Internet Protocol) address only identifies your PC to your internet service provider. Various "geolocation" techniques can be used to narrow that down, but not reliably, and not to your name and address.The only way to get those would be to ask your ISP, which will have the information in its log files. I would expect an ISP to supply these details if officially approached by the police or given a court order, but it would have to be a fairly serious matter.
Re your article (What's an IFrame attack and why should I care, Newly asked questions, April 3), will SpyBot or Ad-Aware remove IFrames that may be on my computer?Jamie WoodsIFrames are generally not on your computer, they are used on web pages. However, if your PC has any malware that has been downloaded via an IFrame, then the usual anti-virus and anti-spyware programs should be able to deal with it.Also, if you get any suspicious links, you can use Linkscanner to check sites before you visit them:http://linkscanner.explabs.com/linkscanner/
Today there's agreat pieceby the authorNicholson Bakerabout Wikipedia. He draws a fairly accurate picture of exactly what's so addictive - and so frustrating - about the project.His particular obsession, he explains, was saving articles from deletion.I read a short article on a post-Beat poet and small-press editor named Richard Denner, and saw that the article had been proposed for deletion by a user named PirateMink, who claimed that Denner wasn't a notable figure, whatever that means. Another user, Stormbay, agreed: no third-party sources, ergo not notable.[...]An administrator named Nakon -- one of about a thousand peer-nominated volunteer administrators -- took a minute to survey the two "delete" votes and my "keep" vote and then killed the article. Denner was gone. Startled, I began sampling the "AfDs" (the Articles for Deletion debate pages) and the even more urgent "speedy deletes" and "PRODs" (proposed deletes) for other items that seemed unjustifiably at risk; when they were, I tried to save them.I'm averysparse contributor to Wikipedia - even then, I tend to enter the discussion pages, rather than the entries themselves - but I know people who spend a huge amount of time entering information on some massively obscure subjects. Or, like Nicholson, looking around for particular articles to save, delete or rescue.Are you one of Wikipedia's addicts? Have you kicked the habit? What's your secret obsession?
Getting the lead outThank you for publishing the article on tin whiskers (Within a whisker of failure, April 3). Too much attention has been given to well-meaning people who are pushing the environmental agenda but with very little science behind what they are trying to achieve. Some of the green community captured the public attention and pushed through the no lead on electronics, when there was not sufficient test data available (actually there was a lot of data on US military aircraft). Now we are finding the problems of having a political agenda and not one based on science and facts.Steven Adamson,IMAPS president and Asymtek market managerAmazing how doing the right thing can turn out to have a downside.skuds.orgPlaying mind gamesBudweiser doesn't make me more popular with the ladies, nor the life of the party (Read me first, April 3). Car X doesn't make me a sexy, rich, race car driver. Nikes and Gatorade don't make me any less of a nonathletic geek. Advertising usually goes for cheap psychological gimmicks, rather than actually explaining why Pepsi is better than Coke. In short, they lie. Advertising is just manipulation, and I, for one, do not like to be manipulated.science.slashdot.orgIt's an interesting study, but it doesn't really help marketers. Not least because it's a lab task, and no money was involved, but also because the benchmark to which brain activity was compared was what people said they'd buy - no different to what traditional market research already does.mindhacks.comPleasant dreams, NeilThat little HD DVD experiment was pricey (Xbox 360 chief rings the changes after failures, April 3). But when you are Microsoft, what are trivial things like money? Nothing! Just look how smug Xbox 360 UK boss Neil Thompson is. Think the death of HD DVD keeps him up at night? No way. This guy sleeps like a baby. No, he sleeps like two babies.kotaku.comPhorm: bad formA good piece, but perhaps you've still missed the point that Phorm can't do very much about their bad PR because Phorm is an inherently bad idea (Come on out, Phorm and Apple: We're here to criticise, April 3). If I meet someone who wants to mug me on a darkened street one night, then having him explain beforehand exactly how he proposes to mug me isn't going to make me happier about the idea. Now, the Guardian has decided you want none of this. Kudos to you. But apart from the Guardian, what happened to our major institutions eschewing things that were immoral?Roy Brown,LondonI applaud the Guardian Group's decision to have nothing to do with traffic intercept technology. This system is a direct intrusion into customers' privacy and, if allowed, will totally alter the direction in which the internet develops.Simon Atyeo,LondonSounding offI would be interested to see a review of the competing Logitech Duet (tinyurl.com/3waa9x) - cheaper and does much of the same stuff, but is it any good? (Technophile, April 3)John Davies,London[We'll try to get one - Tech. Ed]This sporting lifeOf course, the other view is that these gamers should be out playing real sport and developing real team spirit (Get ready for sports to turn Unreal, April 3). But given 2012 is just around the corner, and the host nation is permitted to introduce a new sport, perhaps this is a chance for Britain to dominate in something other than rowing.mccann.co.uk
Government plans to post progress reports of individual house sales on the web have been quietly shelved after a &pound;4.6m pilot showed little interest in the "Chain Matrix" system.The matrix was the centrepiece of the Land Registry's e-conveyancing programme, which aims to speed up the buying and selling of property in England. It was supposed to make the process more transparent by creating a web page for each chain, with every step in every transaction represented by a colour-coded square.The squares would change from red to green as the chain fell into place, allowing conveyancers to spot bottlenecks - and homebuyers to book removal vans with confidence. After five years of work, Land Registry piloted a prototype system last year. However, executives said this week that it attracted less than half the participants originally hoped for. Development of the matrix, and the procurement of a service to make payments electronically, have been postponed indefinitely.An evaluation of the pilot, published by the Land Registry last December, reveals that one reason for failure was apathy from the people expected to use it. Conveyancers were reluctant to try it out, partly because there own case management systems did not plug in: there was no time to build the planned XML-coded interfaces to the software. The trial also found no evidence that people would pay to use the service, undermining the business case.Privacy may also have been a worry: "Many citizens were either not aware or not convinced of the benefits of Chain Matrix and many prevented their conveyancer from entering their transactions onto Chain Matrix," the evaluation says. In the event, only 200 out of 1,467 clients who signed up to view the matrix did so.While the technology worked well, with the system available 99.5% of the time, the pilot covered only 229 chains instead of the 500 hoped for.A knock-on casualty of the postponement was the procurement of an electronic funds transfer service to pass money from buyers to sellers as the e-conveyancing system transferred title to the property. Although solicitors had raised concerns about the system's security, the Land Registry denied that this was a reason for cancellation.The registry hopes to revive the matrix concept in some form. "We believe the market wants more visibility about how a sale or a purchase is progressing," said Julie Barry, head of stakeholder engagement for business transformation.
Not since Peter Molyneux's Fable have British regional accents featured so heavily in a game. But while Viking fails to match Fable's depth, the developer Creative Assembly - best known for the Total War strategy games - has crafted an entertaining Norse romp. This is a violent hack-and-slash game with much flailing of axes and severing of limbs. Your aim is basically to free your captured army before leading the gathered troops in a final battle. These battles are where the game comes alive, with hundreds of onscreen soldiers clouting each other with swords. There is a bit of strategy, although Viking clearly requires more brawn than brain. Dragons can be summoned and weapons upgraded, but longevity is a problem. The combat can get repetitive and the objectives feel similar. But the freedom to explore the often gorgeous environments, coupled with some lovely set pieces, suggest Viking could well become a cult classic.
Joseph Weizenbaum, who died last month, was one of the computer scientists who changed the way we think. Unfortunately for all of us, he didn't change it in the way he wanted to. His family was driven from Germany by the Nazis in 1936, and by the early 1960s he was a professor at MIT, part of the first wave of brilliant programmers to whom it sometimes seemed that there was nothing that computers could not do. Contemporaries like John McCarthy and Marvin Minsky confidently predicted the emergence of "strong" human-like artificial intelligence (AI). Then, in 1965, Weizenbaum demonstrated artificial stupidity, and the world has never been the same since.He wrote a program called Eliza, which would respond to sentences typed in at a terminal with sentences of its own that bore some relation to what had been typed in; it mimicked a completely non-directional psychotherapist, who simply encouraged the patient to ramble till they stumbled on the truth, or the end of the session. What happened, of course, was that some students started to confide in the program as if it were a real person.Even professional psychiatrists were completely deceived. One of them wrote: "If the Eliza method proves beneficial then it would provide a therapeutic tool which can be made widely available to mental hospitals and psychiatric centres suffering a shortage of therapists ... several hundred patients an hour could be handled by a computer system." Clearly, this is not a misunderstanding of the particular powers of one program, but a much larger misunderstanding of what computers are and what we are.For Weizenbaum this raised unsettling questions about what human understanding might be. Instead of building computers which were genuinely capable of understanding the world, his colleagues had simply redefined understanding and knowledge until they were things of which computers were, in principle, capable.We live in a world full of Eliza's grandchildren now, a race of counterfeit humans. I am not thinking of the automated systems that appear to parse the things that we say on customer service hotlines, but the humans chained to scripts whom we eventually reach, trained to react like machines to anything that is said to them.What made Weizenbaum such an acute critic was not just that he understood computers very well and was himself a considerable programmer. He shared the enthusiasms of his enemies, but unlike them he saw the limits of enthusiasm. Perhaps because of the circumstances of his family's expulsion from Germany, he saw very clearly that the values associated with science - curiosity, determination, hard work and cleverness - were not on their own going to make us happy or good. Scientists had been complicit, sometimes enthusiastically complicit, in the Nazi war machine, and now computer programmers were making possible the weapons that threaten all life on Earth. He was an early campaigner against anti-ballistic missile systems, because they would make war more likely.He wrote a wonderful denunciation of the early hacking culture in his book, Computer Power and Human Reason: "Bright young men of disheveled appearance, often with sunken glowing eyes, can be seen sitting at computer consoles, their arms tensed and waiting to fire their fingers at the buttons and keys on which their attention seems to be as riveted ... The hacker ... has only technique, not knowledge. He has nothing he can analyze or synthesize. His skill is therefore aimless, even disembodied. It is simply not connected with anything other than the instrument on which it may be exercised. His skill is like that of a monastic copyist who, though illiterate, is a first-rate calligrapher. His grandiose projects must therefore necessarily have the quality of illusions, indeed, of illusions of grandeur. He will construct the one grand system in which all other experts will soon write their systems."But Weizenbaum did much more than that himself even if he wrote only one long book. His book has dated very little, and nothing else I've read shows so well how a humanist may love computers without idolising them.thewormbook.com/helmintholog
Ask a parent what they're most afraid of when their kids go online and the answer is unlikely to be SpongeBob SquarePants. Few fear that their children will be indoctrinated into a bizarre new society by Nickelodeon's box-shaped poriferan. They're being naive.Virtual worlds are the new battlegrounds for toy manufacturers, kids TV channels and software companies with an eye on the youth market. It is the classic no-brainer. These days, kids are so into social networking sites that their parents have to get Bebo accounts just to call them down to dinner. The same kids are also into videogames and would probably be into Second Life if it wasn't aimed at over-18s. So, combine social networking, gaming and youth-friendly virtual living into one experience and you're practically mainlining your brand into the eyeballs of a whole generation.This was doubtless what Disney was thinking last year when it bought child-friendly online community Club Penguin. It is certainly what Mattel had in mind when it set up Barbie Girls, an online community based around the popular dolls, which attracted 3 million users within 60 days of its launch. It's on more than 10 million now - impressive, but dwarfed by the massively multiplayer animal-rearing community Neopets and its 45 million pet owners.Now Nickelodeon, which already has a virtual world in the shape of Nicktropolis, is expected to launch two more: one based in SpongeBob's universe, and another named Monkey World, an original IP. The former will be scarily huge, the latter will have its work cut out, with new kid-centric virtual worlds popping up seemingly on a daily basis.What media companies love about virtual worlds is the opportunity to truly engage with the youth demographic on a symbiotic level. It's not about shouting at kids from a TV set any more; it's about creating a world for them, and then subtly loading it with messages. And hey, if you can't set up a virtual world, why not advertise in one? Social entertainment company Doppelganger has just signed a partnership with in-game advertising specialist Double Fusion, which will allow real-time targeted ads to appear in teen virtual world vSide. Double Fusion CEO Jonathan Epstein referred to vSide as "a place where advertisers can develop powerful interactions with their teen audiences". Sinister stuff.The imaginative and social universes children used to create for themselves have now been populated by toymakers and TV networks. Virtual space, head space and ad space are the new holy trinity of corporate manipulation and indoctrination. And to think my parents worried about me watching Tiswas.
Defending XPI am in the process of reviewing my PC security. What I would like is a simple list of what is the essential free software to have loaded in Windows XP.John WalkerJS:The main things are to make sure you have installed the XP SP2 service pack and Internet Explorer 7, which provide a dramatic increase in security, and that you are running a firewall. (You should install IE7 even if you use Firefox.) It's also a good idea to have auto-updates turned on. You can survive with these, if you are careful: I've done it. But if you can be accident-prone or surf some of the less savoury parts of the net, it's important to install an anti-virus and an anti-spyware program.It's not easy to recommend products, because it's partly a matter of taste. You have to find ones that doesn't conflict with your other programs, don't use too many resources, and don't feel too intrusive. However, my first choice among the frees is usually AVG Free and AVG Anti-Spyware, formerly called Ewido. Alternative anti-virus products include Avast and BitDefender, while alternative anti-spyware programs include Spyware Doctor Starter Edition (from Google's software pack), SuperAntiSpyware, and Windows Defender. I'm currently running Avira AntiVir, which isn't the easiest to use but has a draconian Guard utility. From time to time, you should run double-checks using one of the many good online scanners, and for maximum security, also scan for rootkits (seetinyurl.com/7sasq).Many people install a firewall to replace the one built into XP SP2. I use Sunbelt's Kerio Personal Firewall. Comodo offers an alternative, and Zone Alarm has its fans. It's also a good idea to keep an eye on which processes and programs Windows is running. Simple options include Startup Inspector for Windows and the built-in Windows Task Manager. I use two much better but more complicated alternatives: AnVir Task Manager Free and SysInternals' Process Explorer (now owned by Microsoft).Floppy killerI have half a cupboard full of floppy disks that contain confidential data, and I want to destroy them. I don't need the disks - who uses them any more?Mike WhitakerJS:Many "heavy duty shredders" bought by companies can now destroy floppy discs, CDs, DVDs, credit cards, name tags and sometimes audio and video cassettes, but they are too expensive for one-off jobs or home use. Cheap machines might be able to shred the magnetic disks if you remove these from their cases, but that would be a long, tedious job. Alternatively, lots of companies now do commercial shredding up to a specified security level. Try searching for "shredding solutions" (tinyurl.com/5px93m) or "security shredding". I imagine a large hammer and a stake would do enough damage to a small tower of 3.5in floppies, but have not tried this myself.Pay site attackA subscription website has my IP address. They claim to be able to identify me by name, address, etc. Is that possible?David GriffithJS:The IP (Internet Protocol) address only identifies your PC to your internet service provider. Various "geolocation" techniques can be used to narrow that down, but not reliably, and not to your name and address.The only way to get those would be to ask your ISP, which will have the information in its log files. I would expect an ISP to supply these details if officially approached by the police or given a court order, but it would have to be a fairly serious matter.IFrame issuesRe your article (What's an IFrame attack and why should I care, Newly asked questions, April 3), will SpyBot or Ad-Aware remove IFrames that may be on my computer?Jamie WoodsJS:IFrames are generally not on your computer, they are used on web pages. However, if your PC has any malware that has been downloaded via an IFrame, then the usual anti-virus and anti-spyware programs should be able to deal with it. Also, if you get any suspicious links, you can use Linkscanner to check sites before you visit them:tinyurl.com/2hsge9.BackchatLast week's silly mistake, spotted by Ian Tunnacliffe, was to say that 1,048,576 bits make one megabyte. There are 8,388,608 bits in a megabyte. Sorry!&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
A programmer and system designer by trade, Lord Erroll is giving the government grief about cybercrime. Merlin, the Earl of Erroll, is the spokesman for the House of Lords Science and Technology Select Committee's report on personal internet security.The committee recommended in August last year that the Serious Organised Crime Agency should develop a unified web-based reporting system for cybercrime. It also asked the government to look again at its decision that the public should report cybercrime to the banks and not the police. The Lords asked for a central cybercrime unit to handle low-level internet fraud. In essence, Erroll and his noble friends do not think the government and police take cybercrime seriously.On October 25, the government delivered its considered response - a rejection of nearly everything the Lords had suggested. The current regime, it claimed, is "fit for purpose". Four weeks later, on November 20, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced that 25m HM Revenue and Customs records had gone missing. Since then, the NHS, the Ministry of Defence and the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency have confessed to other massive losses of personal data. Erroll has detected a "sense of panic" across the ministries since the HMRC fiasco.Fit for purpose?To his amusement, the government's "fit for purpose" claim now looks decidedly dodgy. He believes that it has finally sunk in that the danger is not just the loss of personal data but the potential for fraud.Not surprisingly, Erroll and his colleagues on the Science and Technology Committee are having another go at civil servants and ministers, with a follow-up inquiry and report early in the summer. As Lord O'Neill of Clackmannan, another (ex-MP, Labour) member of the committee, says: "We have your phone number. We'll be in touch".It looks, sometimes, as though the Lords are more relentless than the Commons at taking a hard look at government IT policy. The Lords debate the technical merits of IT projects, where the Commons make them party-political.This may be because peers can have more recent hands-on experience than MPs, who tend to lose their IT expertise bit by bit once they enter the House. Erroll himself, after doing physics and chemistry at Cambridge, has written database systems for the agricultural sector - his wife is a dairy farmer in Bedfordshire - and for City institutions. As a freelancer in the City, he found himself often having to sort out professional IT people's programs that didn't work. He also worked on voice recognition and e-purses on smart cards, and the communications and security problems involved. All this gave him a good grounding in the politically hot technologies such as ID cards and big public sector databases, which have come crashing down on parliamentarians in the past five years.Erroll is pleased that the Lords pushed back the ID card bill to the Commons time after time. He helped to mastermind the technical arguments against the bill. He has little problem with the cards themselves, but doubts whether biometrics are precise enough. He believes that iris scanning rejects 2% of the people it should accept (the "false negative" rate).He also points out that the Home secretary, in her speech to the thinktank Demos on March 6 (tinyurl.com/3p2luf), forgot that few of the officials who will check identity cards will be equipped with expensive biometric readers or connections to the central register. Most people will "get away with flashing their cards" for no more than a visual check.More dangerous, in his view, is the central ID register itself. However secure the technology may be, he reckons there is always somebody nearby who is corrupt and will break in.Erroll gets support in IT matters from his fellow peers, notably Lord Lucas, the Earl of Northesk, and Lord St John of Bletso. All have involvement of some sort with internet firms. Counterintuitively, they are all hereditary peers and, like Erroll, independents with no firm political allegiance. Life peers such as Lord Harris and Lord Kirkwood, who came to an interest in IT later in life, are also supportive. But life peers with hard IT experience are thin on the ground.Erroll criticises Tony Blair for not appointing any IT figures as life peers during his 10 years as prime minister. For instance, says Erroll, "it is absurd that Steve Shirley [Dame Stephanie Shirley, who came to England in 1939 from Germany on a Kindertransport, founded Xansa in 1962, and is an ex-president of the British Computer Society] is not in the Lords; she would give tremendous weight to our debates".Erroll finds that many peers are keen to brief themselves on IT matters enough to ask searching questions on select committees. They enjoy the cut and thrust of debate. But they are not so keen to sit down and think through IT policy. He, on the other hand, likes talking behind the scenes to policy makers to "change the world" longer term. He does this partly to counteract the influence of the civil servants - who, in his view, do not always understand the long-term regulatory and business implications of what they are asking the government to implement.Busting the bureaucratsHe tries to influence policy mostly through the E-business Regulatory Alliance (e-ra.org.uk), set up in 2003, of which he is president. The alliance was created by law firms and IT companies, to vet European and UK legislation in detail before it is set in stone. Its website carries a list of all European directives up for consultation, and tears these directives apart on their way across the Channel. So, nobody can complain that, in e-commerce regulation at least, the Brussels bureaucrats ride roughshod over British interests.He is also a director of EURIM, another parliamentary/industry group. This is currently bringing in parliamentarians from both houses to understand how the government's Transformational Government (TG) agenda, launched two years ago, really does transform government. TG, in EURIM's view, is not just a matter of breaking down the barriers between the computer systems of central government departments. EURIM explores how the TG agenda also affects local authorities, social enterprises, the voluntary sector and the Citizens' Advice Bureaux.And Erroll recognises that other web 2.0 bodies such as Tom Steinberg's MySociety can provide feedback from citizens to transform the way government decides what services the citizens need. Government, he hopes, will never be the same again.Erroll is not wildly happy about the current make-up of the House of Lords. He hopes for many more elected members. Last month he told a Labour peer, who accused him of trying to prolong the life of the hereditary peers, that he was "impugning his honour".Hopeful observers had a scent of claymores or pistols at dawn. The Earl of Erroll protested that he is "trying to leave a better parliament behind me". He is trying to abolish himself. This would be a pity. Any elected peer would be unlikely to be as hands-on as he is.Man of many titles&#183;Merlin Sereld Victor Gilbert Hay, 24th Earl of Erroll, 25th Lord Hay, 24th Lord Slains, 12th Bt of Moncreiffe of that Ilk, is an independent member of the House of Lords.&#183;He is also 28th Hereditary Lord High Constable of Scotland and 32nd Chief of The Hays since 1160, (Celtic Title) Mac Garadh Mhor.&#183;There is a ballad and a highland fling named the Earl of Errol, after two of his ancestors.&#183;He helps promote scotch whisky as a Patron of the Keepers of the Quaich and is one of the founders of Secret Sommelier, a weblog about wine (secretsommelier.com).
It's Adobe! Photoshop! Elements? Oh well, two out of three ain't bad. For those who hanker after the full-fat flagship application for picture manipulation, but don't want to shell out the cash (or descend into piracy), the latest version of its cut-down sibling, Photoshop Elements for Mac v6 (&pound;70 new, or &pound;60 upgrade from adobe.com) has everything even a demanding geek could demand for messing about with images. True, for most Mac users Apple's free iPhoto application is perfectly adequate for basic tweaking (colours, saturation, levels) and cropping of pictures. But if you're looking to do much more, Adobe has the mindshare.The latest version has some consumer-friendly additions to its smart grey interface, which offers huge possibilities if you know what you're doing. There's the rub, though; documentation is lamentably absent from the box, so if you're a beginner you might want to buy Photoshop Elements 6 for Mac: The Missing Manual (tinyurl.com/6elxwn).Adobe does its best to walk you through simple edits such as cropping, fixing a colour cast and suchlike, and also provides guided tutorials for fancier tricks such as creating panoramas. But you can't just dive in.It does include a slimmed-down version of Adobe Bridge, a powerful library application where you can set up favourite locations (such as your iPhoto folder) and tag pictures with metadata such as keywords, making it easy to quickly locate pictures of, say, the cat. The downside of Bridge is that it's a separate application, so you have two demanding programs running at once.This assumes a successful installation, which is counterintuitive and slow. Adobe eschews the Mac approach (drag the app to a folder); instead, when you put the DVD in the drive, a pane offers you various options, including one to double-click on what you assume must be the installer. Instead you find more files, and eventually the installer. Installation takes about 20 minutes.Adobe has done its best to make Elements accessible, and certainly it's easy to do basic things; and as a bit of a geek I'm a fan of Bridge as it encourages the keywording and organising of your data. Elements puts a lot of very powerful options within reach of the consumer, and for an enthusiast is well worth the money. The casual snapper, though, should probably stick with iPhoto.Pros:Endless possibilities with images; Bridge applicationCons:Dreadful installation process; lack of in-box documentationadobe.com
Give us a waveBT Fon wants you to upload a video and join Arsenal FC in the world's biggest online Mexican wave.worldsbiggestmexicanwave.comTAG campaignTAG, a consortium of organisations for the deaf, has launched a campaign for better telephone access.tagcomm.org.ukRetro beeps for dweebsIf, tragically, you don't have a Stylophone, you can play one online at Firebox (Flash, but no batteries required).tinyurl.com/45phkpKen &amp; Boris ShowBBC London has taken the epic battle between Ken Livingstone and Boris Johnson to YouTube so viewers can submit video questions.tinyurl.com/46pbsmUnlimited legal downloadsDenmark's biggest telco has launched a DRM-protected free music download service, TDC Play, for its broadband and mobile customers.tinyurl.com/3fw9cp'Tranquillity is yours'Sony has launched the world's first digital noise-cancelling headphones with built-in artificial intelligence, the MDR-NC500D, for around &pound;250.tinyurl.com/3fq9udEngaging N-Gage gamingNokia's N-Gage mobile games service has gone live in the UK, promising "a mobile gaming experience like no other".tinyurl.com/5yyampParty on, dudesDoppelganger has launched vSide (formerly the Music Lounge), a 3D virtual world where people aged 13-24 can party online.vside.com
It starts with a guessing game. On a laptop, Subutai Ahmad draws a square virtual blackboard, attaches an "L" on its back to it and puts a "T" on top. "What's that?" asks the vice-president of the startup company Numenta. A milk pot? A car trailer? No. The computer indicates that the most likely object depicted is a ... helicopter.Even though this may appear like a game from the computer stone age, the demonstration gives us a glimpse of the future of data processing. High-performance computers may play chess perfectly or help meteorologists predict the weather. But the task of differentiating a cat from a dog is still tricky for machines.Human brains work in parallel, in contrast to serially calculating computer processors. "We believe," Ahmad says, "that computers can get close to the processing power of our brains if the software architecture is based on our cerebral cortex." And this is what the program demonstrates - at least in principle. Even if so-called "neural networks" in the 90s may have been able to achieve similar feats, the selling point is the hidden design of the software. "In Numenta's opinion," says Ahmad, "this marks a new beginning for the computer industry, just like the revolution of the microchip 50 years ago."Rebuilding the brainBig announcements like these are a dime a dozen in Silicon Valley. But the ambitions of Numenta are shared by scientists and engineers around the world working on artificially rebuilding our neuronal HQ with software and microprocessors. Not only do they develop neuronally inspired software, they resurrect our thinking tissue in detailed simulations and even built hardware versions of the neocortex. The goals are powerful computers, insights into the structure of our brain and the hope of revealing secrets of our consciousness.At the end of the 80s a graduate student at the University of California, Berkeley, was refused permission to build a software model of the brain for his dissertation. The student, Jeff Hawkins, was not amused and headed for Silicon Valley instead, where he invented the Palm Pilot and a few years later the Treo. Numenta is the latest enterprise of the wealthy 50-year-old maverick. Its selling pitch: Numenta is developing an algorithm similar to the one governing our cognitive abilities.Hawkins' project builds on an assumption by Vernon Mountcastle, a neurobiologist who in the 70s pointed out that in the neocortex all the neurons are organised in the same way, even though different areas of the cortex perform different functions. Horizontally they are divided into layers, and vertically in columns. Mountcastle concluded that they are governed by the same algorithm. The only difference is the kind of information they process.Based on this idea, Hawkins suggests neural processing in the neocortex works as follows. Our thinking - and Numenta's software - is based on forecasts, which follow from memories. Memories that help us make predictions are created over time by analysing incoming sensory information level by level, until a pattern is filtered from the initial data chaos. These concepts help to make predictions in the future, when similar perceptions occur.But not everyone is convinced. Bob Knight, a neuroscientist at Berkeley University, says that Hawkins' theory is compatible with our current knowledge of how the brain works. But he points out that the theory lacks details and experimental proofs. For Numenta's software, which is designed to make predictions based on prior experiences, this criticism is irrelevant. What matters, says Ahmad, is that the programs work, not that they give a wholly accurate picture of the brain.He also points to early successes. EDSA Micro, based in San Diego, uses an early version of the software to monitor electric grids; and Lockheed Martin applies it to satellite image analysis for mundane objects such as mailboxes, traffic lights or trash cans. The purpose: to gain insights about enemy activities.Other brain engineers actually want to copy the brain. The neuroscientist Henry Markram and his colleagues of the Blue Brain Project at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne want to create a complete digital version of the brain, based on the latest scientific data. That is, they do not want to reconstruct the whole brain, just one basic element, a column consisting of layers of the neocortex. And for the sake of simplicity they do not simulate a human brain's column, but one of a rat's brain (tinyurl.com/388lps).Only two millimetres long and half a millimetre thick, this area still contains 10,000 neurons with extensions that lead to thousands of brain cells. Recently, Markram's group completed a crucial step - a model of the cortical column that accurately allows to simulate experimental gained from a rat's brain. The scientists now hope to simulate larger brain structures step by step. First, how the columns are embedded into the supporting structure of glial cells; after that, they want to tackle the complete rat brain. By 2015, says Markram, "we even want to model the whole human brain". The benefit? Better understanding of what happens in the brains of autistic people or epileptics.But even recreating the brain virtually is not enough for some; they literally hope to pour it into silicon. Now, certainly, computers consist of microprocessors, not of nerve cells; they use specialised parts, a central clocking device and so far cannot keep up with the parallel data processing of the neurons. But there are ways for a microchip to emulate a brain.In the 80s, the microelectronics engineer Carver Mead found that electrical pulses of nerves could be simulated with transistor circuits. This paved the way for the development of silicon retinas, which may one day help those with vision loss. Like nerve cells, these neuromorphic chips are analogue, with continuously growing and falling electric signals. Still, they have one disadvantage: they are hardwired and cannot mimic the brain's ability to form new connections.Adding memory to the mixKwabena Boahen, a former graduate student of Mead from Ghana and now a professor at Stanford University, wants to avoid this problem. Sitting in a stylish office, the scientist holds a transparent plastic box with a chip, made to his own specifications. "Since the 80s I have worked on creating artificial nerve cells - back then I could only dream of having a chip like this."The microelectronic wonder simulates the inside and outside of neurons. The analogue circuits simulate the ion channels in a cell's membrane, which allow the passage of a signal's charged particles into and out of the cell body. Soldered to a circuit board, its digital signals run to neighbouring cells and also to a memory location, a RAM chip, which redirects the signal to other cells. Since this rerouting is variable, it functions like the plastic brain, changing connections whenever needed.These chips may not be as detailed as the cell model Markram's at Lausanne creates, but it functions in real time. "You flip the switch and see how the signal runs through the network - that's how simple it is," jokes Boahen. Now the brain mechanic is working on "Neurogrid", a silicon model consisting of 16 microchips, which will mimic up to a million neurons with 6bn connections. Today this can only be done with a few thousand.The pocket-sized board will have a computing power of 300 teraflops - more than 10 times as much as the Blue Brain supercomputer. Once completed, it will allow the testing of various theories about the brain - and, hopefully, find some solid answers.
Even though it is only a cut-down interim release, Gran Turismo 5 Prologue has got PS3 owners in a rare ferment - at last, it grafts astonishingly crisp high-definition visuals onto the world's favourite racing game franchise. The single-player game - a collection of events mixing time-trials, races and overtaking challenges - isn't hugely satisfying, but it does highlight GT guru Kazunori Yamauchi's extreme rigour when recreating car handling. Most of the world's finest automotive machinery is present, but the tracks that stand out are old favourites Fuji and Suzuka; the new London street track is tolerable, but the Eiger Nordwand mountain route is a twisty travesty which makes Monaco feel like Thruxton. And the lack of damage means you can still brake by driving into the side of other cars. But GT 5 Prologue comes into its own when played online: up to 16 people can race each other, and it gives the PlayStation Network its first really big draw.
Because the Safari browser treats cookies differently from Internet Explorer and Firefox, says Dr Richard Clayton, a security researcher from Cambridge, after a detailed briefing on the Phorm user- and ad-tracking system.Privacy settings in Safari prevent Phorm's system of cookie identification, by which it "pretends" to be the cookie's originating site, says Clayton. In a writeup available on his team'slightbluetouchpaper.orgsite, Clayton notes that "if a [web page] request does not appear to have been generated by a "well-known" browser, then the request will be ignored [by Phorm's system inside the ISP's system]." Explaining this in an interview with the Guardian's Tech Weekly podcast, Clayton said that this was because many other processes, such as software update checks, can go via port 80, the web browsing channel that Phorm inspects. Dipping into those streams might cause problems. "So they've concentrated on traffic just from browsers where they understand what will happen. If you're using Internet Explorer or Firefox, then they will intercept your traffic and snoop on it."Apple's Safari, though, "has some built-in settings which means that the cookies which [Phorm] rely on at the end of the process to serve you up targeted ads will not be sent by Safari because it considers that a privacy risk and doesn't send them".Clayton had other criticism for Phorm and for BT, which carried out two separate trials of versions of the company's technology - affecting about 18,000 users in each case - in 2006 and 2007. The Phorm system "definitely" invades privacy, Clayton said, and is a prima facie breach of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa) 2000, which governs interception of communications. The reason: because the websites have not necessarily agreed to have their content interfered with as the Phorm system does.Clayton reserved his greatest ire for BT, saying that the 2006 and 2007 trials "absolutely" breached the Ripa: "because it can't even argue that they got permission from the person who was sending the [web page] requests, so essentially they've been snooping on this data. BT will doubtless say they didn't look at this data, which seems an odd sort of trial ... that seems to me extremely wicked of BT. Whether they're going to go to jail for it, one leaves to the courts, but it's not the sort of behaviour one expects from major public - well, private - institutions".Phorm said that narrow interpretations of Ripa like that would mean systems such as Google Mail or spam filtering would also be illegal. "We conducted extensive due diligence on the legality of our system under current interception law," it said. These "have led to only one conclusion - that Phorm's systems are legal under any full interpretation of the law".
Gamasutra has aninteresting articlein which two industry analysts are asked how videogame sales will suffer in thepossibleimminent event of a recession. The response is that games have shown themselves to be resilient in previous slumps, but that if things got that bad, it's likely that the Wii, with its audience of less committed casual gamers, would feel it first. (Alternatively, casual gamers in the UK could plunge themselves into their own mini-debt crisis by buying Rockband...)It's also suggested that hardcore gamers will cut back on games buyingeventually, though perhaps only after removing movies, music, theme parks, vacations and restaurants from their entertainment agendas.So with mortgage costs set to rise and credit getting harder to come by, at what point would YOU consider cutting down on your game spending? And what will you be prepared to sacrifice first?
Determined to encourage the development of, "innovative game concepts with the power to positively disrupt the global mobile gaming industry," Nokia has set up a global Games Innovation Challenge.The three most innovative game concepts will be offered Nokia Publishing pre-production contracts, targeting publication of their winning concept on the corresponding Nokia device platform. In addition, the first winner will be awarded 40,000, the second 20,000, and the third 10,000 to enable the participant to further develop the concept.You can submit your entry right now at thededicated website, but you have until August 20 to think of an innovative mobile game idea. So, that's no block-sorting puzzlers, no pool sims or poker sims, no platformers, no board game or movie conversions, no retro TV revivals, no isometric lifestyle sims, no scrolling shooters and absolutely no crazy golf.Any takers? Shall we have an official Gamesblog entry?
There's no doubt that there's tremendous value infree data, and there's probably a lot of it on the web. Unfortunately, since we don't yet have a decent search engine, it can be very hard to find. The InfoChimps have therefore decided to collect it atinfochimps.org. The site says:The infochimps.org community is assembling and interconnecting the world's best repository for raw data -- a sort of giant free allmanac, with tables on everything you can put in a table. Built by data nerds, used by data nerds, it's a central source for the information you need to power the projects the world needs.It's very early days, and there's no good way to find things except by browsing... and yet there are already too many sets for browsing to be a good idea. (There are tags, but you can only select one tag at a time.)Selected highlights from the data include:* Full game state for every play of every baseball game in 2007, majors and minors.* Word frequencies in written text for ~800,000 word tokens (British National Corpus)* All the Wikipedia infoboxes, turned on their side and put into a table for each infobox type.If it had what I was looking for (UK-US Exchange rates over the past 20 years) then I'd be a happy bonobo, but if it's there, I can't see it....
AsMary Bowers notes in the paper today, Google's Street View has raised privacy concerns in the United States. She says that the service is available in 27 American cities, but I've discovered that it's not just available in cities. I recently looked up my 'home' address, the house I lived in growing up and where my parents still live. It's about 90 miles north-west of Chicago, about a half hour past the suburban belt that rings the city. This is rural Illinois corn country, not a city, town, village or hamlet by anyone's definition. And guess what? Street View is there. Fortunately, my house is surrounded by 40 acres of trees so you'd have to take this shot in the dead of winter to have even a hope of seeing of it. But it's still slightly amazing (worrying, depending on your point of view) on how much progress Google has made in making the world searchable. Google Street View coming to a cornfield near you.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:privacy,Street Viewtechnorati tags end
ISP liability is all the rage these days, from the UK's Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform to the Japanese legislature to the Australian parliament to the US Trade Representative. Everyone who hates something about the internet has worked out that if you can force internet service providers to police their networks, you can spare yourself the expense and burden of making your personal bugaboo vanish.Weirdly, the biggest and most powerful ISPs seem eager to be roped into the enforcer role. Take Japan: earlier this month, the four largest ISPs on the island announced that they would henceforth terminate the account of any customer that the entertainment industry fingered as a repeat copyright infringer. The ISPs' deal with copyright holders is this: tell us the IP address of a customer who is infringing your copyrights and we'll send them a threatening email. If you complain about the user a second time, we'll snip the line.In Canada, the national telco, Bell Canada, is doing one better: it is simply throwing away some or all of the BitTorrent packets generated by its customers. And not just those of retail home-broadband customers: Bell has been caught chucking out the BitTorrent packets generated byISPsthat get their feed from Bell. The ISP is like a freight shipper that has paid Bell to put a container on one of its steamers. Then Bell has gone into that container and tossed a bunch of the packages inside overboard, without saying a word to its customer. Bell's largest competitor, Rogers, also throws away many of the encrypted packets its customers send. On the Rogers freighter, any container with a padlocked door is presumed guilty and heaved into the sea.Deny everythingNotoriously, the US ISP giant Comcast has an on-again/off-again, deny-everything approach to filtering BitTorrent, repeatedly changing its story about whether, and how much, and why, it is filtering BitTorrent connections that its customers initiate (as of a few weeks ago, Comcast was promising that it no longer filters BitTorrent. Not that it ever did. And it's not doing it anymore. Promise.)In the UK, the regulators at the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform are pondering a three-strikes-and-you're-out approach to being naughty on the internet: after three complaints, ISPs would be forced to cut off their customers. If the department rejects this policy, the next step would be to make it a "voluntary code of conduct" that achieves what a rule could not.Even if you believe that copyright infringement is grounds for severing someone's connection from a network that also provides freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and freedom of speech, all down one wire, this isnotabout punishing copyright infringers. This is about punishing people who have beenaccusedof copyright infringement. No evidence required, no judge, no jury, no right to face your accuser and present your side.Indeed, in the case of blind BitTorrent throttling, it's not even about being accused of copyright infringement  BitTorrent is well suited to transferring large files of any description. The operating system I'm using to write this column arrived on my computer via BitTorrent (legally: I'm running Ubuntu, an excellent flavour of the free and open GNU/Linux operating system).Also on this computer is a program called Miro Internet TV that lets me subscribe to any of several thousand channels' worth of authorised, noninfringing video that comes in via BitTorrent. To extend the container ship analogy, these ISPs aren't just throwing infringing containers overboard: they're throwing any container that's the same colour as some infringing containers overboard, regardless of the contents.Greed and indifferenceIn years gone by, large ISPs were a major force for keeping burdensome filtering rules at bay. But today's ISP giants are also giantphone companies, each of them less a company than a regulatory monopoly wrapped around a dense core of greed and indifference. (No language on Earth contains the phrase "As wonderful as a telephone company".)The 1996 WIPO Copyright Treaty exempts ISPs from liability for hosting customer files that infringe copyright, and all around the world, the powerful behemoths of the telecoms industry have held the line there. So why are they now lining up to adopt these measures voluntarily? Well, for once, the interests of giant entertainment companies and giant phone companies are aligned.The phone companies have been pushing their ISP businesses by promising customers unlimited services, access to rich media, voice-over-IP service, podcasts, and other high-bandwidth applications (if all you want is email and web-browsing, you could just stick to dialup  we're talking broadband here). However, these companies don't actually have the infrastructure to live up to their promises. Like the gym that sells you a membership that they hope you'll never use, the telcos want you to sign up for all-you-can-eat bandwidth and then go on a diet.The ISPs have had little luck in asking their customers not to use the service they're paying for, so now they've changed tactics, blocking high-bandwidth transfers under the rubric of being good corporate citizens helping to combat the scourge of piracy.Costly extrasThis is a deadly turn of events. The telecoms sector has always taken the position that networks are best run as an a-la-carte proposition where everything from custom ringtones to caller ID requires an additional payment, preferably a recurring monthly charge (imagine if the phone companies had invented email; you'd have to pay extra to see the "From:" line on incoming messages as part of a "premium sender ID" programme).This is the exact opposite of the internet's status quo: when Tim Berners-Lee invented the world wide web, he didn't have to deploy an army of smarmy suits to inveigle every phone company in the world to include "web" in the "basic tier" internet package  even though web-browsing increased the amount of bandwidth consumed by ISPs' customers by several orders of magnitude.In a world where new protocols have to be approved or face the piracy-throttle-of-death, the internet turns back into cable TV. There's nothing special about BitTorrent that makes it more infringing than any other protocol: there are assuredly more acts of copyright infringement committed with IM, email and the web than with relatively esoteric protocols like BitTorrent. What makes BitTorrent an attractive target is that it costs the ISPs a lot of money, in the same way that hungry people cost buffet owners money.And here's the rub: the entertainment industry won't get an end to piracy  or even a respite  by convincing the ISPs to stop BitTorrent. Just as the WIPO Copyright Treaty's "expeditious action" clause totally failed to stop or even slow web-based infringement, this will likewise totally fail to stop the transfer of large files, which will continue happily using other protocols, from Gmail's unlimited mailboxes to Amazon S3's dirt-cheap hosting.The entertainment industry won't figure this out, though, until they launch their own video-on-demand services on the public internet and find the ISPs ready to throttlethemunless they pay extra for the "premium service".
VPROinternational has posted its 48-minute documentary -- shown on April 7 on Dutch TV -- on YouTube (which also has a higher-quality version). It covers more than Wikipedia. The blurb says:Wiki's Truth introduces us to the main players in the debate: Jimmy Wales (founder and head Wikipedian), Larry Sanger (co-founder of Wikipedia, now head of Wiki spin-off Citizendium), Andrew Keen (author of The Cult of the Amateur: How Today's Internet Is Killing Our Culture and Assaulting Our Economy), Phoebe Ayers (a Wikipedian in California), Ndesanjo Macha (Swahili Wikipedia, digital activist), Tim O'Reilly (CEO of O'Reilly Media, the "inventor" of Web 2.0), Charles Leadbeater (philosopher and author of We Think, about crowdsourcing), and Robert McHenry (former editor-in-chief of Encyclopedia Britannica).The questions surrounding Wikipedia lead to a bigger discussion of Web 2.0, a phenomenon in which the user determines the content. Examples include YouTube, MySpace, Facebook, and Wikipedia.It's interesting to see Wales and Sanger speak.There's more info atVPRO's site, in Dutch.
Doctor Who fans will be happy, although theISP's probably less so, as British Wii owners will soon be able to watch theBBC iPlayeron their TV. Requirements? A Wii console and access to the Internet Channel, which costs about 3.50 and is accessible from the Wii main menu.Erik Huggers, BBC Group Controller for Future Media and Technology said: "Working with Nintendo marks another exciting milestone for BBC iPlayer. It underlines our commitment to reaching new audiences by making BBC iPlayer available on as many platforms as possible. The BBC's catch-up TV service can now be accessed on an increasing number of different platforms - from the web and portable devices to gaming consoles. It will shortly be available on TV."Quite how smoothly it will work remains to be seen but you can see this partnership working incredibly well, particularly in getting the Wii's older demographic used to watching telly off the internet. And with Wii Fit released in less than three weeks the mainstream domination of the Wii looks set to continue.
Flickr found an amusing way to launch its video service (above). Well, it's amusing if you saw TechCrunch jump the gun slightly withFlickr Video Launches - A Unique Experiencefeaturing a "puppet version of Shel Israel". As TechCrunch noted later:The Flickr blog blatantly rips off our puppet schtick!The launch was reported on ourWeb 2.0 pageinFlickr to offer video sharing.Video is for Flickr Pro (paying) users only, and clips are limited to 90 seconds/150MB.
On this week'sTech Weekly podcast, Bobbie Johnson meets with head of Xbox UK Neil Thompson to demand answers.Yes, we've talkedaboutthisbefore, but now you can hear it from the source himself. Thanks toyour inputand Bobbie's sheer doggedness, we get answers about the red ring of death, the UK's price point and the first-person-shooter-centric games library.My favourite part, though, is his first question: on the topic of Blu-Ray vs. HD-DVD, how does it feel to back the losing horse?
There's been a little spat over Google's new AppEngine (below). Basically, Google had an event called Campfire, where it showed a demo group chat application calledHuddleChat. Some bloggers called this arip-offof a 37Signals group chat program calledCampfire: the two look pretty much the same. As John Gruber says atDaring Fireball:Looking through the "gallery" of demo apps built with Google App Engine, the only one that seems more than half-baked is HuddleChat, written by Google employees Darren Delaye, Braden Kowitz, and Kyle Consalus. But HuddleChat is just a feature-for-feature clone of 37signals's Campfire. The layout is the same, the tabs at the top of the screen are the same, the right-side sidebar listing participants and file uploads is the same. It even copies Campfire's trick of formatting a message as "code" if it contains literal newline characters.Borrowing ideas is fair game, but copying an entire app is wrong. And it's creepy, in a Microsoft-of-the-'90s way, when it's a $150 billion company cloning an app from a 10-person company.Google responded quickly by taking HuddleChat down. The Product Manager posted a comment (29) atRead Write Web, saying:A couple of our colleagues here built HuddleChat in their spare time because they wanted to share work within their team more easily and thought persistent web chat would do the trick. We've heard some complaints from the developer community, though, so rather than divert attention from Google App Engine itself, we thought it better to just take HuddleChat down.Thanks, Pete Koomen Product Manager, Google App Engine TeamOthers pointed out that there was already a collaborativeHuddleapplication from a startup based in London, England.Google's defenders argue that there are only so many ways to do group chat, and that it's not a new idea anyway. People doing similar research in similar places are likely to come up with similar results, even if they work independently (which is why all hatchbacks tend to look much the same). It's also true that coincidences happen. The question is, how many coincidences add up to a rip-off?Not that this helps Google much. Whether it ripped anybody off or not, it's huge wealth and monopoly market share of search mean it has to be careful what it does. As Huddle's Andy McLoughlin points out in a comment (41) to the Read Write Web story:Huddle (http://www.huddle.net) has already existed for well over a year and has trademarks registered all over the place. Poor research on Google's part. Whatever happened to "don't be evil" (and walk all over the little guy's brand)?Good point, but I don't think Andy will be crying himself to sleep tonight. Google's gaffes have given Campfire and Huddle a ton of free publicity that would be hard to match any other way.
Without a doubt my favourite game of all time (unfinished to boot!), Super Mario Brothers has come to define videogames across generations. Case in point,this imagefrom Wonderland.And so for those young'uns who missed out on the unadulterated joy of the Nintendo Entertainment System's classic, you can now experience it in fully, glorious internet: the first level is available for everyone to play thanks to crafty javascript programmers.Play it here.
Veryregular and attentive readers of Gamesblog will know that I occasionally post about art exhibitions that gamers may be interested in, usually because the works on show partially resemble videogame environments. In my opinion. (Seehereandhere). Well, I have two more for you.From Friday April 11 until - May 9, the Chambers Gallery near the Barbican has painting by Ukrainian artists Vladimir Zhugan, Anatoly Shariy and Yuri Zorko, who specialise in portraying the country's industrial heritage. Zhugan's work, especially, with its huge rusting edifices, brings to mind the landscapes in Quake II, STALKER and the forthcoming Damnation. More info here.Then, at theNew Cross Galleryuntil April 26 you can see the work of German artist,Mudwig, whose style mixes animation, painting and 'billboard suberversion'. I think the mixture of media would be great for a Tsumoto Kuono or Keita Takahashi game and reminds me a little of the visual concept behind LittleBigPlanet.
Listen nowGet ready for this:Aleks Krotoskiis back in the pod for another episode ofTech Weekly.First up is Neil Thompson, the boss of Xbox UK, whoanswers your questionson subjects like the Red Ring of Death, casual games and pricing.Aleks is joined by regularsJemima Kiss,Charles ArthurandBobbie Johnsonfor discussion on whether Microsoft's got it right.Next we've got a report fromSocial Innovation camp, a weekend hackathon for people who want to save the world that weblogged from the scene. And we talk toRichard Clayton, the privacy expert who has looked intoPhormand doesn't like what he sees. Charles hasalready written about the details.The podcast feed URLSubscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunesVisit our Facebook groupThe Tech Weekly archives
We've notedpreviouslyhow Richard Clayton had a detailed presentation from Phorm, the server-side adware company that is in talks with BT, Virgin Media and TalkTalk to provide its systems.In an exclusive interview on the Guardian's latest Tech Weekly podcast (), Clayton explained that - through a strange quirk - Apple's Safari browser doesn't play ball with the Phorm system, because of the way that the Phorm system passes cookies (it's surprisingly complex; see his PDF writeup) between itself and originating sites.Bad news: if you're using Internet Explorer or Firefox, you'll get tracked - or as Clayton puts it, "they will intercept your traffic and snoop on it." But, he added, "if a [web page] request does not appear to have been generated by a "well-known" browser, then the request will be ignored [by Phorm's system inside the ISP's system]." Explaining this in an interview with the Guardian's Tech Weekly podcast, Clayton said that this was because many other processes, such as software update checks, can go via port 80, the web browsing channel that Phorm inspects. Dipping into those streams might cause problems. "So they've concentrated on traffic just from browsers where they understand what will happen."But Safari treats cookies differently, he said. "As far as I can see it's not that that they can't [track users on it] but in practice Safari has some built-in settings which mean that the cookies that they rely on at the end of the process [where you request a page, Phorm inspects it for cookies and whether to serve an ad and passes back a cookie] to serve you up targeted ads will not be sent by Safari because it considers it a privacy risk and doesn't send the cookies."Other points arising from the interview, in which the topic of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa) 2000, governing snooping on internet traffic, is mentioned a lot:Gmail is legal [under Ripa] only because it's based in the US, not the UK. "Gmail is sitting out in California and is a bit more tricky for UK legislation to cover it... If [they were based in the UK] they would have to concentrate quite carefully on exactly what they were doing and the extent to which they were parsing incoming email."BT could offer the anti-phishing system being touted as a major benefit of Phorm without using the Phorm system. "If BT wanted to deploy an anti-phishing system they could do that without fluffing around with all the complexity in this system."if one person in a household which shares an internet connnection opts out, everyone is opted out of Phorm. But conversely, if one person opts in (even accidentally, say by clearing their cookies) theneveryoneis opted in.Clayton reserved his greatest ire for BT, saying that the 2006 and 2007 trials "absolutely" breached the Ripa: "because it can't even argue that they got permission from the person who was sending the [web page] requests, so essentially they've been snooping on this data. BT will doubtless say they didn't look at this data, which seems an odd sort of trial... that seems to me extremely wicked of BT. Whether they're going to go to jail for it, one leaves to the courts, but it's not the sort of behaviour one expects from major public - well, private - institutions."Phorm said today that narrow interpretations of Ripa like that would mean systems such as Gmail or spam filtering would also be illegal. "We conducted extensive due diligence on the legality of our system under current interception law," it said. These "have led to only one conclusion  that Phorm's systems are legal under any full interpretation of the law."We did ask BT to comment further last week, and to come in to the podcast to explain BT's position. Its spokesman declined to offer anyone for interview.
Aleks Krotoskiis back in the pod for another episode of Tech Weekly.First up is an interview with Neil Thompson, the boss of Xbox UK, whoanswers your questionson subjects like the Red Ring of Death, casual games and pricing.Aleks is joined by regularsJemima Kiss,Charles ArthurandBobbie Johnsonto discuss Microsoft and its infamous console.Next we hear Bobbie's report fromSocial Innovation camp, a weekend hackathon for people who want to save the world that heblogged from the scene. And we talk toRichard Clayton, the privacy expert who has looked intoPhormand doesn't like what he sees. Charles hasalready written about the details. Tell us what you think attech@guardian.co.ukPost a message on the blog about this week's programme...Join our Facebook group
Hacker has become shorthand for computer criminal in the media. In tech circles, there is a lot more subtlety to the term. We use the terms white and black hat hackers or hacker versus cracker to draw a distinction between someone who uses their skills and knowledge of technical systems for illegal versus legal activities. The media don't make and often don't understand the distinction.We've reclaimed the word to a certain extent. Developers get together for 'Hackdays' to show off their skills, not in breaking into computers or stealing passwords but in coding. As the EFF sticker says on my laptop, "Coding is not a crime."I'm not going to oversell my skills. Rather than a coder, I'm more of an ethicalphreaker, a comms hacker who pushes modern communications networks to do my job as a journalist. AsJohn, a commenter on Current.com,said, "Kevin you are not a Hacker, you are just someone who can surf the net to find 'hacks' someone else has come up with." But as someone who knows and respects real hackers - the people who push the edge of what is possible in technology - I want to do more to challenge the use of the term hacker as a sloppy shorthand for cyber-thug. Hacker! = criminal.These video blogs are produced by Current TV in association with the Guardian. You can find Current TV on the web, Sky channel 193 and Virgin Media channel 155.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:black hat,hacker,white hattechnorati tags end
Google has gone into the web-based application hosting business pioneered byAmazon Web Servicesby launching a trial version of itsAppEngine, announced on Google's newAppEngine Blog. At the moment you can only develop apps in Python ("Code with extensions written in C is not supported") -- see detailshere. However, they'll all run in Google's software stack using Google's file system, and can use Google's email interfaces and Google Accounts.All this will make it easier for small companies to get into the web applications business. It will also put Google in a position where they know each company's business backwards and can take them over, knowing they are already compatible with Google's proprietary software and services. (Doesn't this sound like a tribe of cannibals opening a nursery school?) Or, of course, Google can launch a rival offering, if the market is big enough....AsRead Write Webobserves: "It does make you wonder: would you want Google to control your entire end-to-end development environment? Isn't that what developers used to be afraid of Microsoft for?"Of course, since it looks as though most Silicon Valley tech companies would like nothing better than to be acquired by Google, this is less of a bug and more of a feature.All we need now is Sergey and Larry doing little dances and shouting"Web developers, Web developers, Web developers."Or maybe that's Eric Schmidt's job....
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Rock Band - think Guitar Hero, plus drums and mic - will be released in Europe on May 23rd but only on Xbox 360. The PS3 and Wii versions will be appearing later in the year, probably around August. But becoming a virtual rocker isn't cheap. The peripherals alone cost 129 quid and that's before you buy the actual game. Eeek.Luckily for those with skeptical partners/parents it looks like the hefty outlay is worth it. Rock Band has been out for a while in the US and has hadgreat reviews. The game comes with 70 songs - including Blur (Beetlebum) and Oasis (Rock n' roll star) exclusives for the UK - although you candownload additional tracksfor a about a pound each.So who is Rock Band targeting then? Casual gamers will enjoy the Singstar-style vocals but given the costs and the skills required I can see this becoming the hardcore gamers party game of choice. Rock Band then - tempted to splash out?The full tracklist is:1960's:Rolling Stones "Gimme Shelter"1970's:Aerosmith "Train Kept a Rollin"* The Who "Won't Get Fooled Again" Boston "Foreplay/Long Time" Mountain "Mississippi Queen"* The Police "Next To You" David Bowie "Suffragette City" Black Sabbath "Paranoid"* Blue Oyster Cult "Don't Fear The Reaper" The Ramones "Blitzkreig Bop" Deep Purple "Highway Star" KISS "Detroit Rock City" Molly Hatchet "Flirtin With Disaster" The Outlaws "Green Grass &amp; High Tides"* Sweet "Ballroom Blitz"1980's:Rush "Tom Sawyer"* Bon Jovi "Wanted Dead or Alive" The Clash "Should I stay or Should I Go" Faith No More "Epic" Pixies "Wave of Mutilation" R.E.M "Orange Crush" Iron Maiden "Run To The Hills"1990's:Foo Fighters "Learn To Fly" Metallica "Enter Sandman" Nirvana "In Bloom" Stone Temple Pilots "Vasoline" Weezer "Say It Aint So" Smashing Punpkins "Cherub Rock" Radiohead "Creep" Beastie Boys "Sabotage" Hole "Celebrity Skin" Garbage "I Think I'm Paranoid" Soundgarden "Black Hole Sun"2000's:The Hives "Main Offender" Queens Of The Stone Age "Go With the Flow" The Strokes "Reptilia" Jet "Are You Gonna Be My Girl" OK Go "Here it Goes Again" Nine Inch Nails "The hand That Feeds" Yeah Yeah Yeahs "Maps" Red Hot Chilli Peppers "Dani California" Coheed &amp; Cambria "Welcome Home" Fallout Boy "Dead on Arrival" The Killers "When You Were Young" New Pornographers "Electric Version" Unlockable Tracks: Anarchy "Blood Doll" Bang Camaro "Pleasure (Pleasure)" Crooked X "Nightmare" Death of the Cool "Can't Let Go" Flyleaf "I'm So Sick" Freezepop "brainpower" Honest Bob and The Factory-to-Dealer Incentives "I Get By" The Acro-bats "Day Late, Dollar Short" The Konks "29 Fingers" The Mother Hips "Time We Had" Timmy and the Lords of the Underworld "Timmy and the lords of the Underworld" Tribe "Outside" Vagiant "Seven"
Photo from jkOnTheRunThe subnotebook previously known as theCompaq 2133is being released today as the HP Mini, according to James Kendrick, who has posted a long review with lots of pictures and ahalf-hour videoatjkOnTheRun.The HP Mini runs Windows Vista or Linux on a 1.6GHz Via C7 processor, which is a big compromise, but it does run Aero. He says the $499 model "will sport 1GB of memory and run SuSE Linux installed on a 120GB hard drive".I played with this model for an hour at the HP offices and it is extremely snappy and well worth the low price in my opinion. The Mini is also available with Windows, Vista Home or Business initially and XP eventually given Microsoft's easing of the restrictions on OEMs to provide XP going forward. The impressive model is the one I am reviewing here, the top of the line Mini with 2GB of memory, a 120GB fast hard drive (7,200 rpm), Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, 8.9" screen (1280 x 768), web cam, trackpad, SDHC slot, ExpressCard slot, 2 USB ports (1 is powered for running peripherals that require power), Ethernet and a 6-cell battery. The price is equally impressive with $749 getting you the whole enchilada which is a great deal in my opinion.It's not that small, but it seems the keyboard is good enough for normal people to touch-type:The high resolution display coupled with an absolutely awesome keyboard make the Mini a real trooper for field work.He also says it's very well made: it reminds him of his MacBook Pro. So, it probably isn't going to do too well in the toy market, but HP hopes to sell it into the business and education markets.
This is unsurprisinglyall overthegamenetworks: a Middlesex University research study has found that long-term play in MMO World of Warcraft is not linked to increased aggressive tendencies. On the contrary, it's linked with a heightened sense of relaxation.The results were presented at theBritish Psychological Society's annual conference in Dublin last week in a paper titled, 'Sex and violence and playing games: reduced levels of anger after violent online play'. It was presented by Jane Barnett, Mark Coulson and Nigel Foreman.According to theabstract, the study 'had two main aims":First, to explore the types of anger-causing scnearios experienced when playing WoW. Second, to identify the state emotions experienced before and after the anger-causing scenarios, as a function of sex and personality.In terms of science, it looks robust: there were 292 people in the sample, most of whom were recruited via the WoW forums and were thus invested participants. In the conclusion, they researchers argue that "the identification of a specific gamer personality type helped to outline the possible benefits and risks of these individuals who play videogames". Personally, I'd like to see what these 'personality types' are, and how they segment the players.Clearly a hot topic in the aftermath of theByron Review, released last month, I'm looking forward to reading the whole thing and basing my assessment on more than just theabstract.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
"The National Hockey League continues its aggressive broadband push with a new video player for nhl.com, more ad options and a batch of channels timed to launch when the 2008 Stanley Cup playoffs begin Wednesday. This week's launch includes access to three years of archived clips by date and player, as well as several hours a day of programming. It's just the beginning -- a taste of what's coming this summer when all 30 teams will start using the player to distribute their own programming, and when nhl.com relaunches completely in September," reportsPaidContent.The Stanley Cup seems to have the biggest gap between the quality of the event and the size of the global coverage. (Well, in my experience, people unfamiliar with the game can barely follow the puck, let alone the rules.) This could change if the NHL can route around broadcasters and reach the public directly, via the net. As PaidContent notes:The move follows a recent deal with Hulu that includes games, highlights and a Hulu-only show. The NHL's other broadband deals include a strong relationship with YouTube, a channel on Joost and plans for Sling Media's still-unreleased Clip+Sling. In addition, the NHL has its own broadband version of the out-of-market Center Ice package.
Me, Greg and Aleks are meeting up with the Guardian's head of blogging, Kevin Anderson, today (I'm writing this from the Guardian's little cafe opposite the 119 Farringdon offices) to discuss the future of Gamesblog. If you can keep it clean and polite (oh give it a try) now's the chance to make suggestions: who would you like to see interviewed on the site? What new features should we add? What do you want to hear more about? What are you less interested in? Let us know and it'll be entered into our 'agenda'.
Just in case you somehow missed this on Friday, the N-Gage platform has gone live. You can download the application from theN-Gage homepageif you have one of the compatible phones - currently the N81, N82 and N95. Apparently, N73, N93 and N93i support is coming 'soon'. Once the app is on your phone you'll be able to head to the N-Gage store to download compatible games and compete against other players.This is an important moment for mobile gaming. Until now, the most reliable way of getting hold of mobile titles has been via your operator portal, but often the navigation of these sites leaves a lot to be desired with back catalogue games hidden away - deep, deep away - far behind the top ten list of recommended downloads, usually paid for by publishers. N-Gage promises to be an accessible cross between an iTunes-style digital download service and an Xbox Live style community. Gamers will also be able to play demos of every game on the service - a stark contrast to the operator portals where customers usually have to make a purchase in order to play a game.So yes, this - alongside iPhone and perhaps Google's Android - is the beginning of a new mobile games industry. It's about time.
