BT has slashed the price of its cheapest broadband internet connection to less than  £20 a month in an effort to win over customers put off by the hefty price of a high-speed connection.The telecoms giant, which sees broadband as vital to its future health as revenues from its telephone business continue to decline in the face of stiff competition, today announced the launch of a new service it hopes will lead to an explosion in the number of new subscribers.BT Broadband Basic will offer the same high-speed service as its other broadband packages, running at up to 10 times the speed of a normal connection and making video clips, music downloads and online gaming a practical possibility, for £8 a month less than its current cheapest offering.Duncan Ingram, the managing director of internet arm BT Openworld, said today the new service was "a major addition to the creation of broadband Britain".He added that BT had decided to set a 1Gb limit on the amount of information subscribers to the cut-price service could download in a month, rather than reducing the speed of the service.Some of BT's rivals, such as Tiscali, have recently introduced broadband products that are slower than BT's for around £15.99 a month."The 1Gb limit will be enough for a huge portion of the population. We will be making it very clear that some broadband is broader than others," Mr Ingram said.He insisted that the move, which is likely to provoke complaints from some of BT's rivals that it is abusing its position by subsidising price cuts to stimulate demand, would be as profitable for BT as its other broadband offerings.The price would be kept down by the 1Gb limit, which is enough to download roughly 650 short videos or 200 music tracks a month, as well as online customer services, he said."BT Broadband Basic is just the first initiative in our future broadband strategy. In the coming weeks we will be announcing a whole host of product developments and enhancements which will be key in helping BT hit its 5 million connections target during 2006," added Mr Ingram.The telecoms giant will hope to get subscribers hooked on the benefits of broadband, which include freeing up the phone line and "always on" access as well as faster download speeds, with the cheaper service before persuading them to upgrade to premium services.Since BT cut the wholesale price of broadband last year, take-up of the technology has soared.The latest figures from communications watchdog Ofcom show that there are now over 3.2 million broadband subscribers in the UK, with around 2 million of those using BT lines and the rest through cable companies NTL and Telewest.But industry analysts are united in their belief that prices must come down and a new range of attractive services developed to make broadband a mass market proposition and help BT chief executive Ben Verwaayen hit his target of 5 million connections over the company's lines by 2006.Already, some have come out in support of BT's move. "With BT's brand and marketing clout, together with a low price, there is no doubt that more customers will turn once again to BT," said Michael Philpott, a senior analyst at Ovum."However, getting customers to move up the value chain is vital to the company and something which will take a lot more hard work and innovation if it is to succeed," he added.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
"The first defendant to be charged under a federal law that makes it a crime to use misleading Internet addresses to lure children to pornography was sentenced on Thursday to 30 months in prison," reportsReuters."John Zuccarini, a Philadelphia-area native who had eluded authorities for years, had pleaded guilty to misspelling Internet domain names like Disneyland, Britney Spears and Teletubbies to lure children to pornographic Web sites."
"German retail giant Metro Group said Friday it will stop putting 'smart tag' chips inside customer loyalty cards, a practice that sparked protests by privacy advocates who say the cards could allow stores to secretly track consumers as they shop. Metro has given out about 10,000 of the cards with embedded Radio Frequency Identification chips since April as part of a broader effort to bring wireless technology into its stores and warehouses," reportsAP.According to Metro spokesman Albrecht von Truchsess: "With such an emotional debate going on, we said it's just not worth it.''
"An industry standards group has made a preliminary decision to include Microsoft's video compression technology in a next-generation DVD format, giving the company a key boost in the digital media arena," reportsCNet."The steering committee for the DVD Forum on Friday announced provisional approval for Microsoft's VC-9 and two other video technologies -- H.264 and MPEG-2 -- as mandatory for the HD-DVD video specification for playback devices. VC-9 is the reference title for the underlying video decoding technology within Windows Media Video 9. The approval is subject to several conditions, including an update in 60 days of licensing terms and conditions."Last September, Microsoft submitted its Windows Media Series 9 as a standards candidate to the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers (SMPTE) -- a first for the company and a marked departure from its longtime commitment to keeping its technology proprietary."Comment: for more on Microsoft's high-definition video and the four HD DVD-ROMs now available in the US, seehere.
Stand-up comedians have a saying that 'you're only as good as your last gig'. The same goes for computer technology. What you have to assume is that someone somewhere has a business plan which involves, er, attracting all your customers.To date, there are only two known defensive strategies. One consists of 'locking in' said customers so that they have to be very determined to go elsewhere. This is the Microsoft Way. The other is to make your next product even more sensational than its predecessor. To date, few companies have managed this trick.The $64 billion question at the moment is whether Google, the world's favourite search engine, will manage to pull it off. Its spectacular success has revealed that internet searching is a very big business. Something like 550 million search requests are entered every day worldwide (245 million of them in the United States and 77 per cent through Google).Google has shown that selling advertising based on searches can be very lucrative. And it is estimated by industry watchers that the annual paid-placement advertising revenue generated by web searches will reach about $7bn by 2007 (as compared with $3bn in 2003). If Google's   current share of searching continues, that means the company could look forward to annual revenues of nearly $5.5bn in three years' time.Ah, that magic word, 'if'... The great thing about capitalism is that the prospect of annual revenues of $5.5bn tends to concentrate minds. So far, in relation to Google, those minds have been focused in two directions.The first involves trying to get a slice of Google's action. The company is heading for a stock-market flotation this year and - if industry rumours are to be believed - this could be the biggest thing since Netscape went public on 9 August 1995. Netscape shares were conservatively priced at $28, opened at $71 and went as high as $74 in the most frantic day's trading since the Wall Street crash.Something similar could happen with Google. And this, in turn, might have wider implications, because it was the Netscape launch that triggered the technology boom/bubble. It was what awakened non-techies to the notion that there might be money in that internet thingummy.Given that the stock market is slowly shaking off the rueful technophobia that has afflicted it since 2001, could it happen that Google's flot  ation triggers another avalanche?The second direction in which search-related revenue concentrates minds leads to the quest for technology that is better than Google's. A lot of IQ is being focused on this question. Some of us are old enough to remember when AltaVista was the best search engine there ever had been. Then one day Google launched and we never used AltaVista again. But all that means is that Google is the new AltaVista, and the question is: what lies around the corner?There's no doubt that Google represented a great advance. But there is no such thing as perfection in this business. Surveys indicate   that almost a quarter of users don't find what they're looking for in the first set of links returned by a search engine. That's partly because, in the words of MIT's 'Technology Review' newsletter, 'the precious needles of information we seek are buried under a haystack that grows by some 60 terabytes every day. &#91;A tera-byte is 1024 gigabytes.&#93; And it's why fierce competition in the search industry is certain to continue, especially as companies implement a host of new technologies, such as natural-language processing and machine learning.'Already, there is interesting potential competition for Google. There's Teoma (www.teoma.com), for example, which uses the existence of subject-based communities to home in on an answer to a search query. Then there's Mooter (www.mooter.com), which uses ideas from psychology, software and neural networks to create a ranking algorithm that learns from the user as a search progresses.And there are several research efforts aimed at finding ways of searching the 'deep web' - that is the huge reserve of documents buried in corporate and official databases which only become published web pages if a particular search query asks for them.Furthermore, of course, there is Microsoft. There is always Microsoft. Bill Gates has made it clear that he sees searching as Microsoft's business. The company has a huge research and development effort devoted to it. And it plans to use its, er, "infrastructural advantage' (monopoly) to build natural language searching into 'Longhorn' - the next release of its operating system, due in 2005 or 2006.The European Commission has recently concluded an investigation into Microsoft's abuse of its Windows monopoly in the area of media player software. In a couple of years it may have to start all over again on the question of internet searching. It all makes work for the lawyering classes to do. But at least they will have better search engines to help them do it.john.naughton@observer.comwww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
Better late than never dept: "The US Army is building a second version of Earth on computer to help it prepare for conflicts around the world. The detailed simulation will be drawn from a real-world terrain database and will be drawn to the same scale as the original," reports theBBC."The software Earth is being created for the US Army by gaming company There, which is currently working on a virtual world for gamers."
"America Online says it has blocked the Bizex worm, which began spreading through its ICQ instant messaging service earlier this week. Bizex, which was first made public by Moscow-based security firm Kaspersky Labs -- which said that as many as 50,000 machines had been infected -- enticed ICQ users to surf to a link to the malicious jokeworld.biz site. Once at the site, users' machines were infected by the worm, which then spread by sending replica messages to contacts hijacked from ICQ," reportsTechWeb.The Kaspersky info ishere.
"The Electronic Frontier Foundation called on the music industry to form a new collection agency to issue file-sharing licenses for a monthly fee. The group said a fee of as little as $5 a person would net an estimated $3 billion annually for the music industry, which currently earns no revenue from the billions of songs exchanged through unlicensed services such as Kazaa. And it would entitle the estimated 60 million Americans who use file-trading services to continue swapping songs without fear of lawsuits," reports theMercury News."The proposal, unveiled at the Future of Music Coalition's law summit in San Francisco, met with a tepid response from the recording industry, which has spent the past three years fighting file-sharing in the courts. Industry observers predicted the EFF plan has little chance of success without the support of the major music labels."
Or to be more accurate, it's a map of theLondon Underground, rail network and the Docklands Light Railway. (Not all lines are "tube" lines, and some of the Underground is overground.) Click on a station for Weblogs At This Station. Weblogs Within 10 Minutes Of This Station, and Weblogs Within 20 Minutes Of This Station, egElephant &amp; Castle.
The days of idling away time playing Snake II on your mobile phone could soon be gone, after a flurry of mobile gaming announcements this week at the 3GSM mobile conference in Cannes.Much attention was focused on Microsoft's deal with mobile games developers In-Fusio, which will bring six of the software giant's most successful franchises onto mobile platforms. The deal means that, in the not-too-distant future, phone users will be able to play classic titles such as Age of Empires, Midtown Madness 3 and Zoo Tycoon.But alongside Microsoft's line-up, there were many other impressive mobile titles also on display in the French resort, from the simple, yet addictive, Tetris-inspired Gem Jam, to more complex offerings like the conversion of PC strategy title Anno 1503.There were even a few arcade classics from the likes of Paperboy and Mighty BombJack. A more unusual offering, however, came in the form of Siemens' quirky Mozzies game - one that uses phone-cameras to provide a background, upon which the player can use the directional buttons to shoot down cartoon mosquitoes.Like the PC and console games world, the mobile games industry is being pushed rapidly forwards by the increasing pace of new technology, allowing for a greater depth of gameplay experience as well as considerably better graphics. That, in turn, has unsurprisingly started to attract the attentions of big name studios and famous franchises.Microsoft isn't the first big player to set its sights on the mobile gaming market, either, as Ubi Soft has already successfully ported two of its well-known licenses, Splinter Cell and Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, onto mobile phones.The increased quality of games across all the handsets means mobile gaming has become the fastest growing area in the games market. While console games and the consoles themselves experienced a slump in figures between 2002 and 2003 in the US, mobile games have rocketed from $243m (£131m) to $587m over the same period.According to industry analysts Informa Media, this is a figure that's set to increase seven-fold to a whopping $3,783m by 2007. We can expect to see more big names following in the footsteps of Ubi Soft and Microsoft.Although technology-wise, mobile games are sprinting ahead of basic games such as Snake 2 and Racket, the simplicity and accessibility of such games will always remain a core part of successful mobile games, says In-Fusio's Co-CEO Giles Cobett. "The thing that's fantastic about the mobile phone is that you can have it on you all the time. One of the things that our players say they find so attractive is that mobile games are so easy to get into and this will always be important us, no matter how in-depth or time-consuming our games get."While other areas of the mobile world, such as picture messaging, may not be taking off as quickly as the industry had hoped, mobile games seem to be flourishing. Greater variety of games and better technology has undoubtedly helped this, along with the fact that many games can be downloaded to your phone for a few pounds, with demos available for even less.With the industry as a whole seeking to adopt a more mainstream approach, mobile gaming looks set to play a very important role in pulling in a new audience demographic and creating a new breed of gamer.Charts - full price softwareOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts &#169; ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) Final Fantasy X-2 (PS2) Electronic Arts - £39.992) Sonic Heroes (PS2, XB, GC) Sega UK - £37.993) Need for Speed Underground (PS2, Xbox, GC) Electronic Arts - £39.994) The Simpsons: Hit & Run (PS2, Xbox, GC) VU Games - £37.995) Norton Internet Security 2004 (PC) Symantec - £29.996) FIFA 2004 (PS2, Xbox, PC, PL) Electronic Arts - £34.997) LOTR: Return of the King (PS2, Xbox, GC, GBA) Electronic Arts - £34.998) Prince of Persia: the Sands of Time (Xbox, GC, PS2, PC) - £29.999) The Sims: Bustin' Out (PS2, Xbox, GC, GBA) Electronic Arts - £37.9910) Mafia (PS2) Take 2 - £39.99
Cannes, France in February and the seaside walkways - traditionally the preserve of skateboarders and poodle-tooting pensioners - are suddenly overrun by geeks with mobile phones glued to their ears.Yes, the 3GSM exhibition is in town bringing with it thousands of delegates, exhibitors and journalists from all over Europe.If the locals had taken a closer look at the gathered telecoms throng they might have noticed that a few of the delegates' brows were a little more furrowed than usual. That's because, in an irony so delicious you couldn't make it up, one of the world's leading telecoms shows had a temporary communications breakdown.For a period on Tuesday, journalists in the press office were left staring at error messages on the screen, as they were unable to access the web. A wholesale exodus to the Orange Wi-Fi area proved too much for the network there, with the system either crashing or running at speeds slower than a dial-up connection.And while most of the delegates were armed with GPRS phones, trying to make calls or collect e-mail proved very tricky, given the huge strain all the tech-crazed execs were putting on the network.Technologies that really should work seamlessly just weren't delivering the goods.   While I'm hazarding a guess here, I imagine it is a scenario that many of the delegates have nightmares about as they wait for the Europe-wide roll out of 3G mobile phone services later this year.Sure, in every corner of the show the talk was of the upcoming super-fast network. There were big 3G announcements, with new handsets from Motorola, NEC and LG, and news of 3G roll out plans from Orange and Vodafone. But you could almost sense nervousness about the format and in particular how the networks were going to tempt consumers into upgrading.When 3G was first mooted at the turn of the century, handset manufacturers and networks predicted that a rush of content-driven services would prove irresistible to consumers. Yet as the existing 3G networks have found to their cost, making video calls and downloading music and sports footage just hasn't captured their customers' imagination.Mobile gaming was seen as another of 3G's trump cards. However not too impressive sales figures for the Nokia N-Gage tend to suggest that the mobile gaming industry has a long way to go.Being able to download new music to a phone was also trotted out as one of 3G's killer apps. Oddly there was curiously little said at 3GSM about music downloads over 3G, in spite of the fact that O2 was expected to unveil deals with manufacturers and other networks about its music download system.So maybe photo messaging is the key? Well, the industry keeps its figures for the sending of MMSes close to its chest, but seasoned mobile observers believe they are way below networks' expectations, and that consumers are using their mobile phones as mini digital photo albums rather than sending images to their friends.There only appears to be one aspect of 3G that really does chime with consumers and ironically that is low-tech cheap voice calls. On Monday 3 in the UK confirmed its worst kept secret - that it was launching a pay-as-you-go service. Orange's chief operating officer, Sanjiv Ahuja, instantly countered by adding that his company was considering a similar service.Cheaper voice calls are all very well, but they are hardly the vehicle through which the networks are likely to claw back the billions of pounds they invested in 3G networks in the first place.I suspect that privately several networks see 3G's prospects as hanging on the whims of the business community. Vodafone has already shown the way with its 3G mobile Connect card for laptops, which launches next month. The idea of broadband web surfing speeds on the go is hugely attractive to certain sections of the business community, and I suspect that corporates will have to pay handsomely for the use of that bandwidth.The one fly in the ointment for 3G in the business community is, of course, Wi-Fi, which offers many of the benefits of 3G yet is significantly cheaper to set up. If 3GSM is anything to go by, networks and handset manufacturers are prepared to keep their options open. Both Nokia and Motorola unveiled Wi-Fi enabled business handsets while almost all the big networks were underlining their stake in the format.How much Wi-Fi will impact on the growth of 3G in the corporate market really is anyone's guess. Those how seek the true mobile office will probably be happy to stump up for both taking advantage of Wi-Fi's fast speeds when they can and using 3G for the rest of the time.How far the business community warms to 3G though will depend on it proving itself quickly. And to get a network up and running seamlessly in a short space of time would be a first in the mobile phone industry.It is a given in the mobile phone industry that 3G will establish itself as the next telecoms format - the industry has invested too heavily in it for it to fail. However 3G is in for a rocky ride. It's a good job the networks have deep pockets.
Europe's plans for its own global satellite navigation system have been given the go-ahead after a deal ended long-standing US objections.The EU and US confirmed yesterday that Europe's Galileo project will now be developed in cooperation with the US Global Positioning System (GPS).The EU hopes to have the &euro;3.6bn (&#163;2.4bn) system in place by 2008. The project has been dogged by problems over costs and stormy negotiations with Washington, which feared it could interfere with GPS signals.Three consortiums have been shortlisted to bid for the concession to launch and operate Galileo. China, India, Russia and Israel have all expressed interest in investing in the project.Europeans are keen to push on with Galileo so they are not tied to using GPS, which is controlled by the Pentagon. Jacques Chirac, the French president, had warned that European countries risked becoming "vassals" if the system was not approved.The US had maintained that its concerns were linked to national security. Some Europeans had argued that the US did not want Galileo to be better than GPS in order to defend national business interests.
I was one of Google's earliest supporters (in the sense of using it and recommending it to friends and colleagues), have it set as the home page in all my browsers, and use it all day every day. I'm far from ready to give it up. However, for the past four or five months, I've been publicly grumbling about the declining quality of its search results, and I'm now seeing a growing level of complaints. For example, Brian Livingston recently devoted an eWeek column toGoogle Grumbles, and yesterday he followed up with readers responses in hisBrian's Buzznewsletter.The obvious solution is to improve your search techniques -- for example, try some of the Google tips included in my article,Delivering the goods. But there is a negative side to this. If you remember using AltaVista, you will know that a skilled searcher could get vastly better results than an unskilled searcher. What was tremendously liberating and democratizing about Google was that hopeless searchers could generally get excellent results, just as good as or better than skilled searchers. If we are losing that, then we are losing something valuable.
"Despite Microsoft's repeated denials, the company will indeed release an interim version of Windows XP that will bridge the gap between the initial XP release and Windows Longhorn, which is currently due in late 2005 at the earliest. The interim XP version will ship as a new retail product that replaces existing retail boxed copies of XP and as a set of updates, called XP Reloaded, that existing XP users can install separately," according to Paul Thurrott'sWinInfonewsletter.Joris Evers of IDG News Service has followed up the storyherewith a quote from Greg Sullivan, Microsoft's lead product manager for Windows, who says: "We're looking at what our options are in terms of delivering what our development team creates in terms of new technologies to our customers. This is not an announcement of a second edition of Windows XP."
"The [US] Justice Department filed a lawsuit Thursday to block Oracle's $9.4 billion hostile takeover bid for software rival PeopleSoft, dealing what could be a lethal blow to one of tech's biggest proposed mergers," reportsUSA Today."The lawsuit, filed in US District Court in San Francisco, said the takeover would hamper competition in the $20 billion market for software sold to large business customers, leading to higher prices, less innovation and fewer choices for consumers."
Depressing quote from Sophos's monthly virus round-up: "Sophos analysed and protected against 869 new viruses in February. The total number of viruses Sophos now protects against is 88,288."
Japan's fair trade watchdog raided the Tokyo offices of Microsoft yesterday for allegedly breaching anti-monopoly laws.The Japanese fair trade commission suspects that the US software company has tried to impose restrictive contracts on Japanese computer firms wanting to license its Windows XP operating system.The raid came only weeks before regulators from the EU are due to meet in Brussels to discuss an anti-trust ruling issued against Microsoft by the European commission.Microsoft has long been dogged by such concerns: it fought a three-year court battle in the US over monopoly allegations regarding its Windows operating systems before reaching an out-of-court settlement.Microsoft has allegedly forced Japanese PC makers to agree not to take legal action against it, even if the Seattle-based company is found to be using the PC manufacturers' patented technology in its Windows software. If they do not agree to the waiver, they are prevented from pre-installing Windows, which dominates the Japanese PC market.The fair trade commission suspects the clause has been foisted on several consumer electronics companies, including Sony and Hitachi.Microsoft is likely to be ordered to remove the clause if found in breach of anti-monopoly laws.A spokeswoman for the company said it was cooperating with investigators but denied there was anything wrong with the licensing agreements, the Associated Press reported.In 1998, fair trade officials warned Microsoft Japan to stop demanding that domestic PC makers install its spreadsheet and word-processing software together. The company was also rapped for forcing PC makers to accept Internet Explorer as part of the Windows operating system in an attempt to see off competition from a rival browser.In a preliminary ruling, the European commission found the firm guilty of abusing Windows' market dominance to stifle competition for multimedia players by tying its Media Player video and music programme to the operating system.
Welcome to the NewsRoom at permachat.co.uk, the UK's premier online current affairs forum!connecting to server_Current host:Chris2Current topic:the case of whistleblower Katharine Gun has highlighted government fears about the legality of the Iraq war and shows that America was prepared to use espionage in an attempt to obtain a second UN resolution. But was Gun right to leak the information? What do you think?Pashmina:but if its givin people work stress then u can sack themHost_Chris2:I'm not sure I understandPashmina:if the noise is annoyin every1LadeezMan has entered the NewsRoomHost_Chris2:it's just an expression. you don't actually blow a whistle.Nameless:SPYING IS ESSENTIAL TO OUR SECURITYLadeezMan:hi roomPashmina:hi LadeezMan were was u last weekLadeezMan:I got a jobPashmina:ooh! How is it!Host_Chris2:welcome back LadeezMan.LadeezMan:was. I got the sack.Host_Chris2:I trust it wasn't for blowing the whistle on illegal intelligence activity!Nameless:OR TREASON FOR SHORTLadeezMan:no stealingPashmina:its not a real whislte thoGCHQop4:I'm inPashmina:you can if it is abt war becos war is wrongGCHQrec1:bingo. receivingLadeezMan:wot abt world war 2 thoPashmina:they didnt no any better back then.Bronco has entered the NewsRoomPashmina:hi broncoGCHQop4:run "Bronco"Bronco:hiGCHQrec1:sending from 18A Langley Terrace Bristol BS3 0JSBronco:how u know my addressGCHQop4:copy. A few anti-cap marches, nothing majorPashmina:who r theyGCHQop4:run "Pashmina"GCHQrec1:Bracknell Road, ChesterPashmina:hey!!!!GCHQop4:fined for affray 04/2001LadeezMan:wikkidPashmina:i didnt start it!GCHQop4:should what we're typing be appearing on the screenHost_Chris2:let's stick to the topic, people: whistleblowingGCHQrec1:shit. AbortGCHQop4 has left the NewsRoomGCHQrec1 has left the NewsRoomNameless:KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK BOYS&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
Mobile PhonesCommit to mobileAt 3GSM in Cannes, France, this week, Motorola reaffirmed its commitment to Microsoft's Windows Mobile operating system and software by unveiling a pair of new handsets aimed at the business market. Due in the second half of this   year, the MPX features a laptop-style clamshell design with a screen that can be used in either landscape or portrait mode, a Qwerty keyboard and Wi-Fi connectivity. Its partner phone, the MPX100, is a more traditionally styled, upright handset with Bluetooth and an MP3 player. Both phones feature a 1.2 megapixel camera with flash, and sport Microsoft applications such as Pocket Internet Explorer and Outlook.www.motorola.com/ukSuccessor in handAlso in Cannes, NEC showed off its e616 3G handset, which is due to go on sale next month in the UK via the 3 network. The successor to the e606, 3's first handset, the phone keeps the large clamshell design, yet sports a more contemporary silver finish. It features the video calling, video and still image capture, and video download facilities of the e606. But NEC has added Bluetooth and GPS (to enable location-based services). The phone's menu system is also significantly easier to use. NEC hopes to launch a second 3G   phone in the UK later in the year. The company is billing the candy bar style c313 as an entry-level 3G handset.www.three.co.ukCreative editsBritish mobile phone company Sendo has extended its portfolio of handsets by introducing a new mid-range camera phone. The small S600 is to launch in the European market later in the spring. Unlike many rival small devices, it has a VGA quality camera with a 5x digital zoom and creative and editing facilities. Images can be viewed on a 65k colour display. Other features include the most recent form of Java (MIDP 2.0) and polyphonic ringtones. Talk time is between two and seven hours, with standby rated at 200-450 hours.www.sendo.comCamera phonesReal notesCamera phone owners may soon be able to add handwritten notes to their photo messages via Real Eyes 3D W-Postcard software. Phone users simply write the note on plain paper and then take a picture of it. Using the software, the message can be placed anywhere on an image to create, for example, wish-you-were-here style postcards. The style and colour of the handwritten text can also be manipulated. The company demonstrated the software on phones running the Symbian operating system (as used on Nokia/ Siemens smartphones) but adds that it will work with most mobile devices.Meanwhile, a UK-based company, QinetiQ, is hoping to offer camera phone owners the opportunity of creating panoramic-style images. The images can then be displayed on the phone or printed.www.realeyes3d.comwww.qinetiq.comFirst for SagemSagem has unveiled a top-end camera phone it hopes to launch in the UK later in the spring. The myX-7 is the first of the company's devices to also offer video, as well as image capture. The phone features a 65k colour screen, Wap browser and Java MIDP 2.0. It offers standby time of up to 12 days and talk time of four hours 40 minutes. Sagem was also parading the myC-3, a curvaceous clamshell with a 65k colour screen, Wap browser and hi-fi ringtones. It doesn't, however, feature an integrated camera.www.sagem.comSmartphonesPalm senseA new smartphone that runs on the Palm operating system is being prepared for launch in Europe later this year. Manufactured by Group Sense, which has a huge presence in the Asian mobile market, the G88 combines Palm personal organiser facilities with a mobile phone in a handset with sliding keypad. The phone, which uses Palm Source's 4.1.2 operating system, features an integrated digital camera, 2.2in 65k colour screen, email and Java. It boasts 16MB Ram, 16MB Rom and a 2MB internal Flash memory card.www.gspda.comPush on the P900Following a deal with Sony Ericsson, the Canadian company Research in Motion (RIM) is to offer its innovative Blackberry email solution to owners of SE's P900 smartphone. The software has turned the Blackberry device into a surprise hit by offering a combination of always on connectivity and "push technology", which automatically senses when a server has received an email and then sends it to the device without the user having to dial up.The software, which requires the back-up of Blackberry's Enterprise Server and the Blackberry Web Client to be integrated on to the device, will be launched to enterprise and individual users later this year.www.blackberry.comStat of the week:How the UK is getting onlineAlways on:22%Free access/billing:39%Unmetered:33%Mixed access:6%(% of total subscriptions by access plan)Figures from National Statistics show the steady decline of free or billed internet access - the kinds of internet access associated with dial-up connections. "Always on" continues to grow as consumers and businesses sign up for broadband.
Un-googlingThe declining quality of Google's search results - which are being spammed by shopping sites and fake pages - is prompting people to try alternatives. One is the new Ungoogle, which used to be boring old PlanetSearch. Confusingly, it delivers results in InfoFetcher pages. A more interesting effort is Seekscan, a meta-search engine that fetches results from dozens of search sites, including Google.You can try the same search in All The Web, AltaVista, HotBot, Teoma, WiseNut and many more just by clicking the name. However, Google's biggest challenge probably comes from Yahoo's American site. Yahoo.com has stopped using Google for searches, and now sports a Google-like search box with Google-like tabs for the web, images, Yellow Pages and products. The results pages look a lot like Google's, too, with blue headers and green links. It certainly makes the changeover comfortable, though a bit more originality would have been nice. As for which site produces the best results, you can try a side-by-side comparison thanks to the Googleguy site.www.ungoogle.comwww.seekscan.comwww.yahoo.comwww.googleguy.deModelling lifeStephen Wolfram's massive book, A New Kind of Science, is available online. Wolfram pretty much interprets science in terms of the operations of cellular automata, where simple programs can lead to amazingly complex results. A seashell is a good example, though a fractal image tends to look better on a computer screen. It's an interesting idea, but Alan Turing - who wrote a paper on The Chemical Basis of Morphogenesis - would probably have knocked it off in about 1,000 fewer pages.www.wolframscience.com/nksonlinewww.stephenwolfram.comwww.swintons.net/jonathan/turing.htmSink inBored with Mars? Now you can join scientists in an interactive exploration of the deep-ocean hydrothermal vents of Magic Mountain Chimney Fields and the Earth's Ring of Fire, according to America's National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The Magic Mountain virtual site has some nice underwater   fly-throughs (swim throughs?) accessed via a false-colour map. Much of the material comes from the 2002 mission, with some from last year's. There will be another mission in the next two months.http://oceanexplorer.noaa.govAutobotsChatterbots is "A Subject Tracer Information Blog developed and created by the Virtual Private Library for monitoring chatterbots resources and sites on the internet". It's maintained by Marcus P Zillman, the creator of BotSpot, which offers a range of software robots and intelligent agents.www.chatterbots.infowww.botspot.comKnow allsA "groundbreaking new lifestyle portal" for 13-19 year olds promises the "ultimate database of web site links," starting with the Acne Support Group. If that hasn't set your heart aquiver, the clincher is that the site has been produced by the Department for Education and Skills. Topics include health, money and travel. The Need 2 Know site could also offer a temporary home to confused geeks looking for the incomparable zine, Need To Know.www.need2know.co.ukwww.ntk.netAll my bloggingIt's 1964: the Beatles have just been on the Ed Sullivan Show and taken America by storm. Naturally one of their female fans is keeping a blog... OK, not a bad idea, but the site isn't written or presented in a way that helps you imagine that it's by a real 15 year old. However, the site's motivation presumably has more to do with marketing Bruce Spizer's new book, The Beatles Are Coming! The Birth Of Beatlemania In America.www.thebeatlesarecoming.comGet offIt's very annoying when you get an incorrect London Congestion Charge penalty, parking ticket or similar notice, and it is the kind of thing that can take a while to sort out. Appealnow.com is a commercial website that reckons it can help. It lets you fill in the details online, and the resulting appeal can be "emailed, posted or even hand delivered on your behalf". The price is &#163;4.99.www.appealnow.comNew &amp; notedRobolympicswww.robolympics.netBandspottingwww.musicalmystery.comYour handwriting on screenwww.fontifier.comSix of the best:  Hotspot findersMapping Britainwww.zdnet.co.uk/specials/wifimapGlobal guidewww.jiwire.comDefinitive directorywww.wi-fihotspotlist.comFree spotswww.wi-fihotspotlist.comBy post codewww.wi-fish.coWireless node databasewww.nodedb.net
Simpler roamingWi-Fi users should now be able to use Wi-Fi hotspots in 150 countries worldwide and make low-cost voice calls from 20 countries using a single pre-paid account with just one Pin. The service, called Simplifi, is aimed at business travellers, and combines access to the networks of IDT Telecom, iPass, Connect Spot and HotSpot Hotel. Simplifi covers almost 10,000 Wi-Fi hotspots, and iPass also includes dial-up, broadband and ISDN services. A retail card is also planned.www.idt-simplifi.comCrime patternsThe emergency services in Sussex have launched a website that shows where and when crimes, accidents and other emergencies take place. Crime And Disorder Data Information Exchange (Caddie), which opened last week, maps the number of incidents by electoral ward, to avoid disclosing individual events, but can be viewed by month and by type of crime or incident. Tim Hemsley, project manager for Sussex Crime and Disorder Partnerships, says the data will be several weeks old and not specific enough to help criminals. "Sussex police works on reacting within 12 hours. We're looking at long-term trends and preventative measures." He says estate agents and insurers already take account of such data, so house prices should not be affected.www.caddie.gov.ukSecuring WindowsA strategic partnership to bring strong authentication to Windows' sign-on was announced by Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates at RSA Security's annual conference in San Francisco this week. Gates said that the two companies have made it easier to integrate RSA's SecureID tokens as a replacement for the normal password access to Windows. SecureID uses a server to generate a new password for every user every minute. The current password is held on a token carried by the user and is combined with a Pin to   allow access. Gates said the new two-stage sign-on will prevent password breaches and eliminate calls to helpdesks about forgotten passwords.www.rsasecurity.com.Net advanceThe Microsoft.net platform is "gaining ground &#91;in the UK&#93;, especially in strategic applications", according to a survey of senior IT and project managers in more than 200 private and public sector organisations conducted by Charteris plc. More than 35% of those interviewed were either using it already or planning to use it. However, about half of the organisations using .Net said a lack of skilled resources was a major challenge. Copies of the survey report are available free fromjennie.cochrane@charteris.com.Tag chokerRSA Security is taking steps to neutralise the demonised Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tags. Privacy groups and consumers have expressed concerns that this new wireless tagging technology will allow products to be tracked long after the point of sale. The RSA Blocker Tag, a technology in development, could overcome these fears by choking the RFID signal. The Blocker could be attached to the tracking RFID to block or confuse its signal and make it unreadable after the product is sold.www.rsasecurity.com/go/rfidDigital shotsHewlett-Packard Labs showed two of its digital immunological technologies at this week's RSA conference. Digital immunology aims to develop a digital equivalent to the biological immune system to fight hackers and viruses. HP's Virus Throttling tackles malware that spreads by email. Worms can send thousands of emails per second. The throttling system detects this and reduces the flow until a remedy can be found. The second defence, Active Countermeasures, innoculates the system by running a constantly updated penetration test to check for known vulnerabilities as they are discovered.www.hpl.hp.com/research/ssrc/security/id/corporateMobile LinuxLinux is now available for laptops based on the Intel Centrino wireless architecture with the release of Lindows.com Laptop Edition. The company claims this will bring down the cost of Centrino laptops, though the likely saving will only be around &#163;25, the approximate difference between pre-installed Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition and Lindows. However, it offers Linux adopters the ability to deploy implementations across servers, desktops and wireless laptops. Lindows.com is battling with Microsoft over the company name, which the Seattle company thinks is too close to Windows.www.lindows.com/lindowsos_laptop.php
This month our panel of experts includes Robin Singh, general manager for Europe, Middle East and Africa for GRIC Communications; Richard Millman, marketing director of PC World Business, Ed Macnair, head of content security for NetIQ Europe, Middle East and Africa, and John Mahon, vice president of marketing for Europe, Middle East and Africa at Tally Systems. If you have a query for our team you can send an email toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk.&#183; I recently decided to enable my personal laptop with wireless computing capabilities, hoping to take advantage of the "hotspots" that are cropping up in coffee shops all over London. After doing some research to find the most cost-effective option, I have become entangled in a web of costing structures that make mobile phone payment schemes seem black and white. Can anyone explain why wireless billing is so complicated?RS:It's complicated for several reasons. Access charges differ for each of the wireless technologies (Wi-Fi or GPRS) and most providers offer only one or the other.Individual providers have their own pricing schemes, which can vary widely and geographic coverage varies by provider. Your chosen provider may not be everywhere you require. If that's the case, your options are to pay roaming charges (expensive and often not available) or take an additional provider (two   accounts, two bills, two pricing schemes, two passwords, etc).Help is at hand: aggregating companies allow you one global wireless service, providing one clear and affordable rate for multiple access methods and a single, consolidated invoice, significantly reducing costs.Furthermore, you would have access points throughout the world, with the same advantages. Their various sales partners offer a number of different pricing and billing options, including usage-based or fixed rate.&#183; I've heard that says a lot of small businesses are suffering huge downtime because of easily fixed faults. What are some of the most common and how do I avoid them?RM:The majority of IT problems encountered by SMEs are very easy to fix, and in many cases avoidable. The most common problems include data storage, back-up, security, printer failures and log-in difficulties.Recent independent research found that SMEs are each losing up to 1% of revenue each year due to IT failure and the employee downtime which it causes - an alarming average of around &#163;6,000 per year per SME. Excessive downtime is completely unnecessary.Most problems stem from poor network maintenance, ageing hardware and inadequately skilled IT staff. My advice is that SMEs take a more structured approach to network management, carry out regular maintenance, and either provide better training  for support staff or recruit the services of an IT supplier which understands SMEs.&#183; The recent MyDoom virus led to chaos in our systems - loads of emails coming through, some pretending to be from us and therefore not getting caught by our spam filter. What can we do to prevent damage to our working time next time?EM:Email "spoofing" is the term referring to email that appears to have originated from one source when actually sent from another. MyDoom was particularly prevalent because it took this approach, and in many cases used the recipient's own name to disseminate the virus.To prevent the spread of viruses or worms that use similar social engineering techniques to MyDoom, NetIQ recommends that companies use gateway proxies for scanning and filtering email and web content entering the network. By restricting all executable code, organisations are also protected against viruses like MyDoom before traditional anti-virus vendors release anti-virus signatures.In addition, organisations should restrict access to non-business related sites and web-based email systems in the workplace, which seriously increases the risk of infection from virus.Employers need to set and enforce user policies in advance of a virus attack, as well as implement software to cut these risks to their system security.&#183; I have a small sales team out on the road using laptops and PDAs. They come to the office for our weekly meeting, but it doesn't give our IT manager enough time to update applications and anti-virus software. With the likes of MyDoom and Fast threatening to imprison the bosses of companies with unlicensed software, I need to find a practical solution.JM:You are describing "mobile client management". The best systems allow you to remotely connect to mobile devices and monitor application usage, make an inventory of all hardware and software, then match this data to purchase records to ensure license compliance.Look for a system that can automatically deploy the latest software, and is bandwidth aware, able to gear up or downs in response to users who sporadically connect to the network often over low bandwidth links.This will ensure that everyone receives the critical patch/hot-fix/application without disrupting the business.
Three years after the dotcom bust, IT budgets are starting to rise again and companies of all sizes are telling you how it will make their business bigger and better. Unfortunately, when you enquire about the real business benefits, things start to unravel. The conversation goes something like this:CEO: We are implementing a new CRM (customer relationship management) system that will greatly improve our customer service.Me: Great, how is the CRM system going to help you improve your customer service?CEO: We are putting all of our customer information onto one big database.Me: Ok. How will this database improve customer service?CEO: We will be able to handle queries more quickly.Me: Sounds good. How much quicker? And while we're on the subject, was the speed of handling customer queries one of the major problems with your customer service?CEO: Erm. How much quicker, we don't know. On customer service, we don't know. We never thought to ask them.Me: What if the speed of handling queries is not something customers are concerned with?CEO: Then I have just wasted an awful lot of money.Why has this CEO made the same mistake as countless other CEOs? Because he has treated IT as special. IT is simply an enabling technology. It is not a business solution in itself, but is the enabler of business solutions. So why do people think that IT is special?&#183;IT is still fairly new and is still poorly understood, especially by senior management;&#183;The dotcom boom (and bust) gave IT a mystical air. Consultants eulogising about the internet meant that chief executives all over the world had to make sure they treated IT as special;&#183;In recent years, many management fads were mistakenly thought to be about IT systems as opposed to IT facilitating new ways of looking at business issues;&#183;IT is expensive. There is a rationale that says the more you spend on something, the more important it must be;&#183;IT directors and consultants are often very smart people and carry enormous credibility. It is no wonder that CEOs pay so much attention to them. The truth is that most IT professionals have little business understanding. Do they know what a business model is? A cash-flow statement?&#183;IT can be a source of sustainable competitive advantage. Newsflash: almost anything in your company can be a source of competitive advantage.So how should you treat IT?IT is about making your operations more effective, whether it is sales operations, customer service operations or any other type of operations. If you treat IT as an enabler of more effective operations, the earlier conversation would go like this:CEO: We are a company that competes on quality customer service and we are just about to massively improve our customer service.Me: Really, how?CEO: We surveyed our customers and found that they hate the time it takes us to handle queries. We have re-engineered our existing processes and come up with new ones that reduce the query-handling time by 90%. In order to implement these, we needed to change our existing computer systems. After an exhaustive search, we have found a piece of software that meets our new process needs almost exactly.&#183;Russell King is an IT consultant.
Getting customers is far from easy, but retaining them is even trickier. A good newsletter, on paper or screen, can be very useful. Mike Fuller, UK marketing manager at IT integration program specialist Intersystems, is a firm advocate. "It's useful to be able to share news when it's good, or put a particular perspective onto other news," he says, shying away from the term "bad news".In fact, Fuller has worked for two companies that did not produce an internal newsletter. "They just arrived anyway, forming organically like underground newsletters," he says. "It is really important for staff to be kept informed."Staff generally want to know about the company they are working for. The difficulty is that so many people assume it is going to be simple to communicate. Fuller uses a PR company, WhiteOaks, to write his newsletter. "A third party is useful, as they'll often see opportunities and things that are of interest more clearly than you do yourself," he says.Some handle the task internally in the belief that it is easier than it actually is. Hazel Butters, proprietor of communications business Prompt PR, says she has seen too many newsletters go out to staff and clients that are "knocked together by semi-literate marketing executives with scant regard for design, readability, interest and spelling/grammatical accuracy". But what are the problems with these outpourings?"They just don't make them interesting enough. They're supposed to be newsletters, but people say they haven't got any news yet they want to put a newsletter out," Butters says. Tellingly, she believes, they don't look at what other people actually read."They don't try to make the style, pace or content anything like the newspapers or magazines people actually read. It looks like a piece of marketing collateral with an extra logo on the top. Then they say people aren't taking their newsletters seriously when they haven't taken them seriously themselves," she says.Naturally any journalist is going to echo this and will lay it on a bit thick about just how difficult it is to craft a piece of prose that will look professional and accessible. But there are a number of rules that will help   to make a publication readable:&#183;remember the "pyramid structure". The main meat of the article goes into the first paragraph, then the detail is expanded, then expanded more and so on until the end;&#183;be grammatical. This doesn't mean be starchy - it means make sure that everything is comprehensible. Starting the odd sentence with "and" won't hurt - nor will splitting the odd infinitive, but confuse the reader and you have a problem;&#183;consider whether you'd bother reading the piece you've just written in your own time. If you wouldn't, then rewrite it;&#183;bullet points are useful for clarity.Outsourcing to someone whose job is in communication is a useful option. Here the brief is crucial. If you get it wrong, the publication is bound to come out badly. Nigel Penn Simkins is the director of design company Designation. He says the best results come to customers who are prepared to listen."One of our customers is a management consultant who will often write something and we'll tell them if it isn't working. They prefer that to us printing something dull," he says.Companies should have an objective in mind. You will want to know whether your newsletter is working - and if you haven't determined what it should be doing, then you won't know.Explore the software optionsChances are many readers from smaller companies won't want to invest significantly in software to make a newsletter look professional. Programs like Quark, PageMaker and InDesign are excellent, but like a camera that costs thousands, if you don't know how to use it, you can come out with some very expensive amateur holiday snaps.It's probably better to focus on getting the content right first. Microsoft Publisher costs under £100 and enables you to perform basic page layouts. It also has some pre-loaded newsletter templates into which you can drop your logo if you have it on disk. Serif Page-Plus is even cheaper and has a number of similar options.If you are keen to use graphics - and whatever they claim, the ones that come with cheap design packages can look a little low-budget - then a program specialising in that area like CorelDraw will give your newsletter a bit of a lift.Don't forget, though, the "Kiss" principle: keep it simple and straightforward. You might be able to use 150 fonts in a single page, but the reader won't want to see more than one or two. Similarly, if you're using ClipArt, try to stick to a single style so the document has a sense of coherence.
Not so long ago, you thought it was exciting to get any email. These days, the sheer volume is at best annoying and at worst a major problem. Email is supplanting the fax, the letter and even the phone for business and, increasingly, for personal communication. Even so, a good proportion of your incoming mail is likely to be junk and/or virus-carrying messages. Time to deal with it.BasicsDevelop a rhythm for your email. Get into the habit of checking and dealing with email at the same time and in the same way each day. You should check your mailbox in the morning before you get stuck into the working day. If you have an always-on connection, you probably deal with email as soon as it arrives.The key question: "Is this a good use of my time?" How important is your mail traffic? Is an immediate reply really necessary? You should be able to respond within 24 hours, but find out what works for you - and for your business - and stick to that rhythm.You don't always need to email. If you need a discussion, why send emails back and forth when one phone call could settle the matter?Don't print out emails. It might be hard to break old habits, but it really shouldn't be necessary to print emails.   Filing, retrieving and forwarding are all better done in your computer. About the only time you can justify a hard copy is when most of the other information relating to the project is on paper and needs to be filed together.Processing mailDon't open an email more than twice. Read each message once, then respond, file it, or delete it. It's all too easy to let mail moulder in your inbox; the only emails that should linger there are those that you haven't read yet or those that require some action from you (and make sure you do get round to dealing with them). Set a follow-up tag to mark emails that you want to come back to: in Outlook, right-click on the message and select Follow-Up; in Outlook Express, just click in the tag column next to the message.Create folders for mail you must keep (separated into clients, projects, topics, whatever) and drag and drop emails there after you've read them. But don't create too many: when you need to find some filed message, you'll have too many places to look. And don't let the folders get too full: periodically go through them and winnow out anything you no longer need.Lose the old news. Email newsletters can quickly clog up your inbox when you are too busy to read them. Be brutal: every few weeks, sort your   messages by sender (click on the head of the "From" column) then look for clumps of unread newsletters. If you find more than two weeks' worth, it's time to unsubscribe. If you really must retain the newsletter, create a rule that automatically saves it to its own folder.Use your alternative email addresses to distinguish different types of mail: personal vs business, general vs private, sales vs queries, and so on. Then you can set up rules that automatically put mail into a specific folder according to the recipient address. Most ISPs and company mail systems let you have more than one email address. The different addresses may be received via a single email account, but in any case it's easy enough to set your email software to handle more than one account. So your Inbox could feature mail addressed to a number of apparently different recipients.Avoid the junkSpam is a major irritant: it takes time to download, it fills up your inbox, it takes time to find out what's legitimate email and what isn't, and it's virtually unstoppable. There are a number of strategies that will slow down the flow and make it a bit easier to deal with, however.For a start, if you have a website make sure all email references on it are encoded into a form that the spammer's address "harvesters" can't recognise. There are several ways of doing this; trywww.emailaddresses.com/mailto_encoder.htmfor one.Some web-based email services (like Yahoo Mail and Hotmail) come with built-in spam filters. The filtering in Outlook versions up to XP is pretty ineffectual though. It works by comparing the text in incoming messages with a list of words in a file called filters.txt; if it finds a match, the message gets bounced into a Junk Mail folder. But Microsoft hasn't updated the word list in years, and Outlook's option for downloading updates simply doesn't work. You might as well switch on the junk mail filter - use Tools, Organize and select Junk E-Mail - but get into the habit of editing and adding to filters.txt (right-click a message, select Junk E-Mail to add the sender to the list).Outlook 2003 is a great improvement: Click Tools, Options, Junk E-Mail and choose "low" or "high" filtering.It makes sense to cover your options by downloading one of the many anti-spam tools: see the Resources box.You can also set up some rules of your own. Look for the kind of phrases that occur in spam: get-rich-quick schemes, grandiose promises of sexual potency, various drugs. You can set the filter to direct dodgy messages to Deleted Items, or (more usefully) to a separate "Possible Spam" folder which will let you check a suspicious email at your leisure.Never follow "unsubscribe" instructions at the bottom of spam emails. These are used solely to confirm your email address actually exists and is available to receive more spam.ResourcesTips'n'tweaksAttachment Optionswww.slovaktech.com/attachmentoptions.htmMicrosoft prevents you from attaching certain types of file to messages. This free add-in lets you decide which attachments are more (or less) dangerous.Outlook Contacts Scrubberwww.teamscope.com/otherpro/freeutil.asp#scrubberA free way to cut out duplicates from your Outlook Contacts.Anti-spamSpamBayesspambayes.sourceforge.netEffective add-in for Outlook 2000 and XP that is "trained" by you to recognise email. Free.Spamcopwww.spamcop.netFree notification service - you forward spam email to Spamcop to blacklist the sender and complain to the ISP.SpamNetwww.spamnet.comFree collaborative system: use the current filter list to weed out spam, click the "block" button to notify the whole system when you find a spam message that has slipped through.SpamPalwww.spampal.comChecks incoming email against one or more lists of known spam mailers (you choose how many of these to use - more means safer but slower). Free.Free anti-virusI know of four totally free antivirus programs for Windows. All of them are well-regarded and highly effective, with regular updates of virus definitions, but these two include email scanning options as well as the usual disk and memory scanners.Avast 4 Home Editionwww.asw.cz/i_idt_153.htmlAVG Anti-Virus Systemwww.grisoft.com
Mobile phones have long been a fashion item, but if the catwalk at the 3GSM World Congress in Cannes is anything to go by, you'll soon be able to wear the phones - with little else besides. Or be able to customise your clothing by simply sending a text message.Micro-skirted models wearing communicating necklaces or funky watch phones, such as those from Seiko, drew a big audience at 3GSM, the annual get-together of the mobile industry. Among the fashionable items on the catwalk was a jacket that can change according to your mood. Feeling psychedelic? Just send a text to transmit a psychedelic image to the display panel on the jacket.There was also a sleeveless designer flak jacket that monitors the wearers' health, with a little help from VivoMetrics and IBM.Moving on to headgear, there were some attractive new Bluetooth hands-free headsets. And from i.Tech, a Hutchison company, an earpiece with a Bluetooth clip that can fix on to a lapel and is available in a range of metallic pale blue, lilac, orange, and this season's acid green. For scooter owners, there was a stylish black Motorola helmet with built-in communications, so you don't have to take your attention off the road to talk and ride.There were several smart eyewear options which looked like normal sunglasses. One from MicroOptical had a small prism in the middle, which allows you to see text projected in front of you.Another bikini-clad model wore   headgear - called a Personal Display System - made by Microvision, with a tiny visor in front of one eye to display an A4 image.A similar trick could be performed with a device the size of a cigarette lighter, which projected an image of a virtual keyboard on to a flat surface. The model demonstrated it by projecting an image on to her smooth, cellulite-free leg. Designed by VKV and manufactured by i.Tech, this is not on sale yet as the company is looking for a distributor, but Clare Barette, sales and marketing assistant at Hutchison Europe, says it will probably sell for around &#163;99. It can be used with most personal organisers or smartphones for people who want to feel they are typing on a near PC-sized keyboard.Some existing mobile accessories have mutated. The Orange Wearaphone, a strap that goes across the body like a sash, containing a mobile phone connected to the Orange network, now comes as a sleek black backpack, too. The original sash version - already available - can be operated while on a mountain bike or skiing, by pulling a cord, so the wearer does not have to stop what they are doing and get their phone out of a pocket. The backpack Wearaphone works in a similar way, except that the phone is built in to one of the front straps of the backpack.For those who are still wearing last season's combat gear, Audisoft offered a Frontline Communicator, which you wear on a belt like a heavy binocular case and has a hands-free camera and microphone that works over mobile.More discreet, perhaps, was "tingle" jewellery, which alerts you when someone is trying to get in touch by transmitting a tingling sensation to a ring, necklace or other jewellery.The fashion show, organised by Ken Blakeslee of WebMobility Ventures, which advises venture capitalists making wireless investments, also featured youth-conscious brands, such as Diesel and Nike. Diesel has produced a denim pocket that you can attach to clothing to hide an MP3 music player. It sports denim-covered push buttons. It can even be machine washed.Nike showed a jog-proof music player for those who want to stay plugged in while working up a sweat. Other models sported backpacks that can act as a mobile gateway or network connecting all the different technologies that pundits hope we will be wearing in future. Gateway products, services and software architecture used in the display included products from Sanyo, Seiko, Samsung and IXI.Blakeslee said: "Technologies like Bluetooth short-range radio mean all sorts of devices - from watches to professional cameras to pens - can be equipped to communicate with a mobile."He believes most people will carry a single mobile phone but include accessories, depending on whether they are going to work, to play sport or going out on the town.
Until three years ago, when BT launched its first broadband service, options for a small business wanting a permanent, high-speed internet connection were limited. Leased lines were (and remain) expensive, and ISDN lines were comparatively slow.Since then, broadband prices have tumbled and coverage has increased: about 80% of the country can now connect to broadband, and BT plans to make it 100% by the end of 2005.The most widely available broadband technology is asynchronous digital subscriber line (ADSL), which operates over normal telephone lines, allowing a download speed of 512 kilobits per second (kbps) - about 10 times as fast as a standard dial-up line. The upload speed - the speed at which you send information out - is slower, at 256kbps.BT has always been the market leader because it owns the local loop - the telephone wires that run between your house or business and the local exchange. Three years ago, Oftel insisted that BT unbundle the loop, allowing other providers to install their equipment and offer their own broadband services.The cost of converting exchanges has made take-up very   low. Easynet and Bulldog are the two main providers to take advantage of loop unbundling, and can offer ADSL services that differ from those offered by BT OpenWorld.Bulldog offers ADSL of up to four megabits per second (mbps), twice as fast as BT's fastest offering, while Easynet offers ADSL of up to 8mbps. Both these companies serve a limited geographical range - Easynet serves most of the major UK cities, while Bulldog only serves the London area.The two main things to look at when buying an ADSL service are speed and contention ratio. For most SMEs, a speed of 512kbps will be adequate, but if you download a lot of large files, then look at faster speeds.The contention ratio refers to the number of people you will have to share the line with. The standard contention ratio for business broadband is 20:1 - up to 20 people could be using   the line at the same time, each slowing down the connection.Most ADSL providers are reselling products offered by BT OpenWorld, so it makes some sense to use BT, particularly if it provides your voice connection.Expect to pay a monthly fee, and some providers also charge an activation fee. You may also   need to buy a modem or router.BT OpenWorld's entry-level ADSL offering, Single 500, allows you to connect a single PC, offers a download speed of 512kbps and costs &#163;29.99 a month. At the top end of its range, BT OpenWorld offers Network 2000, which costs &#163;130 a month for up to 20 computers, and has download speeds of 2mbps. It has increased security and access control. Easynet's entry-level offering costs &#163;59 a month, but has a 5:1 contention ratio.Another option is to use a business cable modem, though cable coverage is not yet as widespread as ADSL. The two biggest cable   modem providers are Telewest and NTL. NTL's pricing starts at &#163;60 a month for its 512kbps broadband service, which has a contention ratio of 15:1.Check carefully what is included in the provider's price. How much web space do you get? How many users can you connect? Are security features   included? What level of service is guaranteed?According to Mark Blowers, a senior analyst at Butler Group, advertised download speeds of 512kbps are rarely reached in practice. "If you have a website and you rely on it for sales, then these things tend to become critical," he says."You want some guarantees in the service level agreement on the type of bandwidth which would always be available to you." Some providers, for example, offer automatic ISDN back-up if the broadband connection fails.You may want to think about using synchronous digital subscriber line (SDSL), a technology that is only now starting to become available. Unlike ADSL, it has equally fast upload and download speeds, making it very useful for businesses that need to send out large files. Initially, it will be much more expensive than ADSL; prices for BT OpenWorld's Advanced SDSL product start at &#163;170 a month.One attractive option is to make your physical connection work harder by implementing a wi-fi network in the office, allowing multiple users to share bandwidth through a single broadband access point. Availability is still limited, but BT and Bulldog both offer wi-fi services.Businesses in rural areas   without ADSL or cable coverage will need to look elsewhere. Satellite is the most widely available technology. Aramiska, one of the main providers, offers a broadband service that has an installation fee of &#163;500 and costs &#163;199 a month. Although it's expensive, the contention ratio is 8:1 and you can connect an unlimited number of PCs. BT also offers a satellite service at &#163;109.99 a month for four users.For SMEs in rural areas, fixed wireless access will eventually become the most popular method of gaining broadband access. This allows high-speed data connections using radio links between an aerial located on the user's premises and a base station. BT has carried out fixed wireless pilots and expects to be able to provide a 512kbps and 1mbps wireless ADSL connection at roughly the same price as its broadband offerings.Broadband Entry Points: a comparisonAll products listed offer 512kbps download speeds and 256kbps upload. Note that the exact specifications of each offering will differ between providers.ADSLProvider and name of product:  BT OpenWorld Single 500Installation/ Activation charge:    FreeCost per month:  &#163;29.99Website:http://business.bt.com/broadband-and-internet/Provider and name of product:   BulldogInstallation/ Activation charge:   &#163;50Cost per month:   &#163;28Website:http://www.bulldogdsl.com/business/index.aspProvider and name of product:   EasynetInstallation/ Activation charge:   &#163;260Cost per month:   &#163;59Website:http://www.easynet.net/broadband/aboutbroadband.aspProvider and name of product:   Kingston RapidBizInstallation/ Activation charge:   &#163;149Cost per month:   &#163;35Website:http://www.kcom.com/eastyorkshire/business/businessinternet/internetaccess.shtmlProvider and name of product:   Pipex Xtreme Home Office 500Installation/ Activation charge:    &#163;60Cost per month:    &#163;24.95Website:http://www.pipexcommunications.net/products/adsl/Provider and name of product:   Demon  Business 500Installation/ Activation charge:   &#163;50Cost per month:   &#163;39Website:http://www.demon.net/adsl/business.htmlProvider and name of product:   ZenADSL  Office 500Installation/ Activation charge:    &#163;50Cost per month:   &#163;38Website:http://www.zenadsl.co.uk/pricing/pricing.asp#ADSLCable modemProvider and name of product:   NTLInstallation/ Activation charge:   Free until March 31st, &#163;220 afterwardsCost per month:    &#163;60Website:http://business.ntl.com/en/broadband/index.jhtmlSatelliteProvider and name of product:   BTInstallation/ Activation charge:    &#163;300, plus &#163;649 for equipmentCost per month:   &#163;59.99  (for a single user)Website:http://www.btbroadbandoffice.com/broadband/business_satellite_500_1Provider and name of product:   AramiskaInstallation/ Activation charge:   &#163;500Cost per month:   &#163;199 (for unlimited  number of users)Website:http://www.aramiska.comAll monthly prices exclude VAT
One skirmish in the battle against bureaucracy has recently been won with the introduction of new rules to make switching banks and getting a better deal less arduous for businesses.The "three-day" directive from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) came into force on December 31 2003, and sets banks targets related to the switching of current accounts for small and medium-sized enterprises. The move follows a Competition Commission probe that heavily criticised the "big four" banks for making excess profits and effectively operating a monopoly.Banks were forced to offer small businesses interest on current accounts or free banking, and timescales were set out for switching accounts, which were accepted by the OFT, and Britain's eight biggest banks - AIB Group, Bank of Ireland, Barclays, Clydesdale Bank, HSBC, LloydsTSB, Northern Bank, HBOS and Royal Bank of Scotland - have undertaken to abide by them.Now, if you want to move your business accounts, your present bank must provide your new bank with details of regular payment instructions (RPIs) within three working days of a request to switch. Your balance and payment instructions must be transferred within four days. If your bank fails to meet these deadlines it must pay you compensation. A far cry from the old days, when switching could take weeks.The move is designed to open up competition and persuade more small businesses to shop around for a better deal. The Department of Trade and Industry estimates there are 3.7 million SMEs in the UK. Of these, 83% bank with the big four and pay charges of up to &#163;1,000 a year.But if there are better deals to be had, why aren't more businesses looking for them?Inertia and apprehension would appear to be the answer, rather than loyalty. Switching accounts has in the past proved to be notoriously tricky and time consuming. A survey of 18,000 members of the Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) in 2002 (the latest figures) revealed widespread dissatisfaction with the process. Of the respondents who expressed a clear opinion, 5% had had a "positive" experience switching banks, compared with 30% who had a "negative" or "very negative" experience. A new survey is due in April and should provide an early snapshot of how successful the OFT's rules are.David Bishop of the FSB says the pressures of running a business hamper the search for a better deal. "Business owners are dealing with issues such as payroll and staffing, so shopping around for a better bank account is a low priority," he says. "Banks have taken advantage of this inertia in the past and have become too comfortable - and the level of service they offer has declined. It's only when customers have had an argument with their bank manager or received poor service that they take action."So what kind of account do you need and what should it offer? Typically, you will need a current account for everyday transactions and receipts and a demand deposit account, usually used for building up capital that won't be needed at short notice. Better interest rates, lower charges and solid support systems are the most important factors to consider.Ask any prospective bank if it offers a dedicated small business team or an individual business adviser or account manager (or personal relationship manager, in current bankspeak) who will meet you face-to-face. A business support helpline is also useful. If you find a bank that offers these services, check how much they cost before you pledge your troth. You mean you thought they were free? A dedicated "switching" team could also make your life easier.Banks make money from interest and charges and if you're not canny you can end up paying eye-watering fees. Make sure you understand how fees are levied on your account and whether there are any hidden nasties such as charges for letters sent out by the bank. Most banks charge for transactions such as stopping or returning cheques, issuing bankers' drafts and making payments. Arranging loans and overdrafts usually attract separate fees.If your business carries out a lot of transactions, you're better off paying a fixed monthly fee (typically &#163;10) rather than choosing an account that charges you for each individual electronic and paper transaction (usually around 60p for paper and 45p for electronic).Failing to check these simple fees could lead to a small but steady drain on your cashow. Some accounts allow free direct debits and standing orders for new customers. It's also vital you check if there is an overdraft facility, and if so, what it is. As with personal accounts, the penalties for unauthorised borrowing can be extortionate - typically around 30%. Check what they are, and whatever you do try to make sure you never incur them.Can you get interest on reserve cash? Does the bank offer telephone and online banking? No matter where your offices are, round-the-clock internet access to your accounts can save you valuable time trudging down to the High Street for a 10-minute meeting.If you're starting a new business, the bank you use for your personal finances might be more supportive and receptive to your ideas (providing you have a good track record) than another approached cold. However, it's important to compare at least three other accounts to ensure you get the best all-round deal, and the right balance of charges and facilities. Increasing competition means special offers and better rates, such as extended periods of free banking, but don't be dazzled by once-in-a-lifetime deals.Once you have moved, review your arrangements once a year and compare your account with as many others as possible. This is easily done using independent financial data providers such as Moneyfacts (Moneyfacts.co.uk).Pressure from the government and smaller banks such as Alliance &amp; Leicester and Abbey Business is finally making inroads into the SME banking sector, which means there has never been a better time to extract the best possible deal for your business. Now there is no excuse for not testing your bank's loyalty.Bishop adds: "We need as many players as possible to offer a wider choice and ensure a better deal for smaller companies. If we are successful in encouraging the culture of shopping around - as people are increasingly doing with their utility providers, for example - then we'll have been successful."TTS Communications is a small, Hull-based telecoms company specialising in digital surveillance equipment and wireless networking. Since its inception in 1992, it has changed banks twice. The first move was from the Yorkshire Bank to NatWest. TTS then switched from NatWest to Abbey Business (Abbey's business offshoot) last year.The firm's managing director, Trevor Wildbore, 48, says he changed banks the first time in order to enjoy a more personalised relationship with his bank's business advisers. He says: "Yorkshire Bank seemed to change its advisers very frequently - every couple of years - so it was impossible to build up a decent relationship there."Unfortunately the move took a few months, during which time a lot of standing orders went astray.TTS's recent switch from NatWest to Abbey was a happier affair. Wildbore says: "I was advised by my accountants that if we switched we would save on our charges. When it came to moving, the transfer was about as seamless as it gets. We gave the bank's switching team our details and they took over."The personal touch was a deciding factor in the choice of new bank. Wildbore adds: "Abbey has business managers I can talk to face-to-face, which is crucial for a company this size. Small businesses need all the support and help they can get. If that means switching banks, I would definitely recommend it."
It has been almost a month since the government launched its home computing initiative. The government's view, shared by partners Intel and Microsoft, is that this is a good way to get low-income earners to take receipt of a computer. You do a salary sacrifice (thus getting the Inland Revenue to contribute a bit) and lease a computer for as little as a fiver a week.That's the "straight" story, if you like - except that a number of people don't. It has come under fire for two reasons. Firstly, if you add up all the fivers that you're likely to pay, it amounts to much more than you would expect to pay for a reasonably low-spec computer. Secondly, the partner companies - the people actually providing the kit - appear to be more interested in the larger orders than in the: "There are five of us here - can we buy a computer each?" requests from smaller businesses.These are strange objections to come from the business community, which is normally financially astute. Let's take the first: under the leasing scheme, you would pay more than the purchase price. Suppose a customer asks you for financial help in buying a product. If you're an estate agent, you'll probably help find a mortgage. If you're a car dealer, you might refer someone to your financial-services arm. One thing is certain: in the majority of cases, if the customer adds up the individual payments, they will discover the total is more than the recommended retail price.Everyone accepts that funding costs money - except when something is called a "home computing initiative". Then, curiously, the complaints roll in.The second objection is that smaller companies are left out of the equation. This is true, up to a point. There are certainly partners who have focused on larger businesses, who aren't geared to serving the small customer and who - surprise, surprise - aren't ready to retool their entire business around a single scheme. There are others (Dell has made a lot of noise about this) who are happy to supply a computer to anyone through the scheme.The more you think about it, the more baffling some of the complaints are. "It's a bad deal," said one correspondent to these pages, on the grounds that it would be cheaper to pay cash for a new computer. Indeed it would, but this is aimed at people who don't have the cash and who don't want to save for two years.Sure, you have to shop around to find the right deal - and if you're happy with HCI, you still need to shop around for the right dealer - but isn't all this shopping around supposed to be second nature to business people?&#183;You can email your thoughts on the scheme toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
Deus Ex: Invisible WarPC, &#163;34.99 Ion Storm/Eidos&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Sequels to truly landmark games nearly always disappoint. By sticking too closely to the original formula, the likes of Doom 2 and Quake 2 may have sold well but were never remembered as fondly. So full marks to Warren Spector's team for reinventing rather than just revisiting this darkly futuristic world.There's a new interface, an overhaul of the graphics and a new storyline, set 20 years after the original. But it only takes a few seconds to realise this is a worthy successor to the four-year-old title still rated by many as the best PC game ever.First there's the plot, filled with twists and dubious choices as you try to unravel the conspiracies controlling your choices. Once into the action, you also appreciate the open-ended gameplay. Quests can be tackled in virtually any order and by any means, while your abilities can be upgraded by experimenting with bionic mods. Whether you increase your stealth powers, hacking abilities or physical attributes plays a major part in how you approach the game and few titles pull off this balancing act half as well.There are minor quibbles. Mission goals often show up as incomplete even when fulfilled and the inventory system seems less user-friendly. However, these are soon overlooked because, like all the best games, Invisible War cannot be put down until completed. This is grown-up gaming, proving once again that, when challenged, Spector out-thinks and out-designs any of his rivals.Mike AnderieszJames Bond 007: Everything Or NothingPS2, Xbox, GameCube, &#163;39.99 Electronic Arts&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Uber-publisher Electronic Arts has owned the James Bond licence for an eternity - but to little effect. However, maybe it's a case of fifth time lucky because James Bond 007: Everything Or Nothing is a decent game. As expected, it's a third-person action-adventure effort featuring a glorious array of gadgetry, including a Porsche Cayenne bristling with rockets, machine-guns and temporary invisibility, a tiny robot spider, a rappel gun, a laser-equipped radio-controlled car and so forth.Bond looks like Pierce Brosnan (other recognisable characters include Judi Dench, John Cleese, Richard Kiel as Jaws and Willem Dafoe as a baddie) and, at long last, moves like Bond - he can sneak up on people and incapacitate them, hide behind cover and override the slightly dodgy auto-aiming system.The plot is cliched but no more than those of the most recent Bond films. There are a couple of downsides: the game pretends to be non-linear but isn't, and the tight-in camera often leads to death from unseen enemies. But two people can play Everything Or Nothing cooperatively, or several can play with multiplayer Death Match action.Steve BoxerBaldurs Gate: Dark Alliance 2Xbox, PS2, &#163;39.99 Acclaim&#42;&#42;&#42;Baldurs Gate: Dark Alliance 2 is a hack and slash fantasy role-playing game that borrows heavily from the arcade classic Gauntlet. Players choose from one of the staples - elf, fighter, wizard etc - before entering the dungeons and getting down and dirty with the denizens. Whether it's your trusty sword or one of the numerous spells, there are plenty of ways to kill the baddies.But the addictiveness comes from the levelling-up progress. The more goblins you dispatch, the more powerful your character becomes. This opens up access to meatier weapons, juicier spells and better armour. Players can upgrade equipment in the towns, further increasing the opportunities for character development.In an age of 3D graphics, the top-down view may appear anachronistic but it allows for high detail, with the water and magic effects particularly impressive. But there is no denying the repetitive nature of the gameplay, alleviated somewhat by a splendid two-player cooperative mode even though it remains offline only. Decisions need to be made throughout and the branching storyline is superior to the original game. This is a button-bashing slash fest that remains playable despite repetitive action.Greg Howson
&#183;The MyDoom virus has, over the last few weeks, proven to be one of the fastest-spreading and most difficult to get rid of - and it may not be over yet. Off-site data back-up specialist Datafort is warning everyone that it can come back if you restore a file from a back-up and the file is infected.The company is recommending that people with networks should hold their data centrally and keep it virus checked. This way, if a virus gets into a locally held copy, then it can be restored to a slightly older but "clean" version at will.&#183;Also on the virus front, networking service specialist Novell has published research suggesting the main reason viruses continue to spread is a lack of user knowledge.In a report titled Putting UK Business at Risk, the company found that 58% of employees regularly forwarded spam (junk e-mail) without thinking, over a third were too busy to notice infected e-mails and over a third validated their companies' e-mail addresses by replying to junk mail.Novell has published guidelines including not replying to junk mail, not opening unexpected attachments and above all, training staff in what they need to know so as not to crucify your business electronically.&#183;Still on security, specialist Watchguard has found a new way of making upgrades simple while locking customers in to buying from them.The company's Firebox X product set, which can contain a firewall, anti-virus protection and content filtering among other things, are effectively part of the existing product range (although they're available separately) - customers wanting to upgrade to the new versions with extra functions will simply have to buy a software key, enter the numbers and their products will upgrade by themselves.&#183;Based in London? Well, the London Development Agency isn't satisfied with you. It seems that only 25% of London-based companies brought out new products in 2003, so it's set up an online portal, Knowledge2Innovate, which you can find atLondon-innovation.org.uk.The portal aims to keep businesses in touch with information they will need, find other members with similar needs, join online communities, find research organisations in their area and find science parks and similar resources where they might be useful.Meanwhile, businesses that wish to do more can visiti10.org.uk, which is a collaboration of 10 universities wanting to make their expertise and guidance on innovation available free of charge.&#183;Selling online? Then you might be interested to know that online catalogue specialist Actinic will now support payments from the Nochex system in version 6.14 of all of its products.Nochex works by taking the debit card number of the   account holder so there is next to no possibility of a charge back or similar mishap, and since it's debit rather than credit, the money is available as soon as it has hit your account. The Nochex facility is in addition to the other payment options within the Actinic range, all of which remain in place.&#183;Just when you thought it was safe to assume you knew about all the tape, disk and other back-up and storage media around, Iomega has started testing another.Called RRD, it's in the hands of OEMs - people who will put it into their systems - at the moment. The company's partners in making the system available include TDK, Texas Instruments and ExcelStor.Iomega's track record in the past has been impressive in establishing new storage technologies. Its Zip drive was commonplace before the writeable CD took its place in many contexts, and the new standard can take 35 gigabytes (70 when compressed) so should give writeable DVD a run for its market share and money.&#183;The problem with offering a support desk, if such a thing suits your business, is that people will insist on calling out of hours. This is why ATM Technology Management has released Support Sentinel, a package based on voice control and call routing that enables support staff to have calls forwarded to wherever they are without the customer needing to know.It costs &#163;30,000 and the company believes it will replace an outsourced call-handling service. It records a customer message digitally and forwards it once the customer hangs up, so if someone is indisposed, they don't have to respond to the call immediately.You can program it to "know" how important a call actually is. It should handle hundreds of incoming and outgoing calls per month. The catch is that it's designed to work alongside the same company's remote service application.
Lemonade TycoonJamdat, Vodafone Live in March, major network portals to follow&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Fans of PC management sims such as Railway Tycoon and Theme Park should greet the arrival of Lemonade Tycoon with a mixture of excitement and apprehension. The former because this build-a-business-empire title is a fantastic scaled-down realisation of the genre and the latter because once you've started mixing batches of lemonade, setting prices and marketing your product (all through a simple menu system), it is almost impossible to get away.The aim is to graduate from a modest lemonade stand in your front yard to the soda-selling Mecca that is the beach, by pleasing more and more punters with your carbonated wares. The challenge is perfectly balanced for management sim veterans and newcomers, and the graphics are so cute you could hug the screen. A benchmark moment for Java gaming.Andre Agassi Com2us TennisCom2Us, Orange, Vodafone and T-Mobile&#42;&#42;&#42;This isn't the first tennis game to appear on a mobile, but - like its namesake - it's one of the finest all-rounders. Choose from three shots - including groundstroke and lob - and the ball physics are good enough to create a noticeable difference. You also get a variety of court surfaces as you travel the world in the game's scaled down tournament competition. It takes a while to get used to your player's loping movement - part boxer, part Hunchback of Notre Dame - but when you do, an enjoyable knockabout is possible.
"Sony Corp said on Thursday it would delay the US and European release of an eagerly awaited handheld version of its PlayStation console until next year because it wanted more time to prepare game software. The electronics and entertainment conglomerate said the handheld video game device, PSP, would still be released in Japan this year, but some analysts also questioned that target," reportsReuters."Expectations are high for the PSP, already touted by PlayStation guru Ken Kutaragi as "the Walkman of the 21st century" for its ability to play games, movies and music."
"Microsoft said on Tuesday that Openwave Systems, a maker of software for cell phones, would begin offering a feature allowing mobile phone users to access Hotmail and MSN Messenger while on the go. The world's largest software maker said that it had joined with Openwave to jointly develop software to be featured on the smaller company's latest version of specialized software for cell phones," reportsReuters."Both companies declined to say how soon Hotmail and messaging would be available to users. They said the decision to offer such features was in the hands of wireless network operators. The new software platform, called Openwave Phone Suite V7 Platform, will be offered beginning in March."
Officials from Japan's fair trade watchdog raided the Japanese headquarters of US software giant Microsoft today on suspicion of anti-monopoly law violations.A official from Japan's fair trade commission, speaking on customary condition of anonymity, said Microsoft Japan was suspected of attaching improper restrictive conditions when signing software deals with Japanese personal computer manufacturers.These include a requirement that the Japanese companies allow infringement of their patents, the official said, but he refused to elaborate further.A spokeswoman at Microsoft Japan confirmed that the commission inspected the company's Tokyo headquarters office but denied any wrongdoing.The company was cooperating with the investigation, which involves questions about the wording on copyright and patents in the licensing agreement with Japanese manufacturers, she said.A spokesman for NEC Corp, Japan's largest computer maker, also told Reuters that commission representatives had visited its offices to ask questions about its dealings with Microsoft.Microsoft's Windows operating system software dominates computers sold and made in Japan, as it does in other parts of the world.The investigation is the latest to involve Microsoft, following accusations that it has  abused its monopoly on PC operating systems to push prices higher or harm rivals.The company is in settlement negotiations with the European commission, which says the firm abused its dominant position and curbed competition by tying its Media Player programme - used for playing music and videos - to its Windows operating system.Microsoft Japan was investigated by the fair trade commission in 1998, for packaging its internet browsing software Internet Explorer with its operating system and for pushing its word processor and spreadsheet software, Word and Excel, onto its operating system customers.That investigation was closed without ramifications.
"IBM widened its lead in the worldwide server market in 2003 at the expense of Sun Microsystems, making particular gains in the Unix server market, new figures show. Server revenue for IBM grew 10% to $14.8 billion from 2002 to 2003, outpacing the overall market's 5% growth, market research firm Gartner said Wednesday. IBM increased its share 1.7 percentage points to 32% of the $46.1 billion total market," reportsCNet."In contrast, No 3 server seller Sun saw its revenue decline 15% to $5.4 billion and its share drop 2.8 percentage points to 11.8%. No 2 seller Hewlett-Packard grew 5% to $12.5 billion."On Unix and Linux:"The overall Unix server market shrank 4% to $16.7 billion, while the Linux server market grew 90% to $2.8 billion, Gartner said. HP was the top seller of Linux servers, Gartner found, with sales that increased 60% to $927 million. IBM passed Dell for second place, with Big Blue rising 60% to $552 million and Dell rising 40% to $521 million."Comment: Interesting to see the world's biggest computer company, IBM, still gets 96.3% of its server business from non-Linux systems.
Not long ago, IT managers wanting to earn &#163;100,000 a year had to aim their CVs firmly at banks and stockbrokers. Now, if a recent spate of job ads is anything to go by, the six-figure lure is becoming de rigueur for senior IT posts in Whitehall, the NHS and even local authorities.Last week, the Department for Work and Pensions offered a "six figure package" for a strategic IT sourcing director. Guy's and St Thomas' Hospital in London advertised &#163;100,000 for a director of information technology and telecommunications. With local authority chief executives' top salaries nudging &#163;150,000, it would be strange if some council IT heads are not already pulling in more than &#163;100K.When public sector salaries start to catch the eye, the usual reaction is to hush them up. No one wants to be labelled "council fat cat of the week" in some tabloid campaign.This temptation should be resisted. First, because banks and the like are hiring again, so government bodies need to try a bit harder to attract good staff.Second, high salaries are a public affirmation that these people are doing an important job. If paying a chief information officer &#163;100,000 plus a year brings in efficiency savings and service improvements worth many times that, public bodies shouldn't be afraid to shout about it. After all, these high-paying jobs aren't about IT as much as what management consultants call outcome-oriented IT-enabled business change.This applies even to e-govern ment. One symptom is the new strings attached, reportedly at the Treasury's insistence, to central funding for online local government. The latest and final round of funding (&#163;500,000 for each authority, regardless of size or progress) is tied to councils achieving so-called "priority outcomes".Some IT managers argue that dictating what local authorities put online is at odds with the spirit of new localism, let alone with the prime minister's change of heart about targets. They are whistling in the wind - the Treasury wants its pound of flesh, and those who don't deliver will be punished.The high-paying NHS jobs involve even more pressure. Few people think that e-government will swing the outcome of the next general election. Not so the NHS National Programme for IT, especially the component with the highest political profile - electronic appointment-booking. Hospital IT chiefs will be expected not only to install these systems but ensure that doctors use them. They will also find themselves caught between their chief executives, who will expect the new systems to be paid entirely from the programme's &#163;5bn central budget and their IT suppliers, who will come up with a long list of items that hospitals have to fund.In central government, the rod on the back is the Gershon review of Whitehall. As one of Gershon's implied messages is that government departments no longer need their own IT departments, the new &#163;100K managers will be going into the post with the intention of making themselves redundant.Funny sort of fat cat.
For some, the social networking space looks like 1999 all over again. Back then, at the height of the dotcom boom, entrepreneurs and their website ideas were ten-a-penny, all promising the net would change everything. The investors piled in with their money, much of it never to be seen again.Today, social networking sites are springing up all over cyberspace,as we reported last week. Users are pouring in, tapping in their contacts lists and making connections with friends and complete strangers.The investors are piling in, too - the last few months of last year saw a number of social networks win millions in backing. In some of the biggest deals, Friendster won $13m, Tribe.net $6.3m and LinkedIn $4.7m. These are not huge sums compared with the mammoth investments of the dotcom boom, but still represent hefty bets on websites testing largely untried business models.Predictably, online dating has emerged as a popular early use of some systems - especially Friendster - but some commentators are now questioning the other uses that people will be willing to pay for. They're likening the rush of investors into the area to the dotcom boom - and are predicting a similar crash soon.The big question is: what are these social networks going to be good for?For Reginald Warlop, a London-based venture capitalist, the value is clear: one social network has already helped him   move across the world and find a new job. Warlop and his wife wanted to move to London for family reasons, but had few contacts in Britain. Without his electronic network, the move would have been far more difficult."We had a few alumni from various schools," he explains, "but I started using LinkedIn as a network to grow my contacts. It was the summer, things were slow, people weren't hiring and then it's all about insider connections."The network grew rapidly. The ability to have someone provide the introduction really helped me gain access to people that, otherwise, I'd never have access to."Warlop made contact with Julie Meyer - the dotcom-era entrepreneur who founded and is now chief executive of Ariadne Capital - but the route was not direct. Because he didn't know Meyer, he had to use his network to find someone who did.So Warlop made contact electronically, via LinkedIn, through a friend of a friend of a friend, thus benefitting from the tacit approval of the people passing on his name. As LinkedIn founder and vice president Konstantin Guericke puts it: "It's a human filter, where people put their own reputations on the line if they forward your request."It sounds a convoluted way to make a contact, but for Guericke, it is "the oldest thing in the world". He adds: "Especially as people move on in their careers, the more senior they get, the more they rely on referrals, simply because more and more people want something from you. Early on in your careers, you want things from other people. And then at some point it flips, and more people want things from you."And for Warlop, the system   worked. "Had I called a vice-chancellor cold there would have been no context, no trust," he explains. "But having the insider referral through somebody I knew suddenly made a foundation for trust. It's a much better start to the conversation."But isn't all this a kind of "old boys' network" for the 21st century? Warlop thinks not. "The old boys' network relies on everybody having a similar kind of profile," he says. But social networks are, he says, "not like the Oxbridge alumni. It's more what people have done in the past two or three years that really counts, the contacts they have established, whereas the old boys' networks might be based on an academic selection process 15 years ago, which is totally different."Mark Pincus, chief executive of Tribe Networks, says it is all about what sales people call qualified leads - the pointer that leads to someone who wants to hear your message. And, with these networks, your message can be anything: from "buy this" to "buy me"."Whether it's eBay or Amazon or Google, the business of the internet is paying to find or be found," says Pincus. "There's online dating: all you can eat leads, all you can date. Or jobs: $300 a month to Monster and it's all the resumes you can find, for as many jobs as you want. Paid leads. eBay: it's paying for a successful transaction. Google: advertisers are paying per click."The next big move, he says, will be towards filtering all those leads down into something more manageable - quality, not quantity, will be the key, whether in dating or in business. Social networks will be the giant human-powered filters that, goes the theory, supply you with something closer to what you're looking for.Pincus, who recently won funding for Tribe.com from two large US newspaper companies, perhaps unsurprisingly likens this to a new version of the newspaper classified advertisment: he calls it Classfieds 2.0. "Jdate &#91;a site for Jewish singles at jdate.com&#93; is an example of Classified 2.0," he says. "It shouldn't exist. Why? Because it only has a database of 500,000 - Match.com probably has more Jewish people than J-date. But because it's only Jewish people, you feel some sense of a targeted community that you have a context with."People are beginning to see fun, and utility, in having an online community that can be connected to people and ideas in a more permanent way. Social networks are like blogging dumbed down for the masses. Social networking allows you just to take that part of blogging that is 'give me a way to express myself and have an online identity, and let me control who it's linked to and how it's found'."Back in London, Warlop is still putting his LinkedIn network to use, using it to sound out business opportunities. Only last week, he says, he used it to gain a "tremendous insight" into a company, which helped him make a decision.But - and this is the big question for all these networks looking to justify their multimillion dollar investments - would he pay for that kind of help? "Yes, totally," he says. How much? "It really depends on the value of the introduction," he replies. "But for some you'd really be willing to pay a lot. When I was at business school, they were auctioning off dinners with vice presidents of companies for charity. Those dinners went for $500 to $1,000 - just to have dinner with a guy. These things have value, you know."Friendster:www.Friendster.comLinkedIn:www.LinkedIn.comTribe:www.Tribe.net
'It's wonderful. I love it. It's so convenient and you can fit your whole life around it." Kathron Sturrock is enthusing about the personal video recorder (PVR) she bought six months ago. The 51-year-old professional pianist bought a Sky+ digital receiver and recorder for her home in Roehampton, Surrey, in time for the Wimbledon tennis finals last summer. Like the vast majority of the 200,000 people in the UK who installed PVRs in their homes last year, Sturrock says she is very happy with it.It is almost five years since the personal video recorder appeared. The first video recorder without tape was marketed by the US company TiVo in 1999, and was immediately heralded by many television and technology experts (including the former BBC director general Greg Dyke) as a revolution in broadcasting. The TiVo was revolutionary because it contained a hard drive, similar to the one in your computer, which could digitally record up to 20 hours of television or 60 hours of radio.TiVo brought to the TV world the realisation that something happens when you switch from analogue to digital. With the iPod, converts tend to stop listening to entire albums and start to move around their music collection like promiscuous gadflies. With PVRs, something similar happens. Although viewers still tend to watch whole programmes, they begin to "time shift" programmes - viewing them at a different time to the schedule. This happens with videotape, of course, but because PVR viewers effectively create their own TV channel within the onscreen electronic programme guide (EPG) - the effect is much more pronounced.Business information group Data monitor estimates that by 2007, up to a quarter of all homes in the UK will have some kind of PVR. Forrester, the research company, estimates that half of US television viewers will have video-on-demand services or personal video recorders by then. It also believes that by then, 28% of programmes will be watched at a different time to when they are broadcast.Last week, it was all smiles as the UK's biggest satellite broadcaster unveiled its annual report. In early October, sales of PVRs suddenly hit the fast-forward button, which enabled BSkyB to announce that subscriptions to its Sky+ service had more than doubled in the run-up to Christmas, rising from 121,000 to more than 250,000 in just three months. In the same period, TiVo, the manufacturer of the software that operates the majority of US PVRs, reported it had increased its subscriber base by a third.The simple reason is that PVRs have fallen dramatically in price to a point where they can seriously compete with rival DVD recorders. In September, BSkyB stopped charging its "top-tier" customers (those that already pay for its premium sports and movie channels) a &#163;10 monthly subscription fee. In the US, PVRs have been falling further in price and basic models cost as little as $99.Today, analysts are upbeat about the PVR market and this year is shaping up to be the one that finally provides the breakthrough. Although cheap DVD recorders will far outsell Sky+ and TiVo, a stream of new products is being launched. Samsung, Toshiba, Thompson, Amstrad, and Humax have all announced PVR releases for this year. New products such as Malata's Diva, a combination of PVR, DVD recorder and internet broadband streaming device (using   the Windows Media Player) are also on the horizon. Nokia is said to be considering reviving its MediaStation project. The next generation of gaming consoles, such as the Xbox 2 and Sony PlayStation 3, are rumoured to include PVR technology, while Telewest, which already delivers both cable television and broadband, refuses to deny recent rumours that it is about to enter the PVR market.The combination of PVR technology with the PC, and internet technologies such as peer-to-peer, is also causing excitement. Microsoft already combines the PVR with the PC in its Windows XP Media Centre. "You can share your folders just like you can on Windows XP," says Paul Randal, a Windows client product manager at Microsoft. "If you have your Media Centres in a network, they can share content."Microsoft is working with South Downs College in East Sussex to install a network of Media Centre PCs. This means that every programme recorded by one Media Centre PVR can be accessed by PCs throughout the college. Take this "peer-to-peer television" out of the classroom and we have the possiblility of a new way of watching TV. Missed the latest episode of ER? No worries. Call your friends and ask them to send it to you. Want to see the latest episode of 24 before it is shown in the UK? Download it from Uncle Bob's hard drive in Florida."It's already possible to deliver real-time video services across a broadband network," says Gavin Young, chief technical officer of Bulldog, the broadband ISP that won the best consumer broadband prize at this year's Ispas. "But by using a combination of local PVRs and application-based servers, we now have a cheaper alternative to streaming. Personal video recorders with, say, a 100 GB of storage could hold large numbers of films for local playback. PVRs can learn which programmes you like and gather that content when   network usage is lower - hence making it more cost-effective."Like the Apple iPod, Sky+ has inspired an almost religious zeal in its owners. The digital set-top box gets a very positive response from customers, according to BSkyB, which sells the service to its subscribers. Sky+ costs just under &#163;200 and is just as simple to use, and although it also comes in a stylish white box, there the similarities end. For unlike the iPod, the story of Sky+ is no tale of overnight success.Rewind two years to January 2002, and Sky+ is stuttering at a paltry 31,000 subscribers, Microsoft has abandoned plans to launch a PVR, and TiVo is just months away from effectively abandoning its European service. Sales of rival recordable DVD players, meanwhile, soar. There were a few who thought the PVR had had its time.But what has become clear is that flexible television schedules suit the flexible working patterns   that are a feature of our lives. According to Decipher, UK media consultants, the PVR causes viewers to adjust their viewing habits. Most existing BSkyB viewers see it as an extension of the EPG - the on-screen menu - with which they are already familiar and "graze" for programmes they like and store them for later viewing. They then "bookmark" their favourite shows using the "series link" capability, which allows them to record every episode with one push of the remote control. Some viewers then "stack" these programmes to gorge on at a later date (like watching 24 in one go). Sports fans tend to use the PVRs fast-forward button to "compress" their viewing - creating their own highlights and watching a 90-minute football match in a fraction of that time.It is this latter habit that is causing most concern. Compressing sports programmes also means fast-forwarding through advertisements. Both BSkyB and TiVo say "ad avoidance" doesn't unduly concern them as studies show that people fast-forwarding ads still have to concentrate on them rather than making a cup of tea or changing the channel."When someone is fast forwarding, they're watching the TV and those ads as intently as you possibly can," explains Sullivan. "You get this kind of balancing effect. And when you combine that with the fact that people's total viewing hours are increasing, the impact may be negligible."This is a moot point. While it may be true that brand awareness of fastforwarded ads is the same as conventional ads, the detail is still lost. Television commercials, after all, are sophisticated media products with   carefully constructed scripts, music and soundtracks, all of which are lost on fast-forward."Our set-top boxes have a very powerful hard drive," explains Paul Entwhistle, the product and development manager of Pace. Based in Saltaire, near Bradford, Pace is the UK's leading supplier of PVRs. It builds the Sky+ as well as a PVR for the Freeview market. "The industry is beginning to realise that this can be turned into something positive in terms of targeted marketing."In the US, this has already happened. Special versions of some advertisements have proved successful as viewers are able to explore ones that interest them. For example, the ad for the recent Austin Powers movie contained the full theatre trailer, an exclusive interview with Mike Myers and a promotional video by the singer Beyonce Knowles. The thinking is that if you give your audience ads they want, they will respond in positive ways."I think broadcasters are in two minds about PVR," says Brodie Kearn, senior vice president and general manager at TiVo. "On the one hand, they are worried about losing advertisers but on the other, the value of all the timeslots goes up. With time-shifting, broadcasters get back all this extra bandwidth. There is this huge void in the middle of the night that broadcasters could begin to utilise."So is the Sky+ the iPod of television? We will have to wait and see. As the devices get cheaper and are able to store more hours of television, they could become a common feature in our homes. Once that happens, it looks like television will be revolutionised after all.
The Business Software Alliance - whose members include Apple, Adobe, Cisco Systems and Microsoft - has announced an initiative urging UK businesses to perform a software audit or "detox", hoping it will reveal any use of unlicenced software. It guarantees anonymity for any companies taking part, so long as there is no prosecution pending.But the call has not gone down well with the Corporate IT Forum, a user group representing many large firms. "The BSA's continuing claims that large numbers of organisations are not compliant is untrue and offensive. Large corporates invest significant sums on audit systems as part of good corporate governance, and part of the problem is that vendor organisations often have inefficient systems for tracking licences themselves. They are looking to move the costs of tracking to customers," says David Roberts, chief executive of the forum.The BSA is at pains to stress the benefits of auditing, claiming that firms are at risk because illegal software sometimes carry viruses, and is not supported. It says that 32% of UK firms are not licence-compliant, or do not know whether software has   been copied or downloaded illegally.Najeeb Kahn, a BSA committee member and also Adobe's licence compliance manager, says the real message is one of cultural change. "We want to encourage a culture where firms think it's wrong to have any illegal use of software, and where if anyone goes to a new job and sees illegal use, they would do something about it. People want to work with honest people: that's a competitive advantage." He also believes that many firms simply do not check to see that their licence agreements cover the total number of users.But Roberts believes the BSA is aiming at the wrong target. "They are failing to take account of the impact of moves such as outsourcing, or that international businesses will be purchasing software from different countries around the world. The BSA and its sponsor vendors should focus their efforts where there is real criminal activity, such as people who copy products."Steve Brazier, president of Canalys, a Reading-based IT consultancy, says the BSA's problem is more one of corporate denial. "It's rare that companies are unaware of the problem of illegal software. It's more that they are scared of uncovering a hornet's   nest - they would simply rather not know." Brazier also believes that the overriding perception is that the main victim is Microsoft, and this doesn't help. "Most people don't have much sympathy for Microsoft and feel little in the way of a moral obligation to help them," he says.Michael Chissick, a partner at law firm Field Fisher Waterhouse, says firms have a hard time tracking software licencing. "Software licencing has got very complicated and it may be related to the site, the user, or the level of usage, so it's rarely a simple thing to track. I advise companies not to be alarmed by the BSA: there is no legal obligation to comply. It's just essential to make sure you have a good audit system in place."But some believe the cure to piracy is to reduce the cost of software, a   view most popular where piracy is greatest - in the Asian markets. Last year, a Malaysian minister called for a boycott of legitimate software in a bid to get the software industry to reduce prices.Others suggest the software industry should get better at protecting its assets by including activation codes that are only available by phone or over the internet, as Microsoft did with Windows XP. The BSA admits that many vendors have not implemented them because they are concerned about consumer acceptance and viability of the technology.But the BSA is undeterred by its critics, and has commissioned research which it says shows that reducing piracy creates jobs. The study, which examined activity in   57 countries, predicts that a 10-point reduction in the rate of piracy over four years could generate 1.5m jobs and &#163;40bn in taxes worldwide.The BSA initiative contrasts with a more hardline approach by the UK-based Federation Against Software Theft (Fast), which intends to use the power of search warrants and police raids where necessary to enforce software copyright.Last year, 4,500 businesses took part in the BSA initiative, but it prefers not to reveal how much illegal software was identified. It will only say that the worst offending sectors were IT, construction, engineering, architecture and design industries.Few disagree that vendors need to tackle software piracy, but there remains little agreement about how best to solve the problem.
David Brent's celebrity (from the BBC's The Office) can be attributed to his character's uncomfortable familiarity to anyone who's done a 9 to 5 stint behind a desk. His attempts to be popular with staff regularly backfire and de-motivate the team.Brent's approach to management ultimately fails because he has chosen the ill-fated path of trying to marry the traditional command and control style with the more relaxed attitude to leadership favoured by younger enterprises. The upshot is that his team think he's a twit.Finding the management style that's right is a preoccupation of many companies, particularly start-ups that are beginning to recruit, or small firms that have reached a size where they begin to lose that "family" feel. Often burnt by "big company" experiences, the modern manager prefers to cultivate a relaxed working environment where fun is permitted and rules are superfluous.By building a culture of mutual trust and respect instead of coercion and fear, they hope to motivate their staff to unprecedented levels of performance and loyalty.At IT software company Alpha Landsteinar, this means offering a good range of non-traditional benefits, including nice company cars, a pool table and stereo, relaxing sofas and a monthly take-away. Most staff can choose to work from home, or from their choice of the company's four offices. There is no clock-watching either; staff start and finish when they want.The result? An exemplary staff retention record, and a workforce that voluntarily puts in long hours. "We started with just four people in 1997 and now have more than 80," says finance and marketing director Peter Lingham. "That's a rapid growth in staff, yet we've hardly lost anybody in that time and the few that have left have since come back."Employees can dress casually and if they want to take a break to play pool, no one will bat an eyelid. The chances are they'll still be found at their desk at 6pm."The founders came from bigger companies, and were fed up of the bureaucracy and politics," says Lingham. "It's easier to be flexible when you're a small company, and we've employed staff on the basis that this is how we operate."So far, this approach hasn't been abused. Our flexibility is repaid by our staff's flexibility. There's no work-to-rule culture. Consultants are happy to take responsibility for jobs that might otherwise be deemed beneath them when they're with a customer, and they don't complain if they get home late after a site visit."Everyone in the company is on first-name terms and the organisational structure is flat. "The directors have a direct line of communication with all staff, and are very open - we're always available on our mobiles or by email," Lingham says.Because the company is dispersed across four sites, it has been easy to retain a small team environment despite the increased workforce. Regular emailed newsletters ensure that everyone knows what's going on and, as a personal touch, occasions such as birthdays or the birth of a baby are marked with a message or card.Such gestures should not be underestimated. Japanese manufacturing firms, world-renowned for their efficiency, use team songs and exercises to build a team atmosphere in an otherwise monotonous working environment.But then it's possible to have enough of a good thing. "White-collar workers in Japan traditionally feel obliged to stay late, and attend all-night drinking sessions and trips away with the company to demonstrate their commitment," says Pernille Rudlin, a consultant in the cultural differences between Japanese and European businesses.But, handled properly, it can produce measurable benefits, according to Peter Riding, chairman of Video Arts, the training video company started by John Cleese (famous for comedy-based management training videos such as Meetings Bloody Meetings)."Staff today want more than pay and rations; they want to work in an environment that fits with their own values and beliefs, and today that includes having fun at work," he says. "Meanwhile, managers are beginning to realise humour in the workplace reduces barriers to change."Behaviour breeds behaviour, too. So, if staff are happy at work, they're more likely to provide a good customer experience. "If you run a company with no respect for staff, don't be surprised if your business results are directly affected," Riding warns.Motivation is particularly important where multi-skilled teams need to be cultivated. "This takes a particular kind of management," says Riding. Informality and group activities early on in the team-building process will be important, as will be the creation of an environment where staff are encouraged to admit to gaps in their knowledge.The days of the super boss are gone and, in this new multi-skilled environment, even managers need to be prepared to concede their limitations.David Skipsey, managing director of management training company Develop, has just returned from America where he observed that a preoccupation with the needs of the customer is translating into a need for a wider range of skills at even the highest level of a company.Organisations now need a balanced team of managers, he says - those who can come up with ideas, creativity and inspiration on an ongoing basis; those who can shape these ideas into business opportunities; those who can push these opportunities into production; and those who can monitor and control the resulting solutions to ensure they continue to meet the market need."Often it's the first category that's missing," he says. "Once the first spark of innovation has passed, the creativity that drives a company forward can soon be lost, especially from the top team.So what can be learnt from the exaggerated scenarios painted by The Office? "It highlights a lot of common mistakes companies make with recruitment, appraisals and so on," says Skipsey. "Companies forget that their success depends on people. This is odd given the effort that is put into controlling just about any other kind of company asset."So, relaxed or otherwise, best lesson for managers is to worry less about operational detail, and invest more energy into developing team spirit.What is a good boss made of?Business Link for London, the capital's small business support service, says a good boss will motivate and inspire confidence, creating a happy, productive workforce. As a result, the business and the staff will prosper. It offers the following dos and don'ts.What is a good boss made of?Business Link for London, the capital's small business support service, says a good boss will motivate and inspire confidence, creating a happy, productive workforce. As a result, the business and the staff will prosper. It offers the following dos and don'ts.A bad boss will:&#183;always be right;&#183;never apologise;&#183;take all the credit;&#183;blame everyone else;&#183;criticise - constantly;&#183;be secretive;&#183;over-supervise;&#183;bully others.A good boss will:&#183;motivate: explain business targets and how each staff member can play a part in achieving them;&#183;communicate: ensure lines of communication are always open. Explain changes and discuss any problems staff may have. Give regular feedback and constructive criticism;&#183;praise: people like to hear they've done the job well;&#183;acknowledge initiative: if someone has a good idea, make sure they get full credit;&#183;encourage staff development: develop, train and mentor staff;&#183;be honest and truthful: honesty is regarded as the most important attribute a boss can have;&#183;take an interest: in their work and goals and helping identify their strengths and abilities;&#183;muck in: get your hands dirty when things get busy
Industrial civilisation is based on accurate time-keeping, and the most efficient workplaces now rely on "just in time" deliveries. The problem is that real life becomes a perpetual struggle to keep on schedule, in spite of late-running trains, accidents, and all the other things that can go wrong. However, given a mobile phone, smart watch or other form of continuous communication, we can move from fixed time to fluidtime, and from rigid schedules to "progressive co-ordination"."The mobile phone changes fixed times into flows," says Michael Kieslinger. "We're moving away from clock time to a more fluid kind of time."A common example: two friends agree to meet in the city centre. They could fix a time days or weeks   beforehand. Or they could have a general time in mind - around nineish - but change the final time and place several times according to how their days are going. This may well involve making lots of phone calls that begin: "I'm on a train..."Kieslinger, who was born in Austria, came up with the idea of fluidtime while working on his master's thesis at the Royal College of Art in London. He's continuing his research as an associate professor at the Interaction Design Institute in Ivrea, Italy. Earlier this month, he took part in a joint presentation at the O'Reilly Emerging Technology Conference in San Diego, California.Micro-coordination is not just for meetings. Kieslinger thinks people should be able to get real time information about everything   from the movement of buses to when the communal washing machine is about to finish its next cycle. Both these applications are already in use at the institute. Turin buses radio in their positions to a control centre and Kieslinger's team taps into that, while a Wash&amp;Turn display tells students and teachers what the washing machine is up to. Both Java applets can be downloaded from the Fluidtime website (link below).Take the idea further and you can imagine fluidtime servers in law courts, GP surgeries, couriers and transportation companies, theatres and many other places, all making information available on the net. Anything of wide interest could be broadcast to portable devices such as the Microsoft Spot (smart personal object technology) watches already on sale in the US.A universal fluidtime system would not remove all waiting time, but it would reduce the stress that waiting produces. It would also, Kieslinger argues, enable people to make better use of their time.At the moment, for example, delivery firms can propose delivering something to your home between 10am and 6pm, and expect you to wait. In an age when drivers could not be contacted once they left the depot, that might have made sense. Now that a vehicle's position can be identified by GPS satellite positioning, and mobile phones and PCs are common, it's just incompetent.It is ironic that deliverymen, who are almost certainly using fluidtime concepts to organise their leisure activities, are being forced to provide a much inferior service when they are at work.Fluidtime websitewww.fluidtime.netFluidtime: Timing Toolshttp://conferences.oreillynet.comO'Reilly presentation slides &#91;PDF&#93;http://conferences.oreillynet.com
Broadband, as marketers are no doubt about to tell you, is about to get broader. Most connections in the UK are based on a standard called ADSL (asynchronous digital subscriber line). Be prepared for ADSL2 and ADSL2+, which are similar but faster. That's the way the technology's going to go - faster, more speed, less hasta more vista...Or is it? Interestingly, the broadband internet service provider community doesn't seem to think so. BT, for example, is reluctant to talk about selling "naked" broadband (no, nothing to do with adult websites, they just don't want to sell anything without adding value).Others agree that they want to provide more services. Then there are the unaddressed issues surrounding geographical coverage and when the UK will really be able to get at the technology.To put it another way: the broadband industry is still in its infancy, and loads of people have different ideas on where it's likely to go. The current picture is relatively clear; BT is the clear market leader in terms of the numbers of subscribers at around 65%, according to Theresa Wise, media partner at Accenture.They'll be pushing services around their broadband offering "things like application service provision (ASP)," she says. "I know everyone's been talking about it for ages but this time it's more likely to happen." ASP is a model of computing in which, instead of loading complex applications on to a computer, you log on to them from somewhere else.The possibility has been raised numerous times, but in the absence of ubiquitous broadband connections, the plumbing hasn't been there to make it happen.The main market growth, she believes, will be in the small-to-medium enterprise (SME) area. "The consumers have broadband and at the corporate end, they &#91;the ISPs&#93; are fighting each other already." In terms of services, she says that antivirus and security are already big among internet providers, and that people are making noises about "voice over internet protocol" (using the net to make calls instead of your phone, thus saving a small fortune).BT is among those who believe the small customers as well as the larger ones will want increasing amounts of services. "The first wave of broadband has happened. This was when people saw the benefit of fast access and always-on internet and they've made good use of it," says Tim Evans, marketing director of BT Business."What we're beginning to see in our own research, and that of the Department of Trade and Industry, is customers who don't see any value in that, they need a reason to do it."This is why BT and others are now declaring they don't actually want to sell a plain internet access service through broadband any more (one could of course speculate that no business actually wants to get involved in a service in which the only possible differentiator is price).Evans says 40% of his business customers now take applications as well as a connection. "It tends to be security services, firewalls and antivirus measures for example," he says. The online back-up service Datasave is also going down well with that particular community.NTL's head of SMEs, Brian Mackow-Maguire, concurs entirely with the idea that the connection-only market is unlikely to grow much. NTL's angle is different from its competitors, however, since it offers telephone services and internet rolled into one, and is poised to start waiving the connection fee under a new promotion."Telecommunications aren't in the top 10 things for most SMEs to sort out - people offer them a discount if they subscribe to a service and they don't bother because by the time they've subscribed and noted the bill they've spent more than the &#163;10 they'd have saved."Others take yet another view. Tiscali, for example, has noted that there is little on offer either in terms of price or quality aimed at the micro-business and self-employed person, and MD for small business, Stephane Huet, confirms that a tailored service will emerge shortly. Most of the target market will be using standard domestic connections at the moment."Business customers want security and they don't want contested lines," he says - contested lines being the standard domestic ADSL connection that's shared between a group of houses, so if your neighbour joins the same service your own connection slows down.By this time, readers in rural areas will be jumping up and down shouting: "What about us?" Although geographical coverage has improved, there is no doubt that just over 80% of coverage for broadband services isn't good enough if you happen to live or work somewhere that lacks it.Increasingly, local people are taking matters into their own hands. The South East England Development Agency (Seeda), for example, has funded the village of Kingsclere to be made fully wireless. The councillors had already located FDM Broadband as a supplier.There have been glitches but not many; PR executive Stephen Fleming says his office is in one of the tricky areas for reception but his connection has worked perfectly since installation three weeks ago.Steve Coppins, broadband manager for Seeda, says the difficulties have been more associated with getting permission to put the transmitters up - the one in the local church, for example, is there on a trial basis only for the moment.Nevertheless this is only one of a series of local initiatives based around wireless technology, and funding from Seeda and its counterparts is available where there is a requirement.The other approach is to offer broadband as part of a business premises service rather than in a residential village. Upton Magna Business Park is six miles to the west of Shrewsbury and opened with the installation of wireless equipment from Alvarion, whose director, Rob Mortimer, confirms the installation took a colossal two days.The company became involved after the estate agent looking to let the business premises on the site realised the lack of broadband was hampering sales. It allows the businesses moving into the site to enjoy speeds of almost four times that of a standard broadband connection. For this reason he believes that even when the premises can get a standard broadband connection they won't want it.And this is where the disagreements start. Andrew Muir, principal consultant at communications analyst Mason Communications, believes the local broadband services are a great way of getting people involved, but he suggests they will be short-lived."At the moment, they're only there because they're not subject to any competition. Usually they're funded by subsidy, so if that goes away it's difficult to see how the figures will add up." And once an area can receive broadband in the ordinary manner, there will be no need for a subsidy.Ultimately, as long as they can get it the customer is satisfied. Even when they can't, geographical coverage is improving, although you can wave whichever cynical digit you wish at the people claiming it's going to be 100% by 2005 unless BT gets a load of cash from somewhere.The difficulty facing the suppliers is that broadband is essentially plumbing for computers. The tricky bit is that the ISPs still have to compete with each other."I do wonder whether it's to do with suppliers or to do with the customer," says NTL's Mackow-Maguire. "It's probably to do with us."Curiously in the face of such an apparently confused picture, the upshot is likely to be positive for the customer.Inevitably there's going to be a whole load of marketing spiel about how good one offering is against any other, which is going to be fun and entertaining and part of the usual thrust of business.The serious and hopefully beneficial result will be an even harder push to bring broadband to areas in which it is unavailable, and an increased focus on firewalling and antivirus, so no matter what provision a business customer uses, they will be sure it's safe.The hardwareMany smaller traders and self-employed people will have a broadband connection already but they may not be prepared for ADSL2 and ADSL2+. This, explains Ian Walsh, sales and marketing director for the manufacturer Westell, will be because of the hardware issues. "eighty-eight percent of ADSL connections, particularly in the consumer area, are based on USB - we see that changing radically." Westell is among the companies offering ethernet connections, in which a computer's networking port is used rather than the generic USB port.The advantages are many, he claims: many of the routers on offer have their own firewall and will therefore offer protection against hackers. The general reliability is also better, with less degradation of signal than will be noted through a standard ADSL modem.
Half the population of the planet will be using mobile phones by the end of the next decade, according to the head of the world's largest handset manufacturer, and the industry is increasingly looking to emerging markets such as China to fuel growth.More than 1.3bn people have mobile phones today. Jorma Ollila, chairman and chief executive of Nokia, told the 3GSM World Congress yesterday that figure would balloon by 2015."Mobile communication has the potential to give access to communications to half of the world's population by 2015. This will mean roughly four billion," he said. Mobile telephony was becoming "the sixth medium", after radio, TV, print, the recording industry and the internet, he added.With most consumers in Europe already using mobiles and the US market increasingly competitive, the industry is looking to emerging markets to generate revenue growth.Network and handset manufacturers as well as operators are specially interested in China.On Tuesday night the GSM Association, which represents more than 600 mobile phone operators and 130 manufacturers worldwide, presented an award to the head of the China Mobile, which is majority owned by the Chinese government.Delegates saw the presentation as acceptance that the association needs to strengthen   its ties with the largest mobile market in the world.The association's chief executive, Rob Conway, denied there were any political motives behind the award but admitted that China is crucial to the continued growth."That next billion &#91;customers&#93; are going to come from countries like India and China," he said.Separately, Mr Ollila denied yesterday that he wants to "take over" the Symbian mobile phone software joint venture, adding that it was Psion which approached the Finnish company offering to sell its stake.
If Nokia, the world's biggest mobile handset manufacturer, is correct then by 2015 some 4bn people - well over half the world's predicted population of 7.2bn - will have a mobile phone. This compares with 1.3bn now. But, if the industry's past underestimates of the market are repeated, the figure could be even higher. Either way, this expansion will trigger huge changes in behaviour. In many cases - since mobile phones do not need extensive infrastructure or, in the case of satellite delivery, any at all - it could mean the communications revolution will reach parts of the third world in India, China and Africa before the industrial revolution has arrived.The effect on poorer countries will be disproportionate because of the extra products - up to 35 of them - now being bundled into mobiles. Many people in   richer countries opt not to use devices like calendars, calculators, radios and cameras because they have more user-friendly alternatives. For poorer people things are very different. Such extras will really count if they are already built in.Texas Instruments reckons that improved semiconductor technology will drive the price of phones with embedded cameras and with some internet access (another bonus for poor countries) down to under $50 (&#163;31). Basic phones will be even cheaper. And if someone can devise a decent solar charged battery then the problem of a global excess of discarded batteries might be avoided. When asked about the effects of the French revolution Zhou Enlai famously said it was "too soon to tell". Goodness knows what he would have said about the communications revolution.
Broadband Britain received a &#163;530m shot in the arm from the NHS last week. But the announced contract with BT did nothing to placate critics of the government's strategy, who say it will entrench BT's position.Under the contract, announced by John Hutton, minister responsible for health IT, BT will connect some 18,000 NHS hospitals, surgeries and other facilities to networks with between five and 50 times the capacity of the current NHS intranet.In an unprecedented act of joined-up IT policy-making, the network is designed to serve two purposes.First, it is a key part of the NHS's &#163;5bn systems upgrade, the National Programme for IT. The new bandwidth will allow doctors to call up multimedia electronic medical records and book appointments and tests wherever they may be, including on mobile devices.Second, the network acts as an anchor tenant to the Department for Trade and Industry's broadband aggregation project. This is the scheme under which public sector bodies, led by the NHS and schools, plug in to broadband throughout the country. This makes it worthwhile for telecom firms to upgrade their exchanges in areas where it would not be worthwhile. Businesses and private consumers will then be able to sign up to broadband accounts from those agencies.The NHS's contribution "will enable many more rural households to have access to broadband service," Hutton said.Contracts to set up the new broadband infrastructure are due to be   awarded by nine "regional aggregation bodies" by the end of this month.However, they will not directly deal with the NHS. The NHS contract, known as N3, requires BT to provide connections to NHS organisations according to a forward capacity model. BT then has to buy the cheapest bandwidth available. The NHS IT chief, Richard Granger, says that this would normally, but not always, come from the regional aggregation contractor. "In certain cases, NHS-specific links will make sense."The NHS will pay one-third the current price of broadband connectivity, Granger said. He predicts that   the &#163;530m contract will save &#163;900m over seven years. The new network will be installed from April. "Frontline NHS staff will begin to see improvements in connectivity later this year." This is in keeping with the breakneck pace of the NHS IT programme, which has placed contracts worth &#163;5bn over the past year as part of a race to demonstrate a "patient-centred" NHS by the next general election.The danger is that regional aggregation boards will not move as quickly in putting their infrastructure in place. Granger says that if there is any delay, "BT will go out and   procure ... capacity directly".Lobbyists campaigning for more broadband competition say that the scale and pace of the NHS programme, and the alliance with BT, are potentially dangerous. Andy Williams, campaign manager for pressure group Broadband 4 Britain, said the contract may do little for opening up rural areas to broadband competition. "As a taxpayer, I have no objections at all to the NHS procuring a better deal, but I'm not sure that handing half a billion pounds to BT is going to boost services in commercially unattractive areas."He is also sceptical about capacity   being made available to consumers. "Are there any guarantees that wholesale broadband services will be made available to the private sector?"BT is already the most crucial supplier to the NHS national programme. As well as N3, it has a &#163;620m contract to set up a central electronic care records service for England and a &#163;1.1bn deal to implement the new programme in London.Granger dismisses suggestions that he is over-reliant on the firm. "If you look at the amount we're already spending, it's not that different. BT is getting &#163;200m a year out of the NHS today, so our dependency hasn't increased significantly." He says his confidence is based on BT's capital strength, as well as its successful transition from a telecom to an IT services provider.Whatever happens with broadband aggregation, the NHS programme is likely to push BT to the limit. Granger says that N3 will remove boundaries between voice and data - both will travel down the same wires - and between fixed and mobile telecoms. He paints a picture of a clinician working on a handheld Wi-Fi terminal moving without interruption and without extra cost on to the national mobile network. "Maybe we'll find a use for 3G." There are also opportunities for the NHS to take advantage of community based wireless broadband, he says.Meanwhile this week, Granger was locking horns with another software giant. He met Microsoft's chief executive Steve Ballmer on Monday to try and agree new licencing terms for Windows software as Microsoft's largest customer outside the US. "We're making good progress."
Has broadband helped rejuvenate radio broadcasting?It gives you a global audience, which can be a mixed blessing. It's lovely but you can't make too much of it as people in Nova Scotia or Saskatchewan aren't paying licence fees. A lot of people tell me they listen to the show again on Monday morning. That ability to listen again via the net has helped free listeners from the mild tyranny of scheduling. My wife's anArchers nutso she always listens to the omnibus on a Sunday afternoon.Has broadband changed the way    you surf?I have the radio on while surfing. I think the "always on" facility changes the way you use the net. I used to writeQ magazines' internet columnin the early 90s so was a fairly early adopter. For the first few years "going online" was like making a phone call. Now it's piped constantly to your house and my laptop's connected all day if I'm working from home. If I could just get my wireless working!So you're giving Wi-Fi a try?Thereby hangs a tale. I'm a tech enthusiast but the past few weeks have had nothing but problems. I can't get myAirPort Extremeworking with my laptop. People keep telling me it's simple so maybe I just need to sit down for an hour with it. Wireless internet will be useful as I use the net a lot and like the idea of being able to surf from anywhere in the house.Does the success of iTunes mean the CD's days are numbered?The decision-making process as to what gets copied into your iPod takes work. It will make massive changes for the real enthusiast, although there'll still be people who buy the new Dido CD and that's enough. I don't look at my CD collection withany great pleasure as I mainly think what a lot of space it takes up! I'd be happy to have the CDs in storage as long as I could access the music.iPods?My iPod is changing the way I listen to music. I was in the Lakes with a mate and we had our iPods. We took turns to put them on random for half an hour to see what each other had. I use my iTunes all the time with the iPod although I haven't used the subscription site for downloading anything. Making themini iPodsis a clever move. I initially thought they were over-priced but there   are people who'd be happy to have 100 songs loaded up. Not everybody's like me and wants 40GB to choose from!Gadgets?I spend my life on trains so myToshiba Portable DVD playercomes in handy. I would love aGNU Media Servers, which is a box that handles your email, satellite telly and pipes Bach into the bedroom and Kylie into the bathroom.Whose email address would you like?Steve Jobs and I'd like him to explain why I can't delete any emails on my Apple mail application. I have 1,500 emails in my inbox and can't delete any.Visit:www.bbc.co.uk/radio2/shows/criticallistandwww.randomhouse.co.uk/minisites/ciderwithroadies
More than 99% of UK businesses are small, with fewer than 50 employees, according to the Department of Trade and Industry's Small Business Service. It's a big market, and one that's becoming increasingly important to the IT industry.Just like large enterprises, small businesses need to connect to their partners, and to deliver tools that help their employees work more flexibly and more efficiently. Putting together a software solution for a small business can be complex and expensive. Server software, mail solutions, and knowledge management tools can be complex to put together - as well as costing a fair bit in time and consultancy fees. You can spend ages looking for just the right tools for your business, or you can find a single box of software that contains most of what you need, which can later be expanded.If you're looking for a single box, Microsoft has recently released a new version of its Small Business Server package. Based around various components of what Microsoft now calls the Windows Server System, Small Business Server 2003 packages a mix of tools and technologies into a single installer, while adding simpler management tools to help you run your server. Designed for businesses of up to 50 seats, Small Business Server 2003 contains most of the server tools needed by a small business.The key to Small Business Server is its management tools and installation wizards. Installation is easy enough, but once you've installed the package, there's a checklist of tasks to work through before you can use the server. This is one of the more important features, as it forces you to think about what you're doing with your server, and how you intend to manage your users - and your server security.When a single server is critical to the business's success, it is important to get things right first time, and Small Business Server's checklist is a useful tool. It's also a good idea to read all the documentation on the Small Business Server website before you start to install your system.Once it has been installed, you can use Small Business Server's management consoles to finalise your set-up, and begin to manage your system. The standard management console allows you to manage the core applications, along with your network configuration. An additional tool, Server Management for Power Users, allows you to delegate common tasks to the more experienced users, delivering customised consoles that help   reduce your administrative load. You can use Small Business Server to automate backups, and to quickly restore your server after a failure. Other tools handle alerts, and deliver usage reports. While these don't substitute for a full management solution, they're enough for most day-to-day system management needs.There are two versions of Small Business server. The standard edition is priced at around &#163;400, and gives you the Windows Server 2003 platform, an Exchange email server, the SharePoint team collaboration tool, a   fax system, remote access tools and licenses for Outlook 2003. You'll need to add your own Office licences to get the most from it - as you can then use SharePoint as a document management system. If you need more features, you can purchase the more expensive premium edition, which adds Microsoft's Internet Security and Acceleration server, the SQL Server 2000 database, along with licenses for the FrontPage 2003 web page design tool. If you already have a hardware firewall, and aren't planning on building complex database applications, it's a good idea to just stick with the standard edition. For one thing, it saves more than &#163;600.Knowledge management is important in any size business, and Small Business Server comes with a basic intranet, using SharePoint Services. This is a team site, which gives you tools for sharing documents and for   delivering information to your users. You can even use your server's built-in fax tools to route faxes directly into a SharePoint library. The same tools help your remote workers, as SharePoint and Exchange's Outlook Web Access are part of Small Business Server's Remote Web Workplace. This gives staff a single point of access to all their standard services - including remote access to their desktop PCs.You don't need to be a small business to use Small Business Server. While IT consolidation means that servers tend to be held in central machine rooms, there's still a need for some form of branch office server. The premium edition of Small Business Server's mix of caching technologies and mail tools means that it is suitable for linking a small office to a corporate data centre, while minimising bandwidth on the corporate   network. It is not difficult to justify the &#163;1,000 per branch, especially if it allows you to remove expensive leased lines and replace them with a DSL solution.Another option comes from the home of a popular Linux distribution. SuSE is marketing its Openexchange server as an alternative to Microsoft's Exchange solution, but it also includes a large selection of collaboration features. You don't need to change your email tool to use Openexchange, as it uses a WebDAV/ XML connection to connect to familiar Microsoft Outlook clients, as well as offering web access to mail and calendars through standard browsers. Openexchange also gives you "public folders", which can be used to hold information that needs to be shared throughout a business. It even supports instant messaging, as well as fax and SMS.Openexchange is built on top of common open-source tools, including the Postfix mail server and the Open LDAP directory server. Other components include the Cyrus IMAP mail delivery system and Spam Assassin, a popular anti-spam tool. These help you collect and manage mail, as well as giving you tools for dealing with the perennial problem of spam. While you could download and configure any combination of these tools to build your own server, it's a lot easier to purchase SuSE's pre-configured package.Small businesses are an important and growing market, and we'll see more applications and services targeted at them throughout the year. We're already seeing traditionally enterprise-focused companies such as Oracle offering solutions tailored for smaller organisations, while open source systems are starting to offer small businesses something more substantial than a web or mail server. Small businesses can also take advantage of online services, such as Salesforce.com or NetSuite's Oracle Small Business Suite.With such a wide range of tools and services available, giving a small business a state-of-the-art IT solution has become easier.
US dealsAs the exchange rate with the dollar is so favourable, is it wise to purchase a laptop while visiting the US? I am worried about electrical compatibility and risks with post-purchase customer service.Gareth HoskinsJack Schofield replies:Most notebook computers now have auto-sensing switchable power supplies and should work correctly almost anywhere. There may be differences in the operating software and keyboard, though US and UK keyboards are almost the same. Support is a much more difficult problem. If you have to return a machine to the shop for repair, you will have to pay transport costs both ways, and the manufacturer might refuse to help you out by doing the repair locally. Even if you are willing to take a gamble on your notebook not going wrong, it would be best to buy from a multinational corporation with a global support policy. This means doing some serious research in advance.Bear in mind that if you import a notebook PC from outside the EU, you should declare it to the customs authorities, and you will probably have to pay 17.5% VAT. (Seewww.sloanefox.freeserve.co.ukfor more detailed help.) The lack of queues in the red channel at Heathrow suggests smuggling goes on, but this is not an attractive option if you are a frequent traveller and/or business user, in which case you will probably want to write the machine off as a business expense and reclaim the VAT. Only you can decide on the best course of action, but if you do a risk assessment over the notebook's four-year lifespan, you   may find that lower US retail prices are less attractive than they look.Hi-jackedI keep being pestered by something called Slawsearch taking over my home page. Can I banish it?Peter Haydn-SmithJS:This seems to be a variant of the awful scumware Cool Web Search, which appears under a range of names. It can be removed using CWShredder fromwww.spywareinfo.com. You should also runSpybot Search &amp; Destroyregularly, and perhaps installSpywareBlasterto help stop browser hi-jackers from being installed.Mail blockedBT Openworld broadband has "upgraded" me to BT Yahoo. This means my webmail is now provided byYahoo, but my workplace does not permit access to any Yahoo sites. Is there a way around this situation?Wendy TyrrellJS:In many cases, you can get round workplace restrictions by using a proxy server such asMegaproxy. Web-based mail services tend to be a challenge too far, but you could tryProxify. For the long term, think about getting your own domain name with mail forwarding. That way you can direct your email to whichever ISP or mail service you like without having to change your address. Seehttp://easily.co.ukfor an idea of the kind of things that are available from a range of suppliers.Off campusAbout 18 months ago you had an article on good value computers. One manufacturer was Campus Systems Ltd. I bought a machine from them and have been very satisfied. However, when I wanted to   pass on their details, I could no longer contact them.Jane BinyonJS:Campus Systems ceased trading last year, and the website address published with the original story no longer works. The old contact number, 0870 444 6905, is answered by Campus Technologies, a different company, which says it does not make its own PCs and only supplies the education market. The liquidation is being handled by the Till Morris Partnership in Coventry.AVGIswww.grisoft.cza genuine organisation, or should it be avoided?John HaworthJS:Grisoft produces the well-known AVG anti-virus program and I often recommend it, because there's a free version for home users. If you select English and click OK you will be taken to the more familiar US site:www.grisoft.com/us/us_index.php.Backchat&#183;People with dial-up connections can have problems keeping up with the flood of Windows updates. Stuart Dunkeld points out that Microsoft UK has now produced a free CD of security updates for Windows XP, 2000, Me and 98 up to October 15, 2003. Seehttp://www.microsoft.com/uk/security. The offer only applies in the UK, and you need a Net Passport account (eg a Hotmail address) to order the CD.&#183;To turn off the copy protection (digital rights management) system in Microsoft Windows Media Player 8, go to the Tools menu and select Options. Click the tab marked Copy Music, and untick the box marked Protect content. If you don't do this, you may be creating copy protected WMA music files from your own CDs.
A mug's gameRegarding Paul Gordon's letter about TiVo (Feedback, February 19). Only mugs buy "new and shiny" (and expensive) technology such as Sky+/TiVo when a VCR will do just as well.I have a Panasonic NV-HV60, the entry level machine, at under &#163;100. I have set it up so it gets all of its recording requests from my Sky Digibox, therefore benefiting from the ease of use afforded by Sky's Personal Planner.I pay no Sky subscription as I watch only free-to-air channels, so the whole shebang costs me nothing after the initial modest outlay. Sky+, on the other hand, would require me to have the most expensive subscription option at nearly &#163;500 a year - which does not include the cost of the box. Why be a mug when older technologies are clearly so much better value for money?Mike McLoughlinDevonPorn insulationIn August, Jack Schofield advised people to contact ICSTIS if they were having problems with premium rate lines. I recently found myself &#163;30 poorer as a result of "porn diallers". But I have been incapable of contacting them.The 0800 line published is constantly engaged, and the helpline email address raises an automatic reply telling you not to email again, and that you will hear from them in time. I am still waiting...Forgive the cynicism, but this is a regulator that has found a perfect way of regulating by insulating itself    from complaints. Either that, or the problems with premium rate line scandals has reached such epidemic proportions that it simply cannot cope with the level of complaints.Steve HaywoodPocket optionThere are even more attractions to Deutsche Bahn's excellent pan-European rail enquiry service than Anna Soderblom mentions (Web watch, February 19).  Clickpersonal timetableand you can create your own timetable for trains between any two stations in Europe, emailed to you as a PDF you can print out or as a file to view on PDAs or mobile phones.You can choose any combination of days and any interval of time. It means you can have a list of all your trains from, say, Blackheath to London Cannon Street between 07.00 and 10.00 Monday to Friday.  I've used the facility to plan business trips and holidays, so I don't have to hunt for pocket timetables in French or Italian rail stations.Alan Burkitt-GrayLondon SE3Drag and dropI've read two articles this weekend, one in the Observer Music section (on the Coke Music website) and another in the Standard's ES magazine, stating that iPod/iTunes does not support Windows Media files, suggesting you can't use music downloaded in this format on the iPod.However, I have managed to do it by copying the WMA file to a disc then reinserting the disc. It gets picked up by the iTunes software, and then I copy it to my iPod (the usual drag and drop method). It plays fine. I didn't have to export things in any particular format - iTunes did it all.I know this is a long-winded way of doing it but such articles are misleading by not making it clear that it is possible to buy files on sites such as Coke Music (where I bought the files   I did the above with) and play them on iTunes/iPod. Especially since the iTunes shop is not launching in Europe for a while.Ryan TaylorClear it upBen Cooper wrote: "They &#91;bouncebacks&#93; are spam too - sent out automatically, unwanted, and an annoyance to the recipient." (Feedback, February 19). Spam is defined as unsolicited commercial email. A bounceback is not commerical. It's not spam. That may not stop it being annoying, but it's not spam.Damian JenningsReigateKey searchDespite all the worry about Radio Frequency ID tags in terms of security and privacy, I can't wait for the day that I can go into the Search facility in Windows, type "keys", and have a paperclip tell me exactly where they are, and the date and time I put them there.Daniel Waters,St. AlbansLost in spaceIn recent Guardian letters, the subject of late-arriving emails has been aired.  In the past several months, I have been told by correspondents that they have sent me emails - which have not arrived. They have not received "failed delivery" messages. Emails sent by the same people before and after the missing items  have been received, so I don't think the explanation is a wrongly set clock, as has been suggested. It would seem they might arrive - one day in the future!I have always thought that lost mail could only happen to snail mail. Where on earth (or in space) do these messages get to? And is this more/less likely with POP3/Outlook Express as opposed to web-based emails?Stan Lawrence
