Here's a thought: how would Steve Jobs have responded if you'd walked up to the late Apple chief executive in 2008, when the App Store launched, and told him that in five years' time a mobile/social puzzle game about sweets would be so popular, it would spawn its own range of licensed socks?He'd have called security, obviously. Yet here we are in 2013, and games developer King has just announced its first licensing deal: Candy Crush Saga socks.The company is working with "premium sock designer" Happy Socks to release two pairs of socks based on its game, which has reached bona-fide craze status on Facebook, iOS and Android. The socks'll cost £8, and arepre-orderable now."The socks will be exclusively designed, not simply branded, and will reflect the quality both King and Happy Socks are known for delivering," says Happy Socks boss Mikael Söderlindh. And no, they won't get so difficult to put on after 70 days that you'll have to pay for a power-up to help.This is King's first licensing and merchandising deal. With 15m daily active players on Facebook, and more than 600 daily game-plays on iOS and Android, there's a big audience of fans to market all manner of merchandise to.Candy Crush Saga wasthe most lucrative iOS game in the worldin May, and the second most lucrative on Android, according to analytics firm App Annie. It has helped King reach more than 70m daily active players on Facebook and mobile devices across all its games.King is following an already well-trodden path with its move into merchandising. 45% ofAngry Birds-maker Rovio's revenues in 2012came from its consumer products division, for example. That's £58.5m of plush toys and other merchandise.Earlier this month, Rovio said it now had partnerships with more than 500 companies to make "consumer products", including new deals for Angry Birds-branded sweet dispensers, multivitamins, inflatables, Halloween costumes and "hydration and storage containers" (flasks and lunchboxes, right?).Cut the Rope, Talking Friends and Fruit Ninja are other popular mobile games that have spawned physical products in recent times. King may be starting with socks, but it's safe to assume Candy Crush Saga will be walking onto shelves in many more forms in the coming months.
Tablets are already big business in 2013. Analyst firm IDC claims that49.2m of them shippedin the first three months of the year alone, while rival Gartnerexpects 201.8m to be shippedfor the year as a whole.It's no surprise, then, to find plenty of app developers focusing more attention on tablets. Apple said earlier in June that it now has 375k native iPad apps available in its App Store, for example.The company's executives delight in dismissing the smaller number available on Android – "just a few hundred from those other guys" as chief executive Tim Cook put it during Apple's WWDC keynote. Yet there's a noticeable uptick in Android tablet app releases this year, while Microsoft is working hard to tempt developers onto its Windows 8 platform too.A joint report from IDC and  mobile development-platform company Appcelerator puts some numbers to the tablet apps space, suggesting that developers are "increasingly looking at tablets as the next application platform".Itssurvey of 6,046 mobile app developersfound 84% saying they expect to make apps for smartphones in the next six months, while 81% said they expect to make them for tablets – clearly there's plenty of crossover between the two camps."Where iOS and Windows are concerned, developers show roughly equal interest across form factors, with less than a 2% preferring phones to tablets in each OS," claims the report, although it notes a wider gap on Android, where 78% of developers are working on smartphones versus 66% on tablets.Anecdotally, this growing interest in tablets is something I'm hearing from developers, and the path from iPad to Android tablets is becoming a more obvious one.In games, for example, many more developers are talking about their reasons for using tools like Unity and Marmalade to make their games in the context of having Android in mind from the start – even if they still lead on iOS (this trend isn't just about tablets).But I'm also hearing more non-game developers talk about iPad as having been a great device to hone the discipline of good tablet design: gathering analytics and feedback, iterating through a few updates, and now taking all those lessons over to Android (and possibly Windows 8).Is there money to be made from tablets? Analysts think so. ABI Research's new report predicts thattablet app revenues will overtake smartphone app revenuesby 2017, claiming that the bigger screen sizes and "better user experience for gaming and reading" are the key drivers for this.That's a claim mirrored by other analysts too. In May, Juniper Research predicted that mobile content revenues – apps, plus music, video, ebooks etc –will reach $65bn by 2016thanks to "an upsurge in game, video and ebook purchases via tablet devices".Forecasts, schmorecasts, you may think. These companies are guessing numbers for a market that's still evolving all the time.To give one example, games developer Supercell – one of the first to espouse a "tablet-first" strategy – only released its first iPad game in June 2012, yet a year later it's thought to bethe biggest iOS games firm in terms of monthly revenues.Predicting who'll be on top and how much money they'll be making in 2017 is a speculative exercise at best, but the competition jostling to be in that position is becoming ever more fierce.
The government has abandoned its target of rolling out superfast broadband to 90% of the population by 2015, in a move that leaves 5m households waiting a further four years for a basic high-speed internet service.Despite promising to ignore short-term pressures whensetting out infrastructure plans, the chief secretary to the Treasury, Danny Alexander, on Thursday reset the target for bringing rural Britain into the digital age.Superfast internet will now reach 95% of the population by 2017 – 1.4m more homes than originally intended, but two years later than promised. Labour also claimed that the budget for connecting the most isolated homes had been cut by £50m. Superfast broadband is accessible to nearly two-thirds of the UK currently, but government support is needed to reach the final third in difficult-to-reach parts of the UK where telecoms operators will struggle to make a profit on their investment.The project, first announced in December 2010, will have taken up to seven years to complete. For the final 5%, Alexander said the government would "work closely with industry to ensure that at least 99% have access to superfast broadband" by 2018, whether through fixed or wireless networks, or 4G mobile phone masts. The delay means four more years in limbo for the 2.4 million people who cannot currently get basic broadband, hampering home working and access to taxpayer-funded services such as BBC iPlayer.The public money spent on broadband is just a fraction of the more than £40bn in taxpayer funds committed to high-speed rail. A total of £1.2bn has been earmarked so far from central and local government budgets, and Alexander has now committed a further £250m.However, this is less than the £300m – from BBC licence fee savings – originally earmarked for the second wave of digital investment in 2010. Labour claimed this meant the original commitment had been cut by £50m, while a government spokeswoman said the remaining money was still in the pot."This is the third time the government has moved the goalposts," said the shadow minister for media and communications Helen Goodman. "They are trying to make it look like a golden fleece, when they've made a pig's ear."The coalition's record on building Britain's digital infrastructure took a hit earlier this week, when George Osborne's project to spend £150m building high-speed fibre networks in "super-connected cities" was torn up and replaced with avoucher schemefor small businesses.Alexander gave no update on a widely trailed reorganisation of Broadband Delivery UK (BDUK), the team of civil servants charged with commissioning companies to build rural networks. BDUK has been widely criticised for handing all the contracts to BT, while hampering the efforts of smaller broadband companies to invest in community networks.Further delays were caused when the European commission took time to approve the process, amid fears it would simply extend BT's monopoly.There have been suggestions the BDUK team could be reorganised along the lines of Locog, the 2012 Olympic organising committee, which was set up as a private company, hired staff with private-sector expertise and took advice from business leaders.Locog's chief executive, Lord Deighton, has been tasked with speeding up the delivery of infrastructure projects. The report published on Thursday stated that BDUK "will be given greater operational freedom and an enhanced delivery focus, and will be equipped with the commercial skills it needs to deliver a broadband programme that will now extend to at least 2017".Dana Tobak, managing director of the fibre internet company Hyperoptic, called for a shakeup of the rural broadband process. She said: "The government's indication that it will work more closely with industry to innovate in this area is a step in the right direction, but will certainly require looking beyond just the dominant industry players and the same old solutions."• This article was amended on 28 June 2013
This August, a consortium of Japanese scientists, engineers and advertising bigwigs will send a talking robot into space. The robot will be namedKirobo, and its mission will be to communicate directly with astronauts onboard the International Space Station.The moral of this, clearly, is that Japanese consortiums need to watch more films. Rule No1 of almost every science-fiction film ever made is that you should never put a talking robot in space. Never.2001: A Space Odysseyput a talking robot in space, and it ended up trying to kill everyone.Alienput a talking robot in space, and it ended up freaking out and puking milk everywhere.Star Warsput a talking robot in space, and it just stood around talking to a dustbin all day. Putting a talking robot in space is a very bad idea, especially if – as is the case with Kirobo – the robot looks like a sinister little Chucky doll.But, as overwhelmingly creepy as Kirobo obviously is, at least his existence represents progress. If this had happened 15 years ago, the astronauts onboard would have been sent a Tamagotchi for company, and then they would have had to live with the inevitable guilt of killing it after forgetting to pat it on the head every 15 minutes. Ten years ago, they would have been sent a Sony AIBOrobot dog, which would have just wandered around being all expensive and useless. And at least this was a Japanese idea. God knows what Britain would have sent up. A Mr Potato Head, probably.Now, though, the residents of the ISS will have Kirobo for company, a robot that can learn through its communication with humans, possibly ushering in a new golden age of human-robot interaction. We're already becoming increasingly reliant on robots in warfare and as the global population ages it is expected that robots will play a bigger and bigger part in healthcare, from robot pets thataid dementia patientstofull-on robot nurses. Using robots for communication and companionship might easily be the next step. If the Kirobo experiment turns out to be a success, we might be closer than ever to seeing a real-life Johnny 5, or a robot police officer as seen inMac and C.H.E.E.S.E. from Friends(a thought further explored in JJ Abrams'upcoming sci-fi show, Almost Human, which partners a human cop (Karl Urban) with a life-like android with feelings (Michael Ealy). At the very least, we're all surely destined to have Rocky IV-style robot butlers before too long.So maybe, on reflection, Kirobo is a good thing. Sure, he might go haywire, invent Skynet and doom humanity to an eternity of miserable slavery, but at least he'll be doing it 200 miles or so above the Earth. To the astronauts who will have to spend the next few months alone in a claustrophobic tin with Kirobo, and Kirobo's unblinking eyes, and Kirobo's grasping little hands, and Kirobo's creepy little red lips, thanks for taking this one for the team.
Is there a seamless replacement for Google Reader? Thanks as always!Dave NullGoogle plans to close Google Reader on July 1, but it is too soon to say which news reader will replace it… if any. Some of the contenders are either too new to judge, still in beta testing, or have yet to launch. Google's odd withdrawal from this market has created a surge of interest and prompted several rivals to jump into the gap.The newcomers include AOL, Digg, Facebook and (via the purchase of Pulse) LinkedIn. If you already use one of these services, you might well be happy using its news reader, otherwise known as anRSS(really simple syndication) reader. Under the circumstances, it does seem surprising that Google is shutting down Google Reader rather than integrating it into its Google Plus (G+) social network.Possible replacementsA seamless replacement for Google Reader would have at least five characteristics….• It would provide the same selection of RSS feeds, ideally by importing anOPMLfile exported from Google Reader (via Google Takeout).• It should have roughly the same appearance and, more importantly, use the same familiar keyboard shortcuts.• It should be usable across multiple platforms, including the web, smartphones and tablets. (Obviously, stories marked as read on one device should not appear as unread stories on another device.)• It should provide a way for stories to be shared socially, eg via email or Twitter.• Google Reader was free, so there should at least be a free version.Since all five points are obvious, you'd think there would be lots of options, but there aren't.The Old Readeris fairly close and supports many of the same shortcuts. It doesn't offer mobile apps or browser extensions, but some are available from third parties. Also, it doesn't offer the third-party sharing options you had with Google Reader. Still, it could be an acceptable short-term solution to the disappearance of Google Reader, though it may not be the best long-term solution.In the absence of a seamless Google Reader replacement,Feedlyseems to be picking up most of its old customers and many new ones: it now has more than 12 million users.Feedly looks something like Google Reader if you use the 'titles' view to list stories. As well as its website, Feedly offers Apple iOS and Android smartphone apps, plus Google Chrome, Safari and Firefox browser extensions. On the negative side, not all the keyboard shortcuts are the same, andnot everyone is happy [link contains swearing]with Feedly's user interface, especially on apps.If you don't like Feedly,Newsbluris probably your best bet. In a Twitter vote atReplaceReader.com, Newsblur (560 tweets) was only a little behind Feedly (625 tweets), and well ahead of Bloglovin (154 tweets), which is from the company that now owns Digg. Newsblur's drawback is that it costs $24 a year, but there is a free version pre-populated with feeds so you can see if you like it.Otherwise,Digg Readerlooks promising, so watch out for the reviews.Of course, not everyone was happy with Google Reader, and you may want to try something that doesn't just clone the former market leader.News with picturesNowadays, there seem to be two types of news reader, whether you apply the term to the software or to the type of user. First, there are news geeks who want to process a lot of news stories as efficiently as possible: these were the core of the Google Reader audience.Second, there are people who want a visual presentation of stories – something more like a newspaper or magazine.FlipboardandZiteare probably the best-known examples, and it looks as though Facebook's reader will follow this line. Facebook's founder, Mark Zuckerberg, said he wanted Facebook to be "the best personalised newspaper in the world".With this kind of approach, users don't really need to know anything about RSS or the feeds that may form part of the "hidden plumbing". For example,Buzzegooffers "pre-tuned" selections to suit users with typical interests. Examples include Tech Geek, Deep Thinker, Domestic Diva, and so on, though it has now added an "I'm from Google Reader" button to import people's existing feeds.You may be familiar with the"long tail"idea that journalist Chris Anderson turned into abookin 2006. Well, reading stories that are displayed according to how popular they are (in terms of hits) is completely different from using Google Reader to find stories buried in the long tail. Which would you prefer?Perhaps magazine-style news apps will become the main way people find and read news stories, without any visible connection to RSS. Perhaps this type of news consumption will increasingly be embedded in websites such as AOL, Digg, Facebook, and so on. Perhaps we should be less concerned about Google Reader and more interested in how the way people get their news is changing….A long time ago, for example, I "consumed" RSS feeds via email. Today, I'm using theProtopagewebsite to collect RSS feeds from popular technology sites such as ZDNet, CNET, Ars Technica, Wired and so on. Protopage gotzero votes (tweets)as a replacement for Google Reader, but it doesn't need to fulfill that role, because I have so many other sources of news. This includesTechmemefor popular tech stories.In fact, the stories I used to find via RSS feeds are now easier to find on Twitter, Reddit, Hacker News or even LinkedIn. No doubt other people are still getting stories from FriendFeed, Metafilter, Digg and Slashdot. It's no longer worth the time needed to follow tens or even hundreds of RSS feeds when you can follow a handful of people who are reading those feeds and sharing the best stories.I can understand why keen RSS readers feel betrayed by Google, but perhaps it's just recognising that the world has moved on.
Amazon has launched its AutoRip music service in the UK, converting CD, vinyl and cassette albums that people have bought from its site since 1999 into MP3 files for those customers to stream or download.The UK launch followsAutoRip's debut in the US in January 2013, and hot on the heels of its release in France, Germany and Italy earlier this week. Amazon has struck deals with major and independent music labels to make more than 350k albums available through AutoRip.From today, customers logging on to Amazon's Cloud Player music-locker service will find any album they've bought from Amazon since 1999 in their locker – as long as it's one of the 350k licensed albums.The music can be downloaded as 256Kbps MP3 files, or streamed from Amazon's servers to computers, smartphones and tablets, including iOS and Android devices as well as Amazon's Kindle Fire tablets."In the US, customer feedback has been overwhelmingly positive, both in terms of direct feedback to us and social media posts," Amazon's vice president for digital music Steve Boom told The Guardian, ahead of the UK launch."It's a simple, easy-to-understand proposition, and it's also been a great introduction for our customers to the digital services that we have to offer."That's why Amazon doesn't charge for AutoRip: the company's strategy is about encouraging people who still buy all their music on physical formats like CD to start using its Cloud Player, to which they can also upload songs stored on their computers.According to music industry body the BPI,69.6% of albums sold in the UK in 2012were CDs, vinyl and other physical formats, with 30.4% sold as downloads. The singles market, by contrast, was 97.2% digital in 2012."AutoRip is a gentle bridge between the two worlds, that's the way we think about it. People can experience digital music while still in the comfort of their existing purchasing behaviour," said Boom."They can get the best of both worlds. A lot of people still like having that physical product. They like to collect, or they like the album art and liner notes that aren't as good in digital."Cloud Player is free to use in its basic form, with space for up to 250 songs, although AutoRip albums and MP3s purchased from Amazon don't count against that total. The Premium version of Cloud Player, which costs £21.99 a year and offers space for 250,000 songs.It competes against similar services from Apple and Google. Apple's iTunes Match costs £21.99 a year and has space for up to 25k songs, with purchases from its iTunes downloads store not counting against the total. The Google Play music locker is free, with space for up to 20k songs.None of these companies have published figures on how many people are paying for their music cloud-lockers, however.Amazon's Boom said that the music industry has been keen to back AutoRip, recognising the benefits of giving people digital files of the music they've already bought in physical formats, rather than trying to sell it to them all over again."We wish we could have done this many years ago, but we weren't able to: we couldn't have gotten the rights [from labels] several years ago, so things have changed," he said."One reason is that AutoRip is adding value back to owning an album. The digital business is very track-focused, and not as much album-focused. Artists like this because it encourages people to buy the whole album."While Amazon's Cloud Player enables customers to stream their music collection to various devices without downloading the files, the company does not yet have a Spotify-style on-demand music service offering unlimited access to songs that they don't already own."Ownership is always going to be important for a large customer segment, but there are changes: the rise of streaming services is undeniable, and they provide really good services," said Boom."There is no indication that access will replace ownership any time soon. Access will become more and more important, ownership will continue to be important, and some people will do both. People listen and enjoy music in a myriad of ways."
You may well have heard of the Internet of Things, a conceptfirst named by Kevin Ashton of MIT in 1999, in which separate objects fitted with the relevant sensors can be formed into useful information networks. A common example is the idea of an intelligent home, where switching on your bedside lamp in the morning will inform the coffee maker downstairs to start percolating. On a wider scale, we also talk about Smart Cities, in which infrastructures speak to each other, allowing, say, the organic management of vehicular traffic flow. All very interesting and all quite serious and functional.Last year, the MIT Technology Review designated 2013 the year of the Internet of Things, and in response theWatershed arts venuein Bristol announced itsPlayable City Award. Working in conjunction with the council as well as local universities and tech businesses, the venue invited ideas on how the urban environment could be explored by residents and visitors in a more game-like way.The winning entry was Hello Lamp Post byPAN Studio. This fascinating project encourages visitors and residents to communicate with street furniture like lamp posts, post boxes and bus stops by using the repair numbers found on these objects as SMS codes. Participants simply text the relevant number to a central server thereby 'waking up' the object, which will then ask a series of questions via text messaging. The next person to 'sign in' with that object can learn about previous replies, and the idea is, regular 'conversations' with the same objects will allow players to learn lots of stories about the hidden lives of the city's population."We are a generation of designers for whom the internet of things is impossible to ignore," says PAN co-founder, Ben Barker. "We understand that objects are often the visible element in far more complex systems, whether that'sBergs Little Printeror a bin that know when it's full. We came to Hello Lamp Post knowing that all the 'things' were already in place, our challenge was to build a network, one that united all these smart systems for a more human outcome."The team spent the early months of the project thinking about memory and city, and how we build our own psychogeographies of familiar environments. "Personally I was inspired by Austerlitz, a novel by Seabald in which the city was a walkable version of the protagonists brain," says Barker. "We became obsessed with how we put these memories back in the real world, how do we unite the physicality of the city and the stories we tell about it?"In all our conversations we were keen to avoid making an application that would limit who could play. Using SMS and the codes on objects we could avoid GPS and make it accessible to all. By making it open to everyone, all players needed was an interest in the stories of others."The technology behind Hello Lamp Post is relatively straightforward. A web server runs the backend, talkingTwilio, a cloud communications platform. "Twilio is great," says co-developer, Tom Armitage. "It handles turning text into SMS, and sending incoming SMSes to our web server. Most of our development effort is going into parsing what the player says. Without spoiling too much of the magic, the trick here is not trying to be too clever. Natural language processing is a huge and complex domain, and still very difficult to do right. So rather than being too sophisticated, we're instead focusing on making sure the objects are always saying something that makes sense, and using content and tone to shape the conversations."In essence, it's sort of a cross between a chat forum and an Artificial Intelligence conversation system – but one that can be accessed through sending text messages to a manhole cover. The idea evolved over several months of planning. "Our process is one of continual prototyping and slow evolution," says Armitage. "We've always had the basic idea of what a conversation should feel like - but it's turned out to be the details of the implementation that are most important. So we'll explore what a conversation might feel like, first with pen and paper – drawing up flowcharts, sample dialogue - and once we have some logic laid out, we'll code it up and see what it feels like when it's in your hand, on a small screen - and we see what all the edge cases we hadn't thought about lead to! And then we'll iterate on that."For Armitage, Hello Lamp Post is a way of claiming back the term 'Smart Cities' from the big corporations and infrastructure organisations who tend to use it while marketing their own platforms – IBM's Smarter Planet initiative being a prime example. But cities have always been shaped by their inhabitants as much as by government, commerce and real estate, and local areas become invested with local stories that exist beyond official histories. Hello Lamp Post is exploring that side of things – and it is part of wave of activity in this area."It's exciting to see lots of great thought going on around alternate versions of the Smart City," says Armitage. "And it's thought that really focuses on all the other elements that make up a city - not just its technology. Dan Hill, CEO of Fabrica (and formerly Arup and Sitra) hasa great recent blogpost on this. The work of New York-based designer Adam Greenfield also explores designing not only for networked cities, but also network citizens."There's a long tradition of technology reshaping the city by harnessing its citizens – services like Foursquare or Dodgeball, games like MogiMogi, even cycle hire platforms like Vélib. These all alter and improve the city through technology and people. We're taking some of that DNA and then investing the city with some personality."The idea of harnessing cities as playful spaces is an attractive one, especially when it's about concentrating attention, not on the big buildings and official tourist attractions, but on the little objects that get overlooked. Games have been using city environments for many years, and we're seeing a huge rise in experiences like2.8 Hours Later, a team-based zombie chase game that has visited several cities in the UK. Meanwhile, the dawn of location-based and augmented reality gaming will offer up entirely new collisions between meatspace, game space and player.For now, Hello Lamp Post is a simple and inclusive introduction to the idea of the Internet of Things, which won't require a cutting edge Smartphone or Google Glasses. It is also preparing us for a future in which the stuff that surrounds us, from TVs to toasters to tube trains, will be networked and communicative. The game says that a part of this weird future will be investing something of ourselves, something human, in inanimate objects."Personality is a subtle but often under-used design element," says Armitage. "Berg's Little Printer doesn't just have a face because it looks cute; it's because the whole product has a kind of personality. It's not pretending to be human, but it's more than just a device. When you unpack it, you name it; the whole language of the product becomes a dialogue between it and the user. And it really changes how you engage with the device."We're hoping that by encouraging people to engage in conversation with objects, to put themselves in their shoes, rather than just complete tasks or score points, we might be able to more effectively alter their perspective of their city – to change how they see it."Hello Lamp Post runs throughout Bristol from 19 July to 8 September. You can find out more at the Watershed site,here.
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamJuniper Networks finds mobile threats continue rampant growth as attackers become more entrepreneurial &gt;&gt; Juniper NetworksAttackers are maximizing their return on investment by focusing 92 percent of all MTC detected threats at Android, which has a commanding share of the global smartphone market. According to analyst firm Canalys, Android devices accounted for 67.7% of all smartphones shipped in 2012 and is projected to ship more than 1bn smartphones in 2017. Attackers are also leveraging loosely regulated third-party app marketplaces to distribute malware and more quickly get threats on the market.96% of Android devices are vulnerable to the versions of malware that makes up 77% of Android threats. The shift towards "money-making malware" (through premium SMS) suggests that mobile malware writers are rapidly evolving.British Airways to relax rules on electronic devices &gt;&gt; BBC NewsBritish Airways is to become the first European airline to let passengers switch on their mobile phones and other devices just after landing.From 1 July, once an aircraft has got off the runway people can power up their electronics, rather than having to wait until it has stopped.Still have to keep them turned off for takeoff until you've reached 10,000 feet, though. Explanation not forthcoming.Microsoft Build: No Moscone mojo on Apple's and Google's turf &gt;&gt; InfoWorldPaul Krill:The big news was at transformation of Bing to a platform for application and Web developers for much more ban its traditional text search. New APIs allow analytics and parsing of images, geographic data, and natural language, with Siri-like voice recognition and Google-like human-language translation. The Bing platform should let apps become the eyes, ears, and even mouth of apps, said Pradeep Singh Pall, director of the Bing effort, in a way that could compete strongly with Google's similar technology vision and Apple's Siri-centric APIs. It will be intesting to see whether and how Siri uses the Bing APIs now that iOS 7 and OS X Mavericks will use Bing for Siri search.Microsoft shows us it can listen, but is the BUILD developer audience listening? &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintMark Prigg is in San Francisco:Microsoft's Build conference is an unashamedly developer event, unlike the others which also try to pander to the invited consumer press. Here, it seems the keynote is almost a bit of a delay for people who really want to get to their technical sessions. Even as people enter the vast hall, it's a slow, steady walk rather than the hilarious "running of the nerds" that marks the start of Apple's keynotes when people are finally let in."There definitely isn't the level of enthusiasm you'd see at Apple - for instance, when Apple announced auto updating apps, I thought the roof was going to come off," Carolina Milanesi of Gartner tells us. "Here, it's far quieter, and there just isn't the same energy in the room. It's about work, and about developers learning new things in the sessions, and that's why people come."Helpfully, they get a free Surface Pro and Acer Iconia too.Pandora to Pink Floyd: you're liars &gt;&gt; Business InsiderOn Monday, we wrote up Pink Floyd's in-print reunionblasting Pandora's initiativeto alter the royalty rate it pays songwriters and accusing the company of sending out misleading information about the effort.Now Pandora has responded, sending out the following statement saying they're the ones lying.Well, Pandora puts it more like "mistaken", but clearly neither side is delighted. Pandora just can't keep out of the news...Pandora paid over $1,300 for 1 million plays, not $16.89 &gt;&gt; the understatementWHAT DID PANDORA PAY &amp; WHAT DID THE BAND GET?Step 1. Lowery and his royalty reports clearly state he only owns 40% of the songwriting. As he says, this means the total fee to the songwriters was $16.89 x 2.5, or $42.23.Step 2. Songwriters actually only get about 43.5% of the songwriting/publishing rights. The publisher and the songwriters split the fee 50/50 after the rights administrator's (BMI in this case) operating expenses, which appears to be about 13%. So the full songwriting/publishing fee was in fact about $97.Step 3. Pandora also pays a separate royalty for the performance itself, distinct from the songwriting. In 2012, that royalty was $0.0011 per streamed song.2 For 1,159,000 plays, that works out to a total performance royalty of $1,274.90.After the administrator SoundExchange takes its fee of 5.3%, the performance royalty is split, with 50% going to the recording owner (i.e. record company), 45% to the band/performer, and 5% to any session/backup musicians. So the band in this case received $543.30 for their performance.Conclusion. By this math:Pandora paid a total of about $1,370. The band received a total of about $585.So (department of corrections) it's more than we thought. But if they had sold a million copies of the song - or even 100,000 copies - then it would be a stack more (probably around $100,000 in total?). Streaming is the low-paid future.Wimbledon tennis balls travel over 50,000 miles to arrive at centre court &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukAnd then, of course, only get used for up to nine games. The infographic that goes with it is actually, for once, informative.Big Apple, bigger Google &gt;&gt; WSJGoogle has passed Apple as the most valuable technology company in the world -- on one measure.The search giant eclipsed the iPhone maker last week, actually. Few would have noticed because the metric by which Google jumped ahead isn't the widely-watched one of market capitalization. Here Apple is still well ahead, with a market cap of $378bn versus Google's $286bn.But the market caps of both companies are swelled by their huge bank accounts. Strip out Apple's $145bn of net cash as of March, and Google's $45bn. This leaves an enterprise value of $233bn for Apple, but $241bn for Google, reflecting the underlying value of the companies' actual operations.Worth pondering. (Thanks @pedgington for the link.)No Safe Browsing for Android &gt;&gt; Unofficial Google BlogGoogle says that1 billion peopleuse the Safe Browsing service in Chrome, Firefox and Safari to protect against phishing and malware. "Approximately one billion people use Google Safe Browsing. We help tens of millions of people every week protect themselves from harm by showing warnings to users of Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox and Apple Safari when they attempt to navigate to websites that would steal their personal information or install software designed to take over their computers."Unfortunately, almost no Android user is protected by this service.Nor on iOS, though apparently it once was.Mysterious Motorola X phone picture pops up, testing as the XT1056 on Sprint's LTEThe Motorola X phone seems to be fast approaching, and the latest rumor is for unveiling 1 August. What we've heard so far is that it will have around 4.7-in 720p display, 1.7 GHz Snapdragon chipset, 2GB of RAM and 16GB of system memory, and focus will be on the accompanying features rather than the hardware.Now we just got sent a picture of a Motorola XT1056 device being tested on Sprint's 4G LTE network, that our source believes is the mysterious Motorola X phone, and the same one thatalready passed the innards of the FCC, tipped to be a Sprint variant of the AT&amp;T's XFON that sports "5G" Wi-Fi and NFC.This is the one that will allegedly know when it's in a car, be able to unlock through a pill you swallow, and so on. So yes, features, not hardware. (This won't stop zillions of blogging sites getting wound up about the hardware, though.)FSFE compliance workshop discovers GPL violation by FANTEC, Welte wins in court &gt;&gt; Free Software FoundationFANTEC was using the netfilter/iptables software (firewalling software for GNU/Linux) in one of the FANTEC 3DFHDL firmwares offered online. They distributed the firmware without complete corresponding source code as required by the GNU General Public License, version 2 (GPLv2) that governs the netfilter/iptables software. Attempts to resolve this issue failed, after which Harald Welte, one of the copyright holders of iptables, decided to go to court. The court decided that FANTEC acted negligently: they would have had to ensure to distribute the software under the conditions of the GPLv2. The court made explicit that it is insufficient for FANTEC to rely on the assurance of license compliance of their suppliers. FANTEC itself is required to ascertain that no rights of third parties are violated.The GPL hasn't been tested in court many times, but has a good track record when it is.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Thursday.
This weekCharles ArthurmeetsVictor Henningco-founder and CEO ofMendeleythe academic and research focused online network.  Mendeley was recently purchased by the publisher of the Lancet,Reed Elsevierand Victor discusses the advantages offered by the historic science publisher for Mendeley the online upstart.In her latest 'Email from Abroad'Aleks Krotoskimuses on the consequences of globe trotting whilst relying on Google Now to suggest where to eat, what to do and who to meet.Also we have a tech news roundup includingGoogle's latest run in with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission over their purchase of the app Wazeand why a roamingeco-tractor at Glastonbury will be bringing 4G gifts.
How do you follow a game like Batman: Arkham City? RockSteady's superb 2011 open-world adventure has to rank as easily the best game starring the Dark Knight that's ever been made. In it players didn't just control Batman, they became him; over the course of Arkham City, players beat down bad guys, sifted through clues, spread fear into the hearts of evil-doers and deployed an arsenal of hi-tech gadgets in their quest to outfox Gotham's most colourful villains.The game's plot was on a level of that of the comics containing Batman's classic adventures – Killing Joke, The Long Halloween, Hush – and all of it was underpinned by absolutely sublime mechanics.So the task facing Warner Bros Montreal is to essentially improve on the best Batman game ever made. To that end, they've pretty much kept everything from Arkham City and Arkham Asylum that made RockSteady's two Batman games critical and commercial hits, and added new enemies, new gadgets, new environments and a new plot.This is probably why, when I sat down at its controls at this year's E3 expo, the experience of playing Batman: Arkham Origins felt so familiar. Full disclosure: I clocked up around 169 hours on Arkham City between its month of release and the end of 2011. I'm not exactly proud of this fact, but I can say that it stands me in good stead for any future entries in the Batman: Arkham series, especially if its new caretakers in Montreal are going to follow RockSteady's gameplay template so closely.The core mechanics in Arkham Origins are exactly the same as those in Arkham City. In combat, the face buttons are attack (square/X), block (triangle/Y), cape flick (circle/B) and jump (X/A). Batman can daze his enemies briefly using a cape flick, and this allows him to launch into a sustained beat down using the attack button. The key to success in the combat is to get into a rhythm where Batman flows between his enemies without being hit. Each successful attack adds to the in-fight multiplier and allows the player to deploy limb and weapon-breaking moves. They can also use gadgets, such as the Batarangs and the Bat Claw.Movement throughout the open world environment is also exactly the same, although Batman can now fast-travel between different areas in the map using the Bat Wing jet. By tapping R1 (or RB) players can deploy the Bat Claw, which allows Batman to zip up to roof level. They can use his cape to glide between buildings and extend his glide by briefly plummeting earthward and pulling out of the dive, soaring skyward.Predator maps are conquered in the same way they were in Arkham City; Batman arrives in a room filled with armed thugs and proceeds to clear it out using stealth attacks and staying out of sight.So what's changed? Well, Warner Bros Montreal has added a couple of new features and challenges that set its game slightly apart from its predecessors. First off, there are the new enemies: the armoured Enforcer and the nimble Martial Arts Expert. The former is a gigantic tank that needs to be dazed and then de-armoured by a special attack before they can be hurt at all. The latter is able to block, evade and counterattack, prompting players to deploy numerous blocks to prevent Batman's flow from being broken up. Both new enemies add a dimension to the combat that's both immediately challenging and potentially frustrating.Inspect the gadgetsAlong with the new enemies, Batman has a couple of new gadgets. At crime scenes, Batman can use a remote link to the Bat Computer in conjunction with his Detective Vision to build 3D VR representations of the events leading up to crime scenes. In the example I was given access to, Batman was able to chart the trajectory of a helicopter crash and discover that it was caused by a bullet taking out its rear propeller. After ascertaining that fact, he was able to follow the original path of the bullet, and while he couldn't uncover it point of origin, the fact that it was banked off a water tower gave him the identity of the person who'd fired it: Deadshot.Players also have a new gadget to help Batman take down goons in Predator maps: the Remote Claw. This is a device players aim at two targets – a pair of thugs, say, or a thug and fire-extinguisher – and, once they fire it, it latches onto its quarries and slams them both together. It can also be deployed between fixed points on the map – two gargoyles, for example – to produce a tightrope. The developers are still tweaking this gadget's use ahead of the final build of the game – and rightly so, because it's currently ridiculously overpowered and makes Predator maps too easy to beat.The main draw of Origins, though, is its plot. As the title would suggest, the story is set during the early part of Batman's vigilante career and in it, the caped crusader runs into many of the villains in his rogue's gallery for the first time. It's Christmas Eve and one of Gotham's prominent criminals, Black Mask, has had a bellyful of the Dark Knight, who has been an active menace to the city's underworld for about a year. So, Black Mask has placed a $50m bounty on Batman's head for one night and one night only, which has attracted pretty much every assassin and bounty hunter to Gotham to have a crack at him.In the meantime, those criminals who don't fancy the idea of attacking Batman directly, have decided to use the fact that he's otherwise distracted to embark on a citywide crime spree. So Batman essentially has three problems to deal with; he has to find Black Mask and get him to rescind the bounty, he has to stop Gotham's criminals from tearing the city apart and he has to avoid getting killed by one of the numerous costumed psychopaths on his trail.It sounds like a busy night, and yes, it structure sounds familiar of that to Batman: Arkham City, in which the main plot only constituted a meaty part of the tasks that the player needed to complete. In spite of the fact that very little about Batman: Arkham Origins strikes me as innovative, I still can't wait to play it. This game may be standing on the shoulders of a giant, but that doesn't make the prospect of donning Batman's cape and cowl any less appealing …
In any other messaging app, you'd think it was a bug in the software. Moments after you send or receive a photograph or video clip on Snapchat, it disappears – permanently. Yet this&nbsp;simple twist on picture-messaging has made Snapchat a phenomenon.Just over two years ago, Evan Spiegel was presenting the idea of a self-destructing message service to his classmates at Stanford University. They hated it, but in September 2011 he dropped out to launch it as an iPhone app with a fellow student, Bobby Murphy. Now more than 200m snaps are being sent every day around the world, compared with 40m on Instagram. In February, Snapchat raised a chunk of investment that valued the company at around $60m. Now, it has raised a chunk more,valuing it at $800m. Most flattering, the service has beenripped off – but not replaced – by Facebook.Why would so many people, mostly teenagers, want to be able to send one another photos and videos that nobody else will ever see? I think you know why. The exchange of sexually explicit messages has been popular for as long as it's been possible, but sadly so has humiliating people later with the evidence. Snapchat at last provides sexting with a prophylactic.The company denies this. "I'm not convinced that the whole sexting thing is as big as the media makes it out to be,"Spiegel has said. "I just don't know people who do that." He may be right. It is the nature of the app that no one knows how it is generally being used.Although of course Snapchat's guarantee of privacy isn't quite a guarantee. The recipient can photograph the screen with a different camera – or use the smartphone itself to take a screenshot, but then the sender is told they have done so. And if you're determined enough, old imagescan often be recoveredanyway. This may support Spiegel's point, in fact. If teenagers know about this, which they surely do, would millions of them really be using Snapchat for sex? Perhaps most of it is merely embarrassing, rather than explicit.The app's true appeal may be something more fundamental. Smartphone and social media users know the addictive buzz of a fresh message. Making it ephemeral and secretive intensifies the buzz. Dennis Phelps of IVP, one of Snapchat's new investors, said: "The temporary nature of the photo or video often creates a sense of excitement and an urgency of consumption that is rare in this era of information overload." After the mild era of texts and 'Likes', perhaps Snapchat is the hard stuff.
The most lucrative mobile games in the world right now are the work of independent developers rather than big publishers, according to the analytics companies tracking app store revenues.One of them, App Annie, has justpublished its global chartsof the most downloaded and highest-earning mobile games on iOS and Android for May 2013.It claims that UK firm King's Candy Crush Saga was the top iOS game by monthly revenue, knocking Japanese company GungHo Online's Puzzle &amp; Dragons down to second spot.Finnish developer Supercell's Clash of Clans and Hay Day games took third and fourth places, while Electronic Arts' The Simpsons: Tapped Out rounded out the top five.On Android's Google Play store, Puzzle &amp; Dragons made the most money globally in May – this, despite only being available in a few countries – ahead of Candy Crush Saga, then three games (Cookie Run, Fives and Windrunner) made for South Korean mobile social network Kakao.App Annie also broke down estimated revenues by publisher for both platforms, claiming that Supercell made most mobile-games money on iOS in May from its two games, followed by GungHo from its 11 titles – although the vast majority of its revenues come from Puzzle &amp; Dragons – and King with its three games.EA is the only publisher from the traditional games industry to appear in the top 10 chart for iOS, in fourth place ahead of Gree, Kabam, Storm8, Gameloft, DeNA and Line.On Android, GungHo made the most money in May according to App Annie, with the chart dominated by developers from South Korea (CJ E&amp;M, WeMade, Devsisters) and Japan (Line, DeNA, Colopl and Gree). King (eighth) and EA (ninth) were the only two Western publishers to make the top 10.The figures can be compared torival analytics company Distimo's estimates for May 2013, although its charts covered all apps, not just games.That company claimed that the five top revenue-generating iOS apps in May were all games, though: Puzzle &amp; Dragons, Candy Crush Saga, Clash of Clans, Hay Day and Kabam's The Hobbit: Kingdoms of Middle-earth.Puzzle &amp; Dragons was the most lucrative Android app in May according to Distimo, ahead of Line, Line Wind Runner, Pride and Candy Crush Saga.How much money are the publishers behind the most popular games making? Some have announced figures in recent months.Supercell's two games generated $179min the first quarter of 2013, whilePuzzle &amp; Dragons made $113m for GungHoin April alone, after generating $303m in the first three months of 2013.
The Federal Trade Commission has written to search engines operating in the US warning them to "clearly and prominently" distinguish advertising from "natural" search results, saying that over the past decade it has seen companies beginning to mix the two.Theletter(PDF) has been sent to the three largest US search engines – Google, Yahoo and Microsoft's Bing - and also to AOL, Blekko, DuckDuckGo and 17 other specialist search engines for shopping, travel, and local business which display adverts to users.The FTC, set up to protect US consumers' interests, does not name any search engine company in particular as having breached its rules. But it warns the companies that "consumers ordinarily expect that natural search results are included and ranked based on relevance to a search query, not based on payment from a third party. Including or ranking a search result in whole or in part based on payment is a form of advertising. To avoid the potential for deception, consumers should be able to easily distinguish a natural search result from advertising that a search engine delivers."It says in the past year, the tendency for search engines to put adverts immediately above "natural" results – as Google and others do – has led more than half of users not to recognise them as adverts. In a survey, nearly half of searchers said the background shading for adverts was white – exactly the opposite of the correct answer, where paid ads above "natural" results are distinguished on almost all search engines by having a non-white background shading. Paid adverts on the right of natural search results have a white background on Google, Bing and Yahoo.The FTC also says that general search engines which offer specialised services such as news, images, local business or shopping where companies pay to appear should make it clear that they are effectively advertising – and that failing to label them as such would constitute "deceptive practice".According to the research company eMarketer, Google is the US's most-used search engine, and raked in 73.8% of the $17.3bn (£11.3bn) that was spent on search advertising in 2012 – leaving just $4.5bn for rivals, most of which would have been taken by Yahoo and Bing.Last year, Google shifted its Shopping search so that it only includes paid listings. The Shopping listings are presented on a panel with a white background – the same as "natural" search results – and with grey text saying "sponsored" at the top right. Above that is a light-shaded panel with a paid ad.Google said in a statement to the Reuters news agency that clear labelling and disclosure of paid search were important and "we've always strived to do that as our products have evolved."The FTC in Januarycompleted a two-year examination of Google's behaviour in the presentation of search resultsto see whether it was unfairly favouring its own products such as Maps, YouTube and Shopping. It decided there was no basis to act.
"Even in San Francisco, a dude wearing Google Glass looks like a dick," a friend observed on Facebook last weekend. That neatly sums up one of the barriers to wearable technology and all that it implies: are we ready to get so intimate with technology that we're prepared to wear it?Justin Rattner, Intel's chief technology officer, says we should "approach these things from the point of view of what technology needs to be invented and made production-worthy, as opposed to a great idea for a pair of glasses".While Google Glass is a proof-of-concept device, it points the way to a paradigm that will become increasingly part of our lives. In effect, Google Glass is a personal digital assistant that you wear – taking photographs, pointing the way to the pub where you're meeting a friend, overlaying the view of an unfamiliar city with an augmented reality layer of information about the shops, hotels, places to eat, transport options and cultural attractions – is in many ways a clumsy first step into a world that, like it or not, is going to collect, use and exploit the data we all generate all day long.If you believe the vision of the future enthusiastically set out by Intel at its annual Research event in San Francisco, data is going to play a much bigger part in our lives via technology that we wear and which is connected not only to the web, but to other devices.Rattner has a point: existing wearable tech devices, such as Google Glass and thePebble watch, are interesting riffs on devices we already have. But Intel and its team of futurologists and anthropologists have a vision of a world where the technology is not an adjunct (as the mobile phone or the tablet is now) but embedded in our lives, generating and mining data in a way that's functional and useful to us.Viewed through Intel's crystal ball, in the future we'll have devices that second-guess us, or make intelligent connections on our behalf. One narrative constructed to exemplify this is that of a glossy middle-class thirtysomething woman, whose personal device deduces from her existing music collection that she would like another band that's coming to town, and proactively buys tickets for a forthcoming gig – calculating that the tickets are already selling like hot cakes, so if she isn't pleased with the decision to snap them up, those tickets will find a willing buyer.Creepy? Perhaps. But it's also a logical extension of things we already take for granted, such as the way Amazon makes recommendations based on our previous purchases that can be surprisingly useful (or stupid – the algorithm can't distinguish a One Direction CD bought for a teenage niece from one's taste in general).Intel's story goes on to suggest a further chapter in the narrative of the woman whose device has bought gig tickets: it realises that the gig is in a town that's a little difficult to reach, so it mines the connections between her friends and comes up with a suggestion to connect with a friend of a friend who could give her a lift to the gig. Again, that seems unsettling, yet is just a logical extrapolation of the connections Facebook already uses when it suggests we "friend" people we have in common with our existing Facebook friends. (It's also similar to some of the scenarios that Bill Gates was setting out as long as 2000, when heunveiled Microsoft's cloud-based .Net vision.)At the moment, the benefit from the data we create every day flows largely in favour of the companies who use it to serve us adverts based on the demographic profile we give them. But Steve Brown, Intel's futurist, says it's "the individual [who] should benefit – it's your data".He explains: "That data is valuable to you because it's personal, private, and can be used to give you useful services. So what are the ways we could give people to control their own data stored on their devices? How can we empower them to have negotiations with that service provider?"In a world where we increasingly actively generate data about ourselves – by geotagging, by uploading images to social media services, by collecting information about how many steps we take each day or how far we run or ride a bike, or about our sleep patterns – we should be able to negotiate the value of that data with the people who want to use it, says Brown.That's in addition to the data passively generated by our actions – the trail of "digital breadcrumbs" we leave behind us every day as we send texts, pick up our emails, check in with Facebook or Foursquare.The data we actively create feeds into the notion of the quantified self: how we collect information to find out more about ourselves, or to define ourselves through the digital stories we tell via our tweets, status updates, Instagram posts and measurements of our fitness.Sean Koehl, another Intel person with the slightly uncomfortable job title of "evangelist", described the benefit he found in wearing three different sensors for a week recently. They measured his heart rate, the number of steps he took and his "galvanic skin response" – a measure of stress which, he says is "essentially a lie detector".When he meditated, the sensor revealed – as you'd expect – that the output went from a "jagged, rough response to a low, smooth curve representing relaxation". But he was surprised to see the same relaxed profile output from the sensor when he went for a run – and when he listened to the 90s trip-hop band Portishead."I realised that different activities produced a relaxed state in me that I hadn't considered as a way to relax," he said – and so he learned something about himself.Datasets that reveal things about the world we live in aren't new, though – it's the technology implementations of them that are more recent. Genevieve Bell, an anthropologist by training who moved to Intel in 1998, points out that the Domesday Book can be seen as just another dataset which helped William the Conqueror quantify exactly what he'd conquered. His aim, though, was to work out how to use what he'd conquered to raise money via taxation.So datasets – whether a meticulous record of who owned which strip of land and how much it was worth, or a collection of how many runs you've done in the past six months – are part of our lives, and we generate more of them every day.The point, says Bell, is to ask "what sense-making activity are you putting on that data?" That's the question that technologies – whether they're wearable, or whether they're measuring something or telling the world something about ourselves – are starting to grapple with. And it's by getting intimate with technology – or more intimate – that we might start to learn more about ourselves.
"The first interesting event is five minutes 46 seconds in. Someone says the word 'bastard' so straightaway the game has gone to a 12 certificate in my mind. Then at eight minutes and 28 seconds, Lara gets eaten by a wolf…"I'm sitting with Jack Davies a games examiner at the Video Standards Council. Jack Davies is not his real name: apparently, if I use that, he'll be inundated with questions and complaints about previous Pegi ratings – and with only three dedicated game examiners here, that's the last thing he needs. He's picked Tomb Raider to show me the process the organisation goes through to rate games. Lara Croft's gruesome demise at the mouth of a lupine aggressor has just earned the game a Pegi 16 certificate. But there is more controversial fare to come.Video game certification has always been a hot topic . From the very first BBFC rated title – the 1986 adventure Dracula – to the temporary banning of violent racer Carmageddon to the GTA: San Andreas 'Hot Coffee' scandal, gaming content has troubled censors, politicians and free speech campaigners the world over. Earlier this week, the Australian Classification Board announced that it hadrefused to grant the violent gangster romp Saint's Row IV a release license, effectively banning it in the country. The product was censored for its celebration of illicit drug use as well as "visual depictions of implied sexual violence which are not justified by context". Could something similar happen to this or any other controversial game in Britain?Housed within an unremarkable modern office block, at the edge of a small business park in Borehamwood, the VSC was set up in 1989 to ensure that the film industry was abiding by the 1984 video recordings act. In 1993, however, it approached the UK games trade body ELSPA to suggest a voluntary ratings system for entertainment software in Britain. Then in 2001, a meeting of ratings boards throughout Europe led to the introduction of Pegi, the system that now controls the age rating of retail games in 31 countries around the continent. The VSC is one of two administrators, alongside NICAM in Holland, charged with carrying out the ratings process. Although the BBFC originally also examined games in the UK, the dual system was considered too confusing, and the Digital Recordings Act of 2010, enlisted Pegi as the sole arbiter of games classification.Throughout Europe, Pegi is recognised as the standard rating for games, and in certain countries (including the UK and Netherlands) all titles are legally required to display a rating on their packaging. To submit their games for certification, publishers must become a member of the organisation. The first part of the process is an online questionnaire, which seeks to establish the product's content. Developers begin by answering questions relating to 18-rated content: does it contain graphic violence, violence toward innocent bystanders, or violence against vulnerable or defenseless characters? Is there sexual activity which shows genitalia? Is there rape? Is there glamorisation of illegal drugs? If all the responses are negative, the studio moves to the 16-rated questions, where less explicit forms of violence, sexual content or drug use are covered. And so on, down to Pegi 3, effectively the video game equivalent of a U certificate.If the game warrants a 'yes' to any of the age rating questions, the process stops. The developer has to confirm that they have accurately represented all the content in the game and that they are aware of everything the player will see on the disk. The product is then put on to Pegi's online ratings system and the process of analysis and confirmation begins. If Pegi 18, 16 or 12 sections of the online form have been marked with a 'yes', the product comes to the VSC; the rest go to NICAM.Hands-on evaluationFrom here, developers have to send in a working copy of the game (a few bugs doesn't matter, but it has to feature all the content of the final release), as well as representational video footage. The latter must include all the cinematics and cut-scenes as well as what Davies calls, " a decent chunk of gameplay". "If it's something like a port of Street Fighter where the play is identical throughout, you only need 20-30 minutes of video," he says. "But with something like Tomb Raider or Bioshock Infinite, we'll need two or three hours of gameplay footage on top of all the cut-scenes. This will be used in 70-80% of the examination process."The video is vital due to the time restraints of the process. Alongside the three full-time examiners, there are several staff who are trained up and can pitch in at busy periods, but even then there's a lot to get through. Out of the 1,813 titles rated by Pegi in 2012, 812 were handled here, so the team can't possibly play through dozens of 20-hour action adventures in their entirety. The video content can also be uploaded onto the Pegi system for all the country representatives to see and to provide lasting reference material. "On the system, we note all the sections of a game that would cause a particular age rating," says Davies. "That way, before we even play it we have a good idea of what it contains. Also we ask for video evidence of all the 'yes' answers from the questionnaire – that's useful so we can tell if the developer has misinterpreted any of the questions."This is a key point. If a developer fails to declare adult content and is awarded a lower age rating, they've effectively broken the code of conduct and face a stiff fine – up to €250,000 (£212,000) for a first offence. "Along with that you have an illegal product on sale, so you're going to have withdraw all those boxes from the shelves," says Davies.Although Pegi provides corporate training and e-learning to help developers with certification, there are often misunderstandings with some of the terms. Let's take the phrase 'realistic looking violence toward humans' for example. "The way we judge violence isn't really based around the quality of the graphics," explains Davies. "When we say we're looking for realistic-looking violence, it is about the reaction – the character has to react like they would in real-life. Also, it doesn't matter where the game is set – it could be space or medieval times – we don't take context into account. If a character gets punched and they respond by falling backwards, there doesn't necessarily have to be blood for a 16 certificate, they just need to respond realistically."Games v movie ratingsHere, there's a crucial differentiation between game and movie rating. Films certification takes context into account – swearing is acceptable in a PG-13 release if it's used sparingly, for example, while extreme depictions of sex and violence may be justified in a 15 or 18 release if they're part of a strong narrative. In games, however, a single scripted swear word could be heard dozens of times by a player if they attempt the same section repeatedly, while story usually plays a more subordinate role to interactive action and therefore its contextual relevance is diminished. Everything that happens in a game is considered in isolation.Another mistake developers often make when submitting gameplay footage is not considering elements of the content that sit outside the narrative action – the sorts of animations and interactions that examiners often only discover in a hands-on test with the code."The developer will often play through the game just to complete a level," says Davies. "They won't stop and see what every single weapon will do to a body. But I try all of them – sometimes explosive weapons will have different effects. I've tested games that have aimed for a 16 rating, but then I throw a grenade and sure enough there are arms and legs flying everywhere. I have to go back to them and say 'you didn't show methat."While playing Tomb Raider, he shows me how he purposely exposes the lead character to fire, to test her reaction – if it's pain and distress, that affects the rating. "Obviously you're taking damage, but her skin isn't melting off – that's what I'm looking for," says Davies. He also checks for the ability to inflict post-mortem damage on bodies – smashing in a skull with a baseball bat, maybe. This could put it into 'gross violence' category. There's not much of this going on in the game we're playing.So why was Tomb Raider an 18? Before the game's release last year, there was controversy over a single sequence, referred to in an interview with the game's executive producer, where Lara is tied up and sexually threatened by a male captor. It turns out, however, that by Pegi rating standards, the moment was so fleeting it didn't register. "I don't even think I marked it 16 for sexual violence," says Davies. "It just didn't go far enough". No, Tomb Raider received an 18 certificate thanks to a mere handful of gory death animations. "Most of the violence is 16-rated," continues Davies. "But there's a particular part where Lara goes down a zip wire and, if you fail to jump off in time, she is impaled through the abdomen and jaw by spikes. That counts as gross violence. It's basically anything that makes you go, 'eugh'".According to Davies, developers are told which sequences of their game have earned a higher rating, and they are given the option to edit and resubmit. If they disagree with the judgement, there is an appeals process that may eventually end up with the Pegi complaints board, a pool of independent experts including child psychologists, media experts and legal advisers who'll decide on the case. This board responds to appeals from both developers and members of the public, but only two or three cases a year ever get to them. Often, it's publishers querying whether their game depicts the sort of 'gross violence' that earns an 18 rating. In 2011, Activision Blizzard successfully complained about the rating of Diablo III, contesting that although there is gore, it involves fantasy creatures and non-realistic reactions.  The game was subsequently reduced from an 18 to a 16 rating.Banning games?So, back to Saint's Row IV. Could the game be banned in Europe under the Pegi system? The answer, for Britain at least, is effectively no. Pegi is a ratings system not a censorship board and has no remit to ban retail releases. However, in situations where a European member country has legislation that may be contravened in the product, Pegi will advise publishers that they may well be breaking laws."The Pegi system doesn't usurp national legislation," explains VSC communications officer, Gianni Zamo. "If a country has a particular piece of legislation that effects video games, then they may take action. The Italians were upset about Rule of Rose a few years ago, they felt it had child abuse elements, and were twitchy about that. But the Pegi system is not legally enforceable in that sense. Games can do anything as long as it's within the confines of the law."In the UK, video game content is governed by the 1984 Video Recordings Act and its subsequent updates, which Pegi has to take into account when rating games. "We'd be talking about paedophilia, or any form of discrimination likely to incite hatred," says operations director, Peter Darby. "We've got a chair and vice-chair who are designated by the secretary of state to make a decision on whether a game should be given a certificate for release in the UK or not. Obviously that doesn't effect the rest of Europe, that's just for the UK. But that's the process we would use to effectively ban a game in the UK. There's quite a long process leading up to that, though. We have an expert panel that will look at it and advise on whether it breaches the law or could be deemed harmful. We have Tanya Byron and Geoffrey Robertson QC and the psychologist Dr Guy Cumberbatch – they wouldn't make a decision, but they'd look at the game and advise us on the sorts of things we need to take into account. Pegi is not a system that in itself bans games. But we will warn publishers to be careful where they release a title, because it could contravene laws."So what happens in the event of a controversy? Does the government start trying to question the process? "The DCMS will never get involved in us coming to a rating decision," says director general Laurie Hall, a veteran of the home video business in the early 80s, when the video nasty controversy erupted. "If Keith Vaz raises a question in parliament or whatever, they may ring us to ask what we have to say about it; we'll say our piece and that may be their reply to Vaz in parliament. But they're at arm's length."Online issuesBut Pegi is facing new challenges all the time. While it has jurisdiction over all games sold via high street retailers and online giants like Amazon, emerging digital market places such as iTunes and Steam do not require developers to sign up to the Pegi code of conduct. We're well into a new era in which games are distributed across the internet to a global user-base. The VSC has noticed that the number of examinations in the Pegi 3, 7 and 12 categories have dropped in recent years as casual and family titles migrate to smartphone and tablet platforms. How can a ratings system keep up with that?Right now, the body is developing 'Pegi For Apps' a streamlined voluntary version of the ratings procedure designed for smartphone developers who want to exhibit Pegi ratings with their digital products. There's currently no legal compulsion to do it, but Pegi's contention is it's better that publishers show they are being responsible, both to concerned parents and to governments who may well step in with mandatory classification systems if the digital gaming industry can't regulate itself.Importantly, Pegi For Apps, doesn't just provide an age rating, it also introduces four new 'feature descriptors' – the icons that come with a Pegi rating that show the sorts of content a game includes: In-App Purchases, Social Interaction, Location Data Sharing and Personal Data Sharing. These could well be invaluable to parents who are becoming more concerned about the risks of giving kids free rein over handheld devices. "These descriptors won't affect the age rating, but we thought it was important to alert parents to these functions," explains communications manager, Dirk Bosmans. "It's a first step to more information. These descriptors could later be implemented with parental controls so a parent could ensure that if a game has in-app purchase functionality, the child cannot buy it."More ambitiously, Pegi is also working on an international aggregation system for content classification, named IARC. It's an online questionnaire for developers that'll spit out ratings for a whole range of countries. Pegi is working with North America's Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) as well as ratings boards in Brazil, Australia, Singapore, Japan and Korea. "One global rating system is not possible, the standards are way too different – it would take us a century," concedes Brosmans. "But this is a fairly easy solution. We've been working on it for two years and we have a functioning model – there's a clear goal to implement it soon."It's unlikely there will ever be a completely inclusive global aggregation body, however. "I don't think we'll get the Iranian system," says Davies. "It includes an age rating that goes up to '25 and married' – so there are certain games you can't play if you're 27 and unmarried. The country's trade body was at the Gamescom game conference last year – they had a big booth and they were giving out folders with all their content descriptors. They had one for 'hopelessness' …" Darby continues, "Russia is difficult to bring into IARC too because its ratings are culturally based. Will the game interfere with traditional family values? That's a problem we're facing with certain ratings bodies around the world."But away from publishers failing to disclose adult elements, and the trials of introducing age ratings into the digital marketplace, there's one over-riding difficulty that Pegi faces. "Our biggest problem is getting parents to understand that these age ratings actually mean something," says Darby. "When we give a rating it is genuine, but parents see the word 'game' and to a lot of people that means it's for children. But it's not, many games are for adults. Personally, I think the problem is short-lived – there will come a stage where parents have grown up with games and will realise that some are unsuitable for young children."It is extremely unlikely then that Saint's Row IV will be banned in Europe. Germany has its own supplementary body, the USK, which tends to be stricter than most other countries, but certainly in Britain, Pegi doesn't seek to censor in this way and will only raise the alarm if content actually breaks the law. The statement provided by the Australian Classification Board reads: "In the board's opinion, Saints Row IV, includes interactive, visual depictions of implied sexual violence which are not justified by context." However, as we have seen, context is irrelevant in the Pegi system. No doubt the examiners will have an interesting few days working their way through the game's crass and ridiculous litany of sexualised weapons and morally questionable cut-scenes. But the outcome is likely to be an 18 rating, and with a pile of other titles to get through, the focus will move swiftly on.You can find out more about video game ratings at the Video Standards Council'sdedicated websiteor at thePegi home page. Britain's trade body UKIE also has a helpful site namedAsk About Games,which is aimed at parents wanting to know more about age ratings, parental controls and safe family gaming.
Snapchat, a messaging app for smartphones that makes photos and videos disappear shortly after they're viewed, has raised $60m (£38.9m) in venture capital funding.Snapchat was valued at $800m by the funding round, despite the fact that the Los Angeles-based startup has yet to make any money by charging users or selling advertising.Snapchat users set the duration for which their messages can be viewed after the recipient has opened them, between one and 10 seconds, and are warned if they take a screenshot.The app has been particularly popular among teenagers, which has caused controversy amid reports that "sexting" – sending partially clothed or nude photos and videos – was a key use for Snapchat.Those reports were somewhat overblown. While there is "sexting" taking place on Snapchat, its appeal to teenagers is more about privacy: ephemeral social networking that, in theory, leaves no public trace for parents and future employers to find."Under no circumstances is it okay to create, send, receive or save a sexually explicit image of a minor," warnsSnapchat's guide for parents (PDF). "It is extremely important that Snapchat not be used in this manner and parents are strongly encouraged to educate their minor children on this subject."Brands and media companies are also becoming interested in Snapchat. MTV UK has just announced that its Geordie Shore TV show will be distributing photos and videos to fans via Snapchat, while indie band The Naked And Famous are also Snapchatting from the recording sessions of their next album.Snapchat has launched a way for even younger children to start using its app: a feature called SnapKidz that has made its debut in Snapchat's iPhone app.Under-13s were previously barred from using Snapchat, although they could simply enter a false age when signing up to get around this ban.Now they can use SnapKidz to capture and caption photos and videos before saving them to their device, but they can't send or receive snaps within the app or add friends."We're trying it out first on iOS and if all goes well, we hope to include it in an upcoming Android update,"explained Snapchat in a blog post.The app launched for Apple's iPhone in July 2011 and Android smartphones in October 2012. It currently has more than 5 million daily active users sending 200m photos and videos every day."In order to continue scaling while developing the Snapchat experience, we needed to build a bigger engineering team and figure out how to pay our server bills,"explained Snapchat's founders in a blogpost.The $60m injection from prominent venture capital firmsincluding Institutional Venture Partners (IVP), General Catalyst Partners and Benchmark Capitalindicates Snapchat's wider potential, as does the appointment of Sony Entertainment chief executive Michael Lynton to the company's board of directors.IVP general partner Dennis Phelpsexplained in a blogpostthat the funding round was "one of the most competitive financings we have been a part of in years", despite the fact that Snapchat currently has no revenues."The growth and engagement metrics are off the charts. Seldom have we seen a consumer application with this type of user momentum and excitement," he wrote. "Think Twitter ... Think Instagram … Think Pinterest … and Snapchat is just getting started."Snapchat is planning to add in-app purchases in the coming months, according to chief executive Evan Spiegel. "We think we can build really cool stuff people want to pay for. The app is now a part of everyone's day-to-day lives. That means that they will – I at least would – pay for a more unique experience," he toldtech blog TechCrunch.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAT&amp;T's mobile chief: We've sold out of the Facebook phone &gt;&gt; CNET NewsAT&amp;T managed to get rid of most of its inventory, according to AT&amp;T Mobility CEO Ralph de la Vega. The move to a 99-cent price tag helped spur sales of the Facebook phone, which struggled to catch on with consumers."We sold a bunch more when we lowered the price," he said in an interview on Monday. "We sold everything we had on that."It's unclear how many HTC First phones AT&amp;T had in its inventory, and the company wouldn't discuss the actual number. And even if AT&amp;T has sold out of the phone, it is by no means a success.Worth a crouching ovation?An inside look at the world's largest solar-powered boat | The VergeLast year it becamethe first ship to circumnavigate the globe on solar power alone. The 89,000 kg (nearly 100 ton) ship needs a massive solar array to capture enough energy to push itself through the ocean. An impressive 512 square meters (roughly 5,500 square feet) of photovoltaic cells, to be exact, charge the 8.5 tons of lithium-ion batteries that are stored in the ship's two hulls.The key difference from most boats of this size is that it has three-day forecasts for cloud cover. (Thanks @Technotrousers for the link.)The long wait for rural broadband &gt;&gt; BBC NewsRory Cellan-Jones:behind the excitable press release, there's growing dismay about the whole process of delivering fast broadband to rural areas, with the word "shambles" making a frequent appearance. People in areas promised a share of the superfast future are growing impatient with the lack of progress.Peter Green, who lives in the community of Eggesford in Devon, is typical.He got in touch to tell me of the frustrations of trying to run a holiday cottage business on a 500Kbps broadband connection - "We tried to upload videos but it was pointless" - and his fruitless efforts to find out just when the Connecting Devon and Somerset organisation might take his village into the 21st Century. A contract with BT was signed earlier this year, but he's still no clearer as to when or if that will help him.Contracts are late, the 2015 target for Britain to be the "best" superfast broadband network in Europe looks likely to be missed (both for the "best" and the date). What a mess.Update: Microsoft restructuring nears, as execs fret over their fate &gt;&gt; AllThingsDKara Swisher:according to several people close to the situation, the new configuration could include larger roles for several execs, with business units being moved around into new divisions. But, sources noted, there could also be some significant departures.Focus internally is especially strong on Satya Nadella, president of Microsoft's Servers and Tools division; Tony Bates, president of its Skype communications unit; and Don Mattrick, president of its Interactive Entertainment division. In addition, many are wondering how the job of Qi Lu, president of Microsoft's Online Services unit, will shift, as well as that of Terry Myerson, who runs the company's Windows Phone division.But it's unclear how their new and perhaps expanded roles, and those of others in top management, will shake out. That is, until Ballmer weighs in.Which is expected to happen next Monday, 1 July. (Thanks @ClarkViper for the link.)Dr James Martin found dead &gt;&gt; Bermuda NewsFuturologist and information technology colossus James Martin has died at the age of 79.The Bermuda Police Service said this morning that Dr Martin's lifeless body had been found floating in the waters of the Great Sound near his Agar's Island home at around 5.30pm yesterday by a kayaker.A Police spokesman said an investigation into the circumstances surrounding Dr Martin's death is ongoing, but added: "There does not appear to be any suspicious circumstances."…During his extraordinary life, Dr Martin created some of the building blocks of modern IT systems, made hundreds of millions of dollars through a business founded to teach other businesses on how to benefit from computers, wrote 105 textbooks and became the largest benefactor in the history of Oxford University. He was ranked fourth of the 25 most influential people in computer science by Computerworld.His 1977 book "The Wired Society" still remains pretty accurate about modern life.The most insane television sets in history &gt;&gt; io9We're only shocked that none of them has yet featured in Mad Men.My song got played on Pandora 1 million times and all I got was $16.89, less than what I make from a single T-shirt sale! &gt;&gt; The TrichordistDavid Lowery (in annoyed mood):Here's an idea. Why doesn't Pandora get off the couch and get an actual business model instead of asking for a handout from congress and artists? For instance: Right now Pandora plays one minute of commercials an hour on their free service. Here's an idea!  Play two minutes of commercials and double your revenue! (Sirius XM plays 13 minutes and charges a subscription).Doubling the number of ads might not quite double the revenue, but it has to be a good idea. (Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)Gogo's problem: inflight Wi-Fi is expensive, and no one uses it &gt;&gt; BusinessweekThe immediate problem for [inflight Wi-Fi provider] Gogo is that most travelers don't pay for Wi-Fi access when they fly. Only about 6% of fliers on Gogo-enabled flights used the service in the first quarter, the company says. So it raised its prices, looking for profit from a smaller base of business travelers who can pass that cost along to their employers. Surfing the web at 38,000 feet is now a premium product.Gogo charges $14 for a daily pass, $34 monthly for a specific airline, and $42 for a monthly pass on any airline with its equipment; service sold onboard is higher. Part of the pricing Gogo sets is also designed to help negotiate the tricky issue that current technologies don't allow 200 people on a plane all to connect wirelessly, due to bandwidth constraints.Not enough people used it, so they raised the price? Literally a captive market.The surprising history of the pencil &gt;&gt; Brain PickingsAn interesting question is to ask how long a straight line could be drawn with a typical HB pencil before the lead was exhausted. The thickness of graphite left on a sheet of paper by a soft 2B pencil is about 20 nanometers and a carbon atom has a diameter of 0.14 nanometers, so the pencil line is only about 143 atoms thick.Fact of the day. (Or most days.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
The inauguralQueen Elizabeth Prize for Engineeringwas yesterday awarded to five engineers who helped to create the internet and the world wide web. The work of these engineers was substantially based on pioneering research and development by a team of British engineers and scientists at theNational Physical Laboratory, a government R&amp;D establishment, under its leaderDonald Davies. We do not wish in any way to denigrate the work of the engineers selected, yet not one of the NPL team has been included.The communications technology that underpins the internet is packet switching. This was independently invented, and named as such, by Davies in 1965, and has been widely acknowledged. The idea was developed into a proposal for a wide area network, similar in many ways to the internet, by a small team of engineers, including ourselves. It was also conveyed in 1967 to a US team planning the Arpanet, the network that was the principal forerunner to the internet.Davies's British team was limited to building a local area network within the NPL campus, which it successfully completed in 1971. This was the first digital local network in the world to use packet switching and high-speed links. The NPL team undertook a wide range of internationally recognised research in the field of computer networks, as well as collaborating with the Arpanet and broader international community. Most importantly from the point of view of this award, members participated in an international working group whose job was to define the function of inter-network gateways and the development of the Internetwork Protocol that led directly to the creation of the internet, co-authoring one of the seminal publications on this  subject. This was one of the areas  singled out for its significance by theRoyal Academy of Engineeringjudges.But it appears that the work of the pioneering British team that introduced packet switching has been airbrushed from history by the RAE judges. Davies's contribution (he died in 2000) to the development of packet switching was recognised by the US IEEE institution, among others. When Arpanet reached its 25th anniversary, the NPL team were hailed in the US as "the packet-switching pioneers". It is galling that while US institutions are willing to recognise the significance of NPL's work, the UK establishment appears incapable of doing so.Roger ScantleburyPeter WilkinsonFormer NPL engineers
Google is not obliged to delete personal information from its search results, even when that information damages an individual's reputation, an adviser to the European court of justice has decided.In a long-running case about the "right to be forgotten" by search engines, judges have been asked to rule on whether Google should be treated under law as a publisher of information or simply a host.The case is not due to conclude before the end of 2013 but if the court backs the adviser's findings it will spare Google from a flood of legal claims seeking the retraction of material from its searches.The case is based on a complaint by Mario Costeja, a Spaniard who made a Google search of his name and found a newspaper announcement from 15 years earlier saying a property he owned was up for auction because of non-payment of social security contributions.Costeja asked for the sensitive information to be deleted from Google's search results, arguing that his debts had been repaid and it was disproportionate that information that could damage his reputation with clients, employers or friends was so prominent so long after the event.One of Spain's top courts upheld his complaint, deeming Google to be making money out of Costeja's personal data, and the case was referred to the European court of justice in March last year after Google challenged the decision.Niilo Jääskinen, an advocate general of the European court of justice, said that companies operating in the European Union must adhere to national data protection legislation, but that did not oblige them to remove personal content produced by others."Requesting search engine service providers to suppress legitimate and legal information that has entered the public domain would entail an interference with the freedom of expression," the court said, in a statement communicating Jääskinen's opinion."Search engine service providers are not responsible, on the basis of the Data Protection Directive, for personal data appearing on web pages they process."The court is not bound by the advocate general's opinion, but in most cases judges follow the recommendations. Google says it will remove defamatory or illegal information, but should not be asked to censor material published by third parties.In a blogpost on Tuesday, Bill Echikson, Google's head of free expression in Europe, said: "In this case we're simply challenging the notion that information that is demonstrably legal – and that continues to be publicly available on the web – can be censored."People shouldn't be prevented from learning that a politician was convicted of taking a bribe, or that a doctor was convicted of malpractice. In order to achieve all the social, cultural and economic benefits of the internet, it must be kept free and open."The problem arose because under Spanish law details of the repossession of Costeja's home were required to be published in a newspaper.Costeja asked for both Google and the newspaper to remove the information from their archives, but the Spanish courts decided the newspaper was not obliged to purge its archive and that only Google had a case to answer.The Spanish data protection authority has brought 180 such cases to Google, asking for information on individuals to be deleted.While public notices are used to censure individuals in Spain and elsewhere, the internet has magnified their impact, by making the notice available not to a small number of readers buying a newspaper on one particular day, but any reader in the world for as many years as the notice remains archived online.In hisopinion, published on the court's website, Jääskinen declared: "The rights to erasure and blocking of data … do not confer on the data subject a right to address himself to a search engine service provider in order to prevent indexing of the information relating to him personally, published legally on third parties' web pages, invoking his wish that such information should not be known to internet users when he considers that it might be prejudicial to him or he wishes it to be consigned to oblivion."
Instagram users posted more than 5m videos in the first 24 hours after Facebook's photo-sharing app added 15-second clip capabilities.At its peak on Thursday night, more than 40 hours of footage was being uploaded a minute. And it's perhaps inevitable that Justin Bieber quickly became the first user to attract 1m likes for an Instagram clip.Brands were also among the early adopters of Instagram video, including Burberry, Lululemon, Jeep and Gap. So how is the advertising industry feeling about the new features, how they compare to Twitter's existing Vine app, and where they fit in to the wider rise of super-shortform video?The Guardian canvassed the views of a number of agencies in the UK to get their instant reactions to Instagram video. In general, it's being welcomed, but with a recognition that it shouldn't be judged by its first few days."It is a natural addition to Instagram's product – more evolution than revolution. However, this is social media so it is greeted as a revolution," says Jim Dowling, managing director of creative agency Cake."We will see a glut of videos of shrinking cappuccinos and cats jumping around a bit. How the dust settles over the course of the next few months will be interesting."The fact that the new features are instantly available to Instagram's 130m active users – well, those who have updated to the latest version of the app – is the key selling point for many agencies.Several draw the obvious comparison to Vine, which had 13m iPhone users in early June, plus between 1m and 5m installs since then on Android (according to Google Play store stats – hence the range)."What makes it [Instagram video] arguably more valuable for brands is Instagram's existing bigger user base, especially for brands who have built Instagram followers, and the ability to apply filters," says Mark Holden, head of futures at media planning and buying agency Arena."15 seconds also starts to take it into advertising-length formats, so it opens the possibility of putting a bit more craft into video in a way that we can already with Vine, but could grow into a tool for making reactive advertising that could be distributed beyond Facebook or social media."Not just TV adsThe 15-second length is a topic of some debate among agencies already. Some, like Holden, welcome it on the grounds that 15-seconds is already an established ad-length in the TV world."The 15-second format is killer. Advertisers and brands are used to the format and comfortable with it. Coupled with the reach afforded by Instagram's 130 million user base, brands have a huge engagement opportunity from day one," says Jonathan Lyon, global director of strategic insight at marketing and technology agency LBi.Alex Wills, group director, digital studio at digital advertising agency R/GA, agrees. "Instagram's 15 second format lends itself really well to ads – it's no mistake that the length is the same as a standard television commercial," he says."Instagram's emphasis on control means you can delete cuts, create longer videos and choose your thumbnail for more beautiful, considered content – brands can really take advantage of this."Not everyone is so enthusiastic though, with the key concern being that the longer the maximum clip length, the greater the danger that advertising creatives will take the safe option when addressing it."I fear they will see these mediums as simply further media buying options as opposed to new mediums in of themselves," says Sam Haseltine, social media strategist at Greenlight."The current average length of a television advert is approximately 30-seconds. The translation of 30-seconds of messaging into 15-seconds is far more attainable than 6-seconds. Under imposed constraints users are at their most creative and I fear that we could find brands opt for the easier solution of migrating existing videos rather than pursue true creativity."He's supported by Justin Taylor, managing director of digital for media planning and buying agency MEC UK. "One of the challenges with 15 second videos on these online platforms is that it can be easy for brands to simply to use a shortened version of their existing TV spot on these," he says."The trick is to avoid this way of thinking, as the most interesting and engaging Vines are being produced by brands that create content bespoke to the platform and not from creative that has simply been repurposed."Practical content not adsInstagram video – and Vine for that matter – aren't just for reheated ads, then. What else could brands be doing with shortform video within these apps?"Instagram Video also has the potential to be far more useful for brands. 15 seconds is enough time to  answer a customer question, for example," says James Devon, planning director at branding agency MBA.Cake's Dowling agrees, and compares Instagram's potential with a trend that he already sees on YouTube for practical content."There is a simple trend for consuming snack-sized media: image and video led, in short form. YouTube in particular, has developed into a search facility," says Dowling."People hunt for 'how to' do things. 6 or 15 second video format is a great length for that. Show me how a phone works, show me how to install a dishwasher, show me an item of clothing – and get on with it please. The format works very well for both practical and engaging content."Will some brands and agencies still be lazy and shunt existing videos into Instagram? Actually, that's more difficult than you might think, since you can't import videos from your camera roll as you can photos."As a consumer, the best news about the launch of Instagram video is that you can't import video – you have to shoot it in the app," says Iain Miller, head of innovation at creative agency Rufus Leonard."Hopefully this will mean brands will try and understand what the medium is really good for, and create great new stuff - rather than lazily applying a filter to their existing TV ads."Vine comparisonsThere's an obvious answer to the question of whether Instagram video is a "Vine killer" (or vice versa), and it's this: there's room for both. Yet that in itself gives brands and agencies an interesting challenge: which to use and when.More obvious answers: choose the app that's right for your brand's audience, and if both are suitable, create videos for each that make use of its unique aspects, rather than shoving the same footage into both.Miller thinks that brands who got in early to Vine may benefit on Instagram video."Those that have been playing with Vine already will be at a significant advantage when it comes to creating content for this new format – Burberry's forays in particular offer a great guide for brands looking at how to use Vine," he says."But it's not all straight-forward – replicating content from other channels won't necessarily work."Haseltine suggests that Instagram and Vine remain two very different beasts. "At 15-seconds Instagram Video is a micro-video service, whilst Vine at 6-seconds is a new medium in itself," he says."I believe that the integration with Facebook will be the differentiator between Instagram and Vine in terms of both audience and the type of content we expect to see published."There are some dissenters to the assumption that video will be welcomed by all Instagram users. Adam Lawrenson, creative director at brand interaction consultancy Digit, warns that more features doesn't necessarily mean more user satisfaction."When you start adding more complexity I think it detracts from the purity of Instagram. That's what attracted people onto it the first place, and that's what differentiates it from other social platforms," he says."That's not to say it won't be a success, it almost certainly will be for some, but for the people who really love it for its purity I suspect it will be a bit of a disappointment."Future potentialWhat about the wider implications of shortform video on apps like Instagram and Vine, not to mention pre-roll videos on YouTube and other platforms?"As consumers become more used to consuming content at speed, maybe 15 seconds will become the new 'norm' for TV advertising as well," says Simon Rutherford, managing director of social media agency Cubaka."Since the first Flash banners in the 1990s internet advertising has had to battle with the reality that it could not match TV advertising's sheer creative and visual impact. Perhaps this is the turning point, where the lure of filtered 15 second films, achieved at a cut price compared to big budget 30 second TV ads, tips the balance."Other agencies think brands need to look for outside help to make their shortform social videos more engaging."What will be interesting for brands is whether they open up their social media to creative guest ambassadors. If brands can put out instant video from pop-bands straight to social, it might make for exciting partnerships, but also very risky content," says Chris Baylis, executive creative director at Tribal DDB London."It will be right for some brands but not others. Otherwise, it will just be used as a cheap short film platform which will be fashionable for a while, but will be superseded by the next thing in 6 months."He adds that the most important thing is to stop focusing on the delivery method – be it Instagram, Vine or other apps – and talk more about what they're being used to watch."When Pixar released their first short film using their revolutionary computer generated animation techniques, people kept asking what software they were using," says Baylis."Their success has never been down to the software, it was all about the story tellers. And so it is with short form shareable video. It may democratise the making process, but creativity is still a meritocracy."
Everyone in the cryptocurrency world has heard of Satoshi Nakamoto, the mysterious inventor of Bitcoin. But not many have heard of Peter Bushnell, the not-so-mysterious inventor of Feathercoin. On 20 April, he announced his alternative currency to a gaggle of online followers. Two months later, over 8m of them have been mined.Feathercoin is one of a range of alternative currencies that, like Bitcoin, are based entirely on mathematics. Known collectively as alt-currencies, they have been launching in increasing numbers over the past year. Some launch for ideological reasons; others for technical ones; still more, for financial gain. Bitcoin is unlikely to be the only cryptocurrency to enjoy huge successes. So which altcoin will follow in its footsteps?"I released this and wanted to foster a small community," says Bushnell, who quit his job in May as head of IT at Oxford University's Brasenose College. Since then, he has been living off his collection of Litecoins – another alt-currency, on which Feathercoin is based. When creating Feathercoin, he copied the Litecoin algorithm, but tweaked some technical parameters, including the total number of coins that could be mined."I wanted a currency with four times the amount of coins, and to recreate the enthusiasm that we had in the first place," he says.Feathercoin is one fish in an increasingly large pond. Charles Lee, who launched Litecoin in 2011, also launched other currencies: his first, Fairbrix, was a clone of another, called Tenebrix. But there are many others: PPCoin, Freicoin, Namecoin, Terracoin, Devcoin, IxCoin and Novacoin, to name a few. Then there are Chinacoin, Rohalcoin, Franko, Worldcoin and YaCoin. Some currencies are variations of others. Some begin small, and then fire into life as more people support them. Others sputter and fail shortly after launch, languishing in the short, scribbled margins of cryptocurrency history.Investors are always looking for the next big thing. What should they be looking for in alt-currencies if they want to try to pick winners? Or should they even bother, when Bitcoin has already captured the public's imagination?"First, look at its hashing algorithm," says Kerry Fraser-Robinson, co-founder of a new company called MetalAir, which is launching a distributed cryptocoin exchange system.Cryptocurrencies are mostly "mined". Computers "mine" for coins by competing to solve mathematical problems; all computers mining Bitcoins are connected together in a global network. Every 10 minutes, they compete to solve the same mathematical problem to earn a handful of Bitcoins. The clever part is that the mathematical problem is also designed to verify Bitcoin transactions made around the world.Whenever anyone sends someone else some Bitcoins, the network logs the transaction. Roughly every 10 minutes, those transactions are bundled together into a single block. They are then run through a cryptographic function known as a hash, which produces a short alphanumeric string of numbers. That hash is like the electronic version of a wax seal applied to that block of transactions, closing the books on them and signing them off as valid.Honour among minersIt's up to the miners to hash those numbers together, and they all work against each other to see who can do it first. Every time a miner successfully hashes a block of transactions, they get a reward, in the form of 25 Bitcoins.The protocol is designed to produce a maximum of 21m Bitcoins, and 25 new coins are mined with each block, roughly every 10 minutes. But this hashing process is pretty easy – even your smartphone could do it in seconds. If everyone kept hashing transactions that quickly, all the Bitcoins would be mined in short order. So the Bitcoin network has to deliberately make it harder, by requiring each hash to have certain numerical properties.Making a hash with those properties is a case of trial and error. The miners have to try to hash the transactions together lots of times, but each time with a different random number thrown in, to see if the resulting hash matches the requirements. The first one to crack it wins the Bitcoins. Then, that hash is added to a kind of general ledger known as the blockchain, and the whole thing starts over again.A total of 11m Bitcoins have already been mined, but they're getting more difficult to find. People are solving this by throwing more computing power at the problem. They migrated from using their computer processors to using graphics cards (GPUs) because of their number-crunching capabilities. Bitcoin mining is generally measured in megahashes per second (Mh/sec). A Core i7 Macbook Pro with 8Gb RAM will generally deliver around 6-7 Mh/sec, according to statistics. An ATI Radeon 7870 graphics card will deliver 100 times that.Now, companies are building specialised mining equipment using custom computer chips called ASICs (application-specific integrated circuits), designed to give the user a huge advantage in the race to solve the problems. ASICS are far more expensive than GPUs and CPUs, but they deliver mining capabilities into the Gigahash range (1 Gigahash is a thousand megahashes). Their use can be divisive, because those without them will find it far more difficult to mine Bitcoins.That's partly why Charles Lee developed Litecoin. It has some key differences, he says: "Litecoin has faster transactions (2.5 minutes as opposed to 10), more coins (84m against 21m), and uses the Scrypt proof of work."Unlike SHA-256, Scrypt is biased towards CPUs and GPUs, and against ASICs, making the mining process more egalitarian. This is because Scrypt is designed to rely on memory-intensive computing. CPUs and GPUs are designed to use lots of cheap RAM when available, whereas ASICs aren't – they function on pure mathematical speed. This could result in more people mining Litecoin in the coming months. ASICs built to mine Bitcoin can't mine anything else, but CPUs and GPUs are general purpose.Litecoin developer Anton Yemelyanov predicts a mass migration. "It became clear that once the ASIC arrived, there would be a migration as all of the older GPU kit is retargeted towards Litecoin," he says.It isn't just technical characteristics that improve an alt-currency's chance of success. "If you did a statistical analysis of lots of different features, it seems to be a development team that wants to stick around and is reliable," says Johnathan Turrall, Fraser-Robinson's co-founder at MetaLair. He points to Litecoin (with Feathercoin as a strong contender for the second Scrypt-based slot), along with PPCoin, and Freicoin, based on strong development teams that communicate with their communities.Unique and yet plentifulBoth Freicoin and PPCoin have also experimented with different unique features. With only two proof-of-work algorithms available, it's a good way of further differentiating themselves. Freicoin imposes a "demurrage fee" of 4.9% on money held by users. It's effectively a negative interest rate, meaning that your money will fall in value if you don't spend it. For Freicoin, that's initially a problem, because for the time being, there are few if any places to spend it.Frecoin's co-founder Mark Friedenbach, who recently quit his job at Nasa's Ames research centre, says that this is good for an economy, because it forces money to flow through the economy, going where it is needed and being put to good use. Such "liquidity" in an economy is always a good thing. "Those fees would drive people to use it as a medium of exchange only," he says. Users are encouraged to invest the money in the long term, and to keep it moving, rather than hoard it. "So, there's separation from wealth storage."Freicoin's distribution system is also unique. The founders will allow 20% to be mined. The other 80% will be distributed via charitable grants, suggesting a strong sense of ideology and altruism.Freicoin also launched well. How a coin launches is crucial, warns Fraser-Robinson. "That is all about whether there is any pre-mining going on. If there was, then people won't be interested in it," he says.Pre-mining happens when someone uses computing power to mine their own collection of coins before they officially launch their currency to the world. It enables a coin developer to get in on the ground floor before anyone else has a chance to mine anything, and can lead to "pump-and-dump" scams where people pre-mine coins, launch their currency, and generate enough interest to inflate the value. Then they dump all their coins on the market by selling them to people in exchange for a more established cryptocurrency, or a fiat currency (dollars, pounds, or euros), thus deflating the market."There's a term for them in the community," says Freidenbach. "They call them 'scamcoins' because they're obviously there to commit fraud."Watching the community's reaction to a coin is a good way to spot a coin with prospects, says Bushnell. "It's the people that rally around it. With a lot of the coins that come out, the only people in the community are those that pump and dump." When a coin is announced on popular forums such as Bitcointalk.org, it's worth seeing whether the people launching are new, or have a good, long-standing reputation with the community.It's difficult to tell whether dying coins were scams or simply mismanaged launches, but regardless, pre-mining is relatively easy to spot, says Charles Hoskinson, founder of the Bitcoin Education Project, an educational initiative for cryptocurrency."It's generally hard to hide pre-mining because almost all cryptocurrencies have a global ledger," he says. Pre-mining generally leads to a loss of faith in the currency, and causes it to sputter out. There's one exception, though. "All the coins in the Ripple ecosystem are pre-mined by design."Ripple effectLaunched by Chris Larsen, a long-time entrepreneur dealing in virtual credit, Ripple is both a currency and a payment system. Instead of using the mining method for coins, Ripple eliminated the mathematical problem. It simply pre-produced 100bn Ripples and noted them in a ledger. This is more efficient, says Larsen, not only because no electrical energy is used for mining, but because it's more egalitarian. "Today, to buy Bitcoin or a mined currency, you have to buy it or mine it. Mining is already impossible for the vast majority of people. It's in the hands of supercomputers," he says.But it isn't entirely egalitarian yet, because his company, OpenCoin, still holds most of the Ripples. The founders created 100bn Ripples, and gifted some to OpenCoin, which in turn distributed a billion. It retains 79bn. "50bn-plus" will be given away in an as-yet unrevealed fashion, while 25bn will be used to fund the operations of the company.The founders, who plan to make the Ripple network open source but haven't yet, could do very well if the currency gains traction. But its success depends on the success of the payment network, which is designed to support any currency, including Ripples, fiat currencies, and alt-currencies, with very low transaction fees.Another parameter affecting the success of alt-currencies is security. There are many potential attacks on cryptocurrencies, many of which are particularly dangerous during the early stages. These include double spending attacks (when a false transaction supersedes a legitimate one), and network control (when one party gains control of a currency by owning most of the mining power). Ripple and others hope to solve these problems, but for alt-currencies in general, it's a constant worry.So, there are technical and organisational characteristics that affect an alt-currency's chances of success. But there's another category: adoption."I think that's why Litecoin has been successful where other alt-coins have failed," argues Charles Lee.  From this point on, it's all about how widely used and supported the coin is. If there's nowhere to use the coin, then the price will eventually go to zero." If you simply hoard an alt-currency and never use it, it becomes simply a vehicle for speculation as you trade it out for other alt-currencies or fiat currencies. To survive in the long term, it needs real-world traction. Merchants need to accept it. That's why all coins, from Bitcoin through to Freicoin and Ripple, face their next challenge: getting organisations to actually take payments in these coins, from retailers to pubs.The moral for those wanting to invest in alt-currencies? As with any financial investment, do your research, understand that the markets (especially these ones) are often incredibly volatile – and for goodness' sake, don't invest more than you can afford to lose. Because while some of these alt-currencies show promise, many aren't worth the paper they're not printed on.Market capitalisation: a guide to the coinsPredicting outcomes for alt-currencies is all well and good, but how can you measure their current success? Eli Dourado, a research fellow studying digital and network economics at George Mason University's Mercatus Center, looks at market value. That is, how many coins are out there, multiplied by a currency that they're paired with. "The whole point of it is to spend it so you want to look at how the market values it," he says.All alt-currencies are pegged to Bitcoin, which can be exchanged with the US dollar. As expected, at the time of writing Bitcoin is way ahead with 11.32m of its own coins (equating to about $1.27bn).According to alt-currency tracking site dustcoin.com, as of early Friday Litecoin's cap was around 515,551 Bitcoins (about $57.9m). After that, market capitalisations fall off dramatically. PPCoin is 23,106 (about $2.5m). Another, Namecoin, has a cap of 32,839 Bitcoins (about $3.6m), although this figure is confounded slightly because Namecoin shares its mining network with Bitcoin.And Bushnell's Feathercoin? The entire mined network of Feathercoins is worth about 7,599 Bitcoins (approximately $853,572). That's nowhere near Bitcoin or Litecoin – but not at all bad for a currency that was only started just over two months ago.This article was updated on 26 April 2013: a reference to Feathercoin in the first paragraph was corrected to reflect the latest number that have been mined.
Microsoft is bringing its Age of Empires franchise back to mobile devices, with plans to launch a new game for iOS and Android devices by the end of 2013.The company has moved to stifle speculation that it's planning a wider rollout of its Xbox and PC games to iOS and Android, though, after Japanese business daily Nikkei claimedMicrosoft was working with mobile developer Klabon a series of ports."Some reports included incorrect information about additional Xbox Live-based games on iOS and Android but there are no further announcements beyond Age of Empires at this time,"said Microsoft in a statement. Which, of course, leaves the way open for such announcements at a later time.The surprising thing about the speculation was the suggestion that Microsoft first-party games (including Xbox titles) on iOS and Android would be a new or surprising thing.Microsoft launchedits Kinectimals game for iOSin December 2011, thenported it to Androidin June 2012. Microsoft Studios subsidiary Twisted Pixel Games has also released itsMs. Splosion Man game for iOS.Note, too, that the newly-announced game won't even be the first time Age of Empires has been released for mobile devices.Age of Empires II came out for Java phones in 2005courtesy of a licensing deal with publisher In-Fusio, whileAge of Empires III followed in 2008through Glu Mobile – which alsoreleased it for Nokia's N-Gagein 2009.Even Halo had a mobile licensing deal at one point.In-Fusio bagged the rights to make Halo mobile gamesin 2005, but they never came out. By the end of 2006,the publisher was suing Microsoftclaiming the latter company had unreasonably "thwarted" In-Fusio's planned games.Fast forward to 2013, and Microsoft is clearly still thinking about how mobile gaming fits in with its Xbox business. The company will release a new game,Halo: Spartan Assault, for Windows Phone smartphones and Windows 8 tablets as a "top-down twin stick arcade-style action shooter" this July.Microsoft is looking beyond its own platforms, though, with the new Age of Empires game part of a wider cross-platform strategy.ItsXbox SmartGlass appis available for iOS and Android as a "second screen" for the Xbox 360 console, used to control the device's entertainment features as well as working with games including Forza Horizon, Dance Central 3 and Ascend: Hand of Kul.In short, it's already clear that Microsoft sees Xbox as a brand capable of extending to iOS and Android, rather than remaining siloed within its Windows ecosystem, even if exclusives like Halo: Spartan Assault are still aiming to juice interest in Windows Phone and Windows 8.
Saint’s Row 4, an open-world action adventure video game expected to sell millions around the world, has been refused classification by the Australian Classification Board (ACB), meaning it cannot be sold in retail stores in Australia.The ACB decision marks the first time a video game has been refused classification under new guidelines which include an R18+ option.A statement released by the boardsaid: “In the Board’s opinion, Saints Row IV, includes interactive, visual depictions of implied sexual violence which are not justified by context.“In addition, the game includes elements of illicit or proscribed drug use related to incentives or rewards. Such depictions are prohibited by the computer games guidelines.”According to a report on CVG, Saints Row 4 developer Volition is working to create an Australia-specific version of the game by &quot;removing the content which could cause offence without reducing the outlandish gameplay&quot;.Games that are rated Refused Classification are banned for sale, hire or public exhibition in Australia, and are illegal to possess in Western Australia and some parts of the Northern Territory.The new guidelines began on January 1 this year, and introduced a new adult level for video games, R18+, which restricts sale to anyone under the age of 18.In the six months since the new rating was introduced, the ACB has applied it to 17 video games, including God of War: Ascension and Army of Two: The Devil’s Cartel.The Interactive Games and Entertainment Association (IGEA)responded to the news in a statementsaying: &quot;Under the new guidelines, we celebrate the fact that adults can now access age-appropriate games which may have otherwise been refused classification, but as we have argued, we also must accept that there will be some video games which will fall outside the scope of the R18+ guidelines.&quot;Whether we agree or not with this specific classification, it highlights that the classification system is functioning as it should and that R18+ was never meant to open the ‘floodgates’ for all types of content.Saints Row 4 was slated for an Australian release date of August 22 on PS3, Xbox 360 and Windows PC.As with previous titles,the main protagonist is the leader of the Third Street Saints gang, who has now become president of the United States and must rescue the previous president from aliens.It follows on from the third game in the series, which was released in November 2011 andsold more than 4m units worldwide.
It's Tuesday.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamStyle v substance in mobile software &gt;&gt; Mobile OpportunityMichael Mace has been user testing mobile apps:The most common problem I saw in the tests was users struggling with mobile apps and websites that prioritized beauty over usability. Too often, we as an industry equate an app that looks simple with an app that's easy to use. Those are two entirely different things. Stripping all the text out of an app and hiding all of the buttons makes for a beautiful demo at TechCrunch, but a horrible user experience for people who are trying to get something done with an app.There's a free downloadable white paper too (though it demands details like name and email).What were the most ridiculous startup ideas that eventually became successful? &gt;&gt; QuoraReally nice set of answers from Michael Wolfe, pitching successful companies in the frame of "whaaat?"Facebook- the world needs yet another Myspace or Friendster except several years late. We'll only open it up to a few thousand overworked, anti-social, Ivy Leaguers. Everyone else will then join since Harvard students are so cool.Dropbox- we are going to build a file sharing and syncing solution when the market has a dozen of them that no one uses, supported by big companies like Microsoft. It will only do one thing well, and you'll have to move all of your content to use it…iOS - a brand new operating system that doesn't run a single one of the millions of applications that have been developed for Mac OS, Windows, or Linux. Only Apple can build apps for it. It won't have cut and paste.And many more, all just as good.Google Mine &gt;&gt; Unofficial Google BlogGoogle is preparing a new service that's called Google Mine. It's integrated with Google+ and it's a way to keep track of the items you own or you'd like to have and share some of them with your circles. Right now, the service is being tested internally at Google."Google Mine lets you share your belongings with your friends and keep up to date with what your friends are sharing. It enables you to control which of your Google+ Circles you share an item with. It also lets you rate and review the items, upload photos of them and share updates on the Google+ Stream where your friends get to see and comment on them."Not only your virtual life, but your physical life too. Ambitious.Hunting for an E.T. castoff in a most terrestrial place &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comALAMOGORDO, New Mexico — You are the world's greatest video game maker, but suddenly you find yourself stuck with millions of cartridges of a game nobody wants. What do you do?You load the cartridges into trucks and bury them in the New Mexico desert.Atari did just that almost 30 years ago, or so the story goes. The truth lies beneath packed dirt and poured concrete in a sleeping landfill by the railroad tracks behind a McDonald's here, where this city of about 32,000, home to an Air Force base and the state's Museum of Space History, dumped its garbage many years ago.Is it a legend? Truth? They're going to dig to find out. Really.Apple wins suit against Samsung in Japan on screen effects &gt;&gt; BusinessweekApple won a patent lawsuit in Japan, as a Tokyo judge ruled that Samsung Electronics smartphones and a tablet computer infringed on its visual effects for touch panels.The patent in question is the "rubber-band" visual effect. Yes, this stuff is still going on. There's a similar case coming up in Australia.MySQL mistake is a wake-up call on open source ownership &gt;&gt; InfoWorldThere was a moment of panic in the open source community this week when a developer on the MariaDB fork of MySQL discovered that Oracle had quietly changed the license on all the man pages for MySQL from GPL to a restrictive proprietary license two months earlier. Prompted by the bug report, Oracle's staff quickly discovered that an error had been made in the build system and promised to immediately undo the change and restore the GPL to all of MySQL.Problem solved!All the same, the incident was a wake-up call to many.(Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Not just Instagram: the Windows Phone (and BlackBerry, Firefox OS) app problem &gt;&gt; ITWritingTim Anderson:I like the Windows Phone OS and use one day to day. However it has become impossible to do my job in technical journalism without either an Apple iOS or Android device alongside it. The reason is that I review gadgets and find increasingly that they come with app support – but only for iOS or Android.The Fitbit exercise tracking gadget, for example. Or the Corsair Voyager Air wireless hard drive - almost inaccessible from Windows Phone (you can do it with a firmware update and DLNA). Or the Seagate Wireless Plus. Actually this one is better as it has a web UI, but no app.Same problem with bank apps - and of course Instagram (still waiting there for third platform still support - while the other two get video). What's the solution to this chicken/egg problem?Opening Pandora's Box &gt;&gt; FOSSForceInternet music pioneer Dave Bean (ex-MusicMatch and others):I am sympathetic to a big part of the problem here being the different royalties paid by online, offline, and Safe Harbor corporations. All Internet and almost all terrestrial radio stations around the world pay both a fee to songwriters and to song performers. Terrestrial broadcast radio in the United States has successfully lobbied Congress to be exempt from paying the performers of the music (Frank Sinatra used to complain bitterly about this). Pandora is now trying to claim that by having purchased the South Dakota terrestrial broadcast radio station they can pay that royalty without the performer fees paid by Internet Radio.Music royalties in the US particularly are very strangely organised. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)'Privacy' search engines see jump after NSA row &gt;&gt; AFPDuckDuckGo had been growing slowly in recent years, but its traffic charts showed a surge after the first news broke June 6 of the government's PRISM surveillance program. By 20 June, traffic had hit nearly three million queries, double the level of a year earlier.More than half of DuckDuckGo traffic comes from outside the United States, Weinberg said."This NSA story played into the trend of people's fears" about online tracking, said Weinberg.Weinberg said another factor is that Google results are being gamed by search engine spammers and other companies trying to rank their results higher."Dutch-based Ixquick, which also uses the name StartPage, said it too has seen a dramatic jump in usage after news of the PRISM data sharing program.It would be educative to know how many people know of more than (or even) one alternative search engine to Google. (Thanks @EasilyLead for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The NEC is like something from one of JG Ballard's dystopian novels – a vast, terrifying industrial edifice surrounded by a grey desert of car parks. It is brutal and ugly and difficult to walk to from one of the hotels ostensibly serving it, due to the utter lack of pathways. The vast windowless halls resemble secret government buildings; the sort that might house officials in the event of a nuclear apocalypse. And yet here is Rezzed, a wonderful affirmation of PC gaming.Over the course of last weekend, around 5000 gamers poured into Hall 9 of this intimidating pleasure complex, to play everything from major Triple A releases to bedroom coded indie experiments. Of the big guys, my favourite wasTotal War: Rome II. It's an utterly lavish real-time strategy sequel set in the ancient world and featuring an amazing 700 different units, including gigantic battle elephants that rampage over the sharply detailed landscape squishing enemies like insects. Brand new are the combined naval and land battles, which allow players to siege port towns and disembark units onto the beaches. Behind the scenes, the team has added an element of mass to units, so that attacking with camels downhill creates a thudding impact into enemy lines. It is  completely enthralling and exciting – especially when zooming into your trireme as it rams the bejesus out of an opposing vessel.Here, too, was the first opportunity to playShadow Warrior, an incredibly bloody re-imagining of the classic first-person hack-'em-up, originally developed by 3D Realms. Using a variety of traditional Japanese weapons from swords to shuriken, delighted players were able to turn the screen into a crimson slaughter house of spraying blood and flying body bits. Apparently, developer Flying Wild Hog has toned down some of the frat boy sexism of the first title, but the gore definitely remains.There was plenty more nostalgic wallowing for veteran gamers. I was delighted to see the forthcoming re-master of classic top-down co-op shooter The Chaos Engine, from Bitmap Brothers. Instead of going for a full HD remake, the team has polished the original steam punk blaster, adding better controls and a fuller save system. Another old school britsoft star, Team 17, was here with Worms Clan Wars, a PC-only instalment with improved physics and a hefty multiplayer league system. And then I momentarily wished I brought my sons to seeMinecraft: The Walls, a PvsP survival version of my household's favourite game. Teams of players must construct a fort, then defend it against other squads in the same sector. It looked like enormous fun.Elsewhere, Mitu Khandaker was showing off the latest build of her wonderful sci-fi parody,Redshirt; a wry study of Facebook addiction and Star Trek tropes. There was Richard Perrin, with his beautifully illustrated gameJournal, which turns the everyday childhood travails of a young girl into a dramatic adventure. Drawing huge crowds were two projects co-developed by games journalists: the compelling open world survival game,Project Zomboid, with a script by Will Porter, andSir You Are Being Huntedthe amazingly atmospheric stealth game designed by Rock Paper Shotgun contributor Jim Rossignol that procedurally generates spooky renditions of the English countryside filled with gun-wielding robots.However, by far the strangest title on the main show floor wasRevenge of the Sunfish 2, a bizarre non-linear narrative adventure composed from a series of surrealist mini-games. Imagine if WarioWare had been conceived as a co-production between Terry Gilliam and Jeff Minter and you're sort of there. One minute you're a cat shooting severed human heads, the next you're a giant throwing tea cups at dogs, all accompanied by weird sound effects and wonky 8bit visuals. The work of lone Australian coder Jacob Waldemar Buczynski, who has spent five years on the project, it was one of the most talked about titles at Rezzed, confounding journalists with its solipsistic majesty.For me though, the most intriguing draw was the leftfield tunnel, a long corridor dedicated to indie developers. Here I got my first play of Fullbright Company's engrossing adventureGone Home, in which a daughter returns from traveling to find her family missing and the house empty: you have to explore each room, discovering notes and clues that hint at what has happened. Subtle and engaging it is an intriguing example of the sort of experiential game design that is flourishing in the indie sector.I also tried the brilliantly tense,Silhouette, a sort of turn-based two-player murder sim from South African studio Manikin Games. One player takes on the role of the intended victim and must find a key to escape a creepy house, while the other participant is the maniacal slasher who has to hunt them down. Cleverly, movements are taken in timed turns, with the length of each segment reducing as the slasher gets closer to his or her prey. For the victim it's all about memorising the layout and avoiding the many physics objects that litter each room; for the killer, the skill is in trapping your opponent and ensuring a quick stabby onslaught so that the other player can't escape and grab one of the health pick-ups. It's frantic stuff, especially as the game can be played by two people on one keyboard, the proximity between hunter and victim adding to the ghoulish fun.If you're looking for this year's Super Hexagon, you may want to keep an eye on Helix from the unconventional and uncompromising developer,Michael Brough. This turbo-paced tablet game gets you to swirl your avatar in circles around a series of incoming foes. Completing a full 360 degree pass eliminates the enemy, and tackling them in groups cranks up the combo multiplier. Like Super Hexagon it's fast-paced and gruellingly demanding, and the interface has been refined to absolute perfection. This is effectively uncut crack for high score hounds.I tried two really interesting experimental titles as well.Icefishingis a sort of interactive audioscape designed by sound and music design student, Nate Gallardo. Players simply navigate a series of red and black environments shooting at white objects and hitting a button to instantly mutate the space into weird discordant shapes. Inspired by glitch bands like Oval, as well as the Japanoise scene, it's a mix between interactive art project and disorientating sound tool. Meanwhile,Morphopolisis a visually gorgeous hidden object puzzler set in a rich micro-world of insects and plant life. Designed by two architecture graduates Ceri Williams and Dan Walters, and heavily influenced by seventies graphic design, the game was a category winner at this year's Association of Illustrators Awards.The biggest queues of the event were for the two indie titles being shown using the Oculus Rift virtual reality headset: Undercurrent andEther One. I only got to try the latter, an interesting adventure title in which you play as a restorer, a gifted psychic capable of gaining access to another person's mind. Your job is to repair the memories of a mentally ill patient, although slowly it becomes clear that your character's own past is not what it seems. The Rift provides a neat technological metaphor for this process of immersion and the effect is startling at times – simple actions like negotiating a staircase take on a weird semi-reality as you look down and sense the distance to the bottom. Fascinating stuff. On the subject of VR I was also given a quick trailer of forthcoming sci-fi thrillerRoutine, set on an eerily abandoned lunar base. Channeling the original Dead Space and the movie Moon, it's a promising title and it's set to support the Oculus headset.As well as the showfloor, Rezzed included a series of developer sessions, which were all really interesting. My favourite had Rami Ismail and Jan Willem Nijam of Dutch studio Vlambeer, chatting through the company's history and providing insight into the development of new title, Luftrausers, an improved version ofthe free flight shooter. The duo spoke with charm and humour about the studio's early days and its approach to development, which is all about very fast prototyping followed by months of iteration and refinement. You can watch all the sessions online viathe Rezzed YouTube channel.On the Sunday afternoon, I helped judge a Game Jam, where teams were given just ten hours to create games based around the theme, 'The '80s'. They were all so good; so clever, funny and intriguing, and I hope the winner, The 80 Spies, will be released as a full game, because it's a great riff on Chris Hecker's forthcoming Spy Party.Personally, the toughest yet most important experience was playing the demo ofThat Dragon, Cancer, Ryan Green's heartwrenching game about his little son's battle with terminal illness. Designed as a sort of autobiographical adventure, the scene I played took place in a hospital intensive care unit where Ryan sits with Joel as the baby howls in pain and frustration. It is devastating. You can explore the room, but you cannot leave it, and the sampled sounds of the baby's cries are almost unbearable, while Ryan (who narrates the game) conveys his fear, hope and sheer lethargy.I don't cry at films or books; I mean, I never have so far. But at the end of the demo, I put down the controller, and had to leave the building in tears. There are personal elements to this; the loss of my dad to cancer, of course, but also the terror any parent has of their child being ill – too ill to help. I stood outside in the drizzle for 20 minutes, composing myself, and then went back in. I'm speaking to Ryan and his team soon.Rezzed said a lot to me about PC games, and about video games in general. The crowd was friendly, the developers enthusiastic and welcoming. This is an era in which massive million-pound projects stand beside games written in bedrooms for nothing, and both come out of it richer and more interesting – nothing seems out of place.This is also an era in which games are truly expressive and filled with emotion. Sure, there is mindless shooting galore and there always will be, that is fine (Hotline Miami 2 was at Rezzed and looking AWESOME). But there is so much more; from the strategic depth of Total War to a man and his son in a hospital room, desperate and defiant. I will write more about most of these games in the coming weeks. For now, I just wanted to cram it all onto a page. These are incredible times for gaming. How lucky we are.
The US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is investigating Google's $1.3bn acquisition of the crowdsourced traffic-mapping and navigation company Waze, the search company has confirmed to the Guardian.The FTC's actions followdemands from consumer groupsconcerned that the takeover by Google, which already dominates online mapping – notably in the US – could corner the market by absorbing the Israeli startup, whichboastedearlier this year its only real competitor was Google.Though Waze's revenues are below $70m, the level at which an FTC investigation would automatically be triggered, the watchdog is entitled to investigate any takeover that it thinks could restrict consumer choice.The investigation is the latest in a series of antitrust and other regulatory scrutiny being applied to Google in the US and Europe. It is still discussing a consent decree with the FTC from January intended to block the potential abuse of "standards-essential" patents by its Motorola subsidiary, and in Europe faces a deadline this week over its proposals to change how it presents search results, under an investigation by the antitrust group in the European Commission. Meanwhile, European privacy regulators in France, Spain, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands arethreatening fines or investigations. The FTC is also investigating whether it has abused its dominance of the online advertising market in both text and display ads through its ownership of DoubleClick, bought for $3.1bn in 2007.Google said when it announced theWaze purchaseearlier this month that it would be keeping Waze as a separate unit "for now". The FTC could also instruct the two companies to remain separate while it carries out the investigation.Immediately after the takeover was announced, the US pressure group Consumer Watchdog wrote to the Department of Justice, arguing that "Google already dominates the online mapping business" and alleging that the company "was able to muscle its way to dominance by unfairly favouring its own services" ahead of competitors, through its power in the search business.Instead the FTC seems to have decided to investigate whether a Waze takeover would act against the interests of consumers by reducing market choice. Waze is a smartphone app with about 50 million active users worldwide, compared with a much higher figure for Google – and for rival mapping services from Finnish handset maker Nokia, Microsoft, and specialist satnav makers such as TomTom. The app company is thought to have been the subject of takeover approaches from Facebook and Apple in the past 12 months.Speaking in January, Waze founder Uri Levine said: "There are only four companies in the world that can create maps, and it's an expensive business: Nokia and TomTom, which have acquired companies for billions of dollars; Google; and Waze. Of these four companies, Google and Waze do not care how much it costs to keep the maps up-to-date: Google because it has a lot of money, and Waze because it relies on the community."Waze's users are particularly devoted to the app, which gives real-time information about traffic buildups based on its own users' data provided both passively from the handset's GPS data and actively by users inputting details of traffic buildups, accidents and speed traps.
Google broke the news that itsGoogle Reader RSS aggregation service was to closeback in March, although the company at least gave users a decent amount of time to switch to an alternative.The deadline is approaching though: from 1 July Google Reader will be no more. A number of services are welcoming its users with open arms, including Feedly, Flipboard and the about-to-launch Digg Reader.We'd like to know what your post-Google plans are for monitoring your news feeds. If you've switched already (or had already done so before the shutdown announcement), which service are you using and why?What do you like about it, and what features would you like to see added in the future? But also, how do you see RSS and news-reading evolving in a more general sense?While some people suggested Google Reader's closure would be one of the final nails in RSS' coffin, the frenetic competition between the services jostling to replace it – as well as the work being done by apps like Flipboard, Pulse, Zite and News360 – suggests that may be untrue.But rather than tell you which reader service you should be switching to, we'd rather hear your views. The comments section is open, so have your say on the pros and cons of the services you've tried, and how you'd like to see them develop in the future.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).The Championships, Wimbledon 2013 for iPad (Free)Wimbledon is kicking off again today! Well, the tennis equivalent of kicking off, anyway. This year, there's an official iPad app from the All England Lawn Tennis Club, providing live scores, results and stats, draws and play schedules, and profiles of players. It'll also stream live radio, and a live video show with interviews, highlights and features on the tournament. It joins theexisting smartphone apps, which have been updated for 2013.iPadToca Builders (£0.69)This is the latest app from acclaimed children's app-maker Toca Boca, and a step up in terms of complexity and creativity for the company. Inspired by Minecraft and Lego, it gets kids building structures from cubes, put in place by six cute robots who trundle around the virtual world. Children are free to build, paint and destroy whatever they like. For more on Toca Boca's strategy,read this interview.iPhone / iPadSoundwave Music Discovery (Free)startup Soundwave wants to help people discover new music by following what friends and tastemakers are playing. The app tracks and shares song plays on Spotify and Rdio, as well as on your iOS device, while showing you the plays of others – as well as aggregated charts. For more on how it works,read this interview with Soundwave.iPhoneWhere's My Mickey? (£0.69 / £1.49)Disney had a big hit with its Where's My Water? and Where's My Perry physics-puzzle games. Now it's applying that formula to its most famous character: Mickey Mouse. This game sees Mickey collecting water over more than 100 levels split into five episodes, with more available as in-app purchases. The link above is for the cheaper iPhone version, buthere's the £1.29 "XL" iPad edition, which has extra levels designed for the bigger screen.iPhone / iPadITN (Free)News provider ITN released its first app a few years ago, but this is a completely new version to replace it on the App Store, with added iPad support. It mirrors ITN's website, with a thumbnail-heavy homepage of news, and plenty of videos to watch.iPhone / iPadXCOM: Enemy Unknown (£13.99)iOS is on a good run of classic hardcore games at the moment, with Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic out recently, and now XCOM: Enemy Unknown. This is a conversion of the much-loved PC and console game: a strategy epic where you build a base, research new technology and send your troops out into battle. Expensive for iOS, but engrossing enough to justify the price.iPhone / iPadCloudSpotter (£1.99)This is a brilliant idea: an app designed to get you looking up at the sky rather than down at your iPhone. CloudSpotter is an app for identifying one of 40 different cloud-types, with gamified elements rewarding you with stars and badges as you try to collect the lot. Except there's a serious intent –explained at more length in this article– with the app helping Nasa monitor the effects of clouds on the Earth's climate.iPhoneBee-friend your garden (Free)Here's another app that'll get you out into the natural world. It's a "Citizen Science project" from the University of Sussex, working with The Earthwatch Institute, Waitrose and The Crown Estate. It's asking people to record which pollinating insects visit their gardens, with graphs to show which plants are most popular – and data uploaded to a central database for the researchers to pore over.iPhone / iPadThe Atlantic Weekly (Free)The Atlantic is the latest magazine hoping to find new revenue streams from digital products, including apps. Its latest collects each week's best pieces from its websites and packages them up for weekend reading on iOS devices, charging £1.49 per issue, or a monthly £1.99 subscription.iPhone / iPadizik search (Free)Search-engine app izik comes from Blekko, which has won a fair few fans on the web as a Google alternative. It promises "fun and functional" search, with results organised into categories, and a gesture-based user interface to quickly swipe between them.iPhone / iPadCharlie Brown's All-Stars! (£2.99)Charlie Brown and the Peanuts gang return for this storybook-app on iOS from Loud Crow Interactive, based around the exploits of Charlie's baseball team. The storyline comes with interactive activities: pitching, batting and catching, but also sewing a uniform, surfing with Snoopy and setting up Linus' inflatable pool.iPhone / iPadDelicious Official App for iPad (Free)Social bookmarking service Delicious didn't fare too well when owned by Yahoo, but in 2011 it was bought by AVOS, the new company of YouTube founders Chad Hurley and Steve Chen. Now it has a brand new iPad app helping users root through their bookmarks and those of their network.iPadMonsters University (£0.69)More Disney: this is the official mobile game for the latest Disney/Pixar movie, Monsters University. It's a pair of games, actually, both from the endless runner genre. Catch Archie sees you chasing down rival mascot Archie the Scare Pig, while Toxicity Challenge involves running through sewers avoiding glow-urchins.iPhone / iPadGareth Thomas Fitness App (£1.99)With the British and Irish Lions doing well Down Under, what better time for rugby veteran Gareth Thomas to launch his own fitness app? This offers a mixture of workout videos, diet plans and routines with the promise of "the perfect ripped body" as the end result. It's a spin-off from Thomas' existing fitness DVD.iPhone / iPadI Care If You Listen Magazine (Free)Here's something good for fans of contemporary classical music: an iOS-only magazine delivered through Apple's Newsstand storefront offering interviews, reviews, videos and music technology articles. Issues will be published every two months for £1.99 via subscription.iPhone / iPadThor Polysonic Synthesizer (£10.49)This is the latest electronic-music creation app from Propellerhead Software, following its ReBirth and Figure apps onto iOS. It's based on the flagship synthesizer from Propellerhead's Reason music production software, promising "a thunderous sound, god-like sound sculpting capabilities and an innovative, lightning-fast keyboard designed for iPad". And LOTS of buttons. One for pro musicians and keen amateurs alike.iPadWar of Nations (Free)Social mobile games publisher Gree is behind this soldier 'em up game, which is being pitched as a "strategy MMO with military combat". That means building bases, creating armies and then battling against friends and strangers alike over the network, levelling up (and spending up to £69.99 at a time on in-app purchases) as you go.iPhone / iPadPlay-Doh Create ABCs (£1.99)A Play-Doh app sounds like a silly idea, given that it can't possibly recreate the squishy tactile fun (or the smell) of the real thing. But there's some good stuff here: a section for kids to learn to trace the letters of the alphabet using virtual Play-Doh, unlocking items (cars, rockets, monkeys etc) to arrange in their own colourful scenes.iPhone / iPadPuzzle Pirates (Free)I know a fair few gamers who are still obsessed by Puzzle Pirates in its online/web form, so its new iPad version should bring the phenonemon to even more players. It sees you adventuring in a world full of other players, sailing your ship, sword-fighting and exploring new islands. Pretty much every activity in the game is represented by a puzzle, with virtual doubloon purchases funding your ambitions.iPadGomma Friends (£0.69)One final children's app this week, and one that wants to get kids playing and creating in the real world as well as on-screen. Gomma Friends is a dressing-up app with eight characters and a host of outfits and scenes to customise. But every time children complete a scene, they unlock printable card objects and characters, which they can then make for real by folding and sticking.iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Desperation makes strange bedfellows.The advent ofhybrid devices running both Windows 8 and Androidis a painful reminder of what OEMs think of both Windows RT and Windows 8 as tablet OSs.Two of the major PC vendors (Samsungand Asus) have now released hybrid devices that run Android in tablet mode and Windows 8 in laptop mode. This takes "Windroid" from what looks like a silly experiment and changes it into an earnest attempt to address some of the shortcomings of Windows 8.The ability to pin Android apps onto the Windows 8 start screen is a clear sign that the real problem with Windows 8 is the availability of apps for its "Metro" mode.Microsoft will proudly tout a number in the region of 100,000 for apps available for Windows 8 this week at its Build conference but the cool, new and cutting edge apps never seem to be available.This problem could also have been solved by running an Android emulator on the device – so the choice of a full Android implementation points to other issues in addition to app availability. It strongly implies that the OEMs also do not see Windows 8 as a good user experience for a tablet which is a huge problem for Microsoft.The whole point of Windows 8 is its flexibility and ability to provide a great user experience in both Metro and desktop modes, but if no one is interested then one may as well stick with the excellent Windows 7.In desktop mode there is not much to separate the Windows 7 and Windows 8 experiences.I have long held the opinion that Microsoft has done an incredibly bad job at telling users why they should buy Windows 8.However, I am not expecting much traction as hybrid OS devices have been tried before and have been show to be very niche with low volumes.Furthermore, the devices are very heavy for tablets, and the inability to share data between the two modes is likely to substantially limit their appeal.These devices (and the new Samsung ATIV Tab 3) are also a damning indictment of Windows RT, where manufacturer support has dropped virtually to zero.The best that I can hope from Windows RT is that it is folded into Windows 8, and devices on the ARM architecture begin to appear where the only choice the user has to make is based on performance, battery life and price. Its persistence as a shadow of Windows 8 confuses users and makes them less willing to join the Windows 8 ecosystem.If Microsoft can make strides towards informing users how they can live their Digital Lives with Microsoft and solve the confusion around Windows RT then it becomes a very compelling proposition. However, while its biggest OEM partners feel that they have to include Android to make a viable hybrid device, one can tell that something is seriously wrong.Aversion of this postfirst appeared on Richard Windsor's Radio Free Mobile site.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).Soundwave Music Discovery (Free)Irish startup Soundwave wants to help people discover new music by following what friends and tastemakers are playing. The app tracks and shares song plays on Spotify and Rdio, as well as on your Android device, while showing you the plays of others – as well as aggregated charts. For more on how it works,read this interview with Soundwave.Humble Bundle 6 (Up to you)If you love games and own an Android device, you should be all over the Humble Bundles like a rash. The latest is available for another eight days, and like its predecessors lets you set your own price for a collection of games: Aquaria, Fractal, Organ Trail: Director's Cut, Stealth Bastard Deluxe and Pulse in this case. But if you pay more than the average ($4.70 at the time of writing), you get Frozen Synapse and Broken Sword: Director's Cut thrown in too, plus soundtracks and the Windows/Mac/Linux versions too.Where's My Mickey? (£0.64 / £1.29)Disney had a big hit with its Where's My Water? and Where's My Perry physics-puzzle games. Now it's applying that formula to its most famous character: Mickey Mouse. This game sees Mickey collecting water over more than 100 levels split into five episodes, with more available as in-app purchases. The link above is for the cheaper smartphone version, buthere's the £1.29 "XL" tablet edition, which has extra levels designed for the bigger screen.Monsters University (£0.64)More Disney: this is the official mobile game for the latest Disney/Pixar movie, Monsters University. It's a pair of games, actually, both from the endless runner genre. Catch Archie sees you chasing down rival mascot Archie the Scare Pig, while Toxicity Challenge involves running through sewers avoiding glow-urchins.Rockmelt (Free)Rockmelt started life as a desktop web browser with an emphasis on social networking. Nowadays, it's more about mobile. Its Android app promises to help you find (and share) "the most viral, newsworthy, cute, interesting, and otherwise awesome stuff" from websites and blogs, with the sharing options including Facebook and Twitter. A mobile browser for the BuzzFeed generation, you could say.Gangstar Vegas (£4.99)Gameloft's Gangstar games are unashamedly influenced by the Grand Theft Auto series, although GTA's availability on Android provides keen competition nowadays. This latest game is set in Las Vegas, with 80 missions, and lots of weapons and cars to use. It has all the murderous hallmarks of GTA, but the jury's out on whether it has that franchise's sharp humour too.izik search (Free)izik is a search-engine app for Android devices, which given Google knows a thing or two about search, might seem like an idea doomed to obscurity. But izik comes from Blekko, which has won a fair few fans on the web as a Google alternative. Can izik do the same on Android? It promises "fun and functional" search, with results organised into categories, and a gesture-based user interface to quickly swipe between them.Scribblenauts Remix (£0.63)Warner Bros has brought its popular puzzle game to Android tablets (well, some: check the list of supported devices before buying). The game gets you to think up objects and characters to help you solve the 50 levels, with plans to add new levels for players who pay to subscribe to a "World Pass".Si EvolutionAndroid has plenty of alternative-keyboard apps, with Si Evolution the latest to join the fray. Launched by SnapKeys, it's "a simple, smart alphabetic keyboard for any age that frees up your whole screen", with the somewhat bullish ambition of putting "an end to QWERTY" with its alphabetical layout. An interesting idea though.CPU-Z (Free)A simple but useful utility, this is an Android version of the existing PC CPU identification software. It'll report data about your device including its System on Chip name, architecture and clock speeds; device brand and model, screen resolution, RAM and storage; and the battery level, status and temperature.Strawberry Shortcake Friends (£2.55)Popular children's character Strawberry Shortcake has a new app: a storybook by Cupcake Digital that adds animation, interactive activities and mini-games. Kids will be decorating nails, styling hair and matching fruits, while parents can browse the Common Core Corner to gauge how educational the app is.Drakerider (£9.41)Drakerider is the latest Android game from Square Enix: a new RPG for smartphones set in a fantasy world, as you fly around on a dragon trying to save the world from a dreadful enemy called, ahem, the Dread. It's very good if you're a fan of the genre, and Square Enix's previous mobile RPGs like Chaos Rings.Frozen Synapse (£4.45)Frozen Synapse is part of the Humble Bundle, mentioned higher up this roundup, so that's the most affordable way to get it. But once the Humble Bundle finishes, this'll be the place to get Mode 7's turn-based strategy game, as you send your squad round a succession of missions.Grand St. (Free)This app's US-only, for now. It's pitched as "a new mobile marketplace for creative and independent technology", offering reviews of a range of products, with the promise to focus on the design, quality and functionality rather than just the specs.LetSnap (Free)From the same developer as Si Evolution, this is an instant messaging app aimed at younger smartphone users. "In seconds, you can take a photo, colorfully type on it while viewing the whole image, express your thoughts and feelings anywhere on the photo and in any direction, and share it with your friends and followers," explains its Google Play listing. The twist being that they can scribble their own messages and send it back or onwards too.Infinite Universe (£3.99)This comes from Tin Man Games, which has been releasing a series of "Gamebook Adventures" that are part story and part game, with virtual dice-rolling elements drawn from the Fighting Fantasy books a few decades ago. This latest app is an all-new story with a science-fiction theme.twheel for Twitter (£0.69)Boring old vertically-scrolling Twitter timelines, eh? Who needs 'em when you can have a WHEEL? This, at least, is the idea behind Fluid Interaction's new twheel app. But it's not (just) a whizzy UI for the sake of it: the app aims to filter "the important signals in your Twitter stream" so you don't miss the best stuff.Doomsday Preppers (Free)G5 Entertainment's new freemium game on Android is based on a National Geographic TV show, Doomsday Preppers. It sees you designing a "multi-level bunker" underground, going down as far as 140 floors while building shelter, security, food and water, science, workshop and recreation levels.Fatty (£0.69)In a world where hyperbolic app descriptions are becoming the norm, respect to Thumbstar Games for pitching Fatty as "a simple little game about a stupid fat blob and his bouncing misadventures". That's about the sum of it: a colourful action game where you bounce through levels eating, growing and burping.NatGeo Wild QuizUp (Free)Finally, an educational quiz game with National Geographic's branding, which sees you challenging friends on more than 500 questions around nature, wildlife and whether flamingoes eat with their heads upside down.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 22 June 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)The Last of Us(18+)PS3 (100)22 (2)Animal Crossing: New Leaf(3+)3DS (100)23 (5)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (27)VITA (6)Wii (4)394 (4)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (47)PC (2)165 (–)Max Payne 3(18+)PS3 (61)Xbox 360 (38)PC (0)166 (14)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (39)PC (2)Wii U (1)317 (7)Far Cry 3(18+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (43)PC (5)308 (6)Injustice: Gods Among Us(16+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (39)Wii U (2)109 (10)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (43)3410 (3)Grid 2(7+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (47)PC (2)411 (9)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)1312 (13)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (30)3DS (17)PS3 (17)Wii (16)5013 (8)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim - Legendary(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (30)PC (20)314 (11)Dead Island: Riptide(18+)Xbox 360 (66)PS3 (33)PC (1)915 (–)MotoGP 13(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (42)PC (4)VITA (4)116 (18)Grand Theft Auto IV (18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (35)5317 (15)Donkey Kong Country Returns(3+)3DS (99)Wii (1)918 (–)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (39)VITA (12)PC (1)3019 (16)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (32)PC (8)1320 (19)Lego The Lord of the Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (35)PS3 (24)Wii (17)3DS (10)21UKIE Games Charts© compiled by GfK Chart-Track
It's the monday after Rezzed – were you there? It was great!
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDuckDuckGo's post-PRISM growth actually proves no one cares about "private" search &gt;&gt; Search Engine LandDanny Sullivan:Look out, Google!Duck Duck Go is on the rise, posting a 50% traffic increase in just eight days. Is this proof people want a "private" search engine, in the wake of allegations thePRISM programallows the US government to read search data with unfettered access? Nope. Google has little to worry about. People don't care about search privacy, and Duck Duck Go's growth demonstrates this.Don't get me wrong. If you ask people about search privacy, they'll respond that it's a major issue.Big majorities say they don't want to be tracked nor receive personalized results. But if you look at what people actually do, virtually none of them make efforts to have more private search.Duck Duck Go's growth is an excellent case study to prove this. Despite it growing, it's not grown anywhere near the amount to reflect any substantial or even mildly notable switching by the searching public.This feels like it's both right (it's indubitably true that colossal numbers of people are still using Google) and wrong. What if that that tiny (compared to the total size of Google) group going to DuckDuckGo and the like - we don't have figures for other private search engines - is just a precursor to a larger shift? Google was a tiny private company once, and the publicly-listed AltaVista was dominant. That changed too.One other point: if everyone who now uses Google had shifted to DuckDuckGo or other search engines within three days, they probably would have collapsed.Don't want the NSA to read your documents? Use this font. &gt;&gt; Reason.comIt's a font designed to be difficult for machines to read.Oh dear. It's difficult forOCRmachines to read. However, the NCR and GCHW don't work that way at all.Digg Reader: how a small team raided Google's trash to build an RSS tool for the modern world &gt;&gt; The VergeAdrianne Jeffries:Digg is about to release its second product, and it's even more of a throwback: an RSS reader. Really Simple Syndication was developed 14 years ago, just as people started to realize that the internet was growing fast enough that it was possible to miss things. Today, it's an essential tool for any power user who wants to stay informed; it also confers a sense of comfort by collecting every headline into a lengthy but discrete reading list.The current team has planned to build an RSS reader since taking over Digg. "If you want to be a place where people go to find cool stories, it makes sense to be a place where people can follow interesting sources," McLaughlin said. It was on the product roadmap for the fourth quarter of 2013. Then Google announced that Google Reader, the most popular and powerful RSS reader on the market, was sunsetting on 1 July.Sex, Lies and Porn Statistics &gt;&gt; Ministry of TruthThere's no single extract to take out of this; it's a long post but very, very well worth it, especially for the debunking of many "X% of the internet is porn!" and "Porn makes garbillions of dollars every day!" pseudo-stats.Important message from Facebook's white hat program &gt;&gt; FacebookDescribing what caused the bug can get pretty technical, but we want to explain how it happened. When people upload their contact lists or address books to Facebook, we try to match that data with the contact information of other people on Facebook in order to generate friend recommendations. For example, we don't want to recommend that people invite contacts to join Facebook if those contacts are already on Facebook; instead, we want to recommend that they invite those contacts to be their friends on Facebook.Because of the bug, some of the information used to make friend recommendations and reduce the number of invitations we send was inadvertently stored in association with people's contact information as part of their account on Facebook. As a result, if a person went to download an archive of their Facebook account through our Download Your Information (DYI) tool, they may have been provided with additional email addresses or telephone numbers for their contacts or people with whom they have some connection. This contact information was provided by other people on Facebook and was not necessarily accurate, but was inadvertently included with the contacts of the person using the DYI tool.It reallyisthe world's phone directory.Pro sports first: tennis player to wear Google Glass at Wimbledon this week &gt;&gt; VentureBeatPro tennis player Bethanie Mattek-Sands, who's No. 58 in the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) rankings, will be wearing Google Glass at Wimbledon (one of the four prestigious Grand Slam major tennis events) this week in London, Google announced this morning. Mattek-Sands is in the Glass Explorer program, a limited sampling of a few thousand people who have been lucky enough to acquire and test Google Glass in prerelease format.Doubt she'll be allowed to wear them in a match: could be construed as a device that would allow coaching messages to be sent.Think your Skype messages get end-to-end encryption? Think again &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaFrom May 2013:If you think the private messages you send over Skype are protected by end-to-end encryption, think again. The Microsoft-owned service regularly scans message contents for signs of fraud, and company managers may log the results indefinitely, Ars has confirmed. And this can only happen if Microsoft can convert the messages into human-readable form at will.We've since heard that it's much worse, of course.We were wrong &gt;&gt; The Kickstarter BlogAfter failing to block a "seduction guide"..Where does this leave us?First, there is no taking back money from the project or canceling funding after the fact. When the project was funded the backers' money went directly from them to the creator. We missed the window.Second, the project page has been removed from Kickstarter. The project has no place on our site. For transparency's sake, a record of the page iscached here.Third, we are prohibiting "seduction guides," or anything similar, effective immediately. This material encourages misogynistic behavior and is inconsistent with our mission of funding creative works. These things do not belong on Kickstarter.How HTC lost its way with smartphones &gt;&gt; WSJ.comEmployees frequently draw comparisons to Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, saying Mr. Chou has a visionary understanding of what makes a good product and is responsible for his company's strong designs. But they also call him a difficult boss, who can have a short fuse and often makes 11th-hour demands."We joke that a product's not done until it's sealed in the box," a longtime HTC engineer says.David Yoffie, a member of HTC's board and Mr. Chou's former professor at Harvard Business School, says the possibility of changing the company's chief executive has never been raised during a board meeting."The board has a lot of confidence in Peter, and share price is not going to drive decisions on the future of the chief executive," Mr. Yoffie says.The headline oversells it; the piece doesn't explain how HTC lost its way. (Subscription required.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Bitcoin has its first British boozer.The Pembury Tavernin Hackney, east London – as well as its sister pubs in Cambridge, Norwich and Peterborough – are now acceptingthe virtual currency.It was pub group founder Stephen Early, a former computer scientist, who decided to give the currency a go. "I bought some in 2011 but there wasn't really anything to do with them," he explains. "So I did the equivalent of putting them in a drawer and forgetting about them."The coins were soon worth 20 times what he paid for them but Early still couldn't find anything to buy. He figured other Bitcoin holders might fancy spending their online cash on a pint. It took him just a couple of evenings to create and install a Bitcoin payment option; the pub was already using his custom-built till software.The system is quick and effective. The bar staff press two buttons on the till and the screen displays aQR code. The customer opens their digital Bitcoin wallet, takes a snap of the screen and confirms the payment. The staff&nbsp;press one more button and the transaction is complete. Snapping the QR code in a crowded bar could be a challenge but in a quiet pub it is faster than paying by card.Early registered his pubs with a database of Bitcoin retailers and people started popping in to see for themselves. So far he's sold around £800 of booze to Bitcoin users. "It's more than I expected it to be," he says. "I really didn't expect that wave of enthusiasm and people coming in to try it out. There is a certain novelty value."The Pembury Tavern is the first UK pub to go Bitcoin-friendly but not the first real-world business. In the Kreuzberg district of Berlin,restaurants, bars and a record shop have been using the payment system for months. In Ireland, just outside the small town of Birr,Bitcoin users can now book a night at a farmhouse bed and breakfast.Small online businesses now accept the currency in exchange for everything from alpaca socks to pet accessories and hemp skincare treatments.Bitcoin enthusiasts have held a&nbsp;meet-up at the Pembury Tavern,&nbsp;descending on the pub to&nbsp;swap their virtual coins for frothy pints and discuss the future of the currency. Still, Early is hedging his bets. I ask him if he plans to hold on to the Bitcoins coming in. He tells me no. "My plan is gradually to turn them back into pounds."
Price £140,900MPG 19.2Top speed 200mphThere's one easy way to cope with life's scarier moments: close your eyes and jump. I had just taken the wheel of the dizzyingly luxuriousBentley Flying Spurand my first task was to ease the £140,000 craft out into four lanes ofBeijing's anarchic rush-hour traffic. Surely only a swivel-eyed loon would be so reckless. There probably are rules governing the relentless, bumper-tight flow, but&nbsp;I&nbsp;had no idea what they were. Finally my gung-ho passenger shouted: "Go, go, go!" I didn't look – I&nbsp;just hit the gas and swooshed out into the cavalcade, which absorbed us without a ripple. Sitting unruffled in the controlled ambience of the car, it felt as if  the Queen had sneaked out of Buckingham Palace and been swept up in an anarchists' demo…Outside edge: the new model is smoother, longer and lower than the outgoing Flying Spur. Photograph: ObserverThe Bentley dealership in Beijing sells more of the historic marque's four-door super-sport sedans than any other in the world. Along with French wine, Italian fashion and Scottish whisky, China'snouveaux richesjust can't get enough of posh English cars. A salesman explained why: "We Chinese love old world. We love history. We love these cars because the Queen drives a Bentley."The feeling is mutual – over the next two years Bentley will open 45&nbsp;dealerships across China and it explains why the British firm chose to launch the car in Beijing. But there are a couple of idiosyncrasies about this brave new market that Bentley has to cope with. The first is that the average age of a Bentley buyer here is mid-30s – a decade and more younger than the rest of the world. The second is that none of these new owners has any intention of actually driving their car. They will be quite happy to sit in the back, thank you. Never mind that the marque has spent the past century fanning the flame of its driving heritage established by thrashing all-comers at Le Mans. The salesman sees no contradiction: "The 200mph Flying Spur is the fastest non-driver's car you can buy. Which in China is the&nbsp;whole point."The good news for the handful of&nbsp;Brits who will be buying this new&nbsp;model is that Bentley's racing pedigree runs too deep to change – either that or it cares deeply about the driving experience of Chinese chauffeurs. With its 6-litre twin-turbocharged W12 engine, this Flying&nbsp;Spur is faster than ever before.&nbsp;The power from the colossal engine is 616bhp – enough to hurtle the two-tonne dame from a&nbsp;standstill to 60mph in a fraction over 4&nbsp;seconds. The sense of potential, unquestioning ooooomph at your disposal is delicious. Maybe that's how the Queen feels…Inside story: the hyper-luxurious cockpit. Photograph: ObserverVirtually every exterior panel has been redesigned to give a lower, longer, sleeker shape – and you'll struggle to keep your hands to yourself when you see the distinct creases on its muscular haunches.The car comes in 18 colours, including damson – they should call it plum sauce out here. Inside it's as posh, plush, ritzy and classy as you could wish for. There's a&nbsp;cooler for not one but two bottles of champagne, and an underfloor acoustic shield to eliminate road noise. Tech-wise it's&nbsp;state of the art, a WiFi hotspot. So sit back and sip French fizz in your German-owned, British-built car, and get on with languishing – Chinese style.The Legend of the Tour de FranceAs the 100th edition of the world's greatest bike race gets under way, armchair fans may want to treat themselves toThe Tour: The Legend of the Tour de France– a Blu-ray and DVD which has just been released by Universal Studios Home Entertainment. From its humble beginnings as a publicity stunt byl'Automagazine in 1903 to the international spectacle it is today, the Tour has lived through over a century of rich history, filled with triumphs and scandals. This official film seeks to tell its story through its emblematic heroes; from Coppi and Bobet to Armstrong and Wiggins. Fully archive-based and colourised,The Tourweaves together all these individual stories with the story of the Tour de France itself. It's great viewing and may even inspire you to get back on your bike...Sleep apnoea and professional drivers – finding the answersObstructive Sleep Apnoea Syndrome (OSAS) is a condition that is particularly prevalent among HGV drivers and excessive sleepiness is thought to be responsible for up to 20% of motorway traffic accidents. A new Q&amp;A document has been developed to help sufferers know where they stand. Professor John Stradling from the Oxford Sleep Clinic says: "It is vital that we do not push the problem underground by making it difficult for commercial drivers to admit that they have symptoms." Those most at risk of having the condition are overweight middle-aged men and unfortunately, due to the sedentary nature of their job, HGV drivers seem to be at higher risk of OSAS. However, the condition can be treated quickly and easily; when the symptoms are controlled, quality of life can improve considerably. The helpful document can be accessed on following websites:realsleep.co.uk/driving/andsleep-apnoea-trust.org/driving-and-sleep-apnoeaEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
To Claridge's on Monday, where Carolyn Everson, Facebook's global advertising chief, will take the stage atFortune'sone-day gathering of the most powerful women in British business.Other formidable speakers include Thomas Cook boss Harriet Green, architect Zaha Hadid and former tennis number one Billie Jean King. Everson will be in her element. A mother of twin girls, she has backed her boss Sheryl Sandberg's controversial book on women and work,Lean In. Everson moved her family to London in December after Joanna Shields left her job running Facebook's European operations to head London's Tech City.This will be one of her last speaking engagements before returning to the US, having found a replacement for Shields. Advertising guru Nicola Mendelsohn, another poster girl for working mums, starts at Facebook's Covent Garden HQ on Monday. She is understood to be working a four-day week, suggesting Facebook pays more than lip service to work/life balance.Awkwardly, Shields will also be speaking at the Claridge's event. It is a sign of the less macho approach taken by women in business that she and Everson are appearing on the same bill. Expect more sister act than sharpened stilettos from the digital dames.Nat back at the coalfacePlace your bets now on whether the formidable Lady Serena Rothschild, as well-known for breeding racehorses as financiers, will accompany her son Nat on his latest clash with the board of Bumi, the London-listed Indonesian coal miner. Scandal-tarnished Bumi will hold its annual meeting on Wednesday, and both Rothschild and shareholder group Pirc are urging votes against the directors.Rothschild asked his mother along when Bumi shareholders gathered for an emergency meeting in February. His attempt to seize control by having 12&nbsp;of the company's 14 directors ejected was defeated, but the banking dynasty's most high-profile heir is ready for another round.Bumi's shareshave been suspended since April, after it was revealed that millions had gone missing in spurious payments. A return to trading is being held up as directors struggle to exit from their relationship with Indonesia's powerful Bakrie family.In a statement on Friday, Rothschild described the situation as a "disaster" and urged Bumi's chief executive, Nick von Schirnding, to forgo his bonus and "plan his departure".Schirnding is staying mum.Every little million helpsThere is no shortage of issues likely to upset the trolleys of Tesco shareholders at the retailer's annual general meeting on Friday. The horsemeat scandal trampled consumer confidence in ready meals after the protein in its Everyday Value spaghetti bolognese was found to be predominantly equine.The50% drop in annual profitsannounced in April, the first fall in almost 20 years, has taken its toll on the shares. And this was of course the year Tesco gave up on its dreams of making it big in America.Plenty of Brits have come a cropper trying to make their mark on the other side of the pond, but what shareholders may find most galling is thelavish payoff awarded to Tim Mason, the departing boss of Tesco's US chain.The Fresh &amp; Easy venture never made a profit, yet Mason was awarded £1.7m in "liquidated damages". He was also paid £100,000 in "repatriation costs". These payments were on top off the £691,00 salary and £400,000 benefits Mason earned in his last year, and the 2m shares he owns or has an option on. Mason has also built up a £10.4m pension pot. Tesco had the equivalent of 416,441 full time staff last year, and a wage bill of £5.98bn, suggesting average earnings of just over £14,000. Mason's "damages" alone could have supported 100 shelf-stackers.
Nintendo's anthropomorphicAnimal Crossingmakes its 3DS debut in a particularly distinctive fashion, offering the most addictive instalment in the series to date.Playing as the new mayor, you control every aspect of a small town, from the name to urban development. Daily life consists of genteel pursuits such as fishing and bug-catching, dealing with the requests of other residents and finding items to customise your house and appearance.&nbsp;What could be rote mundanity instead proves endlessly entertaining, thanks to humorous interactions with neighbours and a slow but sure sense of progression and improvement.The 3DS's data-sharing capabilities also offer the ability to visit other players' towns and buy unique items – an addition that will only bolster the affection you'll feel for this adorable life sim.
The Windows 8 app store still doesn't boast the diversity of Apple's offering, but the range is increasing and with the introduction of the new Surface Pro tablet (from £719,microsoftstore.co.uk), Microsoft has opened up a whole new world of tablet gaming possibilities.The Pro is essentially a fairly powerful laptop in somewhat bulky tablet form, running full Windows 8. This is great for work functions – as the Pro moniker suggests – but for gamers there's the prospect of running fully fledged PC games on the device. Download them on to the Surface, or plug in a loaded-up external hard-drive, and it will run games such asPortal 2,X-Comand the touch-enabledCivilisation Vwell (albeit with some of the graphics settings turned down). It will even connect seamlessly with an Xbox controller for console-quality gaming on the move.This is a real boon, and when coupled with casual games such asEcosya(free, Seven Worlds) it means this iteration of Microsoft's tablet occupies a space unfilled by the iPad.Ecosyais a neat puzzler, where you're tasked with guiding the robot Atmos to his flying saucer. He moves about the colourful environment, while you manipulate the land around him to traverse the level. It's limited to about 20 stages at the moment, but more are promised in the future, and it is exactly the kind of creativity the Windows Store needs to develop further.
Effectively a mini-game compilation,Game &amp; Warioserves as a toybox for the Wii U, showcasing a range of gaming genres for the console's unique gamepad. As such, many make good use of the dual-screen set-up, withPiratesoffering dancing,Arrowshooting andCamerapicture-taking, but, unfortunately, none really has long-term appeal.In its favour, as a fun, party title, the game does boast the ability to be played&nbsp;solely on the gamepad, including in multiplayer modes by sharing and taking turns, while the standout mini-game,Artwork, is genuinely fun. It's aPictionary-style guessing game where one player doodles on the gamepad while others&nbsp;guess what's being drawn. Easily the best of the bunch, it's almost worth the investment in the whole package.Elsewhere, there are, as is de rigueur these days, tokens to be won from playing the single-player games, which can then be spent on a prize-giving machine that doles out tips and art as well as the occasional toy that incorporates the gamepad in a humorous way. Ultimately, they makeGame &amp; Warioan enjoyable, if pricey, way to spend an afternoon with friends. But there is little here beyond that, except, of course, for anyone who really enjoysPictionary.
You knowthe Mini Countryman, the one that looks like a normal Mini, only someone has stuck a&nbsp;big pump on its exhaust and pumped it up like a&nbsp;balloon? So I discovered (on Twitter, naturally) that it's known as&nbsp;the Mini C… Well, they, these people, the Twitter arbiters of automobiles and who drives them, take away the o and the r from its name. You see? And it's kind of perfect, if you look at how ridiculous&nbsp;these cars are and at who&nbsp;drives them. Unless she's a&nbsp;woman, of course, when I guess she&nbsp;can be a&nbsp;Countrywoman, with the o and the r.But this isn't a Countryman, though. It looks like one from the front, but as you move farther aft, it&nbsp;has fewer doors and it tapers, sportily, like a Range Rover Evoke; plus, it has a more horizontal feel to&nbsp;it, along with horizontal rear lights. The Paceman, the latest addition to the enormous Mini dynasty, is the Countryman's sportier, younger, coupé cousin. But,&nbsp;if anything, driving it around makes me feel even more like a&nbsp;Countryman without the o and the&nbsp;r (and – why&nbsp;not? – without the y, m, a and n, too) than I did in a&nbsp;Countryman.It's not that it isn't nice to be in. Inside, it feels like a Mini, with a big central speedometer and lots of black and chrome about the place. Its horizontal-ness means there's not as much headroom in the back as there is in a Countryman, nor quite as much boot space, but there's more than in a regular Mini. The 1.6&nbsp;turbo petrol on this Cooper S is a&nbsp;very decent engine, with plenty of throttle response. The ride is a little higher than it is on a regular Mini, but there's very little roll on bends. It is, undeniably, a pleasant drive (though if you really enjoyed driving, you'd get something like a&nbsp;Sciroccoinstead).But – and it's a massive but – look&nbsp;at it! It's ridiculous; all style over function, it shouts, "Look at me", when it should shut up and go&nbsp;away. It's just trying way too hard. I don't normally get self-conscious in cars (a Renault Twizyis no problem), but in this I think everyone's laughing at me. It's also ridiculously expensive, even more so than a Countryman, though you get fewer doors, less space, less car. So you'd have to be a mug, as well as a Countryman, minus a few letters, to&nbsp;get a PacemanWhat will "they" call it, I wonder? A Mini Spaceman. Nah, because spacemen are properly cool and people like them. A Mini Pac-man? Because it takes 90-degree corners quite well and it gobbles up dots. Except that it doesn't. Hmm, dunno. Over to you, Twitter…Mini Paceman Cooper SPrice£22,355Top speed135mphAcceleration0-60mph in 7.5 secondsCombined fuel consumption46.3mpg (manufacturer's figure)CO2emissions143g/kmGreen rating5/10Cool rating1/10
The dust has settled on this year's E3, the games industry's deliciously shameless hype-fest, and Sony can justifiably claim to have emerged in pole position. While Nintendo rolled out old stalwarts such asMario KartandZelda, Sony showed superb-looking games for PlayStation 3, which includedGran Turismo 6, supernatural adventureBeyond: Two Soulsand wacky platform gamePuppeteerbefore moving on to PS4's line-up, most of which was revealed earlier this year.Microsoft's exclusive games were overshadowed by some bewilderingly customer-unfriendly declaration, followed this week by a red-faced about-face. The company had confirmed that players would only be able to trade secondhand Xbox One games under specific conditions; the console would need to connect to Microsoft's servers at least once a day or you'd be denied access to your games; and the system would retail for £80 more than the PlayStation 4. Now, heeding concerns and bowing to considerable pressure (only the latter is true); the console will only need to be connected to the internet once during initial setup, and used games can be exchanged as freely as they are on Xbox 360. The console war, it seems, is back on.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewBy default, MotoGP '13 assists you with acceleration, steering, braking, changing gear and adjusting your rider's position on the bike. Until you've learned about the extreme care and attention needed on two wheels, turning off even one or two of these produces unintentionally hilarious results. However, ditching the nannying riding aids is the only way to win races, though you'll need perseverance to cope with its cliff-like learning curve to find that out.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewRecent Wario titles have been an excuse to indulge in hyper-surreal whimsy of the sort rarely seen in mainstream games. Game &amp; Wario features a little bit of that, but mainly concerns itself with pairing gamepad and TV screen in new or unusual ways, something it rarely manages to make terribly exciting. Among forgettable single and multiplayer games there are standouts: Gamer is a highlight and has you frantically trying to earn high scores on the gamepad while glancing at the TV to avoid getting busted by your mum for playing games after bedtime. While the other games aren't a total waste of time they lack the doolally personality or refinement of past Wario offerings.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewJoining the cornucopia of media exploring life after the zombie apocalypse (World War Z, The Last Of Us) is State Of Decay. In its free-roaming world of two small neighbouring American towns, you help save and round up survivors, shore up your base camp, and maintain morale by undertaking useful missions. Although an interesting take on undead infestation with some good ideas and a committed audience (its developers say they shifted 250,000 downloads in its first 48 hours on Xbox Live), it's riddled with technical flaws and combat is mindless, repetitive and frequent.
The latestGoogle Doodlecelebrates the summer solstice, the longest day of the year, which begins in the UK on Friday when the sun rises at 4.52am.The doodle features an animation of five swimmers bobbing in and out of the water as a wave splashes over them. British internet users might be forgiven for taking it as a reference to the country's washout summer.The solstice marks the peak of summer and takes place when the sun is at its highest point in the sky. After Friday, the days get shorter until the winter solstice on December 21 when they start to get longer againThe solstice begins in the east coast of the US at 1.04 am ET, but it will begin on Thursday night in places west of the Central Time Zone.The summer solstice has been celebrated since ancient times and people still flock to prehistoric monuments likeStongehengein Wiltshire to view the sunrise.
