Whoopi Goldberg, Cindy Crawford, Jonathan Ross and the Antiques Roadshow's Hugh Scully have all done it. Geri Halliwell is mulling it over. David Beckham, Michael Owen and Alan Shearer are about to sign up.The eclectic mix of film stars, models, television presenters and footballers are, or are about to, act as the public faces of fledgling internet companies.At a time when the internet is transforming business practices, the value of some things, such as the cachet of celebrity, remains resolutely the same. Following the stellar performance of many internet shares the stars are increasingly looking for a piece of the action.New start-ups looking to build brands and credibility as quick as possible are fighting to sign up celebrities to publicise their services. Unlike with traditional endorsement contracts the deals are not straight cash arrangements. The stars, having seen the massive gains made by the shares in the more successful dot.coms are demanding equity and, in some cases, an input on business strategy. For start-ups starved of cash equity is a great way of paying the bills.Inevitably in a land where both dot.coms and celebrity are valued more highly than anywhere else, the US has led the trend. Ms Goldberg has a two-year contract to act as a creative-marketing adviser and spokeswoman for flooz.com, an online gift currency provider. She says she likes the ownership aspect of her contract. "If I'm going to bust my butt out there, I want a piece of it," she told reporters.Ms Crawford joined the board of eStyle, a Los-Angeles based online womens retailer, when it wanted to launch a babies site aimed at mothers and mothers to be. She was pregnant at the time and now hosts on-line chats recommending products for consumers with young children based on her personal experience with her new baby.William Shatner, who played Captain Kirk in Star Trek, is said to be sitting on a paper fortune of millions after agreeing to become celebrity spokesman for priceline.com in 1998. Drag queen Ru Paul has stock options in WebEx, a California based interactive web meeting service.Publicist Matthew Freud, who is the founder of on-line toy shop Toyzone.com and employs Jonathan Ross as the company's public face, says a carefully chosen celebrity can give an internet brand instant recognition. "It is a very quick way of establishing a brand. We chose our celebrity very carefully. Jonathan is like what Toyzone set out to be. Enthusiastic, irreverent, a bit child like but in an adult way."Jonathan has a standard endorsement deal but rather than there being a dollar sign at the end of his contract there is an equity figure. He is a participant in the business rather than just a hired hand."He's a passionate toy collector with a virtually definitive comic library and one of the biggest collections of Japanese robots in the world. He advises us on what sort of toys people want and has strong opinions on what the next craze will be."On-line auctioneer QXL.com has paid Mr Scully around &#163;3m to give up his position on the BBC's Antique's Roadshow and value customer's goods by email. QXL hopes Mr Scully will attract "silver surfers" to the site.Mr Freud admits that star endorsements are no guarantee to business success. "Planet Hollywood went from zero to hero instantly because of celebrity equity but there was no sustainability behind the concept," he said.The stars themselves are aware that only a few internet start-ups are likely to survive in the long-run and that they have to be selective about which one they pin their colours to. At the moment Mr Ross appears to have picked a winner. He has 1% of the equity in Toyzone, which advisers Lehman Brothers may float later in the year for up to &#163;250m.However, Ms Halliwell, the former Spice   Girl, turned down the chance to front one of the recently launched women's portals because she did not think it was the best vehicle for her talents. She is considering other offers.Footballers David Beckham, Michael Owen and Alan Shearer have been inundated by endorsement offers from sports driven start-ups. Their agency, the UK sports division of US entertainment group Sfx Entertainment, says that after sifting through dozens of offers the trio are on the verge of signing deals that   should net them several million dollars over the next two to three years."Picking the company to go with is like trying to pick which horse to back in the Grand National," said managing director Jon Holmes. "Except in this case there are 250 runners with no form and no-one is quite sure whether this is a race over hurdles or the flat."Mr Holmes says that to protect the interests of his clients he has negotiated deals that combine equity and cash. Either way his partners win.
1999 was the year of reluctant promises from BT, Britain's telecoms monopoly. Pressure groups like theCampaign for Unmetered Telecommunications, as well as internet users, had been casting envious eyes overseas where internet access was not only priced at a flat, monthly rate (rather than by the minute) but was also super fast thanks to DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) technology. Why did Britain have neither?The answer came in December, when BT's chairman, Sir Iain Vallance, said he thought the internet was still not "fit for purpose" and that BT needed to hold back "over-exuberant children" - BT's customers. The company, many concluded, was either not "getting" the internet, or was playing dumb to protect revenues.  Still, we over-exuberant children will - eventually - get what we want.Its arm twisted by telecoms regulator Oftel, BT has been forced to act. By March it should be offering ADSL (Asymetric Digital Subscriber Line) to six million households and businesses in the UK. These lines can deliver digital content at least 10 times the speeds of today's fastest conventional modems, and will be "always on" - meaning you won't have to wait to dial up to the internet. ADSL is more than just fast internet access - it opens up the doors to new interactive entertainment like on demand television and sophisticated online gaming.We might even see BT signing up internet service providers to offer the new services. That's because its grip on the "local loop" - the telephone wire from the exchange - will be loosened from the middle of next year, allowing other operators to offer their services direct to users.For those of us who don't live in one of the big cities in the first round of the ADSL rollout, there's still something to look forward to - flat rate internet telephone calls. From April, net addicts will be able to choose from several packages which will give unlimited dial-up access at certain times for a flat monthly fee.The fee varies depending on when you go online: unlimited weekend access will be £6.99 a month, while anytime all week will be £34.99 a month. Critics say the prices are still high.But the most exciting side-effect of flat-rate pricing is that our behaviour will change. Freed from the worry of a meter counting our every minute online, we'll be happy to search for more, read more online content, browse web shops at our leisure, send even more emails and pit our wits against each other in online gaming arenas.
Mannesmann, the German telecoms group fighting a &#163;85bn bid from British rival Vodafone, is planning a new rights issue to fund further acquisitions if it remains independent, Klaus Esser, chief executive, said yesterday.In a series of interviews with German newspapers Mr Esser went on the offensive against Vodafone's hostile bid before launching his company's de fence document within the next week.He told B&ouml;rsenzeitung, a Frankfurt stock exchange newspaper, that he explicitly sought a rights issue worth "substantial billions in euros" to underpin the company's strategy and rejected the argument of Chris Gent, Vodafone's chief executive, that Mannesmann's &#163;20bn takeover of mobile phone operator Orange would limit its capacity to raise capital.Mr Esser said that the planned float of the company's engineering and automotive business in July would raise euro 4bn (&#163;2.5bn) - and these would be used not to fund the Orange purchase but "future transactions in the year 2000".He told the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung that Mannesmann planned to take on further majority stakes in European telecom companies after extending its holdings in Arcor, Infostrada and Omnitel   - and taking over Orange - last year.The Mannesmann defence strategy is focused on the group's integrated approach to mobile and fixed-line telephony and Mr Esser told the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung that new integrated products offering access to both the internet and telecommerce would be available later this month.Castigating Vodafone as "a loss-making concern", Mr Esser   said that it would have to book an unprecedented &euro;100bn or more in goodwill if it won Mannesmann - and compensate Mannesmann shareholders with up to euro 60bn in cash if it was forced to sell on Orange at an unfavourable price.Shares in the D&uuml;sseldorf-based group lost euro 11.40, or 5%, to close the session at euro 217, while its British predator also lost nearly 5% of its value in a declining market for telecoms stocks.
It seemed ironic somehow that in the first week of 2000, for so long the dateline of science fiction fantasies, hi-tech stocks should take such a battering - what about that shiny new future? But yesterday the rout continued.The overnight slough on the technology-laden Nasdaq caused many of the stock market darlings of 1999 on this side of the Atlantic to slide. Computer services groupMisyslost more than 6% to 835p,Logicafell almost 7% to &#163;13.95 andPsiondropped 14.5% to finish on 416p.Among others to take a hit,Freeserve, the internet service provider which set the benchmark for the sector when it floated last year, was    7% lower at 554p andSage Group7% off at 659p.Among the biggest losers were semiconductor makerArm Holdingsoff 8.5% at &#163;36.69 and computer services groupCMG, down 11% at &#163;38.50.Some dealers noted there had been little institutional selling in the stocks and the kind of freefall which some had been fearing failed to materialise. Perhaps the army of private investors in the sector needed to pay off some hefty post-Christmas credit card bills.Much of the nervousness in markets worldwide had been triggered by fear of a tightening of interest rates. The   Bank of England monetary policy committee meets next week.After the record plunge on Tuesday, the FTSE 100 index fell another 130 points yesterday to close on 6535.9.Stocks with an exposure to Asia also weighed heavily on the FTSE after the previous session's sharp fall in Hong Kong.Cable &amp; Wireless, tipped as a stock of the year by a number of the Sunday newspapers, fell 43p to 994p,Standard Charteredwas off 37p at 897p andHSBC30p lower at 792p.Some of the money being drained from the hi-tech sector found its way back into defensive stocks.National    Powerwas marked up 21p at 385p andPowerGenwas 11p better at 450p.Food retailers held out withSainsburyup 5p at 347p andTescoimproving 1.5p to 185p. Drinks groupDiageowas 4.5p better at 504p.The powerhouse performance fromNextin the run-up to Christmas had investors hoping for a repeat elsewhere. Discount fashion retailerMatalanwas 27p higher at &#163;16.65, department store groupSelfridgeswas up by more than 6% at 285p andMarks &amp; Spenceradded 1p to end the session on 311p. Next itself didn't fare so well, dropping 15p to 600p.
The "convergence" of computing and consumer electronics will be one of the themes of the year. Games consoles are becoming as powerful as PCs, while the PC industry is trying to make its products as easy to use as games consoles.  Indeed, some PC companies may start manufacturing games machines, and Microsoft is working on a schematic console design, code-named X-Box. Its chairman, Bill Gates, may have announced plans in this area after Online went to press, during his show-opening "new millennium keynote" speech at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas last night.Using PC technologies in a games console has been tried before: in Sega'sDreamcastconsole, launched in the UK last October. Many more PC manufacturers will target a growing market for simplified computers designed to access the internet. Hewlett-Packard's ePC, Compaq'siPaq, and Dell'swebPCshould be among the flood of machines running Microsoft Windows 98.Cheaper and simpler pad-like "web companions" may also appear in the UK, if they achieve reasonable success in the US. Like Sega's Dreamcast, some of these run Microsoft'sWindows CE(originally Consumer Electronics) operating system. Others will run a version of Be Inc'sBeOScalled Stinger - which Compaq has licensed -or QNX, or Microware's OS9, or GNU/Linux.Games consoles will become more like PCs. First, they'll offer internet access, like Sega's Dreamcast. Second, they'll have high-capacity DVD (Digital Video Disk) drives instead of CDs or cartridges. The most eagerly-awaited example is the SonyPlayStation 2, to be launched at the Tokyo Games Show in Japan on March 4. Nintendo's next-generation console, code-named Dolphin, will probably be unveiled at Space World in Japan in August. European gamers will have to wait until at least 2001.Britons will be offered other digital technology products, including disc-based video recorders like theTiVo(launched in the US last year) and "white goods" like the Ariston washing machine, which can be operated using a mobile phone (launched in Italy last year).Standard PCs probably won't change that much in 2000, but they will get faster. Both AMD and Intel will ship processors that run at 1000MHz (1GHz) or more. But interest could fall in faster chips if Microsoft's Windows 2000 operating system catches on.Windows 2000was completed last year, but a retail launch is planned for February 15 in San Francisco. Based on Windows NT (New Technology), it handles more than one processor as standard, and in businesses is often used in four- and eight-way servers. Desktop PC users should find that two slower (500MHz) processors are not just cheaper than one 1000MHz screamer, they work better, too.The year will see more rapid progress in the handheld and notebook markets, where performance is still hardware-limited, and profits are higher. Mobile machines will also start to communicate better thanks toBluetooth(short range radio) and wireless networking, as handhelds start converging with mobile phones.  But don't think any category of device is going to replace any other. So far the only really successful convergence product is the radio alarm clock, and that didn't make either clocks or radios obsolete.
Internet on your computer? That's sooo 1999. The next great technology frontier is the mobile internet - email and the web on your mobile phone. Making that possible is WAP - Wireless Application Protocol - which finally arrived, after some delay, in December.The choice of WAP handsets is limited, and they are not cheap, but don't let that fool you into thinking WAP is not going to take off. By 2005, there will be more people using WAP handsets to access the net than those using computers.     Microsoft, never slow to spot an opportunity - and a potentially vast threat - to its business,has moved into wireless in a big way. Last month, it announced a joint venture with mobile phone maker Ericsson to develop WAP software.What will we do on our WAP phones? Initially, reading news, checking the football scores and monitoring our shares. But the big applications will eventually include scheduling and, of course, email - all perfect for the tiny windows on the wired world our mobiles will soon provide.
To MP3 or not to MP3? That is the question, but what is the answer? For all those with their heads in the sand, 1999 saw the meteoric rise of one digital audio format over all others: MP3 had arrived with more hype than hypertext.Compressing sound files to manageable sizes by cutting out sounds inaudible to the human ear, it turned downloading into something that took a fag break not a fortnight. Now your best single was a click away and you could hear the follow up before you bought it. Embraced by techies and musicians alike, it turned geeks into rock stars, surfers into A&amp;R men and websites into record companies.Despite the acceleration of new technologies, the barriers that came between MP3 and global domination in '99 remain. The problems facing MP3 range from global battles to public misconceptions.Hand held devices, like those made by Diamond, have yet to come down sufficiently in price to convince the market.   But giants like Sony seem ready to enter the digital audio market, after years of disapproval. After a recent public endorsement of a rival to MP3, Microsoft's MSAudio format, Sony seems keen to expand in both the digital distribution (its Bitmusic site) and portable player sectors."We have to start selling music online, considering the prospects for an explosion of internet usage and a proliferation of distribution technologies," a Sony music spokesman said. "But we still face the challenge of protecting our copyrights and intellectual property."Copyright is why many multinationals have been reluctant to adopt the technology   The other problem is that the public is loathe to pay for something that is apparently free.Overcoming that last problem  is something only the public can do .
The one certain thing about predicting the future of e-commerce is that we ain't seen nothing yet. The selling of goods to consumers via the world wide web (e-commerce) is less than five years old in the United States while e-businesss (company to company transactions) are even younger.Britain is at least two years behind the US  in both areas (though catching up) so we can at least get early warning of what might happen to us by monitoring events in the US.Expect two countervailing forces over the next year or two: explosion and implosion. Explosion because of the way industry - led by the largest companies in the world - will move their delivery and supply chains to the web.FordandGeneral Motorshave already transferred hundreds of billions of dollars worth of business to the net. Others will follow - or be impaled by the loss in competitiveness involved in not doing so. The business-to-business side of the web explosion will be far and away the biggest phenomenon (about 80% of all web business activity) but it will be all but invisible to the consumer. All you will see is the dead bodies.Implosion because there will be, as night follows day, a shakeout of the early internet start-up companies. This will happen in two bursts. First the puncturing of some of the more ludicrous values put on some of the bubble.com companies on the stock markets followed by the actual failure of a number of first wave companies.At the moment the people who should be making money -the risk taking pioneers of web trading - are nearly all making losses while those who wouldn't be there but for the pioneers - the manufacturers of the infrastructure and the lawyers and accountants - are coining it. This doesn't mean web trading is doomed- it will eventually take over the world - but not in the way people expect now and not necessarily by the same pioneering companies.In hardly any previous revolutions have the pioneers taken the cream and no one has yet provided a convincing case why the net has made an essential difference. People often ask whether the internet revolution is like the tulip speculations in 17th century Holland, the Californian gold rush of 1849 or the Victorian railway mania. The answer is that although there are similarities (like the famed shovel manufacturers who cleaned up in the the gold rush like the component suppliers now) there is one crucial difference.For the first time there is a global infrastructure that is (almost) freely available in industrialised countries. You don't have to build your own railway to get in on the act. This will make it easier to try out your own new ideas than at any other time.But never before have there been so many potential competitors all over the world. This leads many pundits to say that the Big Brands, backed by limitless advertising budgets will win. Don't be so sure. The same web that has enabled giants to go global has also enabled consumers to respond globally. That contest is only just beginning.
The Vicar of Dibley is to join the growing band of aspiring internet entrepreneurs.  Comedian Dawn French, who plays the cleric in the BBC television series, is planning an online expansion of her oversized clothing company, Sixteen47.Ms French and her business partner, designer Helen Teague, are in talks with PR agency Matthew Freud Communications about setting up a new interactive website which would enable women sized 16-48 to "try on" and buy clothes online.Mr Freud is one of the   founders of online toy-sellerToyzone, due to float for about &#163;250m this year.The Sixteen47 site is likely to focus initially on the French &amp; Teague designer line launched last year, which sells through the British Designer Collections at Liberty in Regent Street in London. A   cheaper range featured in Littlewood's catalogue and a medium-priced line sold at Sixteen47's London shop are likely to be included.Sixteen47 was set up in 1991, inspired by the fact that manufacturers have historically neglected the 47% of women sized 16 or over.
Last year there were many disasters around the world that were not predicted. But the one that was expected to happen - the millennium bug - did not. Or at least not yet.Yesterday the City breathed a collective sigh of relief when dealings reopened without serious problems after the new year closure period. Robin Guenier, chairman of Taskforce 2000, however, argues that bug-related problems are spread over a long period and that 65% have yet to surface. He may be proved right. But to most business people, the worst of the scary scenarios is over. The debate now is about whether the $400bn to $500bn spent teaching computers to tell the time properly was brilliantly successful or a complete waste of money that could have been better spent on building hospitals and schools.Questions are being asked that will keep business schools occupied for years. For instance: how is it that countries spending very little on bug prevention (ranging from Italy in the developed world to most countries in the third world) appear so far to have escaped serious effects? Of course, just because governments (as in Italy) may have spent very little, it does not follow that companies, with more to lose, will have done the same. Even if there was not a problem in the first place - a difficult hypothesis to prove - the episode has led to a global refurbishment of computers which ought to make industry more efficient (besides helping to fuel the stock market boom). That does not necessarily justify the expense incurred - but maybe the business school students should look at that too. If the total bill is $500bn, that amounts to $83 for every man, woman and child in the world, including the vast majority of people in China, India and Africa who do not have computers. An audit is clearly needed. But even that will not stop the debate. It says something about the millennium spirit that we seem as worried about disasters avoided as disasters experienced.
The sacks of rice lie uneaten in the cellar of the remote farmhouse. As yet, there has been no need for the water purification tablets.The stockpiled medicines remain untouched. But the family who gave up mainstream life to escape the millennium bug yesterday claimed it was too early to return to normality.Almost two years ago, Angela Perron and her family abandoned their Wiltshire home and headed to a hillside cottage near Forres, Moray.They feared Y2K could bring food shortages, the accidental discharge of nuclear weapons, the breakdown of global capitalism and rioting on the streets.Yesterday, as utilities functioned normally and the stock market got back to work with no apparent problems, the family admitted their worst fears had not been realised. But Mrs Perron said she would not be fully confident the world had been spared millennial chaos until April."We are glad that we have done what we have done," she said. "There could still be problems: nobody knew what was going to happen before January - why else do you think the government was building bunkers? I don't think we can be certain of an all clear until at least April."On Hogmanay, the family took their children to local celebrations in the early evening, before heading back to their self-sufficient cottage. With its own generator to provide electricity, water available from a nearby stream, vegetables growing in the garden and hens willingly providing eggs, they felt safe.Mrs Perron and her husband, Jeremy, put their children, Amber, seven, and Jeremy, two, to bed, before settling down for the night with the knowledge that they had enough food to last a year should things get bad."I know people probably think we are mad survivalist eccentrics," said Mrs Perron. "The task force was doing a lot to address the problem, but computer projects are notoriously late and we did not want to take any chances. We have no regrets and we will be staying in Forres. It is still not entirely safe."In April 1998, Mrs Perron, a publisher, and her husband, a   computer programmer, sold one of their cars, hired a lorry and drove more than 500 miles from Neston, Wiltshire, to Forres. They bought their hillside cottage, which has no running water or mains electricity, and began preparing for the millennium.Mr Perron learned to shoot in case food distribution broke down completely and they needed to kill rabbits for food.Although the Perrons were the first British family to head for the hills, in the States survivalists had been heading for the mountains of Montana since the mid 80s. In various locations across Scotland, other families also sought refuge from the millennium bug.Briony Williams, a founder member of the Y2K community action group, produced   leaflets urging people to stockpile food and prepare for the worst.The speech researcher at Edinburgh university yesterday dismissed claims that she had been alarmist. "The short term problems may not yet have materialised, but even the government spokespeople say we are not in the clear," she said. "The long-term problems, the death by a thousand cuts, may still happen."Ms Williams, however, said she no longer saw any point in stockpiling food and medical supplies.
It is hard to be triumphalist about a non-event, and the people responsible for busting the so-called Y2K bug didn't manage it. "Hey, nothing happened. Wasn't that wonderful?" While a gunpowder trail of exploding fireworks snaked across the globe, computer dates turned from 99 to 00 and country after country reported no serious effects. Planes failed to fall out of the sky. Civilisation did not sink. There were a few hiccups, but no date-related heart attacks - at least, not of the computer kind.Even the four countries considered most at risk and therefore the subject of Y2K-related travel warnings from   the US state department (Belarus, Moldova, Russia and Ukraine), failed to report any disasters. Their nuclear reactors kept on working.John Koskinen, chairman of President Clinton's Council on Year 2000 Conversion said of his organisation's global tracking: "At this point we are not aware of anything that is broken as a result of Y2K." Bruce McConnell, director of the International Year 2000 Cooperation Center (IY2KCC), concurred: "From an infrastructure standpoint, we expect a continuation of the non-event." The UN-backed organisation tracked progress on its website atwww.iy2kcc.org. Tom Olsen, principal investigator for Y2K at a leading commercial research organisation, International Data Corporation (IDC) in Massachusetts, went to Copenhagen to monitor turn-of-the-year events in Europe. "It went better than I'd predicted," he said yesterday, "and I was the low predictor. Some of my competitors were predicting Chicken Little:   The sky fell on me!"The inevitable question is whether the $200bn to $600bn spent tackling the date change problem world-wide had been wasted. Was the bug hype overdone? Not according to the experts. Peter de Jager, the Canadian who did more than anyone to get the Y2K bandwagon rolling with an article called Doomsday 2000 published in September 1993, reckons not."The truth of the matter is this. All the hype, including some of the more ludicrous statements, forced companies to do one thing and one thing only. It forced competent managers round the globe to examine their systems with the single-minded goal of answering a simple question: did this thing called Y2K pose a threat to their computer systems? "If the answer was yes, then they took appropriate action. If the answer was no, then they rightfully ignored it."In other words, companies and governments didn't spend money fixing a problem that didn't exist. The fact   that the sky didn't fall on you doesn't mean there was no Y2K problem, but that serious problems have been averted. So far.Whatever the result, the cost of fixing the Y2K bug has been frightening, even for an industry with a global turnover of about $1 trillion a year. Assessments of the cost range from about $200bn (Koskinen's ballpark figure) through $600bn (GartnerGroup's prediction) to a high of $858bn (Cap Gemini America). IDC's Project Magellan has made a good case for $320bn, spent over seven   years, with 1999 spending of $101bn.But Bruce McConnell at the IY2KCC says: "I don't think anybody knows - or will ever know." At least $100bn of the remediation costs have been spent in the US, which is the world's most computerised nation. According to the US department of commerce, that's $365 for every man, woman and child. It sounds a lot compared with, say, the costs of Hurricane Floyd ($134m) or the $8bn it would cost to repair the damage from the Turkish earthquake. On the other hand, it   is not much more than the $85bn annual turnover of the biggest computer company, IBM.As for De Jager, he spent the millennium flying to London on United Airlines flight 928 (there were only 42 passengers so they all got upgrades) to demonstrate his confidence in the bug fix, rather than in a bunker with his family, as once seemed possible. And if he is now unemployed, it is not all bad news. His company offered the internet domain namewww.year2000.com- home of the Year 2000 Information Center since 1995 - for sale on eBay, the online auction house, and had received two $10m bids by the time the sale closed at midnight on January 1. The bids might be fake - on eBay, a 13-year-old boy once bid $500,000 for a Van Gogh - but could be an unexpected bonus for years spent preaching the Y2K message.&#149; Jack Schofield is the Guardian's computer editor
The much-hyped millennium bug failed to wreak any kind of chaos as Britain got back to work today, although bug watchers cautioned that Y2K computer problems could yet emerge.Robin Guenier, head of Taskforce 2000, the independent bug watchdog, said just 5% of all potential bug problems were likely to occur at the stroke of midnight on New Year's Eve."I am more concerned about databases and billing systems and general administrative systems which are vital to businesses. I am concerned whether they have had the same attention as other things," he said.The private sector, the banking system and the London stock exchange all reported a clean bill of health, although fears of imminent interest rate increases caused shares to plummet 229 points in the first few hours of trading.A Scottish hospital where a kidney dialysis machine suffered a computer failure - possibly caused by the millennium bug - today revealed another machine had also malfunctioned.Monklands District Hospital, in Airdrie, near Glasgow, said two of the machines had suffered a malfunction at midnight on January 1, not one, as had earlier been reported.An investigation was under way into how the machines suffered the failure, and if it was
related to the bug.Millennium bug minister Margaret Beckett has dismissed claims that the crisis had been over-hyped, saying Britain owed a "great debt of gratitude" to those who had helped avoid a New Year computer crisis.But Mrs Beckett said the virtually bug-free weekend had been the result of years of hard work and money well spent."Things don't go right by accident," she said. "People across the world have found all kinds of date change faults in business and public services which, as a result of money, effort and time, have been fixed."I think we owe a great debt of gratitude to those people who have worked flat out over the last two years to make sure that we have up to now had a peaceful transition in to the year 2000."The government's millennium centre continued to report business as usual in departments and key public services on Monday.The government has spent about £430 million while private industry is thought to have spent about £20 billion fixing the bug and preparing contingency plans in case the worst happened.Technology advisers Gartner Group estimate that worldwide governments and industry have spent up to £360 billion.
An Italian court clerk switched on her computer yesterday and discovered that convicted mafia killers were the victims of the most shocking miscarriage of justice.Prisoners due for release next week should have been freed on January 10, 1900. Others awaiting trial would have to languish for a century before their day in court. Even for Italy's tardy judicial system, this was a record.The panic lasted for as long as it took for a lawyer to shout 'millennium bug'. But administrative offices were closed for two hours while officials compared handwritten records with the computer files.Ironically, the gaffe arrived on the debut of the judiciary's big reform: a new law aimed at purging the system's sloth.So slow are the courts that most of the Italian politicians who were convicted of corruption remained free on appeal until their sentences lapsed.The judicial computer hiccups - officially blamed on new software, rather than the millennium bug  - deflated Italian pride at having confounded experts who branded Italy a Y2K basket case.In another blow, Rome's preparations for the Vatican's holy year, which could attract more than 20m pilgrims, were assailed as inadequate. Traffic jams condemned thousands to spending millennium eve in their cars as roadworks churned up the city's streets.
It was the year of internet and technology frenzy, with companies such as ARM and Sage storming almost every available barricade. Not even the takeover fever which continued to grip the banking sector could rival the gravity-defying performance of shares in telecoms and new technology in 1999.Investor imagination was ignited by the world's largest hostile bid, staged for Germany's Mannesmann by Vodafone AirTouch, the huge British group which is also working with compatriot BT to divvy up the spoils in Spain by seizing control of Airtel, that country's second-largest mobile phone group.A lack of exposure to these soaraway sectors means that the Guardian's portfolio of share tips was sadly uninspiring in 1999, after an impressive 48% return the year before.The eventual arrival of a new Canadian chief executive for Barclays Bank, after Martin Taylor had unexpectedly quit last winter, gave some vigour by helping to lift the banking group's shares from Ë12.96 to Ë17.82. That 37.5% gain over the year combined with a 31.5% rise in the price of the software and consultancy group Admiral to give zest to our share tips for the year.The takeover of another of the Guardian's picks of 1999, Select Appointments, which was acquired by Holland's Vedior in a Ë1.1bn deal in September, was a bonus to the portfolio, as well as to Martin Pestalozzi, the Swiss staffing entrepreneur who had rescued the company from the brink of insolvency in the early 1990s. Elsewhere, however, the investment climate was less kind to shares - particularly those which are among the mainstays of modern life: water, cigarettes and booze. Imperial Tobacco fell by 134p to 510p after suffering from the fall-out from the fear of renewed litigations, problems in developing markets and a failure to cement the promised growth through acquisition. Most of all, however, the company suffered because it is not a high technology operator.The Hilton Group, formerly Ladbroke, did not realise the bounce back which we had anticipated following the sale of the Coral betting chain, although it was not alone as a member of the distinctly unloved leisure sector. The company ended the year at 198p, down from 241.5p.Our final tip - Marks & Spencer - suffered the most last year. Shares fell from 600p to 295p, but we were not alone in being unable to imagine that this once prestige high street retailer could become quite so cheap without someone launching a takeover bid.
Many of the world's busiest financial markets will open for business today providing arguably the sternest test yet for the estimated &#163;360bn immunisation against the millennium bug.While the worst fears of planes dropping from skies and nuclear meltdown appear to have been avoided, experts said many undiscovered problems could be lurking in wait for people returning to work.Some suggested that as little as 10% of the problems related to the millennium bug will surface in the first two weeks of the year.Bill Gates, the head of Microsoft, the world's largest software company, said that small businesses and any organisation using older computer systems could still face bug-related problems in the weeks ahead. 'There are lots of snafus that we haven't seen yet. There is still a little bit of a mess there that will have to be cleaned up.'The date February 29 2000 has been identified as a potential trouble spot.Financial markets in Tokyo, New York and most European cities were yesterday undergoing dummy runs of their vast computer networks as final preparation for the first day's trading of the millennium. Only minor problems, including glitches in the trading systems of 12 Japanese brokerages, emerged but the real test will come as millions of financial staff begin real work.Margaret Draper, at the US Securities Industry Association, said: 'There have been no glitches or significant Y2K-related problems and we expect to start business as usual first thing in the morning.' Paris, Berlin and Milan made similar reports.In London, which has another day off, around 60,000 staff were drafted in at the weekend to watch for trouble and run final tests. One investment banker who had brought in books and videos to keep himself busy said that dress rehearsals had been running hitch free since the summer.The Financial Services Authority, which is operating a 24-hour millennium office, reported no problems with the banking system. Cash machines are working as normal while gas, water, electricity and telecommunications passed into 2000 without interuption.The ministry of agriculture said food retailers would open today as usual and that stock ordering systems and deliveries were working smoothly.Robin Guenier, director of the independent watchdog Taskforce 2000, said he was cautiously optimistic. 'It is not by any means just about the date rollover but that having gone smoothly is a pretty good indicator. We will learn a lot from what happens in the US financial markets today.'The London stock exchange, which reopens tomorrow, was yesterday making sure that links to around 200 broking firms and data providers such as Reuters were running smoothly.Reports from around the world suggested remarkably few instances of the bug biting, certainly nothing near the epidemic some had feared as a result of some computers recognising the digits 00 as 1900 instead of 2000.There was disquiet among some businesses that the bill for tuning up their computer systems could have been avoided. However, John Koskinen, chairman of the US president's council of Y2K conversion, said that the sum, spent on preventing problems, estimated by the government at $100bn (&#163;62.5bn) and by private analysts as much more, was important because of the US dependence on computers. The government reported a problem with a spy satellite on Friday night. The satellite was put out of action for a few hours but was working on reduced capacity by Saturday.The British government has spent &#163;430m on updating systems in the public sector. Mike Granatt, of the government's millennium office, said: 'There were very real problems which needed to be addressed. Things don't go right by accident.'Among the minor glitches was the failure of heart monitoring equipment in three Swedish hospitals understood to be millennium bug related. In Japan, computer malfunctions at two nuclear power plants, one confirmed as bug related, have been cleared up and did not affect safety or power generation, the company said.Italy, internationally chastised for doing too little preparation, hailed the lack of problems as a vindication. 'Millennium bug fears were swept away thanks to our excellent preparation and organization,' said Francesco Rutelli, the mayor of Rome.Paddy Tipping, minister with responsibility for the millennium bug, said the government's investment had been well spent. 'We have had a good millennium, but January 4 could be a critical day, when businesses go back to work.'We may see some small businesses who have not prepared lose some information.'  Stock markets in Australia, New Zealand, Israel and Thailand said systems had been given the all clear, while some smaller markets, including Cairo and Kuwait, were open for business and reported no problems.
A company founded by two schoolboy entrepreneurs to publish GCSE study guides is preparing to launch a free internet revision service with notes provided by some of Britain's finest teachers.  The company's bosses, now first-year students at Oxford, claim the site will revolutionise learning and take the slog out of exam preparation.'We are doing what the government is failing to do - providing the best education for everyone,' said Nick Rose, 19, who, with his partner Jordan Mayo, 18, left Manchester grammar school last year.Mr Rose, from Sale, Greater Manchester, is studying politics, philosophy and economics at Lady Margaret Hall when not using his hands-free phone in a penthouse office near the Bank of England in London to raise a six-figure start-up capital fund. 'We've been told we need to go in first and flashy to capture the market,' he said.The company's website has been registered in Italy so that it can be called Revise.it. 'I thought that was kind of funky,' said Mr Rose. 'I never did like all that dot.com stuff.'Despite their being rude about the government's education policies, Mr Rose and Mr Mayo have already received a letter of support from that well-know technophobe Tony Blair.'At the back of our minds, both when we were at school and now, is the idea of sharing our education and passing on the massive benefits we have had,' said Mr Rose. 'We have not yet met one person who does not think this is a fantastic idea. The best thing about it is that if you wake up in a panic at 4am on the morning of your maths exam, you can do some instant revision. The information is instantly available and it's free.'Most mainstream GCSE subjects will be covered when the service goes live in March and A-level guides will be introduced later in the year.Staff at Manchester grammar, including three who are shareholders in the company, have so far been commissioned to produce revision notes.'It's quite ironic having to chase teachers up and trying to keep them to deadlines,' said Mr Rose. 'We want the best teachers we can find and we don't care about their background or what kind of school they come from.'About a third of Britain's school students have access to the internet at home and another third have access at school. 'We hope that once schools see the service online they will realise it is a resource they cannot do without.'Mr Rose and Mr Mayo admit that they are also in business for the money and the buzz. 'We tried writing a maths GCSE guide together but a teacher told us it was rubbish,' said Mr Rose. 'So now I stick to the business side.''I love meeting consultants, bankers, solicitors and venture capitalists.'For reasons of commercial secrecy, he said, he was unable to reveal how he and Mr Mayo would make the profits from their revision service. 'We have various clever ideas that our web people have come up with and we're also using tools that can only be provided by the internet.'  Revise.it Ltd has been launched with the help of profits generated by the modest success of the original book-form revision guides.'I phoned every Dillon's and Waterstone's in the country to persuade shops to take them,' said Mr Rose. 'My greatest success was when Waterstone's in Preston took 20.'The young entrepreneurs eventually sold out to Oxford University Press, which is about to bring out the chemistry and biology guides. The advance has been shared between the authors and the royalties will go to Manchester Grammar's bursary fund to provide school places for boys whose parents cannot afford its fees.
A weather centre in Aberdeen and a tide gauge in Portsmouth were the only reported victims of the millennium bug in Britain yesterday as the much-hyped Y2K disaster fizzled out like a damp firework. Aircraft stayed in the skies, water, electricity and gas supplies were not disrupted. 
From Moldova to Mauritius, the bug was a conspicuous no-show. Apart from a small glitch in nuclear monitoring systems in Japan, some 'minor problems' for French manufacturers, temporary delays in Gambia's tax offices and a handful of non-functioning video recorders, 'war rooms' around the globe enjoyed a mercifully peaceful new year. But Government and industry specialists are warning that when business resumes on Tuesday, new glitches could emerge. 
In Whitehall's 'blue room', all remained 'boringly quiet', according to one jaded official. Poor Peter Snow, on the BBC's Bug Watch, stood forlornly in front of a back-projected giant cockroach with absolutely nothing to report. 
Across the globe, the story was the same. By the small hours of yesterday morning, the worldwide Y2K nerve centre in Washington had given the all-clear in more than half of the 170 countries it monitors. In a sea of green lights, only Gambia's 'Government Services' failed a clean bill of health with a problem relating to its tax office which was, apparently, 'not entirely due to Y2K problems'. 
The Foreign Office was taking hourly updates from 76 embassies around the world, starting with Tonga, farthest east, and ending with the Solomon Islands, the last place to see in the millennium. 
Foreign Office Minister John Battle said: 'All these initial reports, one hour after the event, showed no major Y2K related problems.' He claimed that Britain had played an international role in averting the bug, through the 58 international seminars with computer scientists organised by the British Council, and the Government's website which gave details of every country's progress in combating the threat. 'We have been seen to be a leader. Other countries are coming to us to say: "Can you give us advice?"'
Cabinet Office Minister Paddy Tipping dismissed the failure of a tide gauge in Portsmouth harbour and a PC in a weather station in Aberdeen as 'too trivial to mention'. The Government spent £420m ensuring its own systems were bug free. Half the critical systems are in the Armed Forces. 
Tipping said: 'Getting senior generals and people high up in the military to take computer issues seriously has been very, very difficult indeed. They had their own problems. They had wars to fight.'
He added: 'Some of the worst fears were either designed out or over-hyped. It is still early days and there could be some embedded chips which could cause a problem working their way through the system.' The worst problems may emerge when small businesses reopen on Tuesday.
So has the world been caught by a massive Y2K bug con? A job creation scheme for computer consultants, some of whom were on millennium stand-by for as much as £10,000 a day.
'Not at all,' said a Government spokesman yesterday. 'Our banks have spent £1 billion, utilities have spent £170m and telecoms have spent £500m on millennium compliance. This was necessary expenditure, not money wasted. The Government did its job in raising the profile of the problem and getting the key industries to clear the hurdle.'
According to American technology consultancy the Gartner Group, worldwide governments have spent up to £375bn worldwide on updating old technology to cope with Y2K. Gartner analyst Andy Kyte had some words of comfort for disappointed doom-mongers: 'Who could have predicted so few problems? But closer analysis will show that so many businesses had shut down for two or three days that really the world's computer systems had been deactivated and will be reactivated in the year 2000 and we still have to wait and see whether under full load, doing all of their transactions, they can cope with normal business.'
The advice to all banks and other businesses this weekend was that the as yet untroubled 'war rooms' should not disband but continue monitoring the situation into the week ahead.
The 60,000 City workers due at their desks this weekend to ensure the smooth running of the Square Mile through the Y2K bug danger period took heart last night as New Zealand, Australia and other financial centres in eastern time zones reported no major systems problems.Within an hour of the clock ticking over midnight to 2000 in New Zealand, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand said the country's banking systems had come through the date change without difficulty.Reserve Bank deputy governor Rod Carr said reports from New Zealand banks showed automated teller machines, electronic fund transfer point of sale and credit card transactions were working well. The central bank had also been advised that inter-bank cheque clearing was also proceeding normally.The good news from the other side of the globe came as thousands of City IT specialists were running final computer tests in London. Many of the banks' essential staff are receiving five star treatment. As well as receiving huge overtime payments - in many cases thousands of pounds for staying at their desks while the rest of the country celebrates - many are being put up in central London hotels and provided with transport.At investment bank Merrill Lynch, which has spent some $520m over the past five years to ensure its not hit by bugs, some 500-600 staff are on duty and the US-based group has taken 200 hotel rooms in the capital to accommodate them. "We have also laid on minibuses and coaches to make it as easy as possible and we have full catering facilities in the office," a spokesman said. Haute cuisine menus had even been devised to ward off hunger.He added: "They are running some 1,200 tests over the next few days to make sure everything runs smoothly on Tuesday when the market reopens. There will be a few bourses open across the world on Monday and that will be a useful dry run. Some top staff   will be working and staying in hotels for the next five or six days."A spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, the investment bank renowned for its secrecy, was less forthcoming. "We have people available", she said. "About a thousand will be coming in over the next few days. But we are not saying much about our Y2K plans."The UK's main high street banks were also toiling through last night to ensure that cash machines, cheque clearing and credit transfer systems would run properly.Barclays had 750 people working through the crucial hours in regional centres all over the country. "We are not testing the systems," said a spokesman, "We have people on hand just in case anything does go wrong."Lloyds TSB had 1,500 ready to take any remedial action required and NatWest has 1,000 staff working eight-hour shifts throughout this weekend in London, Birmingham and Bristol. "They are mainly IT people, said a spokeswoman. "Hopefully they will be just testing and checking, and not fixing anything."The health of the London financial sector over the millennium weekend is being monitored jointly by the Bank of England - which is co-ordinating efforts from an operations centre called the Blue Room - and the financial services authority.
Fears of a millennial meltdown caused by computers crashing at the turn of the new century appeared to be receding last night as the first countries to greet 2000 reported no major problems.In New Zealand, the first industrialised country to pass into the new millennium, aviation, telecommunications, electricity and water systems were all working as normal.The Australian government also said no major problems had been reported as the country ticked over into 2000.Japan appeared to enter the new millennium bug free. There were some mobile phone connection problems, but these were related to the usual year-end flood of calls.The millennium bug was born in the 1970s and 80s, when many computers were programmed to read only the last two digits of a year. If the glitch is uncorrected, systems could misread 2000 as 1900, causing malfunctions or even entire systems to crash.Fears had been raised about the safety of Russia's nuclear power plants, but staff at the Bilibinsk nuclear reactor, in Russia's far eastern Chukotka province, opposite Alaska, reported no problems as they ushered in the new year."In connection with the change of date, no shutdown in the work of the equipment was observed," the Rosenergoatom firm, which manages eight nuclear power plants in Russia said yesterday.Cooperation between Russian and US military experts to ensure that the millennium bug did not trigger a nuclear disaster successfully underwent its first test yesterday. Military experts from both countries sat side by side at Peterson air force base in Colorado Springs, monitoring nuclear missile launch warning systems to avoid any accident."Everything is working smoothly. We're in contact with Moscow all the time," US air force Colonel Mike Therrien said.In the US the federal aviation administration acknowledged that it had made a last-minute upgrade to some air traffic control computers. A glitch could have caused controllers' screens to show aircraft positions up to 10 seconds late if two related systems failed during the transition from 1999 to 2000.But a spokesman played down the significance of the problem. "It is a very, very minor issue," he said.
Age:Foetal.Appearance:Fatal.Status:A disaster waiting to happen.Are you trying to scare me?Of course.Evidence?You just wait.Who cares?Americans. Half of them said they planned to withdraw two to six weeks' cash to cover the collapse of the banking system. In Japan, the government has told people to hoard food, watch out for bank fraud and buy a torch. The US military is so worried that nuclear systems will malfunction that it has invited the Russian top brass to spend new year with them at their command centre in Colorado.I'm not bothered, I'll be on holiday.Where?Belize.Ah, one of the countries - along with Egypt, Oman, Qatar, Madagascar, Tajikistan and Ukraine - least prepared for the millennium bug. I'd take some warm clothes, if I were you. You're not flying, by any chance?Of course.Gulp.What's the problem?Flying any time during January is a dodgy proposition, according to Taskforce 2000.They're discridoted, arrenn't thy?Down't yoo meen descrudit&eacute;d.Soggy, therre seams to be a problame wit mi computeeee:Wheel, dooon't panik.But, I car net conttttttttt . . . there's a straynge green lite flashing on mi console, oh God.Who He?Not to be confused with:Armageddon.Wish for this evening:Happy new year.Non-wish for this evening:Happy nuclear year.Hope to say:"Wow, what a fantastic firework display."Hope not to say:"Heywhatshappen ingwhoturnedthetelevisionoffIwaswatchingEastEnderswhyareallthosesirensblaring andwhat'sthatglowintheskyitsgettingcloseritssoredandhugelookoutitsgoingtohit nowIneverwillfindoutwhetherIanmarriesMelanieitsjustnotfair aaaaaaaaaaarghhhheeeeiiiiiiiiuhhhhhhhhhhhbyyyyyyyyyyyyyyeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee . . ."
&#149;The Vatican has converted a former computer hacker to help defend its website from those trying to replace itineraries for pilgrims with pornography.A three day Christmas barrage from hackers nearly corrupted the site which is supposed to guide more than 20m pilgrims to Rome. In addition to attempting to insert blasphemy and porn, the attackers wanted to plant bugs that would block pages and crash the site.  Rory Carroll, Rome.&#149;A cult has emerged in Papua New Guinea in which hundreds of followers have been told that on Saturday the world will be plunged into darkness and all white men banished from the tropical island.Reports from the village of Kikisram, which lies along the Fly River on the Irian Jaya border, said the Rainbow Church had promised adherents rewards in this world if they paid a fee in money, shells or pigs to join the believers.Police said hundreds of people had left their homes just before Christmas, pulled their children from schools and headed for the village.Chief Inspector Saibu Aku, commander of the North Fly police, said the leader was helping police with their inquiries. "We are still investigating where he put the money. At this point we have not come up with an answer."  Christopher Zinn, Sydney.&amp;#149In Hamburg, a 1,500 bed nuclear shelter beneath the main railway station is to be open on New Year's Eve. Additional accomodation for up to 450 is available at the airport where the council has installed a field kitchen and provided clothing and blankets. A spokesman said preparations were for the "unlikely event" of a power failure.  John Hooper, Berlin.&#149;A leading German doctor warned physicians yesterday against performing caesarean sections on women who are determined to give birth on New Year's Eve. "It is morally and legally dubious," said Joerg-Dietrich Hoppe, president of the German chamber of physicians. He said that caesarean sections were only acceptable for medical reasons and that the operations carried added risks and costs.&#149;All lifts in Hong Kong's public buildings will stop running from 11.45pm to 12.15am over millennium midnight for fear of the millennium bug striking. Experts said that this response is being overcautious. They added that it was more likely that someone would suffer a heart attack climbing 17 floors than a lift being affected by Y2K glitches.More cheerfully, Hong Kong's clubbing district, Lan Kwai Fong, is decorating each of its restaurants with Y2K themes. Various venues will be adorned with butterflies, glow worms, bees, wasps and bugs.  John Gittings, Hong Kong.
Action 2000, the government millennium bug watchdog confirmed yesterday that the bug had struck for the first time over the holiday weekend, causing thousands of credit card swipe machines to fail and raising fears that despite a year of preparation the bug could lead to unexpected problems in the run-up to the new year.The millennium bug was responsible for the malfunction of 20,000 machines which failed to recognise the date, January 1, 2000, and rejected credit card transactions.Meanwhile it emerged that plans by big companies and organisations to shut down   email systems over the new year in an attempt to thwart anticipated millennium-related computer viruses could play into the hands of hackers.Fears that cyber-terrorists would mark the start of the millennium by sabotaging computer systems have prompted organisations ranging from Vauxhall and Volkswagen to the Pentagon to shut down public websites and email access over the new year.Staff have been warned not to use their email or the internet between New Year's Eve and January 2 as companies fear that emails could bring in viruses that will exploit Y2K faults in computer systems.In Britain, the pharmaceuticals company Glaxo will rely on telephones and faxes, while   in Switzerland the federal government has said that it is shutting its email for four days.Many banks in South Africa have already closed their email systems until January 5.But experts said yesterday that the strategy of shutting down systems could exacerbate the problem by allowing viruses two or three uninterrupted days to destroy valuable data and upset hard drives.Graham Cluley, technology consultant at Sophos, a leading anti-virus company, said: "Shutting email systems down over the new year is an appallingly bad idea and it is disappointing that such a large number of big businesses have been taken in by the hype. The   truth is that viruses infect companies every single day of the year."There is simply no evidence that viruses will be any more of a problem on January 1 than any other day of the year."Announcing that you are shutting down your email at midday on New Year's Eve is an open invitation for a hacker to send out a virus at 11 o'clock that morning, let it access your system and then have two or three days to wreak havoc before your turn it on again."Hackers downplayed suggestions that they will attempt to mark the millennium by sabotaging computer systems.The German computer hacker Kim Schmitz, who was sentenced to four years in prison for a series of computer crimes, including changing the credit rating of the former chancellor, Helmut Kohl, to zero and breaking into the CIA's computers, said: "The threat from hackers has been over-hyped."More of a problem will be the 'Trojan horses' that hackers have already placed in software which is meant to be downloaded from the internet to help solve Y2K problems but has in fact been tampered with to make things worse, he said.The credit card swipe problem came to light as shops reopened.The machines contain an internal diary that reminds retailers to process transactions within four working days, and the fault occured when the diary failed to recognise January 1, 2000.Action 2000 said: "We have always said that minor problems are inevitable in a project of this scope and will not be restricted to December 31."The Bank of England rejected fears that the fault was the first example of widespread millennial problems in the financial sector.The hitch, a spokesman said, "does not lead us to expect any serious problems in the financial sector".Racal electronics, the manufacturer of the units, said: "We don't know how this particular problem was missed but we are working very hard to put it right."The machines can still be used to process credit cards provided a simple procedure is followed."This problem will only affect a maximum of 2% of all retail outlets in the UK which accept credit cards."HSBC, the bank which supplied 14,000 of the units, said they were working with Racal to eradicate the problem.Details of the fault were reported on a new government website launched yesterday -www.millennium-centre.gov.uk- as a single   source of information over the millennium period.Everything from public order to bug-related information will be carried on the site, which will be updated by a special team based at the cabinet office. Officials and press officers from a number of government departments will be monitoring events in Britain and abroad.The new website takes over from the watchdog's site. Since Christmas Eve, its front page has carried the note: "This Action 2000 site will not be updated between 24 December - 3 January 2000."
In the next century we will make more technological progress than we have since we invented the wheel and will begin to truly master our environment. But what is the most significant future technology: IT, materials, biotechnology or space?That question misses the point. Technologies are    converging. Biotechnology already relies heavily on IT and materials technologies, and will further develop as we explore space. Many new materials and information technologies have arisen from discoveries in biology. Let's take a look at some likely developments, bearing in mind that I can't possibly imagine what might be   invented by some 21st century genius.Today information technology is the major driver of change. In a few decades, cheap chips and easy networking will mean everything that should be connected will be. The chips-with-everything lifestyle will make the world much easier to live in.In fact, rather like on Star   Trek, we will just take it for granted that technology can hear us and knows what we are talking about. The many boxes we have today will gradually vanish, replaced by sensors and displays built into our environment.Machines will probably surpass overall human intellectual capability by 2020, and have an emotional feel just like people. At some point they will develop genuine self awareness and consciousness, and we will have to negotiate their rights. By the end of the 21st century, they will have far superior intelligence to people, but probably also have more attractive personalities, so relating to machines will be more   pleasant than dealing with other humans.We have to hope that they will want this pleasant relationship to continue, because the least feasible part of the Terminator scenario is that the people win. As a precaution, we will have to learn how to make transparent links from our machines to the human brain, with full    thought recognition by the first half of the century. This will let us directly harness machine intelligence as a virtual brain extension. Then machines won't outsmart us. This will catapult mankind into the evolution fast lane. We will decide which way we want to go and often have the technology to make it happen. We will have vastly   superior intellectual ability and technological development will accelerate until it nears physical limits.Because of this progress, every human institution will be disassembled and reconstituted to serve people better, as geography becomes irrelevant except for physical processes. Politics, business and society will be totally restructured. We will become used to rapid change, but by the end of the 21st century, the human world will be barely recognisable.Accelerated development through machine enhanced intelligence will drive huge breakthroughs in biotechnology, materials, genetics, nanotechnology, energy and travel. Biotechnology is progressing nicely at the moment but will accelerate in the coming decades. When my daughter was born in 1994, her life expectancy was estimated at about 87 years. Less than six years later, doctors suggest she might well live to 130, thanks to greater understanding of the human genome, and potential advances in medical nanotechnology.Never before has life expectancy increased faster than people get older. By the time she dies, she will in all likelihood be able to have her mind backed up on the network, and uploaded into an android body. Her natural death will not be so traumatic for her children - nor even a significant career problem.Nanotechnology will certainly make headlines in biotechnology, with micro-machines wandering around our bodies, fixing damage, extending our lives, maybe even keeping us looking young.But by the end of the century, we may well have mastered this technology to manipulate matter at the atomic level. We could eat roast beef prepared from mud, water and air, recreating the processes performed by grass and cow cells. We could grow houses by dumping materials and instructions and letting assembler microbots get on with it.Our knowledge of genetics    will give us customised pets or living dolls, just like those in Blade Runner. We could customise children too. And these are just the things we already know in principle how to do. All of which high lights a problem: this mastery of our world should have a warning sign attached.Just as some toys are not suitable for children under three, we should ask if mankind is yet mature enough to play with these tools. But the problem is deeper still. People can affect and direct change to some degree, but they can't easily halt it. Barring worldwide catastrophe, no existing human institutions can stop these things from happening. Some people will want to go down these roads, and have an increasing choice of countries in which to do so. When anyone decides to use a tech nology, the rest of us often have no choice but to follow.Having said that, and even allowing for the fact that politicians often ignore things until they are already problems, most futurologists believe that we will mostly make reasonably sensible decisions. We will muddle through as we always do. We will keep most of the benefits, with just some of the problems. It won't be a Utopia, but compared with today, it will be the good old days.&#149;  Ian Pearson is a futurologist working for BT. His Calendar Of Technology can be found atwww.labs.bt.com/library/archive/btl_97_1/index.htm
Retailers have been hit by the first major strike of the millennium bug as thousands of credit card swipe machines failed.The machines did not recognise the year 2000 date.Mainly smaller shops starting up after the four-day Christmas break were affected by the glitch in equipment supplied by HSBC, one of the UK's big four banks.A spokesman for HSBC, formerly known as Midland Bank, said: "The problem has arisen because these new swipe card terminals, installed in the summer, have a look-ahead facility spanning four working days."When they looked ahead and compared, say, December 28 1999 with January 1 2000 they thought something was wrong and failed to function because they read the second date as January 1 1900."This problem will disappear when we get to January 1 because the terminals will be comparing January 1 2000 with January 5 2000 - both in the same year - and will see no problem with that."The government's bug-busting unit Action 2000 said the problem was a result of the bug. But it stressed credit card transactions could still be processed through the machines and said no "material disruption" had been caused.A spokeswoman said: "Action 2000 has always said that minor problems are inevitable in a project of this scope and will not be restricted to December 31."A statement from the Bank of England, which is monitoring the bug, said: "This is only a minor glitch. It is typical of the sort of problem that it was expected would need to be dealt with over this period ... and does not lead us to expect any significant problems in the financial sector.The first warning signs of potential bug problems came on the same day that the government launched its official bug-tracking website -www.millennium-centre.gov.uk- to monitor developments both in the UK and overseas.The website will follow events from December 31 as the millennium dawns across the globe, offering round-the-clock information to ministers, the media and the public.As well as issuing regular bulletins, the site will include reports on any special issues that arise and offer links to other relevant sites.Bulletins are expected to start rolling around noon on Friday and will be updated several times a day, depending on events.
One of the crowning glories of British literary culture - the unique,116-year-old full Oxford English Dictionary - could cease to exist in up-to-date book form after it goes online on a subscription website in three months' time.No decision has yet been taken about whether to produce a new print edition of the dictionary, which runs to 20 volumes and costs &#163;1,800.But "the internet is simply the way forward for all big reference projects", Juliet New, spokeswoman for the Oxford University Press online project, said yesterday.Loss of the OED book version would be be the biggest inroad the net has yet made into the printed word. Until the mid-1990s OUP was pressing ahead with a &#163;35m scheme to bring out an updated, revised book edition in 2010, linked to a new CD-ROM version. This would have been the third printed edition.The first section, edited by Sir James Murray, came out in 1884 and the first full edition in 1928. It evolved unchallenged into the world's biggest, most authoritative dictionary, esteemed for its comprehensive lists of historical word usage as well as meaning. The second edition came out in 1989.But the third book edition has now been shelved in favour of the internet launch in March.New words and updates will be added on the website rather than in print.What the dictionary's chief editor, John Simpson, calls "a dramatic change of plan" was prompted chiefly by the US. He said staff met a growing expectation among academics "that online searching of major reference and other textual resources would soon become a principal medium of access".The switch to electronic lexicography follows three years of discussion and market research.Ms New said: "A lot of that   time was spent going to institutions and individuals to find out what they wanted. We know there is a potential and a market. We would never have gone into it otherwise."The online version is expected to grow into a monster twice the size of the second print edition - which already stretches to some 40,000 pages thanks to supplementary volumes issued during the 1990s with a total of 9,000 new entries .In March, a further 1,000 new entries will be added to the internet version. More new entries will go online four times a year; and many of the two million existing quotations will be continuously revised until - under existing plans - the new edition is regarded as complete in 2010.Mr Simpson said web users would be able to read revisions at once, and feed in their own knowledge and views by email, instead of waiting ten years.New material "and a broader coverage of English worldwide will gradually transform the venerable dictionary into an appropriate modern scholarly record of the history and development of the English language".The second OED print edition has sold just over 20,000 copies since 1989, bringing &#163;36m revenue. Ironically, its highest sales came while the website was being planned.This is seen as partly thanks to publicity for Simon Winchester's bestseller, The Surgeon of Crowthorne, about a brilliant early OED contributor who was revealed to be a psychopathic killer under detention at Broadmoor hospital.But OUP's internet investment follows the lead of the 20th century's other pre-eminent reference book, Encyclopaedia Britannica, which went online earlier this year. Britannica is considered unlikely to print a new book edition.Its hugely popular website is free. OUP plans to charge annual licence fees to users. Yesterday it refused to disclose how much, but said individuals would pay less than corporate users or libraries.Charges to institutions would depend on their size. Public library consortia were expected to negotiate cheap deals.Ms New said: "One difficulty is that by 2010 the dictionary will be so much bigger.   This will make multi-volume hardbacks weightier and harder to use. But my gut feeling is that there probably will continue to be a hardback."The OED second edition CD-Rom, published on December 16, is on sale at a special reduced price of &#163;205.63 until January 31. After that it will cost &#163;293.75.From shed to website1858After considering discussion papers on Some Deficiencies in Our English Dictionaries, the Philological Society votes to compile a complete new dictionary and invites readers to contribute1879James Murray appointed editor, working from converted garden shed1884First section, covering A to ANT, published with 1,000 volunteers contributing1887Curse of BATTER to   BOZ section strikes. Illustrating the noun "blue", it quotes a newspaper forecast that an Oxford student will win a rowing blue. The student, Ralph St John Ainslie, fails and dies young, haunted to the grave by his public failure. OED reference is quoted in his obituaries.1896After reaching DECEIT to DEJECT, Murray travels to Berkshire   to thank star contributor, William Minor, a millionaire ex-US army surgeon. He finds Minor is in Broadmoor, after shooting a man in the street1915Murray dies. First world war delays book further1928First 10 volumes published.1957. Dr   Robert Burchfield appointed to edit first dictionary supplement1972Supplement's first volume, A to G, is published1982The third volume, O to SCZ, is published1984Second edition commissioned1986Final supplement volume (SE to Z) is published1989The 20-volume second edition is published1999OUP appeals for contributions for third editionMarch 2000Target date for the website launch2010Target date for end of "the current cycle of revision"
Tony Blair's new year scheme to promote Greenwich Electronic Time (GeT) as the global standard for the internet - characteristically leaked a few days ahead of  time - is a jolly wheeze that may well succeed. Using local time on a global phenomenon like the internet only creates confusion. Just as the arrival of the railways in the last century created the need for a national timetable (and paved the way for GMT to become the legal time for Great Britain) so the explosion of e-commerce creates the need for a global time standard. Since GMT is already dug in, Mr Blair's notion of GeT may be an idea whose time has come.If so it would add to the irony of Britain's involvement with the internet where some of our greatest contributions have been in areas which yield no money. Tim Berners-Lee, the Brit who invented the world wide web, neither sought nor wanted a commercial return for what will surely  be remembered as one of the century's most influential  innovations. English has become the lingua franca of the web without, alas, any royalties being paid: now it is mooted that we should provide the time standard. It would be absurd to think of extracting a tiny charge every time a hypertext link was clicked, or a page written in English, or GMT used for e-commerce - but there's no law against dreaming.If Mr Blair succeeds in persuading the e-world to march in time with us, then he will richly deserve the plaudits he will get. Maybe it will fortify him for a much bigger time battle at home which he has studiously avoided - abolishing the absurd system of forcing an extra hour of darkness in the winter evenings. There are deemed to be too many vested interests opposing this proposal which would increase wellbeing, save energy, lessen crime, reduce road accidents - and, like the GMT scheme, would cost nothing. Maybe it needs research to prove it would boost e-commerce before it gets the  political credibility it needs.
Japanese electronics company Sony will launch a new internet friendly model of its Walkman next month to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the birth of one of its best known products.The new memory-stick Walkman comes with a circuit card the size of a stick of chewing gum that will allow users to download music from the internet for the first time.The new Walkman, which will use industry standard MP3 format, will take on the such upstarts as the Diamond Rio, which have stolen a lead in the portable net music stakes.Remaking the Walkman, which will help to make its name as a web gadget, underlines Sony's internet ambitions. The company wants to be known as an internet group and believes it is well placed to take advantage of the convergence between mobile electronic equipment and web-based content.Earlier this year, at the start of a series of web-based initiatives, Nobuyuki Idei, the company's president and chief executive, said: "I'm redesigning the company for the networked future."Sony's strategy hinges on the belief that the internet has offered it an opportunity to marry the entertainment it   produces with the devices to enjoy it on. As well as the electronic gadgets it is famous for, the company owns movies and television shows with Columbia TriStar and record labels Columbia and Epic as well as its top-selling video game products. The group also encompasses insurance and other financial services.Sony believes that revenues from its variety of online ventures will eventually surpass those of its electronics business, which contributed 63% of this year's sales.Such predictions appear to have provided a fillip to the group's share price, which has more than doubled in the past year. In November, US News and World Report provided further support when it headlined a story: "Should Bill Gates be worried about Sony?"So far, the group's ambitions have been focused on individual business units doing their own thing and a number of internet investments.Anne Morfogen, a Sony official, said there was no central planning for the group's internet operations as each of the company businesses controlled their own website. "Each of those companies is being very aggressive in its own right in terms of the internet initiative," she said.The group has made a number of strategic investments in online firms, however. It is   part of a joint venture to acquire CDNow, a deal which offers an important plank in its move towards broadband web services. It has also invested in ventures such as Talk City, the chat service and Yupi.com, the Spanish-language portal.In spite of Sony's obvious success this year, the jury is still out among internet and entertainment analysts about whether it will succeed in rebranding itself as a web company. Gordon Crawford, the influential fund manager at Capital Group, said: "I think it's a bit of a stretch to call them an internet company. They're still more of a consumer electronics group."Analysts suggest that Sony's improved share prices has as much to do with Japan's improving economic outlook and a corporate restructuring announced in March, which is set to lead to a 10% reduction in staff as any internet plans.If Sony is to convince analysts of its strategy, the launch of DVD-based PlayStation 2 game console next year will be of vital importance. Peter Kreisky, head of media unit at Mercer Management consulting, said: "The biggest potential the group has is the new PlayStation. It's an internet machine disguised as a games machine."The PlayStation is expected to be able to play videos and movies delivered over the net.
Freeserve, Britain's largest internet service provider, has succeeded in poaching a senior executive from its arch-rival,America Online.Frank Keeling, a senior vice president and director of America Online in Europe, is to join the Freeserve board as chief operating officer.He replaces Mark Danby, who is to become a non-executive director of Freeserve and take up a position in a new internet investment vehicle in which Freeserve is planning to take a stake.Mr Keeling worked for AOL for four years, and was involved in setting up its British business, AOL UK.John Pluthero, the Freeserve chief executive, said Mr Keeling was bringing "a wealth of operational experience in the internet market"."He will bring enormous expertise and strategic focus to an essential position for Freeserve," Mr Pluthero said."I am confident he will play a key role in developing our operations, enabling us to increase our market leadership," he added.Freeserve was set up by the Dixons electrical retailing group in September 1998 and floated nine months later. Its shares rose 48% on the first day of trading, valuing the business at more than &#163;2bn.The company quickly became the UK's largest internet service provider - with more than 1.4m members - by doing away with monthly or annual subscription charges.
The record company which gave the world Jethro Tull and the England soccer anthem, Three Lions, yesterday unveiled plans to build Europe's biggest online network of sports team websites.Chrysalis, founded 30 years ago by its multimillionaire chairman Chris Wright, has signed a joint venture with the American group,Rivals.com- the world's largest network of sports team and sports speciality websites.Chrysalis's shares have underperformed for years but in the past two months, on the back of its plans for expanding on to the internet, they have soared by some 90%.Last night, as the details of the Rivals deal were announced, they closed at a new record of &#163;14.80 - up 217.5p, or 17%, on the day.The new venture, to be named Rivals Europe, will be 25% owned by Chrysalis, which is backing the venture with $1m of finance.Rivals.com will underwrite additional investment of $15m. The new operation is expected to get under way in the middle of next year.Chrysalis now has widespread sport and television interests, with programming including Formula 1 and Football Italia.Richard Huntingford, the group managing director of Chrysalis, said: "Rivals Europe   is the second major internet initiative to be developed within the group following our successful launch of Chrysalis Radio Online in September. Our strategy is to leverage the group's key assets, in particular sport and music."Rivals.com, which is based in Seattle, operates 460 sports team and speciality sites, employing more than 100 writers and sports experts who deliver in-depth coverage of teams and players.The sites range from big   team sites, including the New York Jets Confidential and the Pittsburgh Steelers Digest, to those with more limited appeal such as college and high school sports sites HoopPlanet, for in-depth coverage of girls' basketball, and OnPaceOnline, which provides news and commentaries for fans of endurance cycle racing.According to the monthly Neilson-Netratings, the Rivals site now ranks as the 8th "stickiest" website in the world - that is, browsers spend well   above average amounts of time lingering on the websites and absorbing their content, thereby making them much more attractive to advertisers.A Chrysalis spokesman said: "We hope to enjoy similar success with Rivals Europe". The company added that the deal was "the culmination of more than a year of planning and development to build an online sports business with long-term, mass market appeal".The UK's biggest sports team website company at present isPlanet Football, which provides websites for soccer teams such as Newcastle United, Coventry City, Manchester City and Aston Villa. It is part of the quoted Sports Internet operation.In a separate deal Chrysalis announced that it had also sold its stakeholding in Taxi Interactive to British Affinity Internet Holdings for &#163;4.8m, payable in Affinity shares, at &#163;17. Taxi Interactive was established in 1997 and is an online shopping portal.
Luke Johnson, the restaurant owner and venture capitalist, is to take a stake in business publisherMediakey.The company is to shed its training division and focus on internet-related businesses. Mediakey said its training division,Video Arts, was being sold for up to &#163;7.1m in cash, while a group headed by Mr Johnson's Intrinsic Value investment group would take a 20% stake   in the firm. The news sent the company's share up 60% to close last night at 31p.Mr Johnson - chairman of the restaurant groupBelgo, who will join the Mediakey board - said the demand for internet content and other forms of intellectual property would continue to grow.Intrinsic Value made its debut on the stock market in July, with a strategy of investing in smaller quoted and unquoted companies.
&#149;Fluidity :BP Amocohas started an e-business gas trading service to provide British business customers with a facility to buy and sell physical quantities of gas. Available online via the BP Gas website, e-EnergyTrade is accessible to customers who have contracted to buy gas on a risk-managed basis and who apply for authorisation.
Sharon is another word for sharn. Alas, there is no   historic usage of Tracy in   English. A sharnbud, a word attested by Aelfric 1000 years ago, and still being used 300 years ago, is a dung-beetle or scarab. A sharnpenny changed hands as a token of the benefit someone got, manure-wise, from having cattle enclosed on the land.It takes 60 million words to explain, source, etymologise and exemplify meanings and changes of meaning of the half a million words in the Oxford English Dictionary.  All one can say is "Mirabundous!" a word probably only used once, by Motteaux, translator of Rabelais, and yes counsellor, it means wonderful.The first example of counsellor in the sense of one who counsels or advises dates from 1225, the latest, in the sense of a British Embassy rank, dates from John Le Carre's A Small Town In Germany in 1968.     You can surf this CD-rom as happily as you can surf the net, but with more profit and more certainty that the facts are right. After all, the OED has the last word on the meaning of a word, as well as the first word, and all the words in between.PG Wodehouse provides the authority for usage in 1520 cases, from A as in AWOL (Mating Season) to avenue (Indiscr. Archie), and that's just the A strain. The Guardian (this paper, the Guardian of Frankfort Kentucky, the San Francisco Bay Guardian and indeed a 17th century predecessor) is responsible for 6217 entries, one of them adamsite, an arsenical compound for chemical warfare. Enter the Waugh zone and discover not just the brothers Evelyn and Alec, but also E Waugh of Lanc. Life (1857) providing authority for dialect uses of anent, bagging and bang. A shandrydan is a chaise with a hood, or possibly just an old fashioned vehicle (according to Blackwoods Magazine and the famous Elinor Glyn, the notorious one with whom you would sin on a tiger skin, or prefer to err on some other fur). A shandygaff, on the other hand, is a mixture of beer and ginger beer, and occurs in Tom Brown's Schooldays. It's served in a glass, and the uses that have been attached to the word vitreous would make your eyes glaze over. Ananthous, another useful word for when the florist lets you down, means destitute of flowers.You can search by word, source, author or date; you can scroll down the A-list or the S-list or 24 other lists of the alphabet, pausing where you wist. On wist (v) the disc shut down, and demanded to be uninstalled and rebooted, perhaps because it objected   to a deliberate archaism,   used ignorantly to boot   (wist means caused to know, informed).A book wouldn't have closed itself, but there are at least 24 volumes in the printed OED, and you can't slip them into a briefcase and still have room for your mobile, tape-recorder and your sandwiches. You need Windows 95, 98 or NT4, and £175 plus Vat which works out at more than 28   encyclopaedic word-histories for each pennyworth. Mirabundous, or what?
With only two days to go before the big day, you may think that, thanks to delivery deadlines, you've missed the chance to take part in the UK's first big e-Christmas. But before you log off and head for the high street, there are a few purchases you can make online and still be sure of receiving.For example, if you're reading this before 10am, there's time to buy truffles, hampers and the like from Le Gourmet Francais Online (www.gourmet2000.co.uk).If you order a flashy brand name gift voucher from Jomono (www.jomono.com) by 2pm, you will get it by tomorrow. (The site offers vouchers for real world retailers like Yo! Sushi, Jigsaw, Hamleys, Heal's and Planet Hollywood). If you do it before 3pm, you can also buy something from the special selection of Late Late Christmas gifts on Lastminute (www.lastminute.com).The impressive general gift site SF Codys (www.codys.co.uk) also seems to be guaranteeing Christmas Eve delivery on goods bought at its site today. However, no cut-off times are quoted, so it might be worth calling the site to check.If you live within the M25 you can leave things even later. Order toys from Toyzone (www.toyzone.co.uk) up to 11am on Christmas Eve and get the goods a few hours later, courtesy of its new Now, Now, Now service.In the same area, you can also order from Lastminute's Xmas selection (www.lastminute.com ) up to 1pm on Christmas Eve and get your stuff by 8pm.All these sites are fine if you're reading this in the morning, or live in London. But what if it's Christmas Day and you realise you've forgotten someone? What if friends are on the way round and they've unexpectedly announced that they've bought your kids something, but you haven't done the same for their nippers? The net can help you out, within certain limits.You can send electronic gift vouchers to friends who are online. The big American-owned sites (such as Amazonwww.amazon.co.ukand eToyswww.etoys.co.uk) offer this, and the smarter British sites (like lastminute.com) are beginning to follow suit. You buy an electronic gift voucher the way you might buy a book or CD. Of course, all you're buying is an identifying number, which you can email to your friend. They then visit the site in question to find something they want and pay for it by entering the number, rather than their credit card   details. Electronic gift vouchers are easy to buy and send and, unlike the real world equivalents, can be spent immediately. Amazon and the rest will be open on Christmas Day, so you can use your voucher then. Gift vouchers won't work for everybody, though they do have an aura of novelty which might camouflage the general lack of effort involved in getting them.That said, if you're buying for wired teens or pre-teens, an eToys or Amazon voucher (which can now be used for CDs as well as books) would probably qualify as a reasonably cool present and earn you some brownie points.Jomono offers an interesting variation. If you've forgotten someone in the Christmas rush, you can register at the site and set up an online Gift Pot for them, to which you then add money. Similarly, friends can also upload credit to the Gift Pot.   After Christmas the recipient can use the money to buy vouchers from one of Jomono's featured retailers.Again, it seems more novel and interesting than giving someone a standard voucher or a cheque - just - and it can be done on Christmas Day, assuming the site doesn't crash. But it does tie the recipient (and you, perhaps) into an ongoing relationship with the site . . . which is obviously the point.Lastminute.com offers standard electronic vouchers up to the value of &#163;10,000, which is perhaps a little hopeful. But it also offers an interesting variation called Pick A Gift.Here, you go shopping online at lastminute.com and pick out five things you think your friend will like. These are put on a special page, along with a message from you. Your friend then gets an email explaining what's going on. Once they enter the right security code (you're advised to tell them it on the telephone), they can access the page, choose what they want, and your credit card is debited. You need to register at the site, and it is perhaps a little time-consuming picking   out the five different items. But the whole process is automated, so you could set it up on tomorrow, or even on Christmas Day, if needs be.Indeed, you can't help feeling that, with Pick A Gift, Lastminute has put together the ultimate present for the UK's first e-Christmas. With it, you're giving someone the gift of online shopping.In addition, the standard gift certificate is always an ad for the store behind it, a way of establishing a relationship with a customer. Pick A Gift extends this, by getting the purchaser to put together a   shop window for the site tailored and personalised to the recipient. In other words, it gets customers to do its marketing.Given all this work, perhaps people using Pick A Gift deserve something for their efforts - discounts, perhaps, or vouchers. New economy gurus always talk about how, if you give something away online, you usually get something back.Earning money as you buy presents may sound a bit dodgy. Then again, as Christmas traditionalists say, to give is to receive.
Most people now know that Pez, the character-based candy dispensers, played a crucial role in the creation of siteeBay, the biggest online auction.In 1995 Pamela Wesley, a keen Pez collector, complained to her fiance, Pierre Omidyar, about the difficulty of contacting other collectors to trade with them. Omidyar (who worked at General Magic at the time) decided to try a few of his ideas about efficient markets, auctions and using the net to help ordinary individuals do business. The rest is (stock market) hysteria.It's less well known that, four years later, in February this year, when he was looking for a wedding present for Wesley, Omidyar turned to the company he founded, eBay. A couple of weeks before the big day, he found a very rare Pez "Bride" dispenser up for sale on the site.EBay's chairman had to think hard about his bidding strategy, he says. "Since I bid under my real name, I didn't want word to leak out that I was really desperate to win this auction," he explains, while sipping tea in a swanky hotel overlooking Hyde Park.  So the 32 year old, who was born in Paris but moved to the States when he was six, held off bidding until a day before the end of the auction and then went in "sensibly" ($900 was his opening offer).Like most eBay users, he got twitchy as the auction moved to a close, interrupting meetings to check what was happening. In the last 15 minutes, he was outbid a number of times. He raised his maximum to "an absolutely ridiculous amount - because I had to have it" but wound up paying $2,375 (a fair price, given the excellent condition of the item, he says).As it turned out, his staff had also clubbed together to buy him a matching Pez Groom (similarly rare), so on their wedding day Omidyar was able to present his wife with a matching Pez set.  The symmetry of all this is appealing, though what's really interesting about this story is Omidyar's desire to stick to the rules of the game he'd set up four years previously. Ebay, which now lists over 3 million items for sale and claims around 1.5 billion page views per month, has made him wealthy.According to a recent magazine survey he's America's 35th richest person, with around $4bn or $5bn to his name, depending on stock market fluctuations. He could have just contacted the seller, handed over a suitably large amount of money and saved himself the worry.Instead, he played the game like the community of ordinary eBay users he credits with making his company such a success.  Remaining true to the grassroots, community nature of the net even as he tried to bring commercial ideas online was important to Omidyar when he started eBay. There were a few online commercial efforts then, he says. "But they were all retail based - big companies saying, ïhow can we use the net to sell more stuff to more people and increase our profits?'."No one had a real respect for the individual nature of the net. What I wanted to do was create a commercial enterprise that would let individuals benefit from a network that reaches out to millions of people."  Omidyar's desire to get a good price for his Bride Pez also says something about the traditional way eBay does business. The company is one of the few e commerce businesses that actually makes a profit (it takes various commissions on the sales it enables and also charges for services it offers on top).And Omidyar looks troubled by the suggestion that, thanks to its stock price and its profits, eBay could afford to spend to acquire customers now. "We can't just throw tons of money at new markets. Maybe some people might do that - but our business approach is very different. It's the old fashioned way - don't spend more money than you're actually earning."In person, Omidyar looks every inch the billionaire geek. Bright eyed and bearded, he's dressed in well-pressed casuals, proudly sporting a blue shirt emblazoned with the ebay.com company logo. He had hoped to have one with ebay.co.uk on it, he says. That's the main reason he's here, to boost eBay UK (www.ebay.co.uk), which officially launched last week. Strictly speaking, it's more of a re-launch. The site has been up and running for a while, though now it's been properly localised, with prices in sterling, British product categories and UK-based discussions boards.As a result, it's time to try to take the press spotlight off the British online auction site QXL. Does he see it as serious competition?  "We're solely focused on person-to-person trading. All our competitors have mixed models. It's not clear. Are they really committed to the person-to-person trading community or are they doing retail or selling banner ads? Our singular focus has brought success in the States. I think it will bring us success here too."Aside from the UK, there are now eBays in Australia and Germany, with more on the way. In the States, the company has begun to open local, city-based sites that make it easier for people to trade bigger items like furniture and cars. "Our mission is to help people trade practically anything on earth," comments Omidyar. "We want to create a global market place."Omidyar claims that with "over $200m a month in gross merchandise sales", the company is "the largest e-commerce hub - even larger than Amazon's retail operation."   Indeed, eBay's biggest problem now is how to avoid becoming a victim of its own success. Recently it's had problems with outages, which are damaging for the small business people who have now set up shop at the site. "It's a huge responsibility," comments Omidyar, pointing out that the company credits back fees to sellers in the event of lengthy outages. "Ebay has become a part of people's lives. They need it to be there with utility-like dependability."The company's size has made it a target for publicity-seeking pranksters and con artists - the most recent example being the man who put up one of his own kidneys for auction.When the company finds something like that, it closes it down. It also now bans sales of controversial, though not illegal, items, like alcohol and tobacco.As for fraudsters, Omidyar says that the eBay community is good at self-policing. At the same time, the company has stepped up its own security efforts. The so-called "aggregator" sites that let people search for particular items across a variety of sites, are also causing problems (it's currently in dispute with AuctionWatch -www.auctionwatch.com). Omidyar objects to these sites because they present eBay on the same footing as sites that take less trouble over security, they don't search properly and piggy-back on someone else's effort and money (i.e. his).EBay has become the kind of big beast that draws parasites. However, you can't help feeling that it doesn't really need to worry about small irritations. It's so big (it has 70% of the online auction market in the States), it's well protected, even against some of the big online names now getting into auctions (eg  amazon.com and the likes of MSN, Excite and Lycos and others, who recently joined forces to create a networked auction that runs under the Fair Market name).Omidyar says that eBay continually checks out the competition. But at the same time, he points out that his company benefits from ïnetwork effects'. This means that the more people who join a network, the more value is created for each person in that network. In other words, in the network economy, size matters. "It's very hard for a new market to draw people away from an existing market. So what we've seen with all our competitors is it's been very difficult for them to get lift off and get started."Ebay's size and success have led some analysts to predict that its dynamic pricing model will soon dominate online. Omidyar argues that people don't want to haggle for low-price commodities but that flexible pricing will become popular with services and information - any items that are hard to value exactly.  Given eBay's size (and the concomitant "network effects"), perhaps the sensible thing is not to attempt to compete with it but to come up with a new idea. Does he have any tips for budding net entrepreneurs?His advice is to focus on "individual empowerment". He mentions sites like Accompany and Mercata, which let buyers club together to get reductions on certain goods and Epinions, the site which lets people rate and review things (and eventually earn money for their opinions if people begin to rate what they say).  Don't just transfer old business models to the net, he says in conclusion. "Things are moving to business models that could not have existed without the internet. Ebay is the first example of that and there are many others. So I would encourage entrepreneurs to focus on this medium, which is almost pervasive, global and instant, and think of something new you could do with that."
Mark Slater, 30-year-old son of legendary financier Jim Slater, became the latest Internet multi-millionaire yesterday after shares in his investment vehicle Internet Indirect climbed ninefold on their debut.Mr Slater, who owns 17% of the business, saw his stake in the company valued at &#163;9m after the shares raced from their placing price of 5p to close at 44.5p. The company is capitalised at &#163;53.4m.The pace of growth follows a tenfold increase in the value of shares in JellyWorks, another Internet investment firm, on its first day's out on Tuesday, which suggests the market may be reaching boiling point.Internet Indirect aims to invest in supply companies that will benefit from the growth in web use. Typical companies would be privately owned suppliers of software systems to Internet companies or specialist content providers."The old clich&eacute; goes that in any goldrush it's the people who make the shovels that make the money - only we are dealing with some pretty flashy shovels," Mr Slater said.The placing of 120m shares has raised &#163;6m for investment. It expects to make investments with the average size of deal around &#163;250,000- &#163;500,000.Mr Slater said the fund would seek companies where there were barriers to entry or ones that could charge for their services. It would only invest in either profitable firms or those close to making money."The typical Internet investment is a consumer website where you are subsidising the costs with the hope that one day it will make money from advertising or something equally as spurious and once in a blue moon it works. But the odds are stacked against you," he said."The word Internet is not an excuse for a company not to make an operating profit at some point. There are huge opportunities. But we are interested in businesses where the degree of risk is lower."Mr Slater's father Jim became an investment guru through his Slater Walker Securities, which enjoyed a period of spectacular success before crashing back to earth in the bear market of the mid-1970s when the Bank of England was forced to step in. At the time he described himself as a "minus millionaire". Jim Slater remains a popular tipster and his books on investment are bestsellers. He has a 10% stake in Internet Indirect.Mark Slater, who has run Slater Investments for the past five years, has assembled an experienced group of directors for his new company. Chairman Howard Maguire is the head of UK equities at Threadneedle Asset Management, the investment management house.Other directors include Philip Swinstead of quoted IT group Parity, and Roger Parry, who runs the overseas interests of US media firm Clear Channel.The directors will share a further 95m warrants exercisable at 5p after two years. Collins Stewart, the stockbroking firm, sponsored the issue. Internet Indirect follows a clutch of web investment groups floating on the stock market.Rivals such as E-Capital, NewMedia Spark and eVestment have all performed strongly.&#149; e:go, the internet start up which outsources companies messaging systems, yesterday completed a &#163;5m round of funding from institutions and retail investors.The fundraising values the company at &#163;18m.
It was a year of stealth, speed and rampant monkeys. Although the year was dominated by announcements of new hardware rather than any one outstanding game, video-gamers in 1999 could still hide in cardboard boxes, race across the deserts of Tatooine, stalk simians across time, or choose the shade of underwear sported by a Greek swordfighting woman. The attraction of videogames, of course, is that you can do this sort of thing without being arrested.There were some splendid genre games this year: PlayStation arcade-racing fans thrilled to the slick and oh-so-pretty Ridge Racer Type 4 (with the year's best original game music), or burned air with the pleasingly moody, madly fast Wip3out, while N64 owners improved on George Lucas's new Jedi-fest with Star Wars Episode 1: Racer.Sega's Dreamcast console initially disappointed with workmanlike arcaders Virtua Fighter 3 and Sega Rally 2, as well as the curate's egg Sonic Adventure Ü inventive speed sections marred by abysmal draw distance and cutesy "adventuring".But it was rather more essential once loaded with superb comedy beat-'em-up Ready 2 Rumble Boxing, glorious zombie-killing   lightgun conversion House of the Dead 2, and Namco's jaw-dropping home enhancement of slash-'em-up Soul Calibur, which boasts the best visuals ever seen on a home console, married to a wonderfully deep and tactical combat system.Perhaps the greatest game of the year, however, initiated its own genre. The spy game Metal Gear Solid was soon dubbed a "sneak-'em-up", requiring the player to avoid guards rather than storm in, guns blazing.This was not a wholly original idea (hello, Goldeneye), but MGS added brilliant novelties, such as the line-of-sight radar, and gave the player a rare freedom in solving its puzzles. Hide in a cardboard box or lay a mine? Snipe from afar or rush in lobbing grenades? Your rifle aim is wobbly? Pop a Diazepam. Need to avoid invisible infrared security beams? Smoke a cigarette and watch them appear through the fug.Gameplayers of a certain age were further entranced by the VR training mode, which celebrated the glowing vector aesthetics of Battlezone. The whole package was wrapped up in a paranoid thriller plot that - for once - was rather well written. MGS quickly spawned lookalikes such as Sony's own rather diverting Syphon Filter, but all eyes are on producer Hideo Kojima's new project for PlayStation2. The Snake will surely be back.Some hardcore gamers complained that, as it required only about 14 hours' play to complete, MGS was too short. Konami's other big release, Silent Hill, was longer but less successful: its Resident Evil-style horror adventuring boasted a wonderfully nerve-jangling use of sound effects, but otherwise offered nothing new.Those  concerned about quantity rather than quality, will prefer the latest epic   role-playing game from Square, Final Fantasy VIII, which promises to suck about 80 hours off your lifespan.It has many vocal devotees, but I found it surprisingly regressive: a mixture of   dodgy turn-based 80s game mechanics and a badly performed "story" which I suppose might appeal to someone who's never read   a novel.PC gamers, ostensibly a more cerebral bunch, had been waiting a long time for strategy sequel Command and Conquer: Tiberian Sun, and it proved a disappointment: same old isometric 3D, a few new units and you know the drill.A surprise hit, on the other hand, came from the meaty and tense Hidden And Dangerous, in which players  control a small squad of commandos in various heroic action-film missions.The increasing importance of social gaming was demonstrated by two shooter sequels, Unreal Tournament and Quake 3 Arena, both designed purely for multiplayer fragging.  The Nintendo 64, wobbling right at the end of its shelf life, was deprived at the last minute of Perfect Dark (delayed till April), so we had to make do with two other long-trumpeted offerings from Rare.Jet Force Gemini was a curiously uninvolving cartoony sci-fi shooter, with a chugging framerate and uninspiring insectoid foes. Donkey Kong 64, on the other hand, is the best N64 game since Legend of Zelda, a beautifully designed riot of dumb monkey fun.For my money, the year's best platformer is monkey-themed, but it doesn't run on Nintendo's machine. Sony's largely overlooked but marvellous Ape Escape has a dull main character, Spike, but the environments are spectacular and the animation of the rogue monkeys to be hunted down is delightful.The queen of modern platform games is also back, and Core has sorted itself out for Tomb Raider: the Last Revelation. The levels are tighter and the puzzles more abstruse, and Crofty, bless   her, can now slide down   poles and swing on ropes in the beautifully lit Egyptian dungeons.It's the last Lara outing on current console hardware, and not coincidentally this is probably the last Christmas for Sony's 32-bit machine, which will soon be recreated in its entirety inside the joypad ports of its musclebound successor. But it's had a very strong year.  The lesson of 1999, after the slow death-by-starvation of the Nintendo 64 and the variety of 32-bit excellence,   is that it's not the videogame hardware that counts, it's what the software developers can do with it. That said, there's no way in hell I'm giving up my Dreamcast.&#149;  Steven Poole's Trigger Happy: The Inner Life   Of Videogames will be published by Fourth Estate   in May.Top 5 by 5The Guardian's reviewers pick their best games for 1999Andy Bodle1 Ultima Online: The Second Age (EA, PC)2 Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Sun (EA, PC)3 Mario Kart 64 (Nintendo, N64)4 Baldur's Gate (Interplay, PC)5 Point Blank 2 (Sony, PSX)Nick Gillett1 Donkey Kong 64 (Nintendo, N64)2 Soul Calibur (Namco, Dreamcast)3 Metal Gear Solid (Konami, PSX)4 Quake III: Arena (Activision, PC)5 Mario Golf 64 (Nintendo, N64)Greg Howson1 Pokemon Blue/Red (Nintendo, Game Boy)2 Soul Calibur (Namco, Dreamcast)3 Super Mario Bros Deluxe (Nintendo, Game Boy)4 Outcast (Infogrames, PC)5 Mario Golf 64 (Nintendo, N64)Steve Poole1 Metal Gear Solid (Konami, PSX)2 Soul Calibur (Namco, Dreamcast)3 Ape Escape (Sony, PSX)4 House of the Dead 2 (Sega, Dreamcast)5 Wip3out (Sony, PSX)Jack Schofield1 Soul Calibur (Namco, Dreamcast)2 Championship Manager 99/00 (Eidos, PC)3 Sonic Adventure (Sega, Dreamcast)4 Donkey Kong 64 (Nintendo, N64)5 Quake III: Arena (Activision, PC)&#149;   Andy Bodle, Greg Howson and Jack Schofield review games every week in the Guardian's Online  section, while   Nick Gillett reviews games for The Guide.
There's still time 
to pick up a 
games console 
for Christmas, and they've never been cheaper. The Sony PlayStation - more than 
70 million sold - cost £300 five years ago and can now be picked up for £80. Even the latest and greatest games machine, the Sega Dreamcast, costs only £200. But remember you'll also need to buy a few games as well, or all you'll have is a hi-tech paperweight.The problem is, as usual, choosing between the best hardware and the best choice of software. The Dreamcast offers much the most powerful hardware, but it's so new that very little software is available. The PlayStation, by contrast, is practically an antique, but it runs a vast selection of cheap games.There's no doubt which machine keen gamers want: it has to be the Dreamcast. It is much faster than any other console - ask to see Sonic Adventure - and the graphics are much more detailed. Although there aren't many games, there are enough titles for keen players. Fight fans will want Namco's Soul Caibur and perhaps Midway's Ready 2 Rumble boxing game or Acclaim's WWF Attitude. People who like platform games will be satisfied with Sonic Adventure and Ubi Soft's Rayman 2, when that finally appears.Of course, keen gamers will already have a PlayStation. What's more, they'll still use it for genres where the Dreamcast is weak, such as football (International Super Star Soccer, Fifa 2000) and 
driving (Gran Turismo, Colin McRae Rally).
For newcomers to console gaming, or players upgrading from a SNES (Super 
Entertainment System), 
the PlayStation is the best choice. It's the cheapest option, and provides access to most of the big-name titles that aren't published for the Dreamcast. Examples include Eidos Interactive's Tomb Raider series, Square's Final Fantasy adventures, and lots of film-related titles - Tomorrow Never Dies, Tarzan Action Game, Star Wars: Phantom Menace, and so on.All this is bad news for Nintendo, which dominated the console games business in the 1980s. The Nintendo 64 (£60) was supposed to leapfrog the PlayStation by offering more advanced technology. But it has been beaten by Sony's system, and this could be its last ChristmasÉThe N64, as it's known, still has some appeal. It still runs cartridge-based games, unlike the PlayStation and Dreamcast, where games are on CD. Cartridges cost more, but they are quicker and easier for small children to load. The N64 also has some good games for teens and pre-teens, including the Super Mario titles. It even has the UK's best software house, Rare, producing exclusive games such as Goldeneye 007, Jet Force Gemini, Donkey Kong 64 and the forthcoming Perfect Dark. Sadly, it's not enough.But it's not "game over" for Nintendo, yet. It has had a huge hit with the Poke&amp;eacutemon (pocket monster) series for its 10 year old Game Boy handheld, and Poke&amp;eacutemon could still prolong the N64's active life (Poke&amp;eacutemon Studio is due in March). However, the sensible thing would be for Nintendo to move to the next generation of machines as quickly as possible.The next generation is not far away. Sega's Dreamcast is the first example, and has a built-in modem  for internet connectivity and online games playing. The only thing it needs is a high-capacity DVD (Digital Video Disk) drive to replace today's CD drive, and that should be a simple upgrade. Sony's next-generation DVD-based PlayStation 2 should be launched in Japan next year, and the Nintendo Dolphin is not far behind. At this stage it's not worth putting off an £80 purchase for a £300 machine that hasn't even been launched in Japan. There's lots of time to see how the new consoles do in Japan and the US before they eventually reach these shores, perhaps 12-18 months later.Nonetheless, the future seems to favour the PlayStation 2. It has a brilliant specification, based on a couple of huge custom chips that will not be cheap to manufacture - or compete with. It also promises to be "backwards compatible" with PlayStation games. This is most unusual in the console market, where players are expected to bin their software with their hardware.But new generations of hardware also attract new hardware manufacturers, and Sony may find it has unexpected competition, like Microsoft. The PC software company has already supplied the Windows CE 
(originally, consumer electronics) operating system used in Sega's Dreamcast. Now it has developed the X-Box specification for a games console that could be built by PC manufacturers, or anyone else willing to pay the licence fees.The X-Box could be unveiled at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas in January, with consoles appearing by Christmas 2000.
If you can wait a year, the games market should then offer some much more exciting, but more difficult, choices.
Charles Nasser, the brains behind internet services provider ClaraNET, has been drafted in to turn Blakes Clothing into an e-commerce investment group to be rebranded as "e-xentric".The move represents a dismal end to Blakes Clothing, which was once seen by high profile investors Hugh Osmond and Luke Johnson as a potential rival to clothes retailer Next. Mr Nasser will join Punch group chief executive Mr Osmond and restaurant boss Luke Johnson on the e-xentric board.Nasser, 30, whose stake in ClaraNET is believed to be worth over &#163;150m, will help raise &#163;1.6m through a one-for-three open share offer and private placement. But he also plans to raise "at least" &#163;10m more next year.Edward Spencer-Churchill - related to former war leader Winston Churchill - who is also involved with Punch and e-xentric, said the new venture would be willing to invest up to &#163;50m in internet businesses constrained from further growth by lack of capital or management expertise.Blakes Clothing shares were suspended at 775p on December 7 after the earlier disposal of its trading subsidiary, Casanova Fashions, and the announcement of plans for liquidation. But Mr Nasser offered to take on the Aim listing to develop a new net-based firm.E-xentric will target private and public ventures throughout Europe.Mr Nasser said that he had been constantly approached with requests for help but until now had not found a suitable vehicle.
Ron Hood, Vietnam vet and survival skills expert, is the sort of man who knows that if a pothole suddenly gouges a chunk out of your car radiator while crossing a desert, you can plug the leak with mashed cactus and drive on, thereby avoiding having to hitch a lift from the likes of Mad Max or Dennis Hopper. Being "terrifyingly macho", as his wife Karen puts it, he has also dined on pussycat roadkill.Hood has been around. He has been lost in the Brazilian rainforest, where his friend's nose was bitten off by a piranha, lived with the Kurds for a year while serving   in the US Army special forces and merrily admits he returned from duty in south-east Asia devoid of social skills: "I was the guy dragging his knuckles."Now, as thousands of Americans (and half a dozen Brits) head for the hills to minimise the effects of the millennium bug, Hood has moved from California to sparsely populated Idaho to escape the possibility of food riots and martial law. There, the Hoods run a video production company and teach would-be survivalists how to fend for themselves in the wilderness (more details:www.survival.com).As well as demonstrating how to make candles from the innards of a dead deer, and how to find an explosive compound on the underside of cowpats, he shows students how to utilise the family saloon as an all-in-one survival kit, as outlined below.Car battery... can power anything from a small TV to a 12-volt microwave; the battery acid can be used to eat through locks; and the battery can be combined with a spark coil, some wire and a small object (a pencil or piece of card) to make a radio transmitter.Spark coil... a vital ingredient for making a radio transmitter. First, rip some wiring out of the car, strip off the plastic and wrap the exposed wire round an object. Attach one end of this wire to one of the spark coil's three terminals. Connect another wire from the coil's second terminal to one terminal of the car's battery. Fix another wire to the second battery terminal but leave the end of it loose. Then run two wires from the third, central terminal on the spark coil. One   will be an antenna, so the longer the better. The other should be bent over so that it almost - but not quite - touches the wire going from the coil to the battery. By scratching the loose wire from the battery across the wire wrapped round the pencil object, you create radio frequencies. Use it to send an SOS in Morse. "It gives rescuers a signal to home in on and makes you feel good because you're doing something positive," says Hood.Bonnet... to trap game, remove   it and slice an X through the metal. Dig a hole on a track and place the X over the top. When an animal treads on it, the metal will fold downwards and trap its foot in the hole. Then the beast is all yours.Seats... tear them open and use the foam for sleeping off the ground, which can otherwise be fatally cold; or break the foam into pieces to insulate your clothes.Indicator lights... can be used to light up a campsite or signal for help. Unscrew three from their sockets, with the wiring attached, point the bulbs upwards (in a row if possible) and turn on the hazard lights switch. Spotter planes will recognise the three flashing lights as the international emergency signal.Spare wheel... to signal for help during the day, cut up the tyre and make three piles of pieces 30-50ft apart, pour on some petrol and ignite, so the columns of black smoke attract attention.Rear-view mirror... detach and use to reflect the sun as a means of signalling.Engine oil... can help you evade capture. Mix with petrol in a breakable container with lighted seat fabric and you've got yourself a Molotov cocktail.Petrol... mixed with sand in a can and ignited, this creates a controllable flame over which you can cook. Add the fuel to the sand gradually: the aim is to light the fumes rather than the liquid itself.Licence plate... useful as a plate; can also be moulded into a spatula for cooking; or curled into a funnel for transferring liquids; and if you rub down the edge, it becomes a cutting tool.Aerial... another potential weapon component. One piece of the hollow extendible sort will take a .22 shell, and a trigger mechanism can be rigged up with rubber bands and a hairpin to create a zip-gun.Wheel trims... try these as fatal frisbees &#232; la Goldfinger.Vehicle shell... to make the best shelter or hiding place, drive the motor into the brush, dig a hole and settle it over the top.
Gliding confidently down the slip road to the new millennium, the car industry's most likely resolution will be to try to do better. The last year of the century saw enough bad news to keep your average PR team on permanent bleep. Newspapers were awash with tales of cut price foreign buys, the Competition Commission is now licking its lips and - surely some connection - the closing tally for new car sales will be 2% less than in 1998. These were not the only events to chip away our enthusiasm for private wheels. So, for the worst of 1999, ladies and gentlemen, the winners are...Worst carFighting fiercely for our top award, Top Gear magazine's barrel scraper sounds like the prime nominee. Says editor Kevin Blick: "Sadly for us, no truly atrocious cars get to the market now, but Rover made huge claims that the 75 handled fantastically and   it was also voted car of the year by a certain other magazine. On test, though, it turned out to be nowhere near as good - just okay. It's an under-achiever and people have voted with their feet."BBC2 Top Gear, however, says the 75 is no bum steer. In fact, Quentin Willson reckons it's a nice runner. The badge for 1999's best waste of petrol should go, he says, to Korean maker Kia, for the &#163;5,495 radio-free Pride. "It has neolithic technology, eastern-bloc aspirations, depreciates like a piano from a tower block and is wilfully dull."Meanwhile, What Car? magazine's chief road tester, Roger Stansfield, reserves his fire for the Rover 75's key upstager, the soaraway-selling Jaguar S-Type. "Jaguar raised expectations to a level it failed to meet. By comparison, the new Rover 75, which has got off to such a poor start, is essentially a very good car. The chief reason for Rover's failure so far is that the fleet industry still suspects a Rover will depreciate too quickly."The deciding vote, from Company Car, goes Rover's way. The magazine cites a bungled launch: "Initially, the car didn't meet BMW's criteria," says editor Curtis Hutchinson, "so the launch was delayed while the problems were put right. The fleet industry now wants to see how serious BMW is about Rover - and whether the government will help with sponsorship. Till then, our jury's out."Most brazen U-turnUndoubtedly, this one goes to Ford for a statement made in early September, suggesting that it would not cut its prices, but that if it ever did, it would refund the difference to any customers who had been kind enough to buy early, if you see what they mean. Nat Barnes, the car industry's consumer journalist of the year, says Ford's clumsy promise was a bid to foster trust amid speculation that prices would soon tumble: "In the event, it backfired and made things worse - the following week, the car-buying internet site Autohit registered a 40% drop in new-car enquiries."As an extra twist, Ford then went on to cut prices of some models, but refused any refund it may have implied to those who'd already bought by claiming the discounts were on old stock and thus exempt from the price promise. Nice one, Henry.The Lord Lucan award for absenteeismOn July 20 1999, the Competition Commission invited car manufacturers to its first open hearing for the inquiry into UK car prices, and the nation's selective and exclusive car distribution system. Having ordered a large amount of sandwiches on the day, chairman Denise Kingsmill said "a wide range of interested parties and individuals will be taking part in the hearing. This diversity should make for a useful and stimulating discussion."In the event, no manufacturers showed up. Says industry analyst Mark Bursa: "It was a case of 'Where's my foot? Bam! Now, where's my other foot? Bam!'"Most pointless journeyWho says Labour is anti-car? John Prescott inadvertently scoops this year's top gong for outstanding commitment to frivolous car usage. Spotted on his way to deliver his speech for greener transport at the Labour conference, John and Mrs P used a chauffeur-driven ministerial limo for the mammoth 250-yard trek.Prezza later explained that the car was necessary because "the wife doesn't like having her hair blown about". Labour's pro-combustion message was reinforced by colleague Michael Meacher who failed to turn up for a photocall with Toyota's petrol-electric Prius. "They canned it after that hash with Two-Jags," a Toyota spokesman said.Worst corporate weddingA year into their transatlantic alliance, Daimler-Benz and Chrysler   are yet to try the honeymoon suite. Chairmen Jergen Schempp and Robert Eaton set out to integrate the companies quickly, but by September both parties decided that the process was too painful.Wall Street took a stern view of this reluctance and the company's stock plunged over the year. The two are now reported to be living separately, although, in the UK, Chrysler's popular PR team will soon be subsumed within Mercedes Benz's public affairs office in Milton Keynes, an outfit regarded as an aloof club by much of the media.Chris Wright, International Editor of Automotive News International, says cultural differences irk both sides: "The Germans are far more devoted to their work than the Americans. There's never a discussion if German staff have to jump on a plane for a Friday afternoon meeting in the US, but some American managers will balk at doing the same."A flurry of senior Chrysler execs jumped ship to other US brands during the merger, but Chrysler attributed the trend to "natural wastage". Staff took their favourite joke with them, though: "How do you pronounce Daimler-Chrysler? 'Daimler' The Chrysler bit is silent."Best change of tuneCome on down, Mitsubishi. First it made an apopleptic attack on personal Japanese "grey" imports as polluting, depreciating, improperly equipped cars with possibly unsafe specification. It even, allegedly, sent memos to its dealers suggesting that parts and servicing costs should be bumped up to reflect the rogue nature of these cars. In May, however, the company confirmed to Motor Trader newspaper that it was now training its dealers to service the same cars.Do as I say, not as I doShould it be Claudia Schiffer who, despite having no driving licence, stripped off to advertise the Citroen Xsara? Or should it be Tony Blair, who wants us all to respect the new   M4 Heathrow bus lane, unless you are, erm, Tony Blair? Tough call, but Tony clinches it.Worst driving seatWhat Car? magazine found the Ford Focus to be the best car in the UK for a comfy ride, and placed the driving seat of Land Rover's Discovery at the bottom of the bottom-pleasing league.Worst new driving trendIn the last year, Belgium has had 14 deaths and 64 injuries as a result of motorists driving the wrong way along the nation's motorway network. Chris Cuijpers, a road safety expert, says that most deaths are caused by older men driving late at night under the influence of alcohol. Belgium's transport ministry is researching a new prevention method which includes a slip road device which punctures car tyres when approached from the wrong direction.Worst roadworksOnce again, this goes to the A34 Newbury bypass. "Building roads," says a Highways Agency spokeswoman, "is like baking a cake. Sometimes you just get one where a bad egg makes it flop."Contractors Costain and Mott McDonald used a low-spray, low-noise porous asphalt mix as the original icing on the eight-mile cake, but loose pebbles began to emerge within the one-year guarantee. Under their contract, they were obliged to come and have another go - and pick up the extra &#163;2.2m tab. So, on September 1, amid agonised groans from Newburyites and commuters alike, the bollards returned. "It was a bloody nuisance, but if anyone doubted the benefits of the new bypass, the fact that half the traffic had to be sent back through the town made them think again."Some silver lining. The road has now been resurfaced, in the same material. But is it true that road protestors addled the original topping? "It would be nice to blame them, but there is no evidence to suggest it."
Are we nearly there?It's that time of year again: long car journeys and the kids getting restless in the back seat. So BBC Worldwide has produced some top tips for carefree - and safe - family motoring...&#149; Drive at night. They might be overexcited to start with, but they'll soon drop off. Just make sure you don't too.&#149; Separate them, with cushions or a rug.&#149; Bring a bag of goodies: nibbles, games, colouring books, etc.&#149; Play audio tapes.Fancy running into youWhen a BMW went into the back of German police officer Albert    Brieker's car, he sprang into action - all set to book the culprit. Trouble was... the driver of the BMW turned out to be his wife, who had just passed her test.Quote of the week"Eating out in Birmingham was always one of life's more disappointing experiences. First, you had to find Birmingham, which is located above a series of tunnels, and then you had to find some food. Usually, this meant parking in a multi-storey and then being beaten up a lot. Eventually, you'd have your wallet nicked, so, bleeding and hungry, you'd go back to the multi-storey to find your car had been stolen as well. When the ambulance finally took you home, six weeks later, you'd had time to ruminate on your night out, and most people usually reckoned that going into Birmingham city centre after dark was a 'bad thing' and that they wouldn't be going again."Jeremy Clarkson, Sunday Times
The millennium bug could disrupt oil supplies from the Arab states in the Gulf, forcing prices to rise - that is the warning included in a report prepared by the United Nations.The report and US government officials say that states responsible for more than half the world's oil reserves may   not be adequately prepared. Governments and companies will not be ready due to a lack of funds, and oil companies operating in the region are said to be concerned about the lack of progress also being made in government-run utilities such as power and water.The six states are Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain.Ron Nelson, a Dubai-based Y2K computer consultant, said of oil companies in the area: "A lot of them have just looked at what we call the front-end IT systems and not at the embedded systems."Embedded systems consist of computer chips used outside of computers - in power-distribution equipment, pipeline pump controls and other devices."Everyone considered Y2K as a PC-based problem, when in reality it was much larger," he added. Kuwait, which holds 9.3% of known global reserves, said the various components of its oil industry, production, refining, shipping, have different timetables for dealing with the bug."The production side is the most advanced and is finished testing," said Mifhari   al-Obaid, an assistant managing director at the state-owned Kuwait Petroleum Corp. "In an emergency we would be able to run manually if the data systems stop."But Saudi Arabia, responsible for 10% of the world's daily oil supply, said it is confident its computer systems will be ready for year 2000.And Venezuela and Mexico also said supplies will not be   disrupted by computer breakdowns, guaranteeing deliveries in the first days of 2000. The two countries have agreed to make up any shortfalls in output that arise as a result of the bug.The London Chamber of Commerce has calculated that &#163;5bn in working time could be lost as a result of the extended shut-down of offices and factories to mark the millennium.
It isn't just that the Net will have scooped away all classified advertising (though this is dire enough); the killer problem, apparently, is the race for news itself in an era of WAP phones, when the Web headlines come fast on your mobile. I want the world and I want it now. You're never alone with your Nokia.But what, pray, do we mean by 'news' in such circumstances? News round the clock to an endlessly moving deadline, events as they happen, when they happen: the destruction of the familiar cycle of newspaper life. Who'll want paper and ink half a day   behind the times when a quick dial-in will bring you everything? There's nothing as essentially out of date as the front page that plops through your letterbox.But the appliance of science is not automatically the application of logic or experience - and the peddlers of this doomy scenario appear to have been asleep for the past couple of decades. We know all about 24-hour news: it's called Radio Five Live, BBC 24, Sky News and CNN, to name but a few. A pocket radio (or even TV) gives you this world already. Front pages won't suddenly become out of date; they've been, in that sense, out of date for years.Yet such rolling information is by no means the whole story. Instant facts culled from news agencies around the globe and lightly decorated by local chefs set a simple agenda, to be sure - and few newspapers play that   game for a living any longer.Consider, for instance, the Tory tale of London's mayoralty over the past few months. In headline terms, flashing on your WAP mini-screen, it takes few words and less thought. Conservatives choose Archer. Old lies wreck Archer. Norris stands again. Norris isn't allowed to stand again. Norris is allowed to stand again.Where's the juice? Or, indeed, any of the context    that dumps more detritus on William Hague's own doorstep? This yarn, like so many others, needs detail and attitude to make it live. The context of one damn thing after another is essential, and this is the ingredient that newspapers supply. Few stories of political intrigue - the stuff of governance - run to a 24-hour schedule. They have to be teased out by leaks and whispers. They are the product of another kind of news   machine, working to different imperatives.Archer's lies and Mandy's mortgage surface in print. John Prescott's prospects decline when MPs murmur to correspondents along the lobby corridors. Alastair Campbell is the man you don't see or hear.Instant news, in short, needs the time and the background that its very being, whirling from bulletin to quickfire bulletin, denies it.   Without that, it can be no more than an electronic jotting pad waiting for the thunderous story - Iraq, Kosovo, war caught on camera - that gives the format another dimension.Perhaps, in mobile phone mode, that can be accounted enough - a results service (for Test Match scores or libel trial results). But it won't put newspapers out of business, any more than the BBC's news at 6pm, or ITN at its    changed bedtime place did. And even then, the importance of cyclical deadlines counts for more than you'd suppose. Bring back  News at Ten? That particular debate shows no sign of ending, because a summation of the day at 6.30 inevitably leaves scant opportunity for reflection or analysis: it's more a compilation of things that happened - just happened - during the time since breakfast. And the BBC news at 9pm hasn't quite caught breath enough to compete with the thought processes that go into newspaper prioritisings.There is something natural to the rhythm of a newspaper which puts the day past in perspective and marks your card for the day ahead. There is, equally, something insubstantial to the truncated rush of unexplained events. Interest rates rise? Fine, but only if you're expert enough to write your own background.The fundamental debate here, played out across thousands of Web pages, is between electronic versions of newspapers, still rooted in paper and ink, and sites with the resources to provide their own news service, changing   constantly. Don't doubt which approach will win on the Web. The Net product that uses the speed and infinite variety of the Net itself is bound to triumph.What's more problematic is the belief that one form must swiftly supplant the other, as if they were both variants on a single theme. It seems to make sense. One guru at a recent Society of Editors conference was even predicting that print newspapers would have to design themselves on whizzy website lines because 80 per cent of Net users are used to merely scanning the electronic pages, nibbling a few words and passing on.Maybe, but at least for the moment (and probably for rather longer) we're talking differences, not convergences. News on the Net is for scanning and leaving. News on the printed page (learning from years where TV was the enemy) has another approach - and more resilience than you'd think. Enough to last the new century out? Almost certainly not. But still with advantages that fit the pacings of our lives. And you can't wrap fish and chips in a computer.
This is the year the British 'got' the Internet. But research to be released tomorrow by theWorld Internet Forumwill confirm the results of the National Audit Office's 'Government on the Web' White Paper last week in suggesting that Ministers have more work to do.Three-quarters of more than 2,000 people questioned for the forum by Mori felt children are benefiting educationally from using the Internet at school. Fifty-three per cent believe it will bring us closer to Europe, and only 17 per cent disagree - food for thought for Eurosceptics.This research supports the need for the forum, which will be held at Oxford next September. It will be the first global platform where governments can discuss how best to harness the Internet for the benefit of their citizens.Barely a fifth of those surveyed believe the Government is looking after the interests of web users. A further 47 per cent believe the Net will increase the gap between the technology have and have-nots. This echoes a claim by President Bill Clinton last month at an economic summit in Florence. He said one of the greatest problems facing developed nations was the widening digital divide.'I think we should shoot for a goal within the developed   countries of having Internet access as complete as telephone access within a fixed number of years,' he said. 'It will do as much as anything to reduce income inequality.'Communication between governments will be key if the Internet is to become truly a medium of the people. The Prime Minister recently told the Confederation of British Industry that in the   twenty-first century, investment capital will become a plentiful commodity; it will be intellectual capital that will be in short supply. This is in stark contrast to the way the industrial revolution began.The message is that, given the paucity of resources, we will need to communicate with our colleagues the world over and exchange ideas via the Internet. Government, possibly more than any other institution, needs to increase its understanding of the Web for the twenty-first century.This has not been properly grasped by the modernising National Audit Office White Paper.Britain has been trumpeted by many people as a place where the world can do e-business. We are a country of technology pioneers. The birth of the modern day computer - nicknamed The Baby - took place in Manchester in the late Forties.The World Wide Web came about through the innovative work of Tim Berners-Lee while David Potter's vision at Psion and Symbian, and Martin Lambie-Nairne's branding of Channel 4, the BBC and the Millennium Dome have set new world standards.To top it off, Jonathan Ive's design of the iMac at Apple has saved the company. Britain has always had a brilliant design base.Yet for all this creativity, we as a country still have some way to go before we can consider ourselves world-beaters. We may be leading a charge in digital and voice technology, but the take-up of the Internet by small businesses in this country is among the lowest in Europe. For the Internet to work we need to make it simple and   ubiquitous. That is the responsibility of government as much as it is of business. BT's new surfing tariff for flat-rate access to the Net is too high. A lower rate would increase its share price and market capitalisation.At the forum next year there will be 500 Internet business leaders from around the globe to talk to 500 government officials. For four days Britain will be the capital of the world in terms of debating the future of the Internet and how governments can use it to empower citizens in education, health, social security, culture and commerce.The need for such convergence is clear. For all the talk of a World Wide Web, we are all still too insular in our approach to making the Internet work. We need to be talking to people from every corner of the globe about how they are utilising the Web for the benefit of citizens. We are good in this country at talking and offering advice, but less effective at taking action.For example, if you had a hot business idea, you'd want to market it very quickly. Wouldn't it be great if you could apply for a patent or trademark online? What if you could rent commercial property via the Web, while simultaneously applying for technology support from the Government?That is no 'what if' scenario: the Singapore government is already doing it atwww.gov.sgAt the same site you'll find all you need to know about that country's education, employment, health, housing et al. Try that in the UK, and you're in for a worldwide wait.When it was first announced that the World Internet Forum was taking   place I received an e-mail from the Philippines about a government-backed programme that travels the country getting rural communities online. Brilliant. This will form a centrepiece of the forum in September.We need to communicate and trade ideas because there is no copyright on such innovation. Those that trade on the Internet already will have observed a partnership philosophy that isn't fully displayed in the business world at large. A prime example of that is the Linux operating system. This free software was developed as the property of everyone around the world and has become a major player in the future of IT systems.Linux could not have developed on its own, just as the UK can't develop its e-  commerce without the support of the Cabinet. No one envies the task of this Government. Amid the myriad of other things it has had to contend with, the Internet age has arrived to turn government on its head.There have been some good moves, such as appointing my colleague Patricia Hewitt as e-Minister, but she ought to be in the Cabinet   Office alongside the Civil Service e-envoy Alex Allan. For Britain to be serious about the Internet, it needs representation at Cabinet level.Affordable computers for the poor are all very well but if we are serious about ending the inequality then why can't we have free computers for the socially excluded?The biggest Lottery rollover of all will take place when the Millennium Commission is wound up next year. Couldn't we use this money to provide every one of these households with vouchers for a computer or software? Overnight we would become the leading knowledge-based society in the world.The problem with governments is that they are organised vertically. The Internet, however, celebrates the horizontal. If modernising government is to be achieved then, as Geoffrey Moore put it in  The Gorilla Game, they have to 'eat' themselves. This means taking down the barriers between government departments.This is not joined-up government, it is joined-down government.In the global economy, businesses must become Internet companies within two years to survive. The same must apply to governments: They must nurture the Internet. This challenge will be at the heart of the World Internet Forum.&#149;  Derek Wyatt, Labour MP for Sittingborune and Sheppey, devised the World Internet Forum, which is to take place at Oxford University from 3-7 September. He can be e-mailed atwyattd@parliament.uk. The forum's website is atwww.icp.co.uk/wif
Forget Bill Gates.  Forget Steve Jobs. Forget Larry Ellison of Oracle or Scott McNealy of Sun Microsystems. Forget even Steve Balmer, Gates's screaming, hyperactive, 200-decibel sidekick. The most interesting billionaire on the planet is a Texan engineer most people have never heard of. He's the only man in history to have started three billion-dollar companies - and he may well be on his way to creating a fourth. His name is Jim Clark and he's just been immortalised in a riveting new biography by Michael Lewis, the writer who lifted the lid on Wall Street with his book  Liar Poker.Even if you're not a nerd, your life has been touched by Clark. If you've ever driven a car or been to see  Star Wars  or a Spielberg film then you've experienced something that's been designed or made with the products of Clark's first company - Silicon Graphics Inc. If you use a Netscape browser to access the World Wide Web then you're a beneficiary of the company Clark launched in 1994 and took public only a year later, triggering the frenzy that lets Internet firms surge on the stock market before earning a cent in profits.And if you live in the US and have been to see your doctor recently, the chances are that the surgery's interactions with your health insurance company have been orchestrated byHealtheon Corporation, the company Clark founded to link doctors, insurers, pharmacies and patients via the Internet, eliminating the paperwork from America's gargantuan healthcare industry.It was Clark who triggered the US Department of Justice's anti-trust investigation into Microsoft and he recently launched two more start-ups -MyCFO.com, a personal finance site for the ultra-rich, and Shutterfly.com, an online photographic processing and delivery service.At first sight he looks avuncular with thinning white hair, wire-rimmed spectacles and a lovely smile. But do not be deceived: behind that amiable fa&ccedil;ade is the nearest thing Silicon Valley has to a force of nature - an ungovernable, relentless, mercurial, capricious, inventive character who transformed the computing industry, spawned the Internet boom and eats bankers for breakfast.'Rather than piloting the lead   car,' wrote one computing insider, 'Clark has generally been out in front of everyone building the track itself, determining where the damn thing is headed.' But his originality is just one of the things that makes him special.To many software engineers, Clark walks on water not just because he's a great engineer himself but because a prominent venture capitalist committed suicide after Clark refused to sell him a slice of one of his start-ups. To appreciate the significance of this, you have to remember that software engineers see themselves as farmers and venture capitalists as locusts. No banker, in the engineers' view, has ever created anything tangible.The people who invent the technologies that shape our lives are not usually the ones who become rich and famous. The serious rewards go to the capitalists who drip-feed funds for development in return for the lion's share of the proceeds. The game is rigged so that the people who really matter usually get shafted. This bitter lesson is one that Clark learnt early in his career.As an academic at Stanford in the late Seventies, he designed a computer chip that could process three-dimensional images in real time, allowing engineers to model designs on a computer screen and save months of work - and their employers millions of dollars. He called his chip the Geometry Engine, hired some graduate students and in 1982 set upSilicon Graphics, one of the seminal companies of the new digital economy. 'Jim's logic was that the world was three-dimensional, and so the computer would have to be too,' one of his students recalled. 'He thought the right way to interact with machines is the way you interact with the world.'Along with Nasa, Hollywood was quick to spot the possibilities of the Geometry Engine, and George Lucas and Steven Spielberg were among Clark's first customers. He also began attracting the best engineers in Silicon Valley. But to finance Silicon Graphics, Clark sold a 40 per cent stake for a mere $800,000 to venture capitalist Glenn Mueller of the Mayfield Fund. The money lasted less than a year and then Mueller bought another chunk of the company, this time for $17 million.Later, Clark and his engineers were obliged to sell even more of the equity, leaving them with an ever-diminishing piece of what eventually became a very profitable pie. As Silicon Graphics prospered, its founder became increasingly marginalised as the bankers employed suits to ride herd over the engineers. Clark fumed as he watched his baby being strangled. Mueller brought in Ed McCracken, a former vice-president at Hewlett-Packard, as the company's chief executive.Clark and McCracken fought bitterly and at one point Clark replaced the nameplate on the chief executive's door with one reading 'Ed McMuffin'. It is said that Ed took three days to notice the switch. Clark quit and looked for something new. He was not poor, but he was a pauper compared to the guys who had bought his equity at fire-sale prices.The year was 1994 and the new thing turned out to be the Web. With Marc Andreessen - the student who created Mosaic, the first of the big browsers - Clark foundedNetscape Communications. He was besieged by venture capitalists after a slice of the action. But this time he resolved to do business on his own terms. Clark left them dangling for weeks before selling a 15 per cent stake to John Doerr of Silicon Valley's blue chip firm Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield &amp; Byers for $18m, leaving himself with 25 per cent. These were terms hitherto unknown in Palo Alto where engineers had traditionally approached Doerr &amp; Co on bended knee.Mueller - the man who collared 40 per cent of Silicon Graphics for $800,000 - begged to be cut in on the Netscape deal. Clark memorably told him to get lost and Mueller shot himself in the head a week later. It turned out that he had suffered from paranoid delu sions that everyone in the Valley was out for him.Shortly after Netscape launched its first browser, Clark decided to float the company. Most people - especially the bankers - thought he was nuts. The prevailing wisdom was that a firm had to show at least four consecutive profitable quarters before peddling its shares to investors. With nothing on its balance sheet but buckets of red ink Netscape went public in August 1995. The shares opened at $28 and soared in seconds to $74.75. The dot.com era had arrived.The following day  a slightly stunned  Wall Street Journal observed that it had taken General Dynamics 43 years to become a corporation worth $2.7 billion, but Netscape Communications had achieved the same thing in about a minute. The success of what every one had regarded as a premature flotation consolidated Clark's reputation as a genius. His had been - so the story went - a wonderful intuition. Only now has it been revealed by Michael Lewis that the main reason for the hurried launch was that Clark had decided to build himself the biggest computer-controlled yacht in the world and needed the cash, pronto.On such hinges does history turn. Another came when Clark encountered the US healthcare system at first hand. He was badly injured in a motorcycle crash and then diagnosed as suffering from a blood disease that required regular trips to the doctor. In both cases, he got frustrated with the long waits and complicated forms.Why not, he mused, use the Internet to eliminate paperwork by linking doctors, patients, pharmacies, health plans and benefits administrators to a central store of information? He founded a company, Healtheon, which would control that depository and collect a small fee for each transaction. Given that the healthcare sector is worth $1.5 trillion annually, Healtheon could make billions even if it only handled a fraction of medical transactions.Like most of Clark's ideas, it was off the wall. Nobody else would have the gall to tackle the byzantine complexity of the US   healthcare system. The fact that he knew almost nothing about it was no deterrent - detail is not Clark's thing. He deals only in Big Ideas, relying on the engineers who follow him to hell and back to figure out the software necessary to implement them.This is why his biographer describes him as the nearest thing the corporate world has to a conceptual artist - envisaging things that might be rather than concentrating on what is.After a shaky start, Healtheon has blossomed. It now has connections to 150,000 physicians and 450 health plan payers and handles more than a million e-commerce transactions a month. Once it was up and running, Clark did his usual thing - disappeared to the Hyperion, his gargantuan sailing boat, like Ahab chasing his own soul.Many of his best ideas seem to come from introspection. As someone who lives the kind of pathologically peripatetic life that only those with private jets and unlimited money can sustain, he has neither the time nor the inclination to manage his personal wealth. So he has now dreamed up another company - MyCFO - that will do it for him, and the hosts of other millionaires on the planet.Lewis's book ends when MyCFO was still a gleam in   Clark's eye. But now it's up and running, claiming 'exceptional, unbiased, and integrated services' to simplify the complex financial lives of the super-rich. 'By combining extensive expertise and unsurpassed client service with the power of the Internet,' its website proclaims, 'MyCFO will enable each client to benefit from a personal relationship with the best professional advisers while gaining unparalleled online access to their complete, real-time financial information.'It's a wild idea, and without the $10m entrance fee few of us are going to be able to give it a proper road test. But what's really neat about MyCFO is that its clients are also its investors. It only needs a few of Clark's fellow billionaires to sign up to have as much resources under its control as many Wall Street fund managers.And then the geek who swore he would never again be swindled by a banker will truly have had his revenge.&#149;  'A Brief History of the Future', John Naughton's history of the Internet, is published by Weidenfeld and Nicolson. Seewww.briefhistory.comfor details. Naughton is director of thePress Fellowship Programme at Wolfson College, Cambridge
How to become an Internet billionaire: Start a company selling &#163;5 notes for &#163;4.90 on the Web. Call it Lossmaker.com. (The name is available - I've just checked withInterNIC.) Arrange venture capital funding (no problem just now - everybody wants to throw money at Internet start-ups) and use some of it to advertise your service in the popular press. In no time at all www.lossmaker.com will have millions of visitors a day.On the basis of these impressive statistics, float the company on the stock market - offering, say, 50 per cent of its 10 million shares at &#163;15 each. After a day's trading, they will be changing hands at &#163;70 and Lossmaker.com will be valued at &#163;700 million. Now use this inflated paper to purchase real businesses such as hardware stores and fast-food franchises and retire to Cayman Islands. QED.The current dot.com frenzy, like the Peace of God, passeth all understanding. Companies that manufacture nothing or provide services for which there is, as yet, little demonstrable demand (and that lose money like it is going out of fashion), enjoy stock market capitalisations greater than those of outfits such as General Motors, WalMart and even AT&amp;T with enormous assets and real businesses.One can perhaps excuse people for investing in Internet companies, such as Amazon.com, that just conceivably might one day make a profit. What's really weird is to see investors piling into computer companies built around products they are legally bound to give away for nothing.Take, for example, the astonishing recent flotation ofVA Linux Systems, a company that sells computers based on the Linux operating system along with technical support and consulting services.The company's initial public offering price was $30 a share, but the stock closed its   first day of trading at $239.25 - an increase of 698 per cent.What's funny about this is that the company is based around Linux, the Open Source operating system which, under the terms of its licence, has to be made freely available. (Anyone can download the latest version of Linux from the Net, gratis.)Any revenue that VA Linux Systems makes comes from 'adding value' to this free product. Given the increasing importance of Open Source software, this probably means that the company has a modest but prosperous future ahead of it. But it is never going to be another Microsoft because it doesn't own the software at the core of its operations.So why the frenzy to own a slice of VA Linux Systems? Could it be that most of those stampeding for a piece of the stock-market action don't know the first thing about the technology? We have been here before. As a celebrated observer of capitalist excess observed, 'History repeats itself, the first time as tragedy, the second time as farce.'Apart from a runaway stock market, one of the key ingredients that exacerbated the 1929 Wall Street crash was the fact that most speculators were buying shares on credit. So let us raise a glass to the foreign brokers who have greased the path to perdition for UK speculators by making online trading easy. Last week they put the last piece of the jigsaw in place by announcing plans to allow their clients to 'trade on margin', ie credit, from early next year. And the aforementioned commentator? Karl Marx of course.Even the lawyers are champing at the bit. Linklaters, one of the top City law firms, has announced its willingness to take shares in Internet start-ups in lieu of fees.Other firms will, no doubt follow suit, given the competitiveness of the London legal services market. But as ever, the Brits are simply trailing behind Silicon Valley, where top legal firms now demand equity stakes as well as fees before they will even deign to look at a business plan. No one seems to be bothered by the risk of law firms advising competitors of companies in which they hold a stake. Anyway, when it all goes pear-shaped, there will be lots of work for all sorts of lawyers.john.naughton@observer.co.uk&#149; For links and background material seewww.briefhistory.com/footnotes
The magazine publisher IPC unveiled a sharp drop in profits yesterday as the company stepped up its investment in the marketing of its main titles and pledged more launches of online operations.The company, which is planning to float in 2001, reported profits before tax and exceptionals down to &#163;10.5m - almost a third of last year's profits of &#163;29.7m. Operating profits fell to &#163;65.6m (1998: &#163;67.7m) on turnover up 5% to &#163;356.4m.The results were distorted by factors including the inclusion for the first time of a full 12 months of debt costs arising   from the &#163;869m buy-out from Reed Elsevier.The chairman, David Arculus, described the year as one of transformation. The group had restructured and streamlined the core magazine business so that it was more cus tomer and market focused. It is spending &#163;25m on new online businesses under the umbrella of IPC Electric, formed this year, and will launch BEME.com, a women's website to exploit its portfolio of women's magazines.IPC publishes 25 titles read by more than half the UK's female population each week. Journalists working for BEME.com will rewrite content for the site from the magazine titles, as well as input their own work.It joins unmissabletv.com, based on IPC's listings and entertainment titles, and nme.com, which draws on the music publication.IPC chief executive Sly Bailey said the company would be flexible in the way it welded to gether its online and traditional publishing businesses. Some journalists would work across both media, others would not. She added that IPC Electric would have an equity structure that allowed the company to offer incentives to online staff.The company has completed its restructuring into five publishing businesses, shedding 200   staff. Costs of the reorganisation were &#163;5.1m, yielding annualised savings of &#163;6m.Marketing spend rose by more than half as IPC took the decision to step up investment in its titles after what it termed a lengthy period of under-investment under previous owners.
Don't panic! The handheld electronic guide that allowed earthling Arthur Dent to hitchhike his way around the galaxy is about to become a reality.Douglas Adams, author of the cult 1970s series The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, has launched an online guide to life, the universe and everything, which users will be able to access on the move anywhere in the world. He has also held talks with mobile phone manufacturers about building a tailored device which would be branded the Hitchhiker's Guide.Mobile phone users will be able to connect to Mr Adams' website h2g2.com and access alternative facts on places and people or tips and advice on subjects ranging from irritable bowel syndrome to latex clothing.Information available to users with global positioning system phones will be tailored according to their geographical location and they will be encouraged to contribute their own thoughts and facts, updating them constantly."The standard restaurant   guide can tell you which is the best restaurant in Paris but this will be able to tell you which waitress is in a mood today and how to avoid her," Mr Adams said.H2g2.com, launched in May, has 30,000 regular users and a high level of "stickiness" - the amount of time users stay on the site - Mr   Adams said. "We want the site to be collaborative, cooperative and up to the minute," he said. It is owned by Digital Village, in which Mr Adams is a large shareholder.HGTG, which began life as a radio programme in 1978, focuses on Arthur Dent, an earthling whose planet is about to be destroyed to make   way for an outer space freeway. An electronic guide about the same size as a calculator and with a screen four inches square containing a mass of information and hints like "Earth: Mostly Harmless" guided him on his pan-galactic journey.HGTG later became a BBC TV series, a comic book, a computer game and a stage play. Disney has commissioned Mr Adams to write a film screenplay.Meanwhile, Vodafone and the BBC have teamed up to offer a more conventional news and information service for mobile services.Mobile phone users linked to the Vodafone network will be   able to receive the latest news from the BBC Online website on their handsets from early next year.Alan Harper, board director at Vodafone, said: "Vodafone envisages that in the future more people will be watching the news via their mobile phone than at home in front of their TV set."
Health websites get more hits than any other category on the internet - apart from pornography. That may not tell us anything profoundly new about the human psyche, but it is an explanation for the proliferating number of health sites.But not all the information on the net, and certainly not all the pills and potions for sale online, can be relied on. As Bob Gann, director of the NHS website, observed at its launch: "There's good information out there and there's bad information out there." One of the aims of his site, he said, was to "make it easier for people to find good information than it is to find bad".Like the far jollier and less patronising US government site atwww.healthfinder.gov, NHS Direct's online service is intended to be a gateway to health information, pointing the sick or curious public in the direction of worthy sites, such as well-respected and longstanding patients' groups.But the UK site atwww.nhsdirect.nhs.ukhas   various agendas. One is to encourage patients who do not need a doctor to look after themselves at home, while a nannyish section on healthy living gives tips on cutting down on alcohol and stopping smoking. Another aim is, as chief medical officer Liam Donaldson says on the site, to put health risks in perspective. "Media headlines can sometime be unjustifiably alarming and misleading."It is this tendency towards the dour - the old paternalism lingers on - that differentiates the US sites from the UK. Many UK sites have all the excitement of waiting room leaflets. On the other hand, a lot are entirely worthy, reliable and will not try to sell you Viagra online.The established patients' groups are a pretty safe and helpful way to proceed if you want information on treatment for a condition or other support, and there are a number of sites now that will direct you to them. Trywww.patient.co.ukwhich also lists some telephone help-lines and patient leaflets. It is easier on the layman or woman than the more technical OMNI - Organising    Medical Networked Information - which bills itself as the UK's gateway to high quality internet resources and is atwww.omni.ac.ukPatients groups like the British Heart Foundation or the Cancer Research Campaign can tell you much about the condition and current treatment. For those looking for treatments that may not yet be available except in clinical trials, there are the major databases used by the professionals. Medline in the USA is the largest medical library in the world. It can be accessed via the US National Library of Medicine atwww.nlm.nih.govand most of it is free - there is a small charge for articles from some journals. The site urges consumers to try medline plus, which is a more patient-friendly way of going about things, with answers to questions and searches by disease which bring up the latest studies.Equally rock-solid is the Cochrane Collaboration, which reviews all the published studies on a condition to come to conclusions about best practice. It is available atwww.update-software.comon subscription.Among the valuable, the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority deserves a mention for publishing copious online information, including performance tables of fertility clinics atwww.hfea.gov.uk. It may be sober, but it is sound, which is more than you can be certain of with the US clinics that offer to sell online eggs and sperm.There are already websites offering consultations with doctors - even NHS Direct expects to incorporate a nurse to answer questions within five years. Most such sites are the email equivalent of "A Doctor Writes" in the newspapers and magazines, where you can get an answer to some problem too embarrassing to broach with the GP.Or you can find out what bothers other people. "Can marijuana affect fertility?" and "Colds: will washing my hands prevent them?" are a couple of concerns answered by Dr Dean Edell athealth.yahoo.com.  Also try Dr Ann atwww.icircle.co.uk.Yahoo's health site offers a personal health test -   a questionnaire to fill in for an assessment of your fitness, with all the usual caveats and disclaimers.Women can get something similar atwww.allhealth.com/virtualcheckup.If you want a real personal consultation complete with diagnosis and prescription, for the moment you must go to America. CyberDocs (www.cyberdocs.com) offers US-trained physicians to diagnose your ills at any time and almost any place around the world - at a price, of course.For $50 to $75, you can talk to the doctor via a keyboard or videoconferencing.The site is intended for minor medical problems, but it is still highly controversial for doctors to issue a prescription without ever having seen the patient.And finally, there's cybersurgery - the new spectator sport. If blood and guts really turn you on, have a look atwww.adoctorinyourhouse.com.Or you could even catch the world's first online sex-change operation - for a viewing charge of $9.95 - atwww.amazingsurgeries.com. But be quick - this offer ends tomorrow.
