Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Welcome to Finland! Photo bytimo_w2son Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNokia's New CEO: Challenges &gt;&gt; Monday Note"For Nokia to win, Elop must change the hearts and minds of 123,000 people, make unpopular decisions and make them quickly: The smartphone business is moving much faster than when Nokia was king. Is Elop up to the task?"Gartner Predicts Mobile OS Market Share &gt;&gt; AsymcoAh, Asymo has found it: it looks back to see what Gartner was saying in 2006 about the smartphone market (given its forecasts for the next four years). Turns out Gartner didn't really think there was such a thing as a smartphone then.Rumor: BioWare Working On Unannounced Handheld Game &gt;&gt; 1upWindows Phone 7 RTM Parade &gt;&gt; FlickrWindows Phone 7 has been released to manufacture. So the Microsoft staff had a parade. In which they had a hearse - because they're burying the iPhone. Geddit? Umm.. OK.The Death Of The RSS Reader &gt;&gt; paidContentIt's not dead, but it's certainly looking peaky. Visits to Google Reader are down 27% year-on-year, says Hitwise, and visits to Bloglines have fallen by 71% in that period. Which leads us to...IAC To Shut Down Bloglines &gt;&gt; paidContentIt's dead, Jim. The reason: according to IAC (Barry Diller's company, which bought it in 2005), being that RSS is now just plumbing - it's not something special or, in particular, social.Google, I want a divorce &gt;&gt; net.warsWendy Grossman isn't delighted: "There are a lot of things Google could do that would save me - and millions of other people - more time than Instant. The company could get expunge more of the link farms and useless aggregator shopping sites from its results. Intelligence could be better deployed for disaggregation - this Wendy Grossman or that one? I'd benefit from having the fade-in go away; it always costs me a few seconds."There are some other small nuisances that also waste my time. On the News and some other pages, for example, you can't right-click on a URL and copy/paste it into a story because a few years ago doing that started returning an enormously long Google-adulterated URL. Simply highlighting and copying the URL into Word puts it in weird fonts you have to change."Microsoft Vine – AboutFirst Vox, now this. Remember how Vine was going to be Microsoft's Twitter? "Microsoft will discontinue the Microsoft Vine beta testing program as of October 11, 2010. The Microsoft Vine Team thanks you for your valuable feedback on this product."Surplus note: all of the links - About, Resources, Support, Press Info - provide the same page. It's dead, Jim.From 2007: Battle of the Buttons: will the iPhone succeed? &gt;&gt; Michael RobertsonFrom the man who gave you MP3.com: in June 2007, just as the first iPhone was being released: "The current phone I carry is the Nokia e61i which compares very favorably with the iPhone. It's shipping now and comes with 51 distinct physical buttons - the opposite design of the iPhone. Nokia is the #1 mobile phone manufacturer in the world and has sold more than twice as many phones in the most recent quarter as the 2nd largest company, Motorola. If buttons had no value why would Nokia use them?" Why indeed.Nokia Makes The Same Mistake Again: Hires A Manager, Not A Product Visionary &gt;&gt; Business Insider"Let's trace through his career: Nothing exciting the last couple years as the Office boss at Microsoft, nothing that consumers would ever care about as COO of Juniper Networks, and then sales functions at Adobe and Macromedia. Sounds like another suit, and not the dreamer that Nokia needs to beat Apple and Google."Firefox Heatmap &gt;&gt; Mozilla.comFind out where people click on the browser. One button in particular is surprisingly popular... can you guess which?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
For fanatical Xbox 360 gamers, the release of Halo: Reach positively hums with significance. As the first of this year's blockbusting games to break cover, it symbolically kicks off the Christmas games rush. But it also marks the end of the Halo franchise as we know it – developer Bungie has signed a deal with Activision, and will make non-Halo branded games in the future (Microsoft is bound to hand future Haloes to another developer, but that could easily prove to be a poisoned chalice).Bungie is bowing out of the first-person shoot-em-up franchise it created with an air not of regret or ruefulness but sheer triumph. Halo: Reach is easily the best Halo game ever – which means it is also one of the best games ever, full stop. In terms of look and feel, it is comfortingly familiar but despite that, stops have been pulled out: for example, Bungie created an entire new game engine for Reach and, while that familiar, slightly washed-out colour palette and distinctive art direction remain intact, everything looks sharper and crisper, and feels even slicker than ever.Story-wise, Halo: Reach makes its predecessors feel almost amateurish. It's a prequel to the first Halo, so Master Chief hasn't yet come into play. Instead, you play Noble Six, the last (and nameless) Spartan to join the elite Noble Team. Dispatched on a seemingly innocent mission on Reach, the last bastion of the UNSC's defences before Earth, Noble Team uncovers a Covenant invasion. Cue a titanic struggle for the planet which we know is ultimately doomed, but that doesn't make it any less epic.Those who availed themselves of the multiplayer beta will be conversant with Halo: Reach's main gameplay innovation – armour upgrades, which give you short-lived abilities such as a jetpack, active camouflage and a holographic facsimile of yourself. These also feature heavily in the single-player game, introduced more or less individually, and turn out to be a clever means of rendering Halo's single-player gameplay much more diverse than it has been in the past. There are stealth episodes, and others where you have to cross big gaps using your jetpack.Bungie's engine upgrade also extended to the artificial intelligence, bringing about some monstrously frenetic set-pieces in which you really have to develop a tactical plan (and, as ever, it's vital to work out where to find the required weaponry). Sometimes, taking cover and timing are paramount; other times, you'll have to find a nice sniping spot, or you might have to take down turrets before they cause havoc. And the presence in certain levels of civilians fleeing the Covenant attacks (all of whom are very pleased to see a rare Spartan) ratchets up the emotional intensity.There's a lengthy portion set in space just beyond Reach's atmosphere, which includes some very serviceable space-shooting, plus some fearsomely intense shooting on foot in a Covenant spaceship, and another episode in which you pilot a Falcon around the skyscraper-tops of a city under attack. The big battle scenes – always one of Halo's strong points – are more impressive than ever to behold, and as some of your Noble Team-mates sacrifice themselves for the cause, Halo: Reach starts to pack an emotional punch unheard-of in its predecessors.Online, Halo: Reach is of course immaculate. The armour upgrades add an extra dimension without compromising the headily addictive nature of the otherwise familiar gameplay. The flexibility, in terms of game modes, is almost bewildering, and the Firefight mode, which supports up to four people playing co-operatively, particularly stands out. Similar to Gears of War's Horde, it gives you extraordinary fine control over waves of incoming Covenant attackers which must be survived, even letting you define the type of enemy per wave and your weapons load-out.Halo: Reach, simply, is Bungie's masterwork, and if you own an Xbox 360, you'd be an idiot not to buy a copy – even if you're not a fan of first-person shooters, it will still make you marvel at just how good a game can look and feel. And it throws down a massive gauntlet as part of what will be an intriguing sub-text this Christmas: will it be the game everyone is playing on Xbox Live, or will Call of Duty: Black Ops have the quality to usurp it online?
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?It would have to be my computer, really – if I'm allowed to say that. Does that count as technology? Obviously, in terms of writing, word processing is a pretty huge advancement on pen and paper. And in terms of research, the internet is rather too large a resource, but it's there. And we have email and so forth, and you can play games on it. So all those things have improved my life and ruined it at the same time.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it this morning to write an article on my five favourite horror villains.What additional features would you add if you could?Well, I would like to get rid of the tyranny of the qwerty keyboard. If you could get a keyboard that you could custom design yourself, it would be a lot easier to use. The qwerty keyboard was originally designed to slow typists down, and we've been stuck with the bloody thing ever since.What always frustrates you about technology in general?That I just don't have the time to work out how to use it properly.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I've been through quite a few crappy digital phone systems in the house – they mostly don't work. I've been through a lot of crappy printers, too, where it's been cheaper to throw the printer away and buy a new one. Actually, most technology's rubbish, isn't it?If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Find somebody who knows how to use it, or has been using it a lot, and spend a few days with them. Luckily, I have a very good guy who comes around and sorts out my computers for me.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I wish I was a nerd, really. I do like technology, I do like games – I do spend far too much time on my computer – but I wish I was more of a nerd who read all the manuals and worked out how to do things.Mac or PC, and why?Mac. I've always been a Mac fan, just because it's so much easier to use. Microsoft PCs spend all their time trying to catch up with Apple. Mac is much more seductive. The only down side is the gaming.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do, because at places like HMV you can buy DVDs and CDs so cheaply now. I do like physically having the things. I recently bought a whole pile of stuff – such as the originalPlanet of the Apes. The problem I find with downloading is that I really don't want to watch TV and films on my computer.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I do spend a lot of time shouting at technology, like the satnav, and I couldn't imagine having a robot butler because you'd spend too much time shouting at it. You'd probably end up kicking the thing to death.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A wazoolie – I don't know what it is, but they're brilliant, apparently. It's new, it's shiny and everybody will want one.•The Dead by Charlie Higson, the second in his zombie series for teenagers, is published by Puffin on 16 September
In many respects, Suite H33 in Kirkland House, Harvard University, was just like any other student dormitory shared by four 19-year-olds. There were two bedrooms, each containing a bunk bed and a desk, interlinked by a hallway and a common room filled with the detritus of undergraduate life: half-empty cans of Red Bull, dirty laundry scattering the floor and crumpled brown paper bags containing the curling crusts of unfinished sandwiches. Occasionally, one of the roommates' girlfriends would get so fed up with the mess she would throw out al  l the rubbish, but the bouts of cleanliness never lasted. Despite her efforts, there always seemed to be the pungent smell of male adolescence hanging  in the air, that indefinable mixture of overactive hormones and unwashed clothes.But in other ways, Suite H33 was different. First of all, there were the sleeping arrangements: the four roommates had dismantled the bunk beds in each of the two bedrooms and placed them side by side so that no one would have to sleep on top. Then there was the 8ft long whiteboard, hung in the hallway, covered in a tangle of formulae and symbols, painstakingly written out in multicoloured marker pen. And then, of course, there was Mark Zuckerberg, the unassuming 19-year-old sophomore from Dobbs Ferry, New York, who would revolutionise the internet and become a billionaire. Because it was here, on 4 February 2004, that Zuckerberg launched a website that would change the world. It was here, in front of the flickering pale light of his computer screen, that Zuckerberg clicked his mouse and invented Facebook.The idea was devastatingly simple: Zuckerberg's website would provide a communications tool for keeping track of your friends and informing them of what you were up to. Whereas previous social networking sites such as MySpace and Friendster were difficult to use and enabled interaction predominantly with strangers, Facebook was about connecting with your real friends online. It could act as an electronic social diary and as a means of self-expression, but perhaps the most potent attraction for the four male college students in Suite H33 was that it could also be a way of flirting with your undergraduate crush from behind the relative safety of a computer screen.In the complex Harvard hierarchy of sports jocks, cheerleaders, frat boys and intelligent geeks, Facebook levelled the playing field of social interaction: it was, in essence, driven by the same egalitarian spirit with which Zuckerberg and his roommates had reorganised the bunk beds.Although it was intended solely for Harvard, the site expanded more rapidly than either Zuckerberg or his roommates could have imagined. Facebook is still only six years old but today it has more than 500 million users and an estimated value of $33bn. Zuckerberg owns 24% of the stock and is a billionaire three times over at the age of 26. Along the way, he has faced accusations of betrayal and plagiarism from former friends and colleagues. He has been portrayed as a megalomaniac, a genius, a soothsayer and a sociopath. But to many he remains simply the  computer nerd who set up Facebook as a way to get a date.Now his story has been adapted for the big screen byWest Wingscreenwriter Aaron Sorkin and the director David Fincher, whose credits includeSe7enandThe Curious Case of Benjamin Button. TitledThe Social Network, itis based on a book,The Accidental Billionaires, by Ben Mezrich, for whom "this is the ultimate geek-becomes-success story. Mark Zuckerberg was the smartest guy in the room but he wasn't the coolest. At college, everything revolves around that [being cool]. That's why people become writers, that's why people become rock stars and that's why people start Facebook."The release is being rigorously controlled before it opens the New York film festival later this month, but one critic on the selection committee has called it "big, brash and brilliant" and compared it toAll The President's Men, whileRolling Stonemagazine critic Peter Travers has hailed it in a tweet as "the movie of the year that also brilliantly defines the decade".The buzz that it will be a serious Oscar contender started in the summer when the Sorkin script found its way on to the internet, causing a storm of protest from senior Facebook executives who are said to be extremely unhappy about the way Zuckerberg is portrayed as a power-hungry manipulator. The ensuing row has been pitched as a titanic battle between old media and new ; between Hollywood and San Francisco (where Facebook is based).The film tells the story of Eduardo Saverin (played by British actor Andrew Garfield), a Harvard maths prodigy who contributed $1,000 of his own money to start up Facebook with Zuckerberg after meeting him at a party thrown by a Jewish fraternity to which they both belonged. It depicts how, as Facebook grew in popularity, Saverin felt he was cut out of the business by his former best friend and also deals with allegations of "intellectual theft".  The Winklevoss twins, Cameron and Tyler, who filed suit against Facebook in 2004 and emerged with a rumoured $65m settlement, are played by non-identical actors Armie Hammer and Josh Pence. Sean Parker, the party-going web entrepreneur who co-founded the Napster file-sharing site and became Facebook president at the age of 24, is portrayed by the pop star Justin Timberlake; he utters one of the most memorable lines in the script: "A million dollars isn't cool. You know what's cool? A billion dollars."Zuckerberg, who is played on screen by 26-year-old actor Jesse Eisenberg, is unlikely to be thrilled by the portrayal. Mezrich's book and Sorkin's script were based heavily on Saverin's story and Zuckerberg emerges from both as a fairly unsympathetic character: a highly intelligent, socially awkward young man driven by the ultimate goal of making the world more connected – ironically at the cost of his own friendships.According to Sorkin, who emphasises that the characterisation is exaggerated: "If you gave the character a clubbed foot and a hunchback you would find him very similar to Richard III."Certainly, Saverin felt he had been unfairly treated by his former friend. "He was in the midst of a legal battle with Mark when he came to me," says Mezrich. "He was feeling very angry. Of course, once Mark heard about the book, he settled and I heard Eduardo got $1bn. I don't think he'll ever speak publicly about what happened again."Perhaps he does not need to: Saverin now owns 5% of Facebook's stock and in 2007 was finally given a credit on the website as co-founder. Zuckerberg, however, refused to co-operate either with Mezrich or the film-makers. "I started Facebook to impr ove the world and make it a more transparent place," he told a media conference in America last month. "This movie portrays me as someone who built Facebook so I could meet girls."Mezrich has a different take. "I think Mark Zuckerberg wants to run the world," he says. "And these are the stories he never wanted told."How did Mark Zuckerberg, the son of a dentist father and a psychologist mother, from a comfortably middle-class background, become one of the most powerful men in the world? He was always extremely bright and interested in technology, given to obsessive enthusiasms – the theme of his bar mitzvah wasStar Wars– and curious habits, such as his penchant for wearing rubber-soled Adidas flip-flops even in the depths of winter.As a teenager, he attended an elite, independent boarding school in New Hampshire, where he won prizes in maths, astronomy, physics and classical languages as well as being captain of the fencing team. In his spare time, he spent hours on his computer developing a music recommendation system called Synapse that both Microsoft and AOL tried to purchase. Zuckerberg, already showing signs of the single-minded focus that was to become his trademark, flatly turned them down in order to concentrate on his studies at Harvard.His university contemporaries remember Zuckerberg – if they can recall him at all – as an introverted, pale student with curly brown hair and a wide-eyed, freckled face that gave him the air of an overgrown child. Almost everyone comments on his strange conversational manner: while talking, his face would appear utterly devoid of emotion and he would stay absolutely silent until his interlocutor had finished speaking. Only then would he respond, often curtly and with a single, unenthusiastic "Yeah" if the subject did not interest him.And yet, for all that he might have seemed a little gauche, Zuckerberg possessed supreme confidence in his own abilities. "He has a supple and flexible way of thinking," says David Kirkpatrick, the author ofThe Facebook Effect, who has met and interviewed Zuckerberg several times. "He has shown a tremendous open-mindedness and ambition and I think he has always sought occasions to increase the scope of his vision but only when he thought it would make sense. He is not a delusionary visionary and that's what makes him kind of amazing. It's a characteristic that belies his young age."Within a few months of arriving at Harvard, Zuckerberg had created a website called Facemash.com that enabled students to rate each other's attractiveness. It proved an instant hit – in under two hours, the site logged 22,000 votes – but was taken down after an outcry over privacy violations. At the time, a reporter from the university newspaper tried to contact Zuckerberg for a comment. "He was so highly strung and responded to my email by saying that I would need to speak with his lawyer first," that reporter recalls. "He was, like, 19!"But Zuckerberg's plans for world domination left little time for responding to interview requests. After the popularity of Facemash, Zuckerberg was convinced there was an appetite for an online student community with an irreverent twist. The idea for Facebook germinated rapidly over the next few months. It would essentially be an online version of the "facebooks" given by American universities to new students each year which contained photographs and brief information on their contemporaries. But it would also incorporate functions like  the ability to "poke" your friends – giving them a virtual nudge in the ribs.Supported by two of his roommates – Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes – and with $1,000 start-up money from Eduardo Saverin, Zuckerberg launched Thefacebook.com in February 2004. Five days after it went live, the site had racked up almost 1,000 registered users.According to Moskovitz, who later became vice-president of the company, Zuckerberg "fell into the right situations a lot, and had extremely good timing. And when he saw a good idea he wanted to pursue it, whereas another person might have felt he needed to finish school first."Zuckerberg did drop out. In June 2004, he moved his operations and his roommates to a four-bedroom ranch house in Palo Alto, at the heart of Silicon Valley in California. Saverin, who had an internship at a New York investment bank over the summer break did not follow, although he did deposit $10,000 of his own money in a Facebook business account and started trying to drum up possible advertisers.The living arrangements in Palo Alto were basically an extension of Suite H33: Zuckerberg and his friends rigged up a zip wire in the back garden that ran from the base of the chimney to a telegraph pole on the other side of the swimming pool. The house was filled with whiteboards, computer equipment and empty pizza boxes. They had raucous parties, complete with beer-drinking competitions, but they also worked hard: Zuckerberg assembled a small team of engineers and programmers who would type through the night, ironing out kinks in Facebook and developing new applications. "There was this weirdly frenzied atmosphere when they were at their laptops," remembers one early visitor. "Even though they were all in the same room, they would communicate by instant messaging. Mark didn't like to have his concentration broken."As a result of this furious work rate, Facebook kept expanding. Later that month, it received a $500,000 investment from the PayPal entrepreneur Peter Thiel. Then the twentysomething Sean Parker became the company's president. Despite his relative youth, Parker was a well-connected operator with a penchant for Tom Ford suits, BMW cars and wild parties. In fact, one of the most controversial scenes in the script forThe Social Networkdepicts Parker being offered lines of cocaine from the bare breasts of a pair of teenage partygoers. Whatever the truth of that particular episode, Parker was forced to leave Facebook after being charged with – but never convicted of – cocaine possession."A lot of exciting things happened in 2004," the ex-roommate Dustin Moskovitz said recently. "But mostly we worked a lot and stressed out about things; the version in the trailer [of the film] seems a lot more exciting, so I'm just going to choose to remember that we drank ourselves silly and had a lot of sex with co-eds."In any case, the work started to pay off: by September 2005, Facebook (the definite article had been dropped on the advice of Parker, who liked to keep things streamlined) was launching in high schools. Zuckerberg, by now quickly becoming one of the most influential entrepreneurs of the decade, still retained a distinctly undergraduate sense of humour and had a set of business cards printed with the words "I'm CEO...Bitch!"The offensive language did nothing to stall the site's exponential growth. In 2006, Zuckerberg turned down a $1bn offer to sell to the internet giant Yahoo, because he believed it was worth more. A year later, Microsoft purchased a 1.6% stake in the company for $240m. By 2008, Facebook overtook MySpace as the world's biggest social network. In 2009, the site was operating in 27 different countries. And in May 2010, Zuckerberg celebrated his 26th birthday."I think he is arguably the most influential person of his generation," says Kirkpatrick. "That is not hyperbole. Speaking in literal terms, that is how I see it: he is the most impactful 26-year-old in human history. It is difficult to think of anyone else the same age who has had remotely the same global impact."But with success came the inevitable litany of problems. In New York, Saverin was beginning to feel sidelined. He also suspected, according to Mezrich, that his money was being spent rather more on beer kegs and zip wires than on legitimate business expenses. In a fit of pique, Saverin froze the company bank account. Zuckerberg, forced to keep the site going with money intended for his college tuition, never forgave his friend. Gradually, Saverin was pushed out and his contributions as "business manager" were written out of the company history. "He definitely didn't take it [Facebook] as seriously as he should have," says Mezrich. "He's a nice guy and he was naive. He recognised Mark as a genius and I think he idolised him a little bit. He really felt that Mark Zuckerberg was his best friend, but I don't know if Mark Zuckerberg ever felt that about Eduardo Saverin."According to David Kirkpatrick, Saverin "made the fatal error of not believing in Facebook". Unlike Zuckerberg, he was not willing to drop out of college to pursue the dream. Unlike Moskovitz, he did not prove his dedication by moving to Palo Alto to work through his summer holidays. And unlike Sean Parker, Saverin had limited experience in either computer programming or internet start-ups. "He was punished appropriately by his partners for not believing as much as they did," Kirkpatrick concludes.But it was not just Saverin who had been left enraged by Facebook's success. Several of Zuckerberg's Harvard contemporaries started creeping out of the woodwork to accuse him of stealing their ideas, including the Winklevoss brothers. Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss are 6ft 5in identical twins – good-looking, academically gifted, with a family background steeped in wealth and privilege. They are also muscle-bound Olympic athletes – the two of them competed in the Beijing 2008 men's pair rowing event and formed part of this year's Oxford boat race team.At Harvard, they moved in elite social circles and would probably never have crossed paths with Mark Zuckerberg, two years their junior, were it not for their desire to set up their own online social network. The twins' project, Harvard Connection, was intended to be a dating website that offered discounted entry to local night spots. Having read about the Facemash.com controversy in the university paper, the Winklevoss brothers and their classmate Divya Narendra contacted Zuckerberg in late 2003 and asked him to work on writing some of the more complex code. Zuckerberg agreed but remained unconvinced by the site's efficacy. At the same time, he claims to have been working on his own separate ideas for Facebook."I'm sure that Mark Zuckerberg advanced his own thinking about what kind of things would work as a result of working on Harvard Connection," says Kirkpatrick. "Does that mean he was stealing their ideas? I have no evidence of that. I think he was probably rude to them, he probably lied to them because he didn't want them to compete with him, but that was partly their mistake for hiring him without a contract."In 2004, the Winklevosses and Narendra filed a lawsuit against Facebook alleging that Zuckerberg had broken an oral contract with them and copied their idea. A multimillion-dollar settlement was reached four years later, though the trio are now accusing Facebook of securities fraud, alleging that the value of stock they received is worth considerably less than they were originally led to believe. The terms of the agreement are subject to a strict confidentiality agreement. When I track down Narendra, now a law student who also runs an online investment community site called SumZero, all he will say is that the experience with Zuckerberg "made me more sensitive to intellectual property issues and is partly what inspired me to pursue a law degree, [but] I'm not bitter about the situation with Mark". Despite his rumoured status as a millionaire, Narendra is clearly not taking his fortune for granted: he says he cannot afford to take my call on his mobile phone and instead answers all questions by email. InThe Social Network, Narendra is played by Max Minghella,  son of the late director Anthony Minghella. "I am a bit anxious [about the movie], but will most likely go see it," says Narendra. "It's a bit strange to be portrayed in a Hollywood film with my whole career ahead of me."But among those who do not merit a mention in the film is Aaron Greenspan, another of Zuckerberg's university contemporaries, who claims he came up with the idea for Facebook as part of the houseSYSTEM web portal he created while at Harvard. The pair exchanged several emails and met over dinner in January 2004. "He struck me as very laid-back, kind of coy and not particularly trustworthy," says Greenspan when I speak to him. "He seemed a little manipulative." Greenspan alleges that, after discussing the idea for Facebook over dinner, Zuckerberg then went behind his back to seek investment. "He is someone willing to sacrifice, not just his relationship with me but with other people too, for money," says Greenspan. "The supreme irony here is that my experiences have informed my view on friendship. Mark is someone I once considered my friend for a brief time. He's defining what friendship is for millions of people and yet he doesn't know what one is."Or, as the tagline toThe Social Networkso succinctly puts it: "You don't get to 500 million friends without making a few enemies." The director, David Fincher, has expanded on this theme: "It's ironic that we're making a movie about how people separated themselves from one another over technology that is here to give us the advantages of recombining old relationships."Fincher also admitted he could relate to Zuckerberg's "passion... It's a fucking hard thing to be [in his position]. I can imagine being 21 and having invented something everybody wants and not wanting to give it up and let it be changed."It is ironic, however, that the founder of an organisation which prides itself on a culture of openness and "radical transparency" (the idea that all corporate decision making should be carried out publicly) is so profoundly concerned with image control that he has refused to co-operate with the film-makers. "Mark came out with a comment a few months ago, kind of minimising the idea of privacy," Aaron Sorkin said recently. "I just remember reading it and think 'I don't think you're going to feel that way when the movie comes out.'"Scott Rudin, one of the producers ofThe  Social Network, tried for months to ease relations with Facebook by allowing colleagues of Zuckerberg to read the script and agreeing to several small changes. When the company demanded bigger changes, the producers declined. Zuckerberg has been dismissive of the film ("I just wished that nobody made a movie of me while I was still alive," he said earlier this year) and senior Facebook executives have refused to elaborate further. Although I try for several days to speak to someone from the company for this article, I am eventually told this will not be possible and am instead provided with the following statement: "The movie might be a sign that Facebook has become meaningful to people – even if the movie is fiction. What the movie may or may not contain is not what we're focused on. What matters more is building a useful, innovative service that people enjoy using to connect and share."Will Zuckerberg care about how the movie portrays him? "It bothers him," says Kirkpatrick. "But it bothers his colleagues and his family more. He's not the kind of guy who dwells on stuff like that. He's extraordinarily focused...  He finds it an annoying distraction and feels it's unfair but Mark did not read the Ben Mezrich book and he almost certainly will not be seeing the movie."It is possible that Zuckerberg has bigger battles to fight – there are repeated criticisms that Facebook is posing a dangerous challenge to privacy rights and that it is becoming, in the words of one technology writer, "an 800lb cultural gorilla" capable of trampling all competition. Is there any limit to its size? "I think it's conceivable that Facebook could extend over time to something approximating everyone on the internet," says Kirkpatrick.That is an extraordinary achievement for a young man who has yet to reach his 30th birthday. The computer geek in Adidas flip-flops now has at his fingertips a social network of millions that spans the globe. Of course, they are online friends rather than real ones, but perhaps Zuckerberg does not mind: after all, virtual friends have less of a tendency to sue.The Social Network is released on 15 October
Despite the fact thatTom Clancy's EndWar, Ubisoft's voice-activated, military strategy game fell short of its ambitions, the publisher has bravely returned withR.U.S.E, another attempt to reinvigorate the genre. Set during the second world war, it follows the rock-paper-scissors format whereby armoured vehicles outgun infantry but are vulnerable to anti-tank weapons etc. Success relies upon engaging with weaker enemy units. That is until you or your enemies deploy one of 10 available "ruses", revealing false information about your position, hiding your true location, placing decoy units or even influencing enemy morale. Using the right one at the right time is crucial. It's a clever and effective conceit. Accessible and entertaining,R.U.S.Eis a console-based, real-time strategy game that really works. Ubi has definitely succeeded this time.
Singing along with a bequiffed CGI Travolta? Total horrowshow or are the chills, well, multiplying? If it's the latter,Grease: The Video Gameis clearly the word. Featuring film clips and 16 songs from the movie, the single player mode has a pleasing variety of tasks with driving, dancing and auto repair on offer – but delicate wrists beware: vigorous Wii-mote flicks are required to really strut your stuff. You can only sing along in multiplayer, which allows eight players to join in: bellowing out tunes, doing the hand jive or tinkering with Greased Lightning. "Summer Lovin'" and a drab mid-September go together like rama lama lama ke ding a de ding a dong.
If I've learned one thing from watching the internet over two decades, it's this: prediction is futile. The reason is laughably simple: the network's architecture and lack of central control effectively make it aglobal surprise-generation machine. And since its inception, it has enabled disruptive innovation at a blistering pace.This doesn't stop people making predictions, though. In fact, ever since the web went mainstream in 1993 there has been a constant stream of what computer scientist John Seely Brown calls "endism" – assertions that some new technology presages the termination of some revered practice, not to mention the end of civilisation as we know it. The prediction that online news means the death of newspapers, for example, is almost as old as the web. More recent examples includeWired's announcement of the imminent death of the web at the hands of iPhone apps andNicholas Carr's assertion that ubiquitous networking heralds the end of contemplative reading.The problem with endism is that it's intrinsically simplistic. Of course, new technologies threaten some older things; the CD-Rom more or less wiped out the printed reference book and Wikipedia, in turn, has vapourised the market for disc-based encyclopedias. But the demand for reference information hasn't disappeared. On the contrary: according toAlexa.com, Wikipedia is currently the seventh most popular website in the world. Far more people now look things up than ever did in the heyday ofEncyclopedia Britannica. Our appetite for reference information has grown with the online supply.This confusion of format with function also applies to the debate about the future of journalism. The newspaper industry, led by Rupert Murdoch, likes to portray the web as a mortal threat to journalism.The implicit assumption behind this charge is that the only way for journalism to thrive is by squirting its inked output on to processed wood pulp. That was true once, but it isn't now. Print is just one way of publishing the fruits of journalists' labours; the web is another; iPhone apps are a third. And there may be more to come as the internet continues to work its disruptive magic. So any intelligent discussion about the future needs to make the distinction between a particular format (print) and the function (journalism) that society needs to nurture. And it's the function that really matters.Sceptics about the future of online journalism have traditionally fallen back on two main arguments. The first is that online revenues are insufficient to support serious journalism. The second is a derivation of Nicholas Carr's thesis – that habitual use of the internet discourages serious reading, so there's little point in publishinglong-form journalism online. This has led magazine publishers like Condé Nast and theEconomist, which specialise in serious or longer-form journalism, to conclude that their digital future lies in iPad apps, which supposedly offer a more "immersive" reading experience.Well, perhaps they do. But it would be a mistake to write off the web as a medium for serious, long-form journalism. There's a vast quantity of high-quality narrative journalism on it. TheGuardian'sBobbie Johnsonrecently came up with an ingenious way of alerting people to this resource. He set up a Twitter account @IfYouOnly with the motto "If you only read one thing today, make it this". His aim: to highlight and link to a single piece of gripping, powerful and memorable writing each weekday."Ah, yes," say the sceptics, "but where's the business model to support such expensive writing?" And here's an interesting development. The online magazineSlatedecided to allocate resources to encourage some journalists to produce long, long pieces – for exampleTim Noah's analysisof why there hasn't been another 9/11-type attack. These pieces have attracted astonishing levels of reader attention, with page views in the 3-4 million range. And the editor of theNew York Timesmagazine has made the same discovery. "Contrary to conventional wisdom," he says, "it's our longest pieces that attract the most online traffic."Finally, there's the objection that people don't like reading long pieces on screen. Well, technology has an answer to that, too.There's afree service called Instapaper. It puts a "read later" button on your browser toolbar. Next time you come on a long-form piece that looks interesting, hit the button – and then read it later on your computer, phone, iPad or Kindle.Who said the web was dead?
Sony's new motion controller, the PlayStation Move, may ostensibly be seen as jumping on Nintendo's bandwagon, though it is anything but. This late entry into the field is no mere imitator – it was in development well before the Nintendo Wii was launched. The unusual design  – one imagines "futuristic sex toy" wasn't quite the look Sony was trying to pull off – doesn't give the greatest of first impressions, though it's more comfortable than a Wii remote to hold.The glowing orb on the end of the controller  allows the PlayStation "Eye" camera to track its movement more accurately, meaning that its position in 3D space and its orientation can be read; in that regard, it comfortably trumps its Nintendo rival. And while the early software leaves a little to be desired, it is instantly clear that this is a piece of hardware to be reckoned with.It's more precise and responsive than a Wii remote, even with the Wii Motionplus attachment factored into the equation, and gestures are more easily read. Though it is not until you start playing a game such asSports Champions(Sony, cert 12) that the differences become more pronounced. Table tennis, in particular, offers an extraordinary level of fine control, requiring true-to-life movements for success, particularly on the higher levels. It's a revelatory moment when you catch yourself stretching forwards to reach a shot close to the net.Bocce, a member of the boules family, sees deft flicks of the wrist translated perfectly into top-, side- or backspin. Archery and disc golf feel little different from their Wii equivalents, though reaching into an imaginary quiver to pull out arrows in the former is curiously satisfying. Volleyball and "gladiator duel" are less impressive, both being more reliant on gesture than nuance, while it's clear Sony still has some lessons to learn from Nintendo: the charmless and cliched characters and sterile presentation make it less instantly appealing, even if the depth will keep players coming back for more.Start the Party(Sony, cert 3), meanwhile, is a throwback to the PlayStation 2's EyeToy camera, though the augmented reality technology further demonstrates the capabilities of the hardware. A series of minigames turns the Move controller into a paintbrush, a fan, a torch and a giant fly swatter and again the player's movements are perfectly replicated onscreen. While the controls are hard to fault, it's disappointing that two players can't compete simultaneously. Perhaps Sony thought the hardware was costly enough, without forcing people to splash out on an additional controller for arguably the most family-friendly title of Move's launch line-up. The game's presentation is also a little too self-consciously wacky, with a commentator's repetitive and irritating interjections likely to be turned off at the earliest opportunity.Sony's Japan Studio has contributedKung Fu Rider(Sony, cert 16), which sees a flustered salaryman attempting to escape a group of yakuza by sliding down busy Tokyo streets on an office chair. Its concept is undoubtedly more interesting than its execution, which conspires to make the Move controller feel sluggish and inaccurate.There's some initial amusement to be had with such an unusual idea, mainly thanks to the slapstick appeal of the protagonist getting unexpectedly clobbered or thrown violently from his ride. But as the levels get busier, control shortcomings become ever more frustrating.The Shootturns the Move wand into a light-gun, challenging the player to blast enemies and targets across several themed shooting galleries, while previously released titles such asEyePetandHeavy Rainare set to arrive in new Move-compatible varieties, with downloadable updates for existing owners. Surprisingly, a digitally distributed title is probably the highlight of the early line-up. Modest block-stacking puzzlerTumbleis the perfect showcase for the Move's remarkable abilities, allowing players to position and manipulate objects in 3D space with remarkable precision.The Move hardware is much tougher to fault. Calibrating the device is quick and simple, with the only foreseeable problem being a lack of living room space –Sports Championsrequires a distance of 8ft between the player and the TV. While few other titles will be as spatially demanding, it might be time to consider repositioning that coffee table.It's early days yet, but Sony's versatile device is a thrilling glimpse into the future of motion gaming. Whether it will attract an audience that is large enough, or the publisher support for its potential to be fully realised, remains to be seen, but with around 30 Move-compatible games planned for release between now and Christmas, early signs are promising. While Microsoft has already earmarked millions of marketing dollars for its ownKinectmotion-sensing technology, Sony is relying more on word of mouth for Move to take off and, on this evidence, it should have every success.
Is this a fly in the Android tablet ointment? Hugo Barra, director of product for mobile at Google isquoted by TechRadarsuggesting that forthcoming versions of Android will be better optimised for tablets - but that tablets running on Android 2.2 ("Froyo") won't be able to download apps from the Android Marketplace which aren't optimised for them.Here's what he says in the piece:"Android is an open platform. We saw at IFA 2010 all sorts of devices running Android, so it already running on tablets," said Hugo Barra, director of products for mobile at Google. "But the way Android Market works is it's not going to be available on devices that don't allow applications to run correctly. Which devices do, and which don't will be unit-specific, but Froyo is not optimised for use on tablets."He added: "If you want Android Market on that platform, the apps just wouldn't run, [Froyo] is just not designed for that form factor."Hmm, that's a bit strange: does this mean that new owners of the Samsung Galaxy Tab, for example, will have to hope that their mobile carrier will help them along to an OS update - likely "Gingerbread" (aka Android 3.0) and "Honeycomb" (aka Android 3.x) - before they get any useful apps on the Marketplace? It's also not a great reflection on Android or the tablet makers if they're selling products which aren't going to run. Because there have been plenty of people who have complained about their experiences when carriers have been, at best, slow to offer an update to their version of Android. (And please, don't say "root it!" or "jailbreak!" Those are minority sports to rival the biathlon.)Possibly this is overblown, and the Galaxy Tab is going to blow everyone away when it lands on their tables. We've been waiting all evening for Tim Bray (formerly of Sun, now of Google doing Android stuff) to tell us about his experiences with his new Galaxy Tab. Alas, his last tweet as we writereads"Just got my Galaxy Tab. Alas no box, thus no unboxing. But stand by for reportage. Currently: Can't figure out how to fit the SIM in..."We're waiting to hear more. If we do...
Tom Clancy's HAWX 2, PC, PS3, Wii &amp; Xbox 360There's an unwritten international law to which console flight simulators adhere: the training mission must eventually be interrupted by a genuine surprise attack, forcing your apprentice flyboy to arm his sidewinders for real. HAWX 2 happily complies, as it does with most other tropes of armchair aviation. Its points of difference include a simplified instrument display, realistic-ish pilot voice chatter and a peppering of takeoffs, landings and the odd mid-air refuelling. You're also asked to do hi-tech spying using the swaying camera of a drone, and fire from circling gunships in a way that never quite lives up to the thrills of Call Of Duty 4 from which it was borrowed. None of these unavoidable diversions is as much fun as just flying your plane, however, lending the whole thing an inescapably tepid feel. HAWX 2 is an inoffensive but essentially mediocre piece of software.Ubisoft, £39.99-£49.99Monday Night Combat, Xbox 360Monday Night Combat.Like vintage arcade game Smash TV, Monday Night Combat styles itself around an ammunition-laden, futuristic American gameshow, complete with excitable compere and big cash prizes. The object is to defend your "money ball" against assorted waves of robot attackers using one of five character varieties: assault, assassin, tank, sniper or gunner. You can back up your lone warrior with a selection of defensive gun turrets and upgrade not only them, but also yourself and the arena, in the form of jump pads to reach elevated walkways. The blend of third person combat and tower defence works well, and the tactical interaction between your character's skillset, available turrets, the upgrades and the composition of the next wave of robots provides a multi-faceted set of variables to play with. Where it really gets going though is on Xbox Live, with a kickass set of multiplayer modes and inventive scenarios in which to face off.Xbox Live Arcade Download, 1200 Microsoft Points (approx £10.20)Playstation Move, Playstation 3PlayStation Move.When Nintendo launched the Wii, millions who'd previously had no interest suddenly started playing videogames. Microsoft and Sony continued to appeal to the hardcore, but were unable to shift consoles in anything like the volume Nintendo has. Enter PlayStation Move, a peripheral for PS3, that blends Sony's Eye Camera with something akin to a Wii-remote with a ping-pong ball stuck on top of it. The technology is magnificent, displaying a precision of positioning and movement that the Wii can only dream of. Sadly the games let it down, with Start The Party! supplying a batch of uninspiring mini-games of the swat insect/colour in shapes/whack moles variety. Sports Champions fares slightly better, with Table Tennis flawlessly detecting your bat-control skills and Bocce supplying addictive boules-style hi-jinks. In the absence of a killer app though, this will be a wait-and-see product for most.Start The Party! and Sport Champions, SCEE, £29.99 each; PlayStation Move Controller, Eye Camera and demo disc, £49.99
Mad Men Fan SiteOne of the most annoying things about US shows running later in the UK is that it's virtually impossible to go online without discovering some vital plot detail. If, however, you've developed an extra-sensitive spoiler radar, you should be able to navigate this Mad Men fan site without discovering too much (unless you want to). As well as a blog, stills and recaps, bonus features include a timeline of episodes with real-life events, caption quizzes of 60s print ads and a database of every song played in the show. We also like the feature comparing American TV workplaces: nothing beats Sterling Cooper, but Ari Gold's office in Entourage has better sofas.Belle And SebastianBelle And Sebastian.After a four-year break, Glasgow's foremost soul janglers are returning with a new album Write About Love next month. Never averse to doing things differently (in a few weeks they play a cemetery gig), their website now hosts their own 20-minute TV show which features the band playing live, taking part in an audience debate, and acting in deadpan sketches about the state of the music biz; comedian Dougie Anderson stars as both host and the band's stressed-out manager. It's brilliantly filmed and edited, and slightly oddball. The Q&amp;A section finds singer Stuart offering advice on how to cope with the first day of school, homoerotic record sleeves, and how to cheer up a sad cat.Blog roll: VintageTurn of The Century. Photograph: Shorpy.comTurn of The CenturyStrange, beautiful and bonkers images from the 1850s to 1920s.Vintage Child AbuseScary Santas, dangerous pets and skateboarding babies.Vintage-a-peelFashion magazine scans, 60s pop star fashion and Scopitone vids.Retro DundeeCollecting bits and bobs of Dundee life from the 60s, 70s and 80s - including the local roller-dancing scene.Vintage NinjaVideos, toys and posters from the golden age of chopsocky.No Pattern requiredAmerican interior design clippings from the 1950s and 60s, plus attempts to recreate recipes of the era.What we learned on the web this weekAnt-Man.The next24 months in superhero moviesWine drinkerseat more vegetables than beer drinkersThe 15biggest box-office bombsYoko Ono's X Factor rehearsal needs some workThe psychologyof ugly carpets in Las Vegas casinosIs Brandon FlowersPeter Andre?A websiteobsessive compulsives may enjoyThe richestYouTube starsArcade Firehave reinvented the pop videoNever buya hotdog on LSD
Kia may be a Korean company, but the bumf that comes with&nbsp;my test car is&nbsp;keen to underline the Venga's European credentials. Designed by a&nbsp;European, built in Europe, exclusively for the European market... OK, I'm getting the message: it's very un-Korean, and&nbsp;very European.My first thought was Spain. My Spanish isn't great, but I think that Venga is the imperative singular&nbsp;of venir, to come. "Come!" Not as in "Have an orgasm!" (unlikely in this car, about which more later), but as in "Come here!" It's a Kia Come Here! Here boy, more&nbsp;like a dog than a car. That's why they don't make them in Korea; they'd probably be eaten.Then I thought France (actually, the Venga is designed by a Bavarian and built in the Czech Republic but never mind about that). My French is even worse than my Spanish, but I speak enough to know that, in French, Venga meansgrumpy football manager, phonetically speaking anyway (kinda). And it got me wondering what your man Arsène would make of this car...Well, his frugal side would like the&nbsp;price, and the fact that you get a&nbsp;lot out of it for what you put in. He'd enjoy the seven-year guarantee; you don't get one of them withCesc&nbsp;Fàbregas. His concern for the&nbsp;future of the planet (is he even like that?) would appreciate some of&nbsp;Kia'sEcoDynamics technologyon&nbsp;the diesel model – such as the intelligent stop-and-go system, which cuts out the engine when the&nbsp;car is stationary.The professorwould also like the fact that it's roomier inside than it looks from the outside; he'd maybe think he could get only littleAndrey ArshavinandSamir Nasriin the back; but actually – with the clever sliding rear seats – he could probably get tallNicklas BendtnerandAbou Diabyin there (so long as they didn't have too much kit, because sliding the seats back reduces boot space). And if they had the top-of-range Venga 3 trim level, then Nicklas and Abou wouldn't have to worry about being recognised, because of the privacy glass on the rear windows and tailgate. Or, if you're not a famous footballer, and you just fancied an orgasm, then the back would be the place to go, especially with all that leg room. However, as I hinted at before, you shouldn't rely solely on the thrill of the ride to get you there. Because – and I&nbsp;fear this is what will ultimately put Arsène off the Venga – there isn't a&nbsp;lot of performance there. If you're in the diesel, which is clearly the one to have, don't even think about overtaking anything, unless it's parked and you've got a good mile of clear road ahead. Very little va va voom, in other words.Kia Venga 1.4 CRDi EcoDynamicPrice£15,360Top speed104mphAcceleration0-62mph in 14 secondsCombined consumption62.8mpgCO2 emissions117g/kmEco rating9/10Bound forIkeaIn a wordUn-Korean
Here is the problem that Nokia faces: it's getting more revenue from selling phones - but its profits are falling.As the graph above - drawn fromNokia's financial resultsgoing back to the start of 2002 - show, the mobile phone division (which is what these figures show; they exclude the enterprise and Nokia Siemens Networks revenues and profits) has been doing well, in money terms.But the profits are heading south. The long-term trend actuallyflattersNokia; its problems have been accentuated since the third quarter of 2008 - when Android began to become a factor in smartphone sales. If you drew the line using the past couple of years, then you'd hit zero profit before the end of 2012. That's highly unlikely, but trends are something for executives to be aware of - and to reverse where necessary.By the end of 2009, despitesmartphone sales having increased by 24% worldwide according to Gartner, Nokia's phone profits (which includes smartphones and "dumb" mobile phones) were - on an annualised basis - the lowest they'd been in the entire eight-year period, despite the revenues being the second-highest.That speaks of Nokia's product being commoditised - that the average price and profit per phone sold is dropping.The question for the incoming chief executive Stephen Elop is whether that's a satisfactory state of affairs.And one other thing he might want to think about: since the beginning of 2008, those figures have included not just mobile phone sales, but "devices and services". That excludes Nokia's biggest acquisition, Navteq, which is broken out in the results and seems to generate a small operating profit (though the amortization of the $8.1bn price tag still seems to be taking its toll).By "services" one has to assume Nokia means things like its Ovi store, launched in mid-2009 - which hasn't set the world alight; you have to look quite hard to find any meaningful statistics (here'ssome from March: about 1.5m downloads per day, compared to the iPhone App Store's 30.5m apps per day.It's with apps that Nokia has its toughest challenge. Apple has it easy: there's essentially one product that developers write to - the iPhone. Yes, there are differences between the newer and older ones, but the basic interface is the same. And every app that an iPhone user downloads ties them a little more tightly to the platform: abandoning it would mean giving those up (though of course you can switch operator and carry your number - and phone - with you).Nokia, with its much bigger and more diverse range of phones, has more of a challenge there: it's harder to attract developers, but more importantly for someone looking to shift to another Nokia, there's the compatibility question - will your apps be portable? Will they work? And if you haven't downloaded many apps (which the Ovi Store stats seem to suggest - Nokia, remember, has the biggest smartphone share, which means that Ovi apps are spread rather thinly) then it's going to be easier to just shift to another phone.And people aren't being too complimentary about Elop either. "A suit",saysBusiness Insider, which says the company has made "the same mistake again - hiring a manager, not a product visionary". Joe Wilcoxgoes further: "No disrespect intended, but Elop wouldn't be my first choice to run Nokia, nor would he make my list of top-100 candidates. If someone handed me a list of people not to choose, Elop would be among the top five. I love Nokia. I lauded its handsets for years. But this great company has pissed away market share and bungled the most basic innovations since Apple launched iPhone in June 2007. Elop may be the greatest mistake of all and sure sign Nokia won't effectively execute against Google's rising Android Army or Apple's iOS cultists."So welcome, Stephen Elop. You've got a big bundle of problems and everyone's going to be watching you. Something tells us it's going to be very different from running Adobe's sales operation, Juniper Networks, or Microsoft's Business division - the one that cranks out Office and Sharepoint.And here are the numbers from Nokia's financial results in a handy table. (I've used the "Reported" figures, which include amortization.)Nokia mobile division resultsNokiarevenueoperating profitMobile phone division only2002 Q1543812082002 Q2539811712002 Q3563312492002 Q4674216422003 Q1547613112003 Q2551312762003 Q3562012572003 Q4700917072004 Q1408010292004 Q240508022004 Q345208482004 Q4587111072005 Q145278692005 Q248647892005 Q352038802005 Q4621710602006 Q1586910852006 Q258759792006 Q359497792006 Q4707612572007 Q155839362007 Q2593112522007 Q3613113882007 Q4743818582008 Q1926318832008 Q2909015652008 Q3860516022008 Q481417662009 Q161735472009 Q265867632009 Q369157852009 Q4817912192010 Q166638312010 Q26799643source: Nokia financial resultsnote: since 2008 Q1 figures include "devices and services"All figures in € millions
Originally released on Sega's Naomi arcade board before moving across to the Dreamcast, Virtua Tennis was the finest tennis sim of its age. Visually arresting with a brilliant control system, it made a generational leap on from Codemasters' 16bit behemoth, Pete Sampras Tennis, and has rarely been bettered since. More recent iterations have suffered, perhaps – like PES, they have failed to keep pace with the advance of console specifications. But now the original development team is back in control, andVirtua Tennis 4, currently only announced for PS3, has been built to harness two incoming technologies: 3D and Move.And harness them it does…Virtua Tennis has always been famed for its intuitive controls – now, the Move version of VT4 accentuates this by removing the need for button presses altogether. Every one of the game's shots, from savage cross-court volleys to delicate lobs is accessible through movement. But it takes skill – and energy. At first, you're just trying to get the ball across the net, but gradually you learn how the virtual tennis racket on the screen moves identically in relation to the Move controller. Top spin is accessible via a well-timed flick of the wrist, and a cheeky chip over the net can be achieved via an underarm scooping motion. It's total physicality.The key element, though, is controlled exaggeration. As many of the shots require similar movements, the more ambitious need to be very well defined. So, for example, to pull off a cross-court shot, you need to start with the Move controller, tucked well around your body, before bringing it through an extravagant arc to the other side. Without the full swing, you'll just end up with a hard shot down the line. It's demanding stuff, and after a several long rallies with Murray, you may well feel as though you're getting a reasonable workout.The system is still being tweaked and refined, though, and there are some sketchy areas. To move in to the net, you have to make a concerted stride forwards, but the system doesn't always pick the movement up so often you find yourself playing a baseline slogging game, whether you want to or not. Also, when you are at the net, your player disappears, leaving the onscreen tennis racket as your only onscreen presence, which can be rather disorientating. But mostly, after a few minutes of practise, the ball is generally going where you want it to, and the feeling of competing, of formulating tactics, of gaining control over the court, is already thoroughly invigorating.As for the 3D visuals – in some ways this is what the tennis simulation has always been waiting for. The traditional behind-the-player view, while workable, has always been something of a compromise, providing a forced perspective, or an ever-narrowing court. But in 3D, the view is lower, the sense of space much more authentic. In Virtua Tennis 4, the effect is rather subtle, and as in the best 3D movies, you start to take it for granted after a while. The only problem perhaps, is the spatial disconnect between the ball flying toward you, and your Move controller; you almost expert to see the ball fly out of the screen and make haptic contact with the device in your hand. Consequently, it takes a while to get the split-second timings right.Apparently, there will be over 20 players in the finished version, though currently only Murray, Nadal and Federer have been confirmed. Sega assured me we can also expect the usual range of wacky mini-games in the World Tour mode, and hinted that these have been totally redesigned to take advantage of Move controls. There'll also be online multiplayer.In short: classic Virtua Tennis accessibility and depth. In 3D. With Move support. I mean, what else needs to be said?Virtua Tennis 4 is currently confirmed for PS3. It's due out next year.
Appearing on CNBC in July, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo was in combative mood. The Wall Street Journal had quoted anonymous sources suggesting he would be sacked from his position as chief executive of the Finnish handset maker Nokia by August."Obviously there has been a lot of speculation on my position... This speculation is detrimental," Kallasvuo said. "It's not good for Nokia and I feel it needs to be brought to an end one way or the other."This morning, it ended. Kallasvuo, appointed in 2006, is out, to be replaced from 21 September by Stephen Elop, one of Microsoft's five division chiefs, in charge of its business division.Nokia's decision to replace its chief executive with a non-Finn – and a Microsoft executive at that – is a make-or-break decision for the company's future in the fast-growing smartphone market. After years of untroubled growth in which it has dominated handset sales and made handsome profits, the wheels abruptly came off when first Apple with its iPhone and Research in Motion (RIM) with its BlackBerry, and latterly a slew of manufacturers offering touchscreen handsets using Google's Android software, have skimmed the profits off the top of the smartphone market – leaving Nokia fighting for the commodity end with Asian handset makers.Asymco, a Scandinavian consultancy run by Horace Dedlu, who examines the mobile market,thinksthat Nokia has become the prisoner of what was until three years ago a hugely effective business model. Nokia isn't in trouble, it argues. But nor will it be able to turn around quickly."The reason Nokia can still coast with poor products is that they have a vast distribution network," Dedlu noted this week. "I don't know the exact distribution, but let's assume that half their phones go through carriers and half through distributors who resell unlocked phones world-wide. Carriers will continue to carry the phones because they slot into well-established portfolio slots, and distributors will continue to distribute because the product is competitive in markets where there are no other unlocked smartphones at the same price."The effect of that inertia took a little while to show on Nokia's finances – but when it did, it was dramatic. For 2007, Nokia's revenues were €51bn (£42bn) and its profits €7bn. In 2008 revenue stayed static at €50.7bn, but profits halved to €3.7bn. Then in 2009 they collapsed: revenues fell to €40.9bn and profits collapsed to €260m, including a €913m loss in the third quarter – the first time in more than a decade that the company had recorded a quarterly loss. Nokia was not mortally wounded; it was suffering a thousand tiny cuts which were bleeding it dry.The rumours of restiveness among the executives had been swirling since April, but the abrupt nature of the decision, just days before the Nokia World exhibition in London at which the company and its partners will show off their wares, shows that Nokia's board thinks there is no time to lose to refocus the company.The question is whether Elop, 46, is the "Steve Jobs-like" figure that the research group Gartner suggested in the summer Nokia needs.Yet many companies would love to have Nokia's problems. It sells more mobile phones, and more smartphones, than any other company in the world; it has pulled ahead of its former rival Ericsson (whose handset efforts have slumped into a joint venture with Sony which barely makes money and has seen shrinking sales). Until 2007 it seemed to have the smartphone market sewn up. Motorola, which had had a runaway hit with its Razr phone, had disappeared from view as it struggled to produce a new design that users would buy.Then Apple upset the mobile handcart. The iPhone was not really a phone in the way that Nokia thought of it; it was a pocket-sized portable computer with a permanent mobile internet connection. Crucially, Apple made no concessions to mobile carriers; it simply refused to let them dictate what software was installed on the phone, or set data usage limitations. It began selling in huge numbers – and sucking the profits, as well as the cool factor, out of Nokia.The problem got worse as RIM benefited from an iPhone "halo" which boosted its sales (you could type more easily on its physical keyboards). Then Google's Android joined the race with its open-source software, which any handset maker could tailor as they wished – and, crucially, could also tailor to mobile networks' wishes.That meant that the profits from the model Nokia had established, of building one group of phones which carriers could tailor and sell, and another that shops could sell direct to customers, were under attack. It didn't have an iPhone; and Android meant a lot of me-too iPhones, shutting Nokia out of that market.Analysis of the mobile phone market shows that since Apple's entry into the smartphone market, it and RIM have swallowed up 65% of the available profit in the sector – compared to RIM's 7% before 2007. In that sense, the biggest beneficiary besides Apple of the iPhone is RIM. The biggest losers, by contrast, have been Nokia and Microsoft (which is simply abandoning its decade-old Windows Mobile operating system for a new one, Windows Phone 7, due for launch imminently).Nokia's – and Elop's – problem now is to determine how it can attract customers with compelling new handsets, while keeping its existing buyers among the carriers happy, while fighting off the triple threat from Apple, RIM and Android, which have prevented it breaking into the US smartphone market in particular. It is possible that Elop will conclude that the only way forward is a radical shift – such as adopting Android in order to gain its benefits while hanging on to carriers. Alternatively, he may think that Microsoft's Windows Phone 7 offers the best solution. And it may be significant that in Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer'ssignoff emailon Elop's departure he said that he will "look forward to continuing to work with him in his new role at Nokia".One thing is certain though: if Nokia continues as it is, it will be reduced to a commodity also-ran within years.Who is Stephen Elop?Previously CEO of Macromedia, the company originally behind Flash and Dreamweaver; he oversaw its sale to Adobe Systems in 2005. He then took over Adobe's global sales operation, before becoming chief operating officer at Juniper Networks until being hired away away by Microsoft in 2008 to replace long-term Microsoft executive Jeff Raikes.The Business division that Elop headed runs possibly the safest monopoly in the computer world: Microsoft's Office suite, which is used as a standard throughout businesses and governments around the world. Last year its revenues were $18.6bn (£12bn) – and profits $11.8bn. The rollout of Office 2010, the latest version, saw unexpectedly slow sales. Even so Office remains Microsoft's safest cash cow.His comments on his appointment to his new job will be seen either as his epitaph, or a warning: "I have a great deal to learn about Nokia, and a great deal to learn about Finland." Nokia's board and its employees will now be wondering whether he will like what he learns – and how much he will change.For Microsoft, Elop's departure leaves a significant hole. He is the second of five divisional presidents to leave this year; the other was Robbie Bach, who oversaw the development of the Xbox gaming console, which has become a strategic and profitable business for Microsoft. Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive,sent out an email on Thursday eveningindicating that the move had caught the company by surprise: "Stephen leaves in place a strong business and technical leadership team … all of whom will report to me for the interim," it notes.That leaves Ballmer with direct responsibility not only for the mobile strategy, but also now its office products, giving it not one but two crucial businesses where his choice of appointment could determine Microsoft's success – or failure – in those fields in future.
The marriage of strategy games and consoles has not been an easy one. With the variation of control available with mouse and keypad, joysticks and buttons haven't, generally, made a satisfying substitute. It's somewhat ironic then that Ubisoft's R.U.S.E has utilised the PlayStation Move system to give mouse-like control to those playing on Sony kit, while also creating a game that works fabulously with the standard controller.The left stick controls your individual units in this WWII-themed RTS, while the right controls the zoom. Zoom all the way out and you'll be commanding your troops from the sort of strategy table you'll have seen in dozens of war films. Zoom in, and that scale changes. Part way, you'll have chunkier detail and a reasonable overview of the skirmishes you've instigated. Zoom all the way in, however, and you'll be able to watch such battles in intimate detail, listen to the cannon fire, see your tanks confront Panzers and see just how to sneak your infantry around enemy defences.It's a great system and the simplicity of button operation is also admirable. With a clear and concise in-game tutorial, you'll have mastered the basics in around 20 minutes. Mastering the game and its multiple challenges will take considerably longer however, even at the easiest setting.The game starts with you as General Joe Sheridan who – with the clipped assistance of a British officer – is attempting to discover the identity of Prometheus, a mysterious spy who's been giving information to the Germans and is thus responsible for thousands of deaths. Slightly cruelly, at this point at the end of the war, you control everything as you march on Colditz Castle. Once that's completed, however, you lose your "powers" as you flashback to Tunisia 1942, and Sheridan's early days of learning his "craft": in particular the Ruse system of the title.Ruse is the game's USP and, generally, it's a good one. In order to complete tasks and overcome German defences, you need intelligence. With the Ruse system, you can listen to encrypted transmissions, send spies in to find hidden units or play tricks on the enemy, by building dummy tanks, camouflaging your operations or fighting under radio silence so they can't track your movements. While this side of things isn't always successful, it's a damn fine effort, even if the real fun stuff – sending in balsa wood tanks as a decoy, building extra weaponry, etc – isn't an option until you've played the game for many hours and got Joe promoted.Happily, you'll probably want to do just that as, for the most part, R.U.S.E is clever, well-executed and exciting and, in terms of console-based RTS, comfortably the best of its ilk.
As if the Call of Duty: Black Ops-sized pressure on the newMedal of Honorwasn't enough the game apparently has to sell 3 million copies to get a sequel. Executive producer Greg Goodrichtold the New York Timesthat "if the game doesn't sell at least three million copies, I'm not going to be able to do another one."From what I have seen of Medal of Honor so far the game looks like a very good facisimile of Modern Warfare 2. Think deserts, explosions, ducking for cover and sterotypical military characters. Whether the chaos wil be as "controlled" as MW2 remains to be seen but from initial viewings the game looks very promising for shooter fans at least. But will COD fans defect to Medal of Honor? And more importantly will 3 million of them do so?With the multiplayer so important in theses kinds of games you could argue that first person shooters have developed an MMO-style stickiness. Think of World of Warcraft fans who have generally ignored any subsequent MMO release due to the time already sunk into WoW. Plus WoW is still the best MMO out there of course. It's becoming the same with shooters. Do you really want to start from scratch again on Medal of Honor when you have pumped 200 hours into Modern Warfare 2 multiplayer? Many will of course -Battlefield Bad Company 2showed that shoooter fans like some variety -but what do you think. Are you a Call of Duty fan tempted by Medal of Honor? Or have you generally had it with "modern warfare" and hoping instead for a return to World War 2 or - gasp! - a new setting for a first person shooter?
Only a few months after it first appeared as a subscription-based MMO, Global Agenda pops up again in retail form and with free membership. This is a third-person MMO that throws you into a deep and intriguing mix of single player, co-op and deathmatch battles all geared to get you to a level where some of the game's more unique features kick in.As with all MMOs, leveling up is your passport to better abilities, more features and more competitive battles, including the game's final combat mode, Agency Vs Agency. However, you start with a few single-player levels to familiarise yourself with the gameplay but also accumulate experience points that can be used in the online game.Whichever mode you choose, you start by choosing from one of 4 character classes – Assault, Medic, Recon or Robotics – each with three distinct skills. Medics, for instance, are lightly armed but crucial to keeping rocket-launching Assault types at fighting fitness. Admittedly, strong team roles have been an FPS staple since Team Fortress, the game that laid down many of the ground rules that Global Agenda tries to evolve into MMO-form. But this game imposes a more RPG-rigor in how characters are developed and skills balanced.Added to this is a massive choice of weapons, equipment or handheld devices to deploy and upgrade, making your character as customised as you want it to be and the interchange between team members more varied and unpredictable than most shoot-em-ups. However, there is a price for all this new-found freedom.See, if you want to survive the frantic 10x10 Player vs Player Deathmatches, you'll need XP, which means continually slogging through the Player Vs Environment missions to level up. Here you play against human or AI opponents and bosses in one of several game types (such as "capture the flag") that crop up again and again in different settings. While neither these nor the storyline offer anything new, as the game has developed more adventurous elements are appearing. One recently added level, for instance, has you donning jetpacks with your team to undertake a truly vast desert terrain quest. However, the formulaic design of other levels, often set in look-alike bases and labs, make the recurrent PvE levels more of a chore than they should be.One way out of this Catch 22 is a "boost pack", which doubles XP points and tokens, starting at £5.95 for 10 days. Remember, without sufficient XP, you'll be struggling for PvP competitiveness and largely deprived the game's most adventurous mode, AvA, which allows you to from larger alliances, control resources and invest in remote defenses, weapons and even droids. It's a turning point in the game but one that must be reached through hard cash or long hours of often aimless skirmishing.Global Agenda still feels like an MMO finding its true direction, but the recent Sandstorm expansion (included in this release) shows the developers have the ability to take it in unexpected and exciting directions. There's also a free trial pack to give you a taste of the gameplay through the early levels, so why not see if it works for you.
Spider-Man games are like that ditty about children. When they've been good, they've been very, very good. But when they've been bad, well, you get the point. After the repetitive frustrations of Web of Shadows, we were due a cracker. Shattered Dimensions isn't quite the perfect experience we wanted, but there's enough here to give the wisecracking web-slinger another shot.And there's not just one Spider-Man to play with. There's four: the traditional Amazing Spider-Man; the black-suited Ultimate Spider-Man; the 1930s monochrome stylings of Noir Spider-Man; and a look to the future with Spider-Man 2099. All, I'm reliably informed, are based on "proper" comic incarnations of Spidey and all look dazzling – particularly the appropriately named Amazing, which is like playing with an animated, classic comic book.Each Spidey has a different skill set too. Amazing is your common-or-garden webslinger, Noir is all about the stealth and takedowns from the shadows, Ultimate gives you the frenzied attacks of "Rage" mode while 2099's adapted suit allows controlled freefalling, so expect lots of gravity-induced chases.Happily, it's not a case of complete Amazing, move on to Noir, etc. Each variation rolls around in turn, making the gameplay seem more varied than perhaps it really is. This also helps dress up the limitations of the story, a pursuit of the Tablet of Order and Chaos which Spidey has accidentally broken in an opening scene battle with Mysterio. The shattered pieces drift through time where they're miraculously found by various villains from Spidey's history, endowing them with new powers that Spider-Man must battle in order to restore the tablet.The free roaming aspect of previous games is replaced with purely linear action which would be a shame if this wasn't so lovely to look at – the cut scenes are often stunning – and wasn't offering quite so much to the long-standing fans, from the influences to the bad guys (Sandman, Hammerhead, Electro, Vulture, Kraven, etc), via a genuinely funny (if inevitably repetitive) script and a voice cast of actors associated with various respected Spider-Man cartoons. There's also positively piles of unlockable content and upgrades as you complete assorted challenges.So why only four stars? Because of assorted frustrations. The camera – particularly in the Noir levels – occasionally makes the controls highly confusing and exacting. Fights, while fun, can frequently resort to so much button-bashing. Certain boss fights are actually a little too easy and – while I acknowledge it might just be my disc as others haven't reported such issues – I experienced a couple of random freezes and a very annoying partially-loaded loop in the showdown with Electro – which randomly sorted itself on the 14th attempt. Still, it's almost appropriate that a Spider-Man title be a little buggy ...There was hope that Shattered Dimensions would be Spider-Man's Arkham Asylum. It's good looking and enjoyable, but sometimes flawed and repetitive. Sounds like job done then.
Originally released in Japan on September 13 1985, Super Mario Bros will be 25 years old on Monday. The epoch-shattering platformer introduced millions of gamers to the surreal Mushroom Kingom where Mario tackled Goombas, Koopa Troopas and demanding pixel-perfect jumps in a quest to save Princess Peach (or Princess Toadstool as she was known in Western translations).To celebrate this momentous anniversary, let's select the five best Mario titles ever made. You can go for pre-Super Mario Bros titles if you like and we'll accept any game that Mario makes an appearance in.To get you started, here's my top five...5. Super Mario LandSure, Tetris was the defining Game Boy title, but Super Mario Land, produced by Nintendo's design genius Gunpei Yokoi, showed that a handheld system could provide deep action adventure experiences.4. Super Mario KartTight controls, superlative circuit design, great balance, compelling Cup structure... Super Mario Kart remains one of the great racing games – especially in two-player. Sadly, away from its own sequels, the Mario Kart legacy is a wretched mass of inferior cartoon-style kart racers. And rubber banding AI.3. Super Mario Galaxy 2Another rich and rewarding experience, piling wonderful gameplay concepts on top of each other in a bewildering imaginative onslaught. Mario's cosmic adventure is also one of the best-looking games on Wii, but this is the least of its qualities.2. Super Mario Bros 3A beautiful refinement of the Super Mario World recipe, with gorgeous level design, excellent power-ups and lots of secrets to discover. The demands on the player's intellect and hand-eye coordination were perfectly judged, the learning curve so smooth and compelling it was near-impossible to escape from once you were in its clutches. Perfect.1. Super Mario 64Just such an overwhelmingly influential and enjoyable title, filled with ideas and surprises. With its open, hub world-style design, this game set the blueprint for all platform adventures to follow. It was also a masterclass in providing a moving camera for 3D third-person action.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Founded in Finland early in 2007, Dopplr wasthe great white, beautiful hope of the UK startup scene; a well-respected design and development team, and a service that imaginatively and stylishly captured the zeitgeist of business, travel and location services.It published annual travel summaries for users and included their carbon output. It boosted the profile of money-spinning conferences. And – of most interest to potential investors – it attracted a wealthy, technophile and evangelical base of "upscale" business users. Backers included Esther Dyson, Tyler Brule, Joshua Schachter, Lars Hinrichs and Reid Hoffman. So what could go wrong?In a word: Nokia.The Finnish mobile manufacturer, which sells more phones than any other company, paid a rumoured $20m (give or take a few million) for the service almost exactly a year ago, with a deal that closed on 28 September, 2009.Since then, Dopplr has fallen completely out of the web's view.Its blog has not been updated since two days after the acquisition. While Dopplr was too young to have grown a large user base, the Nokia acquisition could, with some imagination, have given it scale. Instead, comScore shows its monthly unique user numbers falling from 39,000 in September 2009 to 29,000 in July this year.While the Guardian has been told that Dopplr's back-end system is still being maintained, its front-of-house appears woefully neglected, with no sign of the much-admired annual travel reports. Even if this was purely a talent acquisition, with the company bought for its staff, why allow the site to wither on the vine?Dopplr's design chief Matt Jones had already left, joining Schulze &amp; Webb (reincarnated as Berg) but still tied to Dopplr one day a month as a design advisor. Jones already had close to ties with Nokia as a former director of UX design there. Not only that, chief executive Marko Ahtisaari became senior vice president for design at Nokia, chief tech officer Matt Biddulph and developer Tom Insam both moved to Nokia's base in Berlin as strategist and developer respectively and are still there, working out lock-in periods.At the time of the acquisition, people only saw possibility. "I'm guardedly optimistic that Nokia is smart enough to know not screw up a truly elegant service," wrote Dopplr user Chad in response to the news. Duncan Semple added: "I just hope the service won't get neglected or changed too much to fit with Nokia's other services." Trickles of comments this year have variously asked if anyone is still listening — and, echoing in an empty blog, talked of transferring to rival service TripIt.Despite numerous requests over a number of weeks for comment about its plans for Dopplr, Nokia has not responded.Since the launch of its Ovi internet services brand in August 2007 – soon after Apple's game-changing iPhone went on sale – Nokia has made a series of acquisitions to try and offer more social media and location features for its mobile phones. The results, however, are far from compelling.In June 2008, Nokia acquired social activity service Plazes, saying the "visionary team" and "key assets" would allow it to extend its context-based services. The service is still operational — but has not been integrated with Ovi.Nokia bought Canada's Oz Communications in November 2008 to improve social messaging services, German map technology firm bit-side GmbH in February 2009 and Hamburg-based Cellity in July 2009. Like many of the other deals, Cellity appeared to be a straightforward talent acquisition; Nokia said at the time the deal would "accelerate service development in some areas" and immediately closed the service. A month later it bought Plum, a 'private' social network from the US. And last week Nokia completed its acquisition of Motally, a US mobile metrics tool, saying it would continue to serve Motally's existing customer base.However on the same day, to Motally users' dismay, it sent them a termination notice for the service.All these firms, like Dopplr, have joined Nokia's services division. Fred Destin, a prominent venture capitalist, told the Guardian that the Dopplr deal was a straightforward talent acquisition, and that Dopplr was never that powerful. For Nokia and its vast, mainstream consumer base, there was little incentive in maintaining a niche service."My sense is that they were going to try and look at Dopplr as a horizontal piece of technology they could use on phones," he said. "Nokia doesn't have a great track record of maintaining innovation internally, and they are in soul-searching mode. It's a classic case of a large company acquiring a small company and not being entirely sure what to do with it."He added: "There's a bunch of reasons it was a weird acquisition and it's difficult for a small company to flourish inside a company like that."Comparable services Yapta and TripIt had 104,000 unique users in September 2009, according to comScore. Yapta shrank to 29,000 by July 2010 but TripIt grew to 190,000.One UK startup told the Guardian how his startup pulled back from a partnership with Nokia. "The experience in the app store and Ovi Maps is just too poor. I don't think there's anything they could have done with Dopplr. They aren't used to a partnership world."One other entrepreneur said that the deal could be valued in terms of its staff, and cited a common startup valuation formula of $500,000 per high-profile developer. At that rate, Biddulph, Jones and the team should be very pleased with the price put on their head. As for Dopplr – perhaps it was only ever a beautiful experiment, and one that ended in a modest but well-earned exit for its creators.But Nokia needs something to start going right for it. Though it sells more smartphones than any other company, including Apple and BlackBerry-maker Research In Motion (RIM), in 2009 its revenues fell by 20% compared with 2008, from €50bn to €41bn, but its profits crashed from €3.7bn to just €270m – and its first-quarter figures for 2010 were more like 2009 than 2008.Its efforts to launch the Ovi app store to compete with Apple's iPhone app store and the Android Marketplace run by Google have impressed few so far – and if the lesson of Dopplr is repeated, then it may be shunned by exactly the innovative people it needs to attract.One source close to Dopplr said he wasn't surprised Dopplr was being allowed to deflate. "Nokia," he said. "Where good ideas go to die ..."Companies bought by NokiaA selected list of acquisitions the company has made over the past three yearsDopplrWhat is it: travel-focused social networkWhen bought: September 2009How much: $20m (est)What happened next: nothing, apparently. "We have decided to bring it into a maintenance mode… but will not develop it further at this stage," Nokia said in a statement on Friday following the Guardian's story on its disappearance.SymbianWhat is it: mobile operating system company; Nokia already held sharesWhen bought: June 2008How much: €264mWhat happened next: it made Symbian open source and based its phones on it.NavteqWhat is it: American-based sat-nav data and productsWhen bought: October 2007How much: $8.1bnWhat happened next: Nokia phones now include free sat-nav.NovarraWhat is it: wireless internet systemWhen bought: March 2010How much: n/aWhat happened next: nothing visible.CellityWhat is it: web and mobile address bookWhen bought: July 2009How much: n/aWhat happened next: nothing visible. The last mention of Cellity on Nokia's site is in 2009.PlumWhat is it: system for saving and sharing files in a social networkWhen bought: September 2009How much: n/aWhat happened next: visitors to plum.com have fallen to a tenth of those a year ago.MotallyWhat is it: mobile analyticsWhen bought: August 2010How much: n/aWhat happened next: Motally customers were told accounts would be closed.
The Seneca virus: harmless to normal human cells, apparently. Photo byArgonne National Laboratoryon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHere's Why Microsoft Needs To Make Office Apps For The iPad &gt;&gt; Business InsiderBecause it's leaving money on the tablet by not.Apple products are a mutant virus, but PC brands will eventually find a cure, says Acer founder &gt;&gt; DigitimesStan Shih has the metaphor of the week, or possibly month. "Acer founder Stan Shih, in a talks with reporters on September 8, commented that Apple's strong popularity is mainly due to its products such as iPad and iPhone, and these products are like mutant viruses, which are difficult to find a cure for in the short-term, but he believes that PC vendors will eventually find a way to isolate Apple and become immune."10 Surprising App Platform Facts [Infographic] &gt;&gt; AllFacebook.comAnd they are quite surprising. Includes average prices of apps on Facebook, Apple and Android.CouchOne — Your Data. Anywhere &gt;&gt; CouchOneAn application development program based on CouchDB: "It is fast, reliable and keeps the data on all of your devices synchronized with the cloud. CouchOne Mobile doesn't depend on a constant Internet connection, so users can access their data anytime, anywhere. As more and more people work in geographically distributed environments and on the go, their data needs to stay with them and always be up-to-date. Because, face it, offline happens."Microsoft wrestles with HTML5 vs Silverlight futures &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWriting"[Former Microsoft Silverlight product manager Scott] Barnes is a straight-talking guy but clearly this is all speculation. Nevertheless it is obvious that, on the eve of launching IE9 beta with its fast JavaScript engine, hardware accelerated graphics, and pixel-precise bitmap drawing, Microsoft has a tricky job positioning HTML5 vs Silverlight. For that matter, even positioning Silverlight vs desktop Windows Presentation Foundation is not easy."Why Google Instant Is Good for Microsoft &gt;&gt; Fast Company"Google Instant plays right into Microsoft's hands -- especially given the company's "Search Overload Syndrome" ad campaign. Everything about Google Instant search screams search overload--the unfortunate side-effect of sifting through millions of results regardless of relevancy."It seems likely that this shift in search technology may prove too radical or too overwhelming for many users. But will they just turn off streaming search--or turn off Google?"Christchurch Quake Map &gt;&gt; Paul NichollsAn animated Google Map showing a time series of the initial quake and aftershocks that have hit New Zealand's south island.Spirals (a Flash pattern/tune.. thing) &gt;&gt; wheelof.comNice. (Sorry, iOS users.) And where are the HTML5, CSS3 and SVG implementations?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Sad news for fans of offbeat, candy-coloured Japanese gaming eccentricity. Keita Takahashi, the design genius behind Katamari and Noby Noby Boy, is leaving Namco Bandai. Takahashi has become increasingly disillusioned with the games industry over the last year, and recentlygave an interviewin which he referred to Namco as a 'so-so company'.Always more interested in the concept of play than in video games per se, the designer is currently helping to construct a playground in Nottingham intended for children, adults and even pets.Just before his exit from Namco, we got some questions to Takahashi about the future of games. Here's what he had to say...What do you think are the most interesting emerging areas of game design at the moment?We see new technologies such as GPS and online capabilities built into gaming designs lately but the basis remains unchanged since the day video gaming was created in my view. Interactivity of the real and virtual worlds still remains the key importance when it comes to game designs.Have you been watching the rise of social games on Facebook? Where do you think this will lead?I remember trying out an application requiring the players to guess country names. I didn't think something this simple could be seen as an application –  that was my first thought. Since then, I remember trying out several other gaming applications but as an overall impression, Facebook largely remains a communication platform in my mind. However, if we are to see the bigger picture of social gaming in general with Facebook inside it, I do feel and see a huge potential there.Quite a lot of games now enable GPS functions, but I can see further trends in mixing aspects of daily life and the use of online communications in the coming days as well. .It seems more developers are exploring 'user-generated content' - EA has just announced its Create game, for example. Is this a good thing for games, handing over design to the players?I think allowing the players to experience aspects of development is an excellent idea. But looking at it from the other side, it might be a case of developers not being able to come up with something interesting and new lately.Were do you think games will be in five years? What do you think we'll be playing - and what on?In many senses, I think nothing will drastically change by then.Do you see technologies like 3D and motion controls evolving and combining - where will these lead?I'm not really interested on the idea so haven't got much to say on the case.A lot of people think that 'cross platform' games will be big - games that you can play on console, then go out and pick them up again on your phone, then on your iPad later. Do you see this as being an important development?As a developer, it's definitely an interesting structure to say the least. But at the end of the day, it is a matter of switching between different hardware so as long as we don't get too carried away in seeing this physical switchover itself as being a unique experience, something new will definitely be coming our way. But on a personally level, I'm not sure if we really need to play videogames in such a continuous manner.Are you interested in the idea of 'gamification' - the theory that every thing is becoming more like a video game, from financial websites, to GPS devices? Will this be important?An interesting idea for sure. Maybe it's even time we left out the word "video" from video games in my view. Video game developers are always thinking of creating something which is enjoyable and repetitively fun. Limiting this to "video" gaming is somewhat a lost opportunity in my view, which is one of the reasons I decided to join the playground project.How are things going with your playground? Has the process been as rewarding as you imagined when you set out?Since the end of last year, the overall progress was rather slower than expected, but visiting Nottingham in June this year and meeting all the key movers of the project has definitely opened up the way for sure.At the same time, seeing some of the people leave who were involved in the project from the early stages was rather sad. But overall, it's been a great experience so far. Everyone I meet on the project is great, especially considering the fact that they have to put up with a foreigner who can barely understand or speaks English properly.As for the progress, the design work for the playground is complete. We are now at a stage of applying the necessary safety requirements and coming up with the funding to complete the project. Although there are bound to be more challenges ahead of us, once everything is complete, I'm confident that an excellent playground will be in place.
A family-friendly game based around Lord of the Rings? No doubt fans of the Trilogy, and EA's tie-ins, would shudder at thought.ButLord of the Rings: Aragorn's Questis a decent concept – a third-person action adventure, in which players take control of Aragorn as he fights his way through the most famed battles.The game will make use of the Wii Remote and PlayStation Move, providing players with a sword and shield interface. There will also be horseback combat, and a two-player co-op mode is designed to encourage children to play along with a parent.Interestingly, the action takes place within a framed narrative. Each level is based around a story being told by Samwise Gamgee – voiced by Sean Astin – and the player then gets to act out the plot. This is becoming a popular format for games: Dragon's Age 2 is told in retrospect, while Driver: San Francisco  takes place within the imagination of a cop in a coma.•The Lord of the Rings: Aragorn's Quest will be released for PS3, Wii, DS, PS2 and PSP on 29 October
Apple is opening up its iTunes App Store – from which people can download apps for the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch – so that developers can write programs for it without using Apple's own software.It also says that it is publishing the guidelines used to review apps before they are approved for the store, which should ease a bone of contention with developers who have been frustrated by the opaque nature of the reviewing system.The move to open the store to software written using non-Apple products will forestall the threat of an anti-trust investigation which had looked possible after Apple blocked apps written using Adobe software tools. The two companies have been engaged in a tussle for months over Apple's refusal to incorporate Adobe's Flash software, used on many desktop computers, on the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch – collectively known as "iOS devices".In astatement, Apple said: "We have listened to our developers and taken much of their feedback to heart. Based on their input, today we are making some important changes to our iOS Developer Program license in sections 3.3.1, 3.3.2 and 3.3.9 to relax some restrictions we put in place earlier this year."Those clauses, altered in April, had effectively banned any app that was not written with Apple's own iOS development tools, even if they produced computer code which would run on iOS devices. The effect was most marked on Adobe, which had made a significant investment to the latest release of its Creative Suite applications so that they could generate iOS-compatible apps from Flash apps built with the suite.Now, Apple is stepping back from that ban: "In particular, we are relaxing all restrictions on the development tools used to create iOS apps, as long as the resulting apps do not download any code. This should give developers the flexibility they want, while preserving the security we need."In April, Steve Jobs published an open letter to Adobe entitled "Thoughts on Flash", which was critical of Flash's performance, security, reliability and usability on a touchscreen device.While Jobs has not retreated on Flash, Apple has clearly decided that the threat of antitrust suit – and the similtaneous threat from Google's Android platform, which powers a growing number of phones that can run Flash – makes it more attractive to allow such "cross-compiled" apps than to try to ban them.Thenewly-published guidelines- theoretically only available to iOS developers – begins with a number of general points, such as that "if you want to criticize a religion, [don't write an app,] write a book. If you want to describe sex, write a book or a song, or create a medical app. It can get complicated, but we have decided to not allow certain kinds of content in the App Store."It also points out that "we don't need any more Fart apps. If your app doesn't do something useful or provide some form of lasting entertainment, it may not be accepted." Other reasons for rejection would include amateurish efforts and "content or behaviour that we believe is over the line. What line, you ask? Well, as a Supreme Court Justice once said, "I'll know it when I see it." And we think that you will also know it when you cross it."There is also a warning: "If your app is rejected, we have a Review Board that you can appeal to. If you run to the press and trash us, it never helps."The warning on "pornography" – which Jobs has said before he does not want on the store – is explicit: "Apps containing pornographic material, defined by Webster's Dictionary as 'explicit descriptions or displays of sexual organs or activities intended to stimulate erotic rather than aesthetic or emotional feelings', will be rejected." And it notes that "Apps that contain user-generated content that is frequently pornographic (example 'Chat Roulette' apps) will be rejected".Yet some developers have found in the past that press embarrassment has seemed like the only way to put pressure on Apple. The document does not promise any timeline for reviews – which has been another bugbear for developers, who have sometimes seen apps sidelined for weeks without any timescale for review.The move will probably strengthen Apple's position in the App Store market, where it is battling against Google Marketplace, as well as BlackBerry maker RIM and Nokia, which has its own Ovi store. The most significant threat there is Google, but today's move is a plus for developers who will now be able to develop for the App Store without concern about their development methods.Apple noted: "With over 250,000 apps and 6.5 billion downloads, the App Store has become the world's largest mobile application platform and App Store developers have earned over one billion dollars from the sales of their apps."
Is it possible to get a line-only broadband deal with no bundled phone calls? I have a mobile (which I use), a BT phone line (which I rarely touch), a broadband connection (which I use constantly), and home-phone bundled calls (which I pay a fair amount for but don't use).Someone told me this is possible in the US. Why not here? What is Ofcom's take on it?Robin ImraySome companies appear to be selling line-only broadband deals, according to a table atTop10.com, and there are business services from about £125 per month. However, I think the practical reality is that if you really want a line-only deal, you should get it from a cable network such asVirgin Media, with no phone involved. If you are not in a cabled area – probably an area with high-density housing, or at least, a high density of paying customers – then your best bet is probably a phone deal bundled with the minimum level of calls.The problem is that phone lines cost money to install and maintain, and that money has to come from somewhere. Under Ofcom's supervision, BT split itself into wholesale and retail operations, so the lines are now run byOpenreach.Ofcom sets a ceiling on the price charged for wholesale line rental (WLR). BT used to charge £105.95 but the last Ofcom proposal I saw was £81.85 per year. To the base price you have to add the cost of providing broadband plus retailing and other overheads, including profits.According to an Ofcom spokesperson, there is a charge for the WLR even if a company "unbundles" the line under a system known asLLUfor "local loop unbundling". This idea was promoted by the European Commission to increase competition by allowing other companies to install their equipment in, for example, BT exchanges. When a voice line is split to provide broadband over part of the line, the two services can be sold and controlled by different companies, but Openreach still looks after the line. That's not going to change unless somebody comes along and digs up your road and lays a different line. The cable companies did that. It's not cheap.Unfortunately, LLU is not necessarily a panacea. It can involve the duplication of lots of expensive equipment that keeps going out of date. It encourages competition in profitable areas while doing little or nothing for people in lower-density areas. And once you have "unbundled" your line from BT, then you have little choice of broadband provider – most ISPs offer their service over BT lines. You could end up paying BT a fee to have your line reconnected.LLU could work out well for very big suppliers, but earlier this year, Orange gave up on its LLU strategy and handed its lines back to BT. While looking for line-only broadband, I noticed that these deals could work out slightly more expensive than broadband bundled with calls and other services. I asked Andrew Ferguson fromThinkBroadband.comto explain. He says that companies selling broadband aim for an "eye-catching price" but use other charges to get the bill back up, much like low-price airlines. He says you should work out the total cost over one or two years, preferably including your broadband and phone usage patterns."Ofcom could say you have to offer a naked DSL line, and the idea crops up every couple of years," says Ferguson, "but the price will be about the same. The simplest answer is to have [a deal including calls] but don't plug in a phone."You will have to do your own calculations, butPlusNetis worth a look. It works over a BT or PlusNet Home Phone landline, and takes advantage of an Ofcom tiering scheme that enables it to charge less if you live in a"low cost area". This is defined as having four or more providers (including BT) and more than 10,000 properties served, ie there's a high density of paying customers. ISPs normally just average their prices over the whole network.I'm not sure what constitutes a "PlusNet Home Phone landline" but PlusNet is owned by BT. Other likely prospects are listed on the MoneySavingExpert.com page,Cheap Broadband.Finally, there is a way to get line-only broadband in the UK, even from BT. ADSL broadband is designed to run over voice lines, and uses "contention" to share resources. In other words, 50 consumers are connected to the same "pipe" on the basis that they won't all want to use it at the same time. (Business services are usually 20:1 and therefore cost more.) However, you can get synchronous SDSL services that use the whole line and may have a contention ratio of 1:1. They are typically used by businesses that would otherwise have expensive leased lines.Many companies offer SDSL lines but, for example,PlusNetcharges £125 per month for a 256kbps line and £215 per month for 2Mbps. You need an SDSL modem, and the set-up fee is £350.
Superfast! Photo byehatch10son Flickr.Some rights reservedIs SEO - the dark art of "search engine optimisation", which usually means "Google search optimisation" - doomed following the introduction and continuing rollout of Google Instant on the planet's most-used search engine?But also of interest is the question of what happens to all those people buying AdWords - the little text ads that come up by search results, on the top and the right-hand side.SEO, if you don't know, is all about pushing your site further up the search results when people look for some collection of words or letters. There's a lot of "black hat" SEO (which involves things like stuffing the comments of blogs with links to your site, in the hope Google will think lots of bloggerslovethe pointed-to site) and there's "white-hat" stuff like many others do, which is simply trying to get yourself noticed by using the words that people are searching for prominently on your page.Reasons why you might think SEO is cooked are: Google Instant begins offering search results as soon as you start typing; the results are different for each individual (because it depends on your web history; you only get it if you're signed in to a Google account); and the results change as your query changes, whether longer or shorter (using AJAX, the same technology that preloads Google Maps and lets you slide them around).SEO experts have been pondering this themselves. Even with the introduction being just a few hours old, some reckon that the sky is falling. A key reason why: with Google Instant, if you pause for justthree secondswhile the search results are being displayed, this will count as an "impression".- which could have an effect on some pay-per-click advertisers.(Impressions are not the same as visits or clicks; see below.)Ateconsultancy, a number of SEO folk have offered their thoughts. Malcolm Coles of Digital Sparkle has an insightful version: "Some people are going to end up paying a lot more for PPC. If you start searching for Premier Inns, then when you get to premier you get lots of natural "premier" results (e.g. premier league) plus one PPC ad for Premier Inns. I guess lots of people will just click that rather than carry on typing. So some brands might want to be careful that they aren't bidding on terms that get triggered too soon in the process."Steve Rubel, who works in PR but has "digital insights",saysthat "what is really does is kill SEO": "Here's what this means: no two people will see the same web. Once a single search would do the trick - and everyone saw the same results. That's what made search engine optimization work. Now, with this, everyone is going to start tweaking their searches in real-time. The reason this is a game changer is feedback. When you get feedback, you change your behaviors."However at ReadWriteWeb, there'srather less gloom and doom."It seems to me that the top three rankings will get even more value," says Ian Lurie, President of Portent Interactive and blogger at Conversation Marketing. "Also, long-tail search is going to be more important, since folks can just keep typing until they see what they want."This slightly misses the point, I suspect. The top three results will be different for everyone, and certainly in different localities. And what you can't influence, via SEO, is what Google offers you for autocomplete.Matt Cutts of Google notes in apost on his own blogthat the effect on the "long tail" of results"The search results will remain the same for a query, but it's possible that people will learn to search differently over time. For example, I was recently researching a congressperson. With Google Instant, it was more visible to me that this congressperson had proposed an energy plan, so I refined my search to learn more, and quickly found myself reading a post on the congressperson's blog that had been on page 2 of the search results."But what about AdWords? After all, that's part of the advertising engine that keeps Google running.Indeed Google itself iswarning, on its Analytics blog, that "With this change, you might notice some fluctuations in AdWords impression volume and in the distribution of organic keywords. For example, you may find that certain keywords receive significantly more or fewer impressions moving forward." Plus,webmasters will see more "impressions"- because Google Analytics will count it as an "impression" if a sitesimply appears in the search results for 3 seconds.; there's no need for someone to actually click on the result. That is obviously going to mean some disagreement between logfiles and Google Analytics over how many people have actually gone to a site.Google defines an "impression" as an occasion when a site appears in the displayed search results - not a visit to the site.Over on theGoogle Inside AdWords blog, it explains that "Although Google Instant doesn't change the way ads are served, ads and search results will now be shown based on the "predicted search." For example, if someone types "flow" into Google.com, our algorithms predict that the user is searching for "flowers" (the predicted search) and therefore display both search results and ads for "flowers". However, if that user then adds the letter "c" to the query, our algorithms may predict that the user is searching for "flowchart" and show the corresponding natural and paid results for flowchart."But note the rather cautious words here for the advertisers: "It's possible that this feature may increase or decrease your overall impression levels." In other words, even Google isn't sure how its latest invention is going to affect AdWords exactly. Not surprising, though, because it's a huge change.But, they add: "However, Google Instant may ultimately improve the quality of your clicks since it helps users type queries that more directly connect them with the answers they need." That's a fair amount of maybes in there.Indeed Andrew Girdwood of BigMouthMedia tells econsultancy: "Search marketers should now understand the importance of the three second delay, the return key press and the implied impression and how this will affect CTR [click through rates]. They'll have to check target keywords to see whether there is an interstitial search on the way that has a particularly compelling Universal Search result, at least compelling enough to cause the searcher to delay three or so seconds to study it."The proof of the pudding won't be in the searching - it will be in the effect on AdWords buyers, and what they have to do. There's going to be a hell of a scramble in the next few months; Google has thrown a huge rock into the never-too-calm pool of search engine optimisation (it's often overlooked that it tweaks the algorithms for the Google search results all the time, on average once or twice a day).There is one get-out clause though: Google Instant only works if you're signed in to an account. And if only works if you're accessing Google through the search box on its home page. That means that a sizeable percentage - it's impossible to know how much - of its billion-odd queries a day won't need it and won't get it. For SEO folk, that news must be reassuring. Now they need to know what proportion of people do and don't get it. How they find that out... will be interesting to watch.Of this you can be sure though: if Google Instant screws up AdWords revenue, it will be out in the cold faster than you can say Google Buzz.
The ailing social network Bebo has hired Kevin Bachus, the co-creator of Microsoft's Xbox games console, as it shows the first growth in user numbers in the UK in almost a year.Criterion Capital Partners,the private equity firm that acquired Bebo for a fraction of the $850m (£702m) AOL paid for it in March 2008, has appointed Bachus to the role of chief product officer.Bachus was one of four Microsoft executives who came up with the idea for Xbox, which was launched in 2001 to take on rivals such as the Sony PlayStation, and Bebo hopes to tap into his extensive experience in software and entertainment.Criterion acquired Bebo in June,in a deal rumoured to be worth less than $10m, and will be cheered to see traffic figures showing that there has been a turnaround in the site's UK and global user numbers in its first month of ownership.Bebo reported 3.4 million UK unique users in July, a 35% month-on-month increase, and boosted its worldwide audience figure by 19% to 10.8 million, according to the most recent figures from research company ComScore.This ends a steady decline in UK unique users since September last year. Globally user numbers have been in decline pretty consistently for the last year, except for a one-off month-on-month increase in February, until the most recent figures for July.However, to put this in perspective, Bebo had more than 20 million users globally, with about 10 million in the UK, a little over a year ago.The Criterion chief executive, Adam Levin, has been on a mission to bring in senior executives to lead a turnaround of the business.Recent hires include Akash Garg, a co-founder of social network hi5, as chief technology officer; and Aren Sandersen, a former executive at online marketplace Oodle, as vice president of operations.Levin said that under Criterion's stewardship Bebo has increased revenues and lowered costs. Bebo UK'smost recent financial figures show that post-tax profits plunged 143% year-on-year in the 12 months to the end of May 2009 to a loss of £1.1m.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
It looks like you're giving a presentation. Photo bymedigirolon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamStrategic Content Management &gt;&gt; A List ApartAn exhaustive explanation about how and why to choose various CMSs. (Thanks @wtfcuk.)How I Made Clippy Lovable &gt;&gt; GizmodoProfessor Clifford Nass: "To stop Clippy's annoying habits or to have him learn about his users would have required advanced artificial-intelligence technology, resulting in a great deal of design and development time. To show Microsoft how a small change could make him popular, I needed an easier solution. I searched through the social science literature to find simple tactics that unpopular people use to make friends."Hackers exploit new PDF zero-day bug, warns Adobe &gt;&gt; ComputerworldOH HAI ADOBE READER AND ACROBAT EXPLOITTablets killed Smartbooks says Qualcomm CEO &gt;&gt; SlashGearSeems a bit premature to declare netbooks dead, though. But: tablets have the battery life, says Paul Jacobs of Qualcomm.CHART OF THE DAY: What If Microsoft Had Invented The iPhone &gt;&gt; Business InsiderAdd the market value Apple gained from the iPhone to that of Microsoft. Simples. And big.Kurrently - A real-time search engine for Facebook and TwitterInteresting: real-time, auto-updating search only of Facebook and Twitter.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's easy to mock academic videogame studies. A recentDigital Games  Research Associationconference  included papers on "the fan-fictional worlds of Tetris" and "text analysis of quests in an MMORPG".But consider this: games are the largest entertainment industry in  the world. Studies have shown that  children value their computers and computer games far more highly than TV programmes or books. Games are  a huge part of our culture: surely  precisely what academics should study. I askedDr Ewan Kirkland, senior  lecturer in media and culture at Brighton University, exactly what games academics look at. "One  important area is what games do that is different from other artistic media. How do they produce an emotional effect?" The gameSilent Hill 2convinced  Kirkland that games were worth studying. "It's deeply psychological. At the end of the game, you have to commit a crime which reproduces the deed your character has been trying to forget throughout the game. It's about love, loss and guilt, with a disturbing sense of complicity. That fascinated me."Are all games worth studying?  Kirkland says yes: "All games come from our culture. They reflect issues from gender politics to human relationships with technology, and they also inform culture. InBioshock, human mutation is the extreme consequence of unbridled capitalism and scientific experimentation.Grand Theft Auto, like many gangster films, is a critical  reflection on the American Dream."Games academia is now where  film academia was 30 or 40 years ago: not something "serious" departments indulge in. But as games continue to grow, that's certain to change.
So, West Midlands Police has a tweeting CSI dog.Smithy, a two-year-old black labrador "trained to find blood and human remains" passes on such gems as "back home soaking wet coat . . . dinner and a nice warm kennel".He may need to step up his act if he's going to compete with the undisputed king of the Twitter jungle.Sockington, a grey-and-white cat who lives in the town of Waltham, Massachusetts, has notched up more than 1.5m followers – Smithy could only boast 316 by lunchtime yesterday. It helps that Sockington is a prolific tweeter with his own website; you can even buy the T-shirt. His owner, Jason Scott, a 39-year-old computer administrator and historian, has also hinted there's a book in the pipeline. Just so you know what you've been missing, here's a tweet he made earlier: "CAN'T REALLY COMPLAIN ABOUT THIS COUCH wait I'm a cat HEY WHAT'S  UP WITH  THE HALF-SIZE COUCH WITH NO INLAID FOOD BOWL."
Google unveiled a new version of its search engine on Wednesday night: Google Instant, which produces results before you have finished typing and offers suggestions for what you wanted to look for.Marissa Mayer, the company's vice president of search and user experience, said that until now, each search typically lasts 25 seconds - 9 seconds of typing, 1 second in which the query reaches Google, is processed and sent back, and 15 seconds during which the user considers which search result to click on.But with Google Instant the average search will be shortened by two to five seconds per query - which, given the billions of people who use the service every week, would mean 11 hours of searching savedevery second.The service began being rolled out to users in the US, UK, France, Germany, Spain, Italy and Russia on Wednesday evening.However, like the playful logos shown off by the company over the past two days - on Tuesday aset of animated ballswhich evaded the cursor, and on Wednesday agrey logo which changed colour as you typed- the new system will only be available on modern browsers: Microsoft's Internet Explorer 8, Firefox 3, Google's own Chrome, and Apple's Safari. You will also have to be signed in to a Google account to get the results.Older browsers, and users who are not signed in, will not see the auto-completing results.Mayer acknowledged that the idea that the search engine might know what you're looking for before you finish asking it - in fact, which will begin offering results as soon as you type a letter - seems so bizarre that 10 years ago it was the subject of an April Fools' Joke by a large company. The company in question? Google."In 2000 we thought the idea of being able to search before you typed was so weird we made it our April Fools joke," Mayer, one of Google's longest-standing employees, noted. "Just 10 years later we're seeing that it's actually possible."Users who begin typing will be able to get completed words from a single letter by hitting the tab key, or choosing from a list that will be presented as they type. The letter "w" begins a search which includes "weather" - one of the most common searches.Mayer showed it off by typing "SFmoma wom" and was presented with a result for the painting "woman with a hat" at the museum - without hitting the return button. "The results are just streamed straight to you without you hitting the return key."She added: "We're really excited about what Google Instant means for search - faster search, and providing results in real time before you've even had the opportunity to type your query."But the impact could be dramatic on another group who have previously relied heavily on Google's old search results page. "Search engine optimisation" (SEO) experts have built a gigantic business from analysing what results appear for a particular set query, especially to Google.However the new system, with its live updates of queries, means that it will be more difficult for SEO analysts to work out which results will do well from which query, because the results will keep changing as the user types. It will also be harder to examine the results mechanically.The update also poses a challenge to Microsoft's Bing search engine, which has been very gradually growing its proportion of total search engine traffic - though it has now taken over providing the search results for Yahoo, meaning that itcan claim 25% of US search traffic. Bing is struggling to generate profits for Microsoft: analysis of its results suggest it is spending roughly as much money as it is generating.Danny Sullivan of Searchengineland, who monitors developments at Google and other search engines,commentedthat the requirement to be signed in "is sending up my alarms, because is this also just part of monitoring more?"Google's chief executive Eric Schmidtsuggested in an interview in Augustthat "As you go from the search box [to the next phase of Google], you really want to go from syntax to semantics, from what you typed to what you meant."In ablogpost, Mayer said that the capability will be rolled out to more countries and other platforms in the coming months.
After teasing millions on Tuesday by turning its logo into a swirl of balls that would avoid their mouse, Google on Wednesday seemed to go the other way - offering a plain grey logo which only changes colour to the normal blue, red, yellow, blue, green and red once the user starts typing.Experienced Google-watchers believe that the change of logo– and of the "favicon" which appears in the address bar where the web address appears from a "G" to a tiny globe when viewed with Google's Chrome browser (though not others) –points towards changes that the search giant is due to announce in San Francisco later.Among the expected announcements are more search results per page, "live streaming" results which will update as people type, and changes which may make it harder for people to fool its indexing system and push undeserving pages higher.On Tuesday Google was evasive – rather like its logo – about the purpose of the "bubbles" version, saying only that it is "fast, fun and interactive, just the way we think search should be."The "Grey Wednesday" logo is also interactive, which hints that Google is going to change the way it organises its search results. It has already experimented with self-updating results, which change the order of results as people type their search query, using a technology called Ajax which is more commonly seen on its Google Maps page: there, it dynamically updates the page as the map is moved around or the user zooms in and out.The search results pages already incorporate Ajax technology in the left-hand column, where you can choose form results including "Everything", "News" and "More" - the latter offering an Ajax-style dynamic update when clicked.As "A Googler" suggested on Twitter, the "boisterous" doodle of Tuesday might indicate that it's "excited about the week ahead".The announcement at the Museum of Modern Art (MOMA) in San Francisco will include high-level speakers including Marissa Mayer, the Vice President of Search Products &amp; User Experience, the Director of Product Management Johanna Wrigh, the "Distinguished Engineer" Ben Gomes, and Google Senior Staff Software Engineer Othar Hansson.Mayer in particular has been outspoken about Google's intention to push real-time search: in aninterview with The Guardian last yearshe noted:""We think the real-time search is incredibly important and the real-time data that's coming online can be super-useful in terms of us finding out something like, you know, is this conference today any good? Is it warmer in San Francisco than it is in Silicon Valley? You can actually look at tweets and see those sorts of patterns, so there's a lot of useful information about real time and your actions that we think ultimately will reinvent search.""However, the use of Ajax for Google results will be limited to modern browsers; it won't work older browsers such as Microsoft's Internet Explorer 6, which despite being a decade old is still widely used in corporations and organisations, including the National Health Service. Users of Internet Explorer 6 were unable to see the animated Google of Tuesday, or today's "colouring" logo.That means though that people who use Google on newer browsers - including more recent versions of Internet Explorer, the Firefox browser, Google's Chrome and Apple's Safari - at home may be disappointed when they get different results at work. That may work in Google's favour as it tries to push its Chrome browser into greater visibility with organisations.(Deleted reference to favicon: in Chrome the globe symbol indicates a link on the web, while the favicon is shown in the tab. Thanks to Brian Butterworth for pointing this out.
Trivial Pursuit is launching an interactive version on YouTube that invites the public to play against the stars of some much-watched web videos.YouTube has corralled more than a dozen stars of its site - includingGary Brolsma, the Numa Numa kid, who has clocked up more than a billion views and has an entire viral video chart devoted to his 2004 miming hit, andTay Zonday, the Chocolate Rain guy- in a promotion to launch the latest version of the 100m-plus selling board game.To promote the new board game, called Trivial Pursuit: Bet You Know It, members of the public are being given the chance to play against the YouTube "team" in an interactive version of the game dubbed You versus YouTube.The new Trivial Pursuit game introduces a cash-free betting element where players take a punt on whether or not their opponent will answer a specific question correctly. In the online version, members of the public collect chips by answering three questions. They then use the chips to bet on whether a YouTube star will answer the next question correctly or not.If players bet correctly, the points go to the global world team, and if they don't YouTube notches up points.To promote the new board game and the online interactive spin-off competition, Trivial Pursuit is taking over of the advertising space on YouTube homepages in a host of international territories tomorrow.Trivial Pursuit was invented in 1979 by Chris Haney and Scott Abbott and launched in 1981. The game went on to sell more than 100m copies, generating more than $1bn (£785m). Hasbro bought the rights to Trivial Pursuit in 2008 for $80m.Haney died in June this year.•To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.•If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Join Aleks Krotoski, Keith Stuart and GameBrief.com's Nicholas Lovell on Tech Weekly for a games special.The panel bring you the latest on the 13-year struggle to take Duke Nukem Forever from idea to release – is a mysogynistic, two-dimensional games character relevant in today's more mature gaming culture? There's also a round-up of the headlines from the Edinburgh Interactive Festival: is 3D a gimmick, and is the games industry suffering from a post-modern identity crisis? And the team look back at 2010 with their business analysis of the UK games industry.Also on this week's show, Jack Arnott speaks with Stephane Gravel, producer at Beenox, who are responsible for the mutli-layered universe in the latest adventure for Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
Following a stack of Microsoft press releases proclaiming Halo: Reach to be the "biggest game of 2010" it was interesting to get one yesterday from the game that actually will be - COD: Black Ops. Actually Black Ops was only described as the most "anticipated launch of 2010" but clearly it will sell more than Halo: Reach. It may not be the better game though? More thoughts on that once I get a go on Reach. But anyway, Black Ops developers Treyarch have announced the voice talent for their upcoming shooter. Gary Oldman (Dracula, Dark Knight) and Ed Harris (Apollo 13, History of Violence) will be voicing the roles of the main characters. Script consultation will come from David Goyer (Dark Knights, Blade).  Mark Lamia, Studio Head of Treyarch said:Oldman, Harris and Goyer are considered some of Hollywood's finest talents and they perfectly complement Call of Duty: Black Ops' ambitious and immersive single player experience. Their contributions have helped us to push the boundaries of our story telling and character development far beyond anything we have ever attempted before in the franchise.Quite how much anticipation your average COD fan has for the "story telling and character development" is debatable. Surely it's all about the multiplayer right?What do you think though. Will Oldman and co make you more excited for Black Ops? Or will you be going straight into the multiplayer?
Here's Google's Doodle for tomorrow. Photo bydullhunkon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamO2 Android update bricks HTC Desire &gt;&gt; PC Pro"O2 has pulled an update to the latest version of Android after users reported it crashed their phones. The update to Android 2.2, dubbed Froyo, was rolled out yesterday to HTC Desires on the network, but almost immediately users reported problems." Argh.Visualizing How a Link Spreads Through the Twitterverse &gt;&gt; Hubspot"Using a combination of the Twitter API, the TweetMeme API and the Processing visualization library, I was able to graph the spread of a handful of popular links. In the TweetMaps below the circles represent each user who ReTweeted the link, they're bigger or smaller based on the number of followers they have. People who are following accounts that Tweeted the link before they did have lines drawn to the accounts they're following (and could have "caught" the link from)."We've linked to Processing previously. The pics are intriguing, though they mostly look like creatures from deep undersea.Google Bouncy Balls in SVG &gt;&gt; Robin BerjonThis time, in SVG. You getting it yet?Fake.app makes powerful Web automation easy &gt;&gt; TUAW.com"Fake, like [Apple's] Automator, offers an Actions library and allows you to create drag-and-drop workflows with Web-specific capabilities. Fill a form, click a button, follow links ... basically, you can automate anything that deals with HTML and DOM elements. You can even inject CSS and JavaScript into pages, which opens doors to extensive security testing, among other things..." Mac-only, but remarkable.How To Choose The Right Content Management System (CMS) &gt;&gt; Webdesigner DepotIncludes guides to choosing, threee to watch, the best five out there, and one to hate and avoid at all costs. See if you can guess which the one to avoid is.Nokia's fifth last chance &gt;&gt; Asymco"The less sensational but more accurate description of Nokia's predicament is that their strength in distribution prevents them from reforming their business model in order to benefit from the disruption that mobile broadband is bringing to mobile telecommunications."Update on Trackernet Feed &gt;&gt; London DataStoreTrackernet is what enabled the marvellous live Tube trains map by Matthew Somerville; it may take up to 8 weeks for the issues (principally about cost) to be sorted out, it seems.BlackBerry-Maker RIM's Stock Will Plummet To $36 &gt;&gt; Analyst"Another Wall Street analyst has given up on BlackBerry-maker Research In Motion (RIMM)."Adnaan Ahmad of Berenberg already rates RIM a SELL. And today he has slashed his price target from $55 to $36.."Kim Jong Il Bowls for Murdoch Dollars With Korea Video Games &gt;&gt; BloombergSurreal barely begins to describe it.Google's Bouncing Balls in HTML5 Canvas &gt;&gt; Rob HawkesAn HTML5 version (using the -canvas- tag) of the bouncing Google logo. Only works in HTML5/CSS3-capable browsers. Tell us your browser and whether it works..."Ultimate" Arduino Doorbell – part 1 (Hardware) &gt;&gt; Psychic OrigamiIsyourdoorbell on Twitter?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Today the Council for Industry and Higher Education's taskforce for the creative, digital and information technology industries releases its report, The Fuse: Igniting High Growth for Creative, Digital and Information Technology Industries in the UK. The CDIT industries are a vital part of the UK economy. Not only are they significant businesses and world-beaters, their fusion with the rest of UK industry underpins our future economic success. We believe that the CDIT industries should be a national priority, alongside traditional engineering, science and manufacturing, if we are to ensure our place in a fast-growing, multitrillion-dollar, global market.To compete, these industries require a clear and sophisticated policy focus by government, the development of the right interdisciplinary skills in higher education, and strong ties between business, universities and government. Global experience demonstrates that when these relationships are correctly aligned they create powerful innovation ecosystems, but when they are unaligned, growth stalls or fails to ignite.To support this growth, universities must embrace, and be rewarded for, the development of new interdisciplinary skills and research fundamental to the success of CDIT businesses. Leaders in these businesses must work with universities systematically to contribute to the development of CDIT courses, and to ensure a broad range of business "touch points" for students. Furthermore, the ICT curriculum in schools must be radically overhauled to prepare children for the digital 21st century, with relevant tools in education and for the new world of work. We must act now, or risk being left behind in the global digital revolution.Professor Christopher SnowdenVice-chancellorand chief executive, University of Surrey,Rona FairheadChairman and CEO, Financial Times GroupVice-chairs, CDIT industries task forceDr David DochertyCEO, CIHE, Chair of Digital TV Group,and 12 others
We've hadChatRoulette, and then its much more fabulous successorGuardianRoulette(and Daniel Vydra, who did the Guardian one, also created one for those arrivistes, theNew York Times).And now for your viewing pleasure we bring youStreetViewRoulette: taking you randomly anywhere in the world.Joe McMichael, its inventor, calls it "Globe Genie", but we all know what it's really about. The principle is very simple: go to the page, choose how many continents (excluding South America and Antarctica - Street View has yet to get there, apparently) you want to be included in the shuffle, press "Shuffle" and lean back.McMichael is (according to his bio) "a first-year graduate student studying electrical engineering in the MIT Research Laboratory of Electronics". Judging by the time the relevant folders were last updated, Globe Genie went online on 24 August (we've emailed him for clarification).Meanwhile, enjoy...Update:you wonder how it works? Chris Applegatehas a guess: "I think it basically picks random lat/lng then sees if it can get Streetview there - remember a lot of the world doesn't have roads." (He adds: " If you want a huge amount of lag - try selecting Africa only".) We'll see if he's right. What's your guess?Update 2:McMichael emailed back, and indeed Chris Applegate has it right: "Globe Genie generates random latitude and longitude coordinates within several pre-specified rectangles around regions that have Street View imagery.  It then queries Google's servers to determine whether the point is valid.  If not, it repeats this process until it finds a valid location."
Google will launch its Google TV service, which it intends will bring the web to TV screens, in the US this autumn and around the world next year, its chief executive, Eric Schmidt, said today.In its sights will be a slice of the £117bn global TV advertising market – which it will want to add to its online advertising revenues, which totalled $22.9bn (£14.94bn) in 2009.The announcement, just a week after Apple's chief executive, Steve Jobs, unveiled a miniaturised version of his Apple TV, which lets people rent films and TV shows, and stream content from YouTube, shows that the television set has become the new battleground for the two companies, which are also competing for market share in the smartphone and tablet computer markets.On the latter topic, Schmidt told the closing session of the IFA consumer electronics show in Berlin that Google will announce partnerships later this year with computer companies making tablet computers rivalling Apple's iPad, and that they will use Google's new Chrome operating system for computers rather than its Android product, which has been used so far on smartphones and a slew of tablet computers announced at the IFA show.Schmidt said the Google TV service, which would allow full internet browsing via the television, would be free, and that Google would work with a variety of programme makers and electronics manufacturers to bring it to consumers.But Google does not envisage becoming a programme producer in its own right, as that does not fit its model – which is to use other people's content rather than to create its own. The only content that Google produces itself is Street View, which has been the source of a number of privacy complaints in various countries."We will work with content providers but it is very unlikely that we will get into actual content production," Schmidt told journalists after his speech.Google TV will consist of software written by Google embedded into hardware made by other companies: in the US, Schmidt said, it will launch on three products – an HDTV set and a Blu-ray player from Sony, and a set-top box from Logitech. Google will also run a marketplace for small apps to run on Google TV. The content will use Adobe's Flash Player, used on video sites such as YouTube and Vimeo. Demonstrations of the TV at the show suggested that it will look like a simplified computer interface, with widgets offering information about the weather, time and calendar, but also with links to web browsers, Facebook, email and YouTube.However, there is still doubt about how easy it will be to integrate content intended for viewing on a computer with that for a TV set. Google's own guide for developers says that "all input devices for Google TV will have QWERTY keyboards" but adds that "users needs interactions that are fast and easy to do – at a distance, with one hand, in the dark." It also hints that people may be able to control the screen via a mouse, but admits that "mouse control is difficult" on a TV set that is on the other side of the room from the user.
For its 12th birthday, the Google logo shows off what programmers can do with a few lines of code, in the latest of its long line of attention-getting "doodles". The logo on Google's homepage is made out of a set of bouncing "balls" that swirl around the page in modern browsers such as its own Chrome, Firefox, Apple's Safari and some versions of Opera – but not in older versions of Microsoft's Internet Explorer (though the most recent version, IE8, does).Google officially opened its doors – or rather door – 12 years ago in Menlo Park California. As the company history explains:"On September 7, 1998, Google Inc. opened its door in Menlo Park, California. The door came with a remote control, as it was attached to the garage of a friend who sublet space to the new corporation's staff of three. The office offered several big advantages, including a washer and dryer and a hot tub. It also provided a parking space for the first employee hired by the new company: Craig Silverstein, now Google's director of technology."Already Google.com, still in beta, was answering 10,000 search queries each day. The press began to take notice of the upstart website with the relevant search results, and articles extolling Google appeared in USA TODAY and Le Monde. That December, PC Magazine named Google one of its Top 100 Web Sites and Search Engines for 1998. Google was moving up in the world"But rather than looking back, Google's doodle today looks ahead to the next version of the computer code that delineates the web. The doodle actually consists of lots of pieces of a web page, each using a modern form of web coding called CSS3 – "Cascading Style Sheet" elements. Each circle is actually an element called a "div" – an element into which the page is divided – which contains an instruction in its associated piece of CSS3 to make it circular rather than square or rectangular. The code also contains instructions so that if the cursor is moved near to any of the "bubbles", they try to move away.Programmers around the web quickly reverse-engineered the code, andposted it online.In the past Google's doodles have celebrated the anniversaries of theWizard of Ozand ofPopeye, not to mentionQueen Elizabeth II.The aim of the logo seems to be to draw attention to the importance of CSS3, an emerging standard which is being developed as the next version of the web language HTML, called HTML5, is being ratified by the World Wide Web Consortium,Google has been eager to push HTML5 and CSS3, and its Chrome browser, because it offers many more possibilities in the design of web pages, which could be more interactive with less effort by designers. It has produced HTML5 versions of its video site YouTube so that they will be more mobile-friendly for people whose smartphones cannot cope with Adobe Flash content, usually used for video content on desktop computers.HTML5 and CSS3 have the capability to do many of the fiunctions presently carried out by Adobe Flash, which has led Steve Jobs at Apple to champion HTML5 as an open standard rather than a proprietary one owned and controlled by Adobe; that in turn has led to angry divisions in the technology world over the benefits of Flash.Much of the reaction to the new doodle was positive: rather like the occasion when it created a fully functional copy of the arcade game Pac-Man (which isstill functional, people have found the bubbles an entertainment rather than an annoyance.The doodle wasn't loved by all. Louise Bolotincommented on Twitter: "I hate today's Google doodle. Those balls are a nightmare for those with visual problems" – a point not always borne in mind when designing sites which have a lot of what you might call moving parts.Browsershots.org has screenshots of the sitetaken today on a wide range of browsers – indicating which ones do and do not display the "bubbles".Update:though the logo has gone, you can now see it doneusing HTML5 (with the -canvas- tag)(by Rob Hawkes) andin SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics)(by Robin Berjon). Both will require modern versions of browsers. And finally,here's the Flash version. Let us know what the CPU usage is like.
Released on 15th September,Playstation Moveis Sony's entry into the Wii-fuelled motion control gaming market.  I've been playing with the final kit for the last couple of weeks and there is no doubt Move is streets ahead of the Wii in terms of control and accuracy. What it currently lacks though is a compelling reason for gamers to go and buy it on day one.  Sports Champions (Wii Sports essentially) and Start the Party (mini-games) have their moments but neither really do the hardware justice.Talking of the hardware, setting up Move is easy. Simply place the camera near the TV and watch it pick up the glowing orb at the end of your Wiimote like controller. The Move controller itself is sleek and comfortable to hold but it's the glowing orb at the end of the controller that will cause most comment. If the "grab and squash it" reaction of my two year old son is anything to go by you may want to keep the controller away from the little'uns.  For older gamers though the controller is a good fit. More experienced Playstation gamers will have to make a slight mental adjustment though, as the standard face buttons (circle, triangle, x, square) are arranged here in a square. Luckily then most of the time you will be using the large "Move" button and trigger that will make Wii fans feel right at home.So what about the launch titles then? First up isSports Champions- basically Wii Sports for Move. What it lacks in charm it makes up for in more precise control – Move really does do the closest to 1:1 seen so far. Table Tennis is the best example of this. Move picks up subtle wrist tilts and with practice you can pull of fabulous top and back spins. Unlike tennis on Wii Sports you need to do more than just get your timing right. Table Tennis on Sports Champions really demands some skill – there are no flukey wins on the higher difficulty levels.The other success on SC is Archery. When you start the event it says you need to be 8ft away from the screen. That wasn't an option for me and – unless you live in a loft style apartment – probably not you either.  Luckily then the archery was playable from closer. Compared to the Wii (with motion plus) version of archery the Move's felt more complex and subtle. If you have two Move controllers you literally need to reach over your shoulder to pull an arrow from the quiver.  You then need to hold a proper archery pose and prepare yourself for arm ache as well as satisfaction when you get it right.  Like Table Tennis you can actually see yourself playing this for a while.Sadly the other events on Sports Champions are less convincing.  Beach Volleyball in particular is mess - especially when playing multiplayer. The lack of player control is the biggest issue, with input mainly limited to basic serves and smashes. You'll need a large amount of playing area if trying to play multiplayer too.Gladiator Duel is a better – yet short term - thrill that points to how Move could be used in a full size action game. Using one controller to thrust your sword and the other to shield parry you can soon imagine you are "in" a Zelda game. Sadly playing for anything over 20 minutes – depending on your fitness – does get tiring. However, the standard beat-em-up progression doesn't really encourage long-term play anyway. More concerning was the occasional missed thrust or parry when I was hacking away like a pro. Generally though the controls worked well and once you got used to the parrying there are some surprisingly challenging bouts to be had.Disc Golf works surprisingly well too. Move captures very subtle wrist flicks and after a bit of practice you can easily angle the Frisbee towards the cage-like "hole". Serious golfers will want to use Move with Tiger Woods 2011 but Disc Golf is one of the better events on Sports Champions.Last up was Bocce.  I found it overcomplicated and fiddly with seemingly no real correlation to your movements. Fans of the sport may get something from this but don't expect any Wii Sports bowling style easy entertainment here.Overall Sports Champions looks visually underwhelming. Yes, it compares well to the Wii but you would expect far more from the PS3. The characters in Sports Champions lack the charm of Nintendo's Miis too. Then there is the price. 29.99UKP for 6 events is expensive, while the need to recalibrate the controller between each event quickly dulls any competitive momentum.  However, as an expensive showcase of Move, Sports Champions does basically work. While the pick up and play element is often lacking in Sports Champions – there always seems to be an extra button that needs pressing – the long term potential seems greater than Wii Sports.  This is especially true in single player, with Sports Champions actually rewarding solo play and practice.The other release title I've been trying is Start the Party. With a title like that you wouldn't expect an in-depth strategy game but the lack of depth here is worrying.  Start the Party is basically a mixture of Eyetoy-style mini games and is clearly aimed at the family market. Hardcore gamers won't be too fussed about waving wobbly foam hands around but the kids will love it. Well, at least for a while anyway. A lot of the mini-games included feel like very short-term treats, especially as all games are "pass the controller" multiplayer only. Yes, no simultaneous multiplayer here.Whacking bugs or colouring-in on the screen is unlikely to appeal to more than the very young once the initial novelty has worn off.  A mini-game that sees you guide falling birds into their nest – by using a virtual fan – is the pick of the bunch. Unlike Sports Champions, Start the Party doesn't really reward practice or repeat play and is clearly one for the Christmas afternoon/post pub environment at best. The only similarity to Champions is a similar lack of visual charm. Fun in (very) short doses then, but Start the Party is probably more relevant as a pointer to where AR (augmented reality) style gaming could be going.More serious gamers will be waiting to see how Move works with core titles like SOCOM 4 and Killzone 3. Early indications suggest a Wii-like use of the navigation controller (nunchuck on Wii) and the Move controller to look and aim. Unless this offers a real advantage – unlikely, to be honest – then Move will work best on games and genres specifically designed for it.The launch titles are underwhelming then but one thing is obvious very quickly - playing with Move makes it very hard to go back to the relative inaccuracy of the Wii. There is no doubt that Move is a big step up from Wii and the Motion Plus addon in terms of response and control. The tactile feedback from actually holding a controller will also likely make it an easier sell than the hands-free Kinect for Xbox 360.  Give it a few months for developers to work out how best to use it and Move could end up being an as essential as the Dualshock controller for the Playstation 3.What do you think then? Planning on picking up Move on release?Move prices (RRPs):The PlayStation Move Pack (PlayStation Move controller, Eye camera and the starter disk)£49.99PlayStation Move controller -£34.99PlayStation Eye camera -£24.99PlayStation sub-controller (similar to Wii nunchuck)-£24.99Sports Champions -£29.99Start the Party -£29.99
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Windows Vista. Remember that? Photo byeverdredon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWindows Live: Don't Live and Let Die &gt;&gt; Geeks With BlogsHis argument is that Microsoft doesn't update its products enough: "In general, Microsoft needs to heed the messaging embedded in its own brands: Redmond's online strategy needs to be active and alive. It can't rest passively on its laurels and allow its momentum to die down." Arguably though the smallest department in Microsoft is the one which comes up with product names. And it's not a centre of excellence.Introducing OpenCharities: Opening up the Charities Register &gt;&gt; countcultureChris Taggart, the developer behind OpenlyLocal.com, thought there should be data about charities: "OK, so it seems as though they have no intention of making this data available anytime soon (I actually don't buy that there are Intellectual Property or Data Privacy issues with making basic information about charities available, and if there really are this needs to be changed, pronto), so time for some screen-scraping. Turns out it's a pretty difficult website to scrape, because it requires both cookies and javascript to work properly." But he managed it.Android accounts for one-quarter of mobile web traffic, says Quantcast &gt;&gt; Engadget"..if you're inclined to believe that Android is mopping up Apple and RIM's declining mobile mindshare in the US, you'll find nothing but corroboration from Quantcast. The analytics firm reckons a full one-quarter of mobile web traffic stateside comes from devices running Google's OS, though it's important to know that the iOS tallies apparently don't include the web-friendly iPad." Anyone know what proportion of mobile traffic the US is?Javascript chess program in 1024 bytes &gt;&gt; JS1KPretty good for its size.Hidden Features of PHP &gt;&gt; Stack Overflow"This didn't really start as a hidden features of PHP topic, but thats what it ended up as, so go nuts."Browsing TfL timetable data TransXchange objects &gt;&gt; Placr NewsAin't gonna be so trivial. Then again, there's a tube strike to give you more time to work on them..You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
