&bull;Google, which continued its social tear yesterday bybuying search service Aardvark, has already started responding to critics of Buzz (specifically critics of its privacy settings)by making some changes. It should become easier not to parade your 'friends' publicly (though it's still the default setting), and the company'spromised to make more changes soon.&bull;Macworld 2010is in full swing, but the questions are starting to fly aboutwhether it can survive without Apple's presence. Film auteur and supergeekKevin Smith was in attendance, and the New York Times gadget reviewer/impresarioimpressed, but it's still unclear whether the show can hit the high notes again.&bull; If you haven't looked at Microsoft'sPhotosynth before-it's a system for stitching together pictures into a credible 3D portrait- then get ready. The company is now incorporating Photosynth into Bing Maps' street level viewer, but cleverly it pulls in geotagged pictures fromFlickrto build better, updating viewpoints.This YouTube video shows that it's pretty impressive stuff.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
You've Googled those facts, you've updated your status on Facebook, you've uploaded your pictures to Flickr, and you've tweeted about it on Twitter. But now Google would like you to head back its way and join in the Buzz.Attached to Google's Gmail webmail service, Buzz allows you to have short, or very long, text chats with people who are also owners of Google accounts. The company's executives describe it as the "poster child" for Google's future: a social networking structure that automatically finds people to connect with you.However, critics claim Buzz looks more like an attempt to catch up with Facebook and Twitter, which are vying for internet users' attention, than any solution to actual problems facing Google users.There are also privacy concerns that it could distribute details about people contacted by email.Launched at Google's headquarters, Mountain View, California, on Tuesday, Buzz has now been rolled out to all of Gmail's 150 million users worldwide, though not yet to those using Gmail inside organisations, where it is expected to arrive next month. Buzz creates a "social circle" of people to whom you are "connected", through having emailed them or  visited their profile page. It lets you post comments, pictures and videos.During internal testing it was known as Taco Town, and proved popular for sharing high-definition videos, said Hugo Barra, a product manager. "Google is really good at sorting information," he said. "That's what we intend to do with social information as well."It is claimed Buzz could become an aggregator for sites, as Google is now for news. Presently, however, it only works on a few phones: Apple's iPhone, and the latest Google Nexus.Bradley Horowitz, Google vice-­president of product marketing, said: "We can wire this up many ways to other parts of Google, other parts of the internet."If Buzz were adopted by all of Gmail's existing users, it would slingshot past News' Corporation's MySpace to become the world's second-largest social network – behind Facebook, which now has more than 400 million users.Google has tried to build social networking systems before: Orkut, a Facebook-like site, launched in 2004 and successful in Brazil, and Jaiku, a Twitter-like system, acquired by Google in October 2007 but effectively abandoned by the company in January last year.Criticism of Buzz has been plentiful after its launch. "Now that I think I have figured out Buzz, I am underwhelmed. VERY underwhelmed," noted Ed Bott, a US-based technology writer. "The real problem with it is that it offers nothing that will make my life simpler, even if I'm already a happy Google customer."
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I've found that everyone around me has got one, and so I've had to submit, and I've found it a godsend … it's the iPhone.When was the last time you used it, and what for?This morning – I used it to check my emails.What additional features would you add if you could?I think the battery life is not very strong – I find that over the course of the day it just doesn't last and I have to find somewhere to charge it.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Technology moves so fast, I'd say probably. We may have a chip implanted in the back of our heads or something.What always frustrates you about technology in general?For me, when things go wrong and I don't know how to fix it.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?My first computer was a Commodore 64 – I'm showing my age – and that was an awful thing. But it was revolutionary.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Not being extremely technical, I would say keep the same password for everything. I'm always forgetting passwords.Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?In between, I think.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My Triumph Daytona 675 motorcycle.Mac or PC, and why?I have a PC, but I would prefer a Mac. I can see the difference by a long way. I just haven't got around to getting a Mac yet. But I will make the step up.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do both, but I do like to buy CDs and DVDs; I do like to have the physical object in my hand. The last thing I bought was Working on a Dream, by Bruce Springsteen – I'm a big Springsteen fan.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I'd like to maybe try the idea to confuse them – I'd find that quite amusing.What piece of technology would you most like to own?TheTron Legacymotorcycle, from the new Tron movie. If that was real, I'd want one – if I could afford it.•Peter Ferdinandostars in the British thriller Tony, which is now showing across the UK
Users ofTwitter Graderhave found themselves tweeting a message pointing to a link on seonix.org, a new site that was only registered on 11 February (that's today), after it was hacked.The text of the message: "Biz Stone Promoting Twitter in 2006 @ http://seonix.org/2010/02/11/biz-stone-promoting-twitter-in-2006/ #funny #crazy #twitter #1337". If it's in your Twitter stream,revoke Grader's permission to tweet to your stream- though it's possible it will make no difference. (To revoke an app, go to Twitter.com -&gt; Settings -&gt; Connections and click "Revoke access" down by the app's icon.)Rik Ferguson of Trend Micro notes on theCountermeasures blogthat Twitter Grader itself was hit, as was Dharmesh Shah, its founder.As Ferguson points out,"In what looks like another compromise related to Twitter services, a large number of Twitter users who have granted access to their accounts to the web service Grader.com have all begun tweeting a bizarre and unauthorised message."What Grader offers you: the chance to find out where you rank by some measure on Twitter. (Great idea in 2007, when the service was small and new; now, not so much.) The problem: it was hacked, and the hacker used its OAuth system - which is meant to make it difficult, nay impossible, for hackers to use a service in this way. Clearly, it didn't.Let's say this now:never give your Twitter username and password to any service that you wouldn't trust with your money as well.Though one would think that services using OAuth are safe, it seems they aren't.Hubspot, the owner of Grader, hasacknowledged the hack: "Apologies to everyone! It seems Twitter @Grader was hacked. We're currently working on a solution."What it will do about it is less clear. "Working on major issue causing some unauthorized user to tweet on behalf of Twitter Grader users. Sorry folks. We're on it," said another message.But what can it do? OAuthgrants access for a limited timeusing a credential-based system. But clearly in this case it failed.Update:Andrew McCallpoints outthat on Twitter, OAuth getsunlimited time access- although Twitter is looking to introduce a better system by June.Ferguson notes that"Seonix presumably refers to Search Engine Optimisation and perhaps that is the real purpose of this attack. Forcing large numbers of Twitter users to tweet a link to the site may well be an effective method of pushing it up the search engine rankings. The domain seonix.org was created on the 11th February 2010 and the details of the owner have been anonymised."The site itself is hosted in France.Ferguson adds that "if you are a Grader user, you may want to consider temporarily revoking Access to Grader in your Twitter profile." Sound advice. But it leaves Twitter, and other services, in an embarrassing place - again.Update:Dharmesh Shah of Hubspot hasbloggedabout the experience and the lessons. He thinks that "OAuth rocks" because "although the malicious user was able to post to people's twitter accounts, they never had access to the user's account credentials.  Given that many people use the same username/password on multiple websites, this could have been very dangerous.  But, OAuth ensured that the problem was much more contained."He also notes that "The application and associated keys were disabled as soon as we discovered there was a problem and as it stands, no additional action is needed for users.  Your username and password was NOT compromised -- but it's never a bad idea to change that periodically."Plus: "My sincere apologies to all the users that were harmed by this security breach.  This one really bothered me because all of you work hard to build trust, reputation and community on Twitter.  These malicious tweets went out to your followers and compromised that trust.  I really hate that I was responsible for that. Thanks so much for your patience."Until the next time...
You're browsing the online catalogue for Heine, the German interiors-and-­everything-else shop, when a "secretary table" catches your eye. The white one looks hideous, but there's abrown one– so you click the picture to see it in more detail. It looks nice, but there's something unsettling about the picture. The table looks fine, but the chair behind it somehow manages also to have a leg in front of the table. It's ­interior design, as done by MC Escher.Except this isn't the fine artwork  of Escher – it's lousy gruntwork by someone using Photoshop, the image ­manipulation program that turns 20 next Friday. The image is just one of  a whole stream that have been sent to the ­Photoshop Disastersblog since it started in March 2008. An eerily ­unreal,doll-like Ashlee Simpsongraced its first post.Photoshop has, like Google, transcended its origins in the world of ­computing, and become a verb. But whereas "to Google" is almost always used positively to express usefulness, Photoshopping is almost always a  term of abuse: "That picture was Photo­shopped" has become a shorthand way of saying it is untrustworthy and misleading (Adobe, the company that sells Photoshop,decries its use as a verb: "It must never be used as a common verb or a noun," it tuts. Too late.)Examples of its use, or misuse, are legion: a faked image of John Kerry  and Jane Fonda apparently sharing a platform at an anti-Vietnam war rally which dragged at Kerry's 2004 US presidential bid; a picture ofmissiles being fired at Lebanonby an Israeli jet which turned out to have been "tweaked"  by the photographer - the caption suggested that missiles were being fired, while the (single) item being let off by the plane was an anti-missile flare; Kate Winslet's legs magically elongating when she ­appeared on the front cover of the ­February 2003 edition of GQ.The defence put up by Dylan Jones, GQ's editor, of the Winslet images was telling. He said that her picture had been manipulated "no more than any other cover star", and that "practically every photo you see in a magazine  will have been digitally altered in this way . . . these pictures are not a million miles away from what she really looks like". In other words, that's not actually what she looks like. And, Jones is saying, we should be used to it by now.Altering images is certainly nothing new. The technique of "retouching" photos and fiddling with negatives has a long and inglorious history dating back to the 1860s, and one stirring ­picture of General Ulysses S Grant astride a horse in front of his troops at City Point, Virginia, during the American civil war. It turned out to be a compo­site of three pictures, in which the body isn't Grant's at all.Stalin's infamous purges also ­included photographic ones, of all the political figures who had fallen out of his favour. Visual trickery has peppered politics ever since: in 2007, the then ­culture secretary James Purnell was grafted into a picture of the opening  of a new hospital.But it was Photoshop that made ­altering images routine. It began ­circumspectly as a program written by Thomas Knoll, who, in the ­autumn of 1987, was doing in a PhD in computer vision but for fun wrote a program to display images with grey in them on a black-and-white monitor. Knoll called the program Display, writing it on his Mac Plus computer. Then his brother John, who worked at George Lucas's Industrial Light and Magic company, which did the visual effects for the Star Wars films, noticed its potential. They collaborated, bought a Macintosh II – capable of displaying colours! – and set to work; the program's name mutated until they hit on Photoshop.In September 1988, Adobe Systems signed a licence to distribute it – wisely, the Knolls took a royalties deal  that made them very rich. And on  19 February 1990, Photoshop 1.0 ­became available. At the time it fitted on to a single floppy disk – nowadays it takes a DVD – although it had, even then, fallen foul of piracy after the Knolls demonstrated it to some Apple engineers, who "shared" the demo disks that were left behind with a few hundred of their closest friends. Nowadays, Photoshop is reckoned to be one of the most pirated programs in the world, behind Microsoft's Windows. Its high price – around £560 – is indicative of the fact it has no real rivals.Photoshop quickly became embedded in computer culture. Apple would try to prove its computers were faster than those running Windows by holding "Photoshop bake-offs" during Steve Jobs's keynote ­addresses: a Windows machine and an Apple one would run through an ­automated process to tweak and ­manipulate an image in ­exactly the same way. Oddly enough, the Apple machine always won.Photoshop has even created its  own two-player sport, "layer tennis". The first player "serves" an image: the ­opponent then alters it and sends it back; the first player continues the process. Done in public, with commentary, it takes on its own strange allure.Do not, though, expect to join the ranks of elite players immediately. Seeing Photoshop running on a computer is like viewing the cockpit of a 747; what, you wonder, do all those buttons do? Many experts say they have taught themselves how to use it over a decade or more. Creative technology consultant ­Richard Elendescribes it as less like flying a plane, more like dealing with a huge house – some people never visit all the rooms. "I probably use 50%-70% of what the apps can do," Elen says. "There are ­features I seldom, if ever, use. Others I use all the time – clone tools, for instance [which copy an item inside an image] – and I think I'm fairly adept at them."Russell Quinn, a computer scientist and self-taught Photoshop user, says it's "akin to picking up a guitar for the first time. The whole world is there for the taking, but it's difficult to get started." He thinks two years is a reasonable timescale to get on top of it.Steve Caplin, who has done photomontages for the Guardian for 20 years, recalls his first use of the ­program:  "An illustration in Punch of the Queen. Photoshop was very much simpler then, but it had real power." He too has featured on the Photoshop Disasters blog – "A missing shoulder on the cover of my book, ironically called How to Cheat in ­Photoshop!" – and says he feels real sympathy for those who have run into trouble with the program."It's all too easy to overlook something that's then blindingly obvious when it's printed. It's just like spelling mistakes in print, really."• This article was amended on 12 February 2010. The original referred to a case where a photo of an Israeli jet firing one missile was "tweaked" to show more than one. The reference has been corrected because it was the photo caption that suggested missiles were being fired, while the projectile shown was an anti-missile flare.
Those of us who live and breathe technology often accuse the rest of the planet of being populated by spoonfed idiots who have problems comprehending their DVD player, let alone the way that technology is changing the world around them.Usually, our reactions are an overstatement - just a matter of a people needing a little more hi-tech literacy, and our anger borne from having to provide computer support to all manner of friends who haven't worked out that they should probably tryturning it off and on again.But sometimes your worst fears are given a real form - when you see the responseswhat is a browser, for example, or as shown by a little incident when the siteReadWriteWebwrote about Facebook....with hilarious consequences.Yesterday RWW wrote a post about how Facebook was partnering with AOL, in a way that would make the site's login procedure more powerful than ever before - headlining the story "Facebook wants to be your one true login".Suddenly, thanks to the magic of Google, that post became the most heavily-featured result for searches like "Facebook login" - which caused all kinds of confusion.It looks like a number of users clicked on the top result, expecting to be taken to Facebook's login page (also known as, erm,facebook.com) and instead being presented with this ENTIRELY DIFFERENT site.The post now has a comment thread of around 300 posts, many from disgruntled Facebook users who have clicked and can't work out what's happened to the site they know and love.assorted comments by Facebook users who did not realise they were on a different websiteWhile some of the comments are from jokers, many appear to be genuinely confused users. It's the sort of thing that makes you despair - when can't even work out they're not on the site they think they are, let alone understand that they could always reach Facebook by simply typing the address into the browser.But, lest we simply laugh at the failure of the great unwashed to get the web, let's take a couple of serious points away from the whole thing.First, it's a bit of a failure on Google's part. If Facebook users want to log in to the site, and Google's returning something thatisn'tFacebook's front page, then they're not delivering useful search results. That's not great for Google.Secondly, perhaps we should refigure our idea of how many people actually use the web in this way. While the confused commenters largely seem to be middle-aged non-web-literate people, that doesn't mean they're stupid - just ill-informed.As Matt Haughey, who runs community siteMetafilter,said: "Laugh all you want about ReadWriteWeb, but two weeks ago I watched a 35 year-old friend with a PhD go to Facebook by googling 'facebook login'."
Google has acquired search startupAardvarkin its latest attempt to improve its standing in the growing social search market.Aardark co-founder and CTO Damon Horowitz confirmed to the Guardian that "we have signed the deal" - but did not comment on the report from Silicon Valley news blog Techcrunch,which first broke the story, that put the value of the acquisition at $50m.The San Francisco-based company - which was founded in 2007 by a group of former Google employees - offers what it calls the chance to "tap the knowledge of people in your network" by matching a user's questions with friends and contacts who might be able to provide an expert answer.Users first link their account to other social networking sites, such as Facebook. When they type a query into the Aardvark search engine - such as "what is the best pizza in Brighton" - the system searches several degrees of friends, determines which individuals could provide the best answer and then contacts them to ask for their advice.While the system so far has only a user base in the thousands - and is reliant on growth to make itself more powerful - it has drawn rave reviews from many quarters for providing a more elegant, personalised solution to searching for information.If the reports of a $50m valuation are accurate, it marks an astonishing price to effectively secure a return to Google for the company's four founders - who had previously worked on products like AdSense and Google Suggest before leaving the search company.It will also provide a significant return for Aardvark's investors, who pumped nearly $6m into the company last year.Horowitz told the Guardian last month that the company was actively seeking new investment, and there had beenprevious rumoursthat Google was interested in acquiring the company.The deal marks the Californian internet giant's latest move to improve its standing in the social web, after a series of troubled attempts. Recently the company started including "social circle" results - including photographs, blog posts and other information drawn from a user's contacts - and earlier this weekannounced Google Buzz, a product that brings many elements of social networking into Gmail.While initial responses to Buzzwere largely negative, the company has made it clear that it is making its expansion into social networking and social search a priority.
The stationery firm Paperchase is under pressure to withdraw products featuring a design that resembles one created by an artist after her complaints went viral on Twitter  today.The artist, known as Hidden Eloise, accused Paperchase ofcopying one of her designson their  products, including books and bags.The company had ignored her claims, she said. But today thousands of Twitter users picked up on the story and within hours it was one of the top trending topics both in the UK and globally.The design in question features a young dark-haired girl. The artist claims it is a copy of her design, called He says he can hear the Forest whisper.She urged her followers on Twitter, and fellow artists, to bombard the company with emails. "[I]f you are any bit angry or frustrated with huge ancient vampires sucking the creative juice of indie artists, a simple email sent to them here might save me from having to raise $40,000 for court expenses!" she said.Paperchase said it had bought the design from a reputable outside agency in good faith, and was trying to get to the bottom of the issue, adding that it was "deeply concerned" about the allegations.In a statement on the company's website, it said: "We understand that many of you are visiting us today after hearing about the origin of one of our designs. We would like to make it clear that Paperchase bought the design in question in good faith from a reputable design studio. Paperchase is deeply concerned by the allegations and we will be looking into the matter further." A spokesman for the company said it could not confirm the name of the company involved.On herwebsitethe artist said that since she had called the company they had continued to place items with her design on sale. "I'm sure Paperchase think that there is nothing that can make them stop," she said.In an email she said she had created the artwork in around March 2008 and had sold it in on the craft website Etsy since then.A fellow seller had contacted her after noticing the girl figure on a Paperchase bag, she said. She contacted Paperchase in November 2009 and the company denied there was any plagiarism, and stated that the company it had bought the design from also denied infringement, she said."Paperchase said that the items in question were in short run and that they wouldn't be renewed after they run out," she said. But she later saw that they had been freshly listed, she said.She sought legal advice but found the prices prohibitive. "It was just too expensive to even start talking with any lawyers and the legal fees could break anyone with non-corporate pockets," she said.Despite fears about being sued for libel she decided to go public with her claim. "It was a difficult night yesterday but I am glad I took the decision to take a firm stand and speak out for something that is seen as self-evidently wrong by so many people," she said."The tweeter eruption that happened this morning is the warmest, kindest and most gentle affirmation that individual people care about each other and intuitively know what is right and what is wrong. And no court of law can take that away from me."Paperchase later confirmed that it had bought the design in October 2008, from a well-known London design studio, adding that it takes "all reasonable precautions" to check that designs are from reputable sources."Above all, we would like to apologise to any customers upset or angered by this allegation against us," said the statement."The illustrator who is making the allegation made us aware of her concerns in November 2009 and we duly responded to her in early December, since when we had heard nothing ... until today. Back in November 2009, we spoke at length to the design studio in question and they categorically denied any plagiarism."It added: "It is worrying that such an allegation can create such reaction and again, Paperchase apologises for any ill-feeling caused."The company joined Twitter today, under the name@FromPaperchase, to address concerns directly to the online community, tweeting:#Paperchasewould like to address your concerns about the origin of one of our purchased designs." It included a link to its statement on the website.
The video game BAFTAs take place in March. The awards, chosen by games industry types, are generally a fair barometer of mainstream gaming opinion. But will Modern Warfare 2 clean up like I expect it to in the only category voted for by the public? Yes, the GAME Award – guess who is sponsored by? – is the only category voted for by gamers. You can check out thenominations and vote here. But if you are feeling lazy the nominations are:Uncharted 2GTA: ChinaTown WarsBeatles Rock BandBatman Arkham AsylumModern Warfare 2FIFA 10Zelda Spirit TracksAssassin's Creed IIStreet Fighter IVWii Sports ResortWhat do you think then? Tempted to vote? And if so, what for?
As we're a video game blog it would probably be remiss of me not to mention this... In one of those conference calls to investors yesterday, Mike Griffiths, head of Activision Publishing, confirmed that a Call of Duty titleislined up for Christmas 2010, but wouldn't confirm the developer. (It's Treyarch.) While Modern Warfare 2 sold an impressive 12 million copies, the publisher is expecting arather more modestperformance for this year's outing.Also in the call (of duty), Griffiths confirmed that the company would be releasing a sequel to last year's maligned, Tony Hawk Ride, the motion controlled addition to the long-running skating series, which suffered due to a somewhat inaccurate interface.It seemsthis was all down to delays in optimising the hardware, which left less time to make the actual game. The development team is set to deliver a sequel by the end of the year.There's due to be less love for the Guitar Hero franchise though. Apparently, while 2008's Guitar Hero: World Tour shifted 3.4 million copies, last year's Guitar Hero 5 stalled at 996,000, surely not aided by plenty of competition from the Rock Band franchise. Consequently, there will be just 47 Guitar Hero titles released this year... No, I'm kidding, it's one. Plus DJ Hero 2.Activision is also lining up another James Bond game, StarCraft II, something with Spider-Man in, True Crime, Blur, Singularity and World of Warcraft: Cataclysm. No sign of Diablo III.So anyway, Call of Duty 7 - where and when on Earth will it be set?Someare opting for Vietnam,othersa fifties Cold War setting. Neither of those are particularly inspiring - 'Nam has been done to death (Battlefield Vietnam, Vietcong, Conflict Vietnam), but of course that never stopped anyone having a bash at the WWII sector. And a Cold War shooter? I mean, wasn't the Cold War characterised by diplomatic tension and frosty political face-offs, rather than actual military action? Is it going to be the Bay of Pigs? The Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia? Who knows more about post-war history than me?
Easy to use mobile applications of the kind that Apple is pioneering are a huge economic opportunity to generate growth and  jobs but also a conundrum. At a time when the whole world of computing is migrating into the "cloud", with data stored out there on the web rather than on our computer desktops, the mobile world is moving in the opposite direction: nearly all of these games and services are being downloaded on to our mobile devices.The result is that we are using our apps – and few more so than me – through dedicated silos rather than on the web. This has advantages, not least because data stored on your phone can be accessed more quickly, but also a big downside. This is partly because you are a prisoner of your service provider such as Apple, but mainly because if these apps were made for the web, then every phone would be able to access them, users would have big opportunities to share and developers wouldn't have to spend money they haven't got making multiple apps for incompatible phones.At the moment, if you want to port an iPhone app to devices running Google's Android operating system, you have to start building again from scratch. Apps would be much cheaper if they could be built to run across different platforms. Tom Hume, managing director of Brighton basedFuturePlatforms, points out that Apple developers have to work in the Objective C computer language, whereas the HTML5 standard requires only minor changes between platforms.FuturePlatforms operates a Google-style "gold card" system, allowing staff time off to do their own things. One developer used this option to produce an unofficial app of the Guardian for phones using Google's Android operating system which in some ways is more flexible than the iPhone app (eg, it can download the paper during the night).Make no mistake, something really big is happening with apps as this amazing device we still call a mobile phone extends its tentacles ever deeper into our lives. Today it is games, social networks, reading, search, location-based services; tomorrow health, work, painting, education, who knows what.The stats are startling.According to technology research company Gartner, physical downloads of apps reached 2.5bn last year. These were overwhelmingly on iPhone and iPod Touch devices. But since iPhones amount to less than 1% of all phones, you don't have to be a genius to realise the enormous potential. It could be that Gartner's predictions of 4.5bn downloads this year and an astonishing 21.6bn in 2013, equivalent to more than three for everyone on the planet, will prove an underestimate.The good – or bad – news, is that a staggering 87% of these downloads will be free for users. That's great for you and me, but it is not an obvious way to encourage a growing industry to hire people to make up for the black hole caused by the banking collapse. Many of these "free" downloads will be supported by advertising and others will be corporations promoting their brands. But most will be free because creators don't think they can charge for them.At the moment, there is a grave distortion in the balance of power. Most of the money is going to the app shops such as Apple – which controls the gateway to the developers, who are often on £60 or more an hour – with the content providers squeezed in the middle of an increasingly crowded market.I have been talking recently to developers – partly to research this column and partly because I am trying to do an app of my own to see how difficult it is (more of that at a later date, maybe). The overwhelming message is how difficult it is to make enough profit to justify the investment when costs are so high and the market flooded with freebies. Sure there are some who make good money, such as existing branded games being repackaged in mobile form and niche  services. The most successful income-earning apps last year – satellite navigation guides at £30 a pop – have been undermined by Google bringing out a free turn-by-turn street navigation option.Unsurprisingly then, ustwo of Shoreditch – maker of, among other things, mouthoff, an app that enables the phone screen to mimic movements of your mouth, which had mouth-watering publicity here and in the US – couldn't make a respectable profit at 59p. Indeed, the company admits "the bottom line is that it's impossible to make money at the 59p price point for 99% of studios".Toiluxe, a neat 59p iPhone app that uses satellite signals to tell you where the nearest toilet is in London – whether the Ritz hotel or a public convenience – got publicity in several newspapers but not enough to make a respectable return given that the developer only ends up with only 60% of income after Apple and Vat (levied at higher Irish rates where the servers are based).The obvious answer is to raise prices, but that is easier said than done in an environment where so much is available for nothing – as newspapers in a different neck of the woods know full well.It is all quite crazy, really. People who pay more than £2.50 for a cup of coffee that is gone in a few minutes are reluctant to pay £1 for a paper that will last for hours or an app that will be with you for ages, probably with free upgrades. It is also becoming increasingly difficult to find an app among the hundreds of thousands on offer on the iPhone despite the growth of apps helping you to do just this (ie, looking for relevant apps) such as Chomp, orMplayit on Facebookor Apple's Genius. There must be hundreds of great apps that hardly anyone has discovered. Goodness knows what it will be like in a few years time.There is an elephant in the room even though it is invisible at the moment: the bedroom programmer, shorthand for individuals working on their own. The reason is that it is very difficult to write code for a phone in the way that kids could program their BBC or Spectrum computers in the 1980s, a phenomenon that led the same kids to create a thriving computer games industry. Uncle Steve won't let you near his phones except on his own terms. It may start to change with Google's Android operating system based on open source, and I know of at least one developer working on an app to enable people to do their own coding on a phone in a (relatively) simple way.If that happened maybe a new generation of cloud coders could send the apps revolution off in a whole new – and much cheaper – direction. The best things in life are not always free.twitter.com/vickeegan
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
BT's decision to throw allow its rivals to install their own broadband lines in its infrastructure was not the political victory being claimed by the Conservatives, according to experts - nor will it necessarily lead to any increased competition.Earlier this week, BT chief executive Ian Livingston described himselfas "relaxed" about providing access to the company's millions of milesof underground tubes that house its phone lines and called on rivalfirms to open up their infrastructure.The move was warmly welcomed by the Tories who had been pushing for the move andbelieve that promoting infrastructure competition will bring the next generation of super-fast broadbandwithin the reach of more of the nation's homes."We welcome BT's announcement that they are preparing to open their underground ducts to other broadband providers," the party saidearlier this week. "This is something the Conservative Party has beencalling for for over a year and is a central part of our plans to roll out super fast broadband across the country."Super-fast broadband services - offering speeds of up to 100Mb persecond - require the installation of fibre optic cabling.Virgin Media has already upgraded its existing fibre network, which actually uses copper lines for the final connection to homes, so that it can offer 50Mbps now and speeds of over 100Mbps in future.BT, on the other hand, is rolling out its own fibre network at the rate of 80,000 new premises per week. It is pushing fibre to roadside cabinets, using copper for the final connection and its BT Infinity service offers speeds of 40Mbps.Meanwhile, BT's Openreach business is offering its fibre network to rival ISPs such asZen Internet. Openreach was set up under a deal with regulator Ofcom in 2005, and controls BT's local network to ensure that any company can use it to offer services at regulated prices.Prohibitive costsDespite this investment, however, neither BT nor Virgin Media reckon that fibre will get beyond about 60% of the country because the costs are prohibitively high. The government has proposed levying a 50p a phone line tax to raise funds to extend coverage to 90% of households by 2017 but the Conservatives would rather use part of the BBC licence fee to pay for the extension of broadband into more rural areas.The government has already earmarked that cash to ensure that everyone can get a basic broadband service by 2012.Analysts are unconvinced that opening up ducts will make any greatdifference to coverage, while some in the telecoms industry believeBT's fiercest critics - TalkTalk and BSkyB - are actually dragging their feet in order to protect the hundreds of millions they have spent on existing infrastructure by putting their own equipment into BT's local telephone exchanges.Duct sharing is already available in other countries, such as France,where the incumbent has an even fiercer grip on the market than BT,but there has not been significant take-up. Livingston himself saidduct sharing is "unlikely to be the silver bullet to get fibre to every home" but it might "help BT and others extend coverage".In a note on the move, Cazenove's well-respected head of European telecoms and media research Paul Howard described BT's move as"sensible and well thought through"."It feels premature to be worried about competing fibre investment and (I) would highlight some 'game-theory' at play here," he added.The European Commission, for example, is already on track to mandate access to ducts."The bigger question is whether the likes of Carphone and Sky reallywant access to BT's ducts in order to invest in their own fibre andwhat the practicalities of such access would be. It is hard to envisage duct access providing both Carphone and Sky with even half of their long-term provisioning requirements. In addition, we suspect investors in both TalkTalk and Sky would be very nervous regarding any planned fibre investments," he said.Earlier this week Jeremy Hunt, shadow culture minister,told the Financial Timesthat he had talked to some of BT's rivals and "there is a willingness to invest substantial sums of money" in fibre.No equivalentsIndustry insiders, however, are unconvinced. Both companies have spent large sums putting their own equipment into about 1,000 of BT's 5,500 local telephone exchanges - essentially those exchanges in large metropolitan areas.Taking part in the process of local loop unbundling has allowed them to stop buying BT's wholesale broadband service and instead merely 'rent' BT's local copper lines. It is a switch that has helped turn TalkTalk's broadband business into a major money-spinner that Carphone Warehouse is now looking to demerge from its retail operation.But there is no equivalent 'local loop unbundling' process for BT'sfibre network and both firms risk seeing their investment supersededby BT and Virgin's cable networks. TalkTalk was involved in BT's trialof fibre technology in North London but has yet to sign up to Openreach's wholesale fibre product. Sky, meanwhile, has been veryquiet on its fibre plans.Both companies have complained, however, that Openreach's wholesale fibre - or Generic Ethernet Access - offering is inadequate. They want more 'flexibility' so they can use BT's fibre to create their own products.Cazenove's Howard reckons neither company is keen to put its own cash into building a brand new network and anyway, "having multiple fibre investments would represent a negative for the whole industry and (I) suggest the local loop should be considered a natural monopoly or at least a duopoly in urban areas given the cable industry.""We believe regulation should focus more on achieving adequatewholesale access to an incumbent's fibre network.""The difficultly is that regulators across Europe have provided incumbents with certain regulatory freedom (for example no formalprice controls over BT's fibre network) in order to promote investmentin high speed networks," Howard added."Sky and Carphone are therefore forced to focus on the threat of alternative investments in order to persuade BT to tailor a more suitable wholesale product. We suspect Ofcom's current vision, which we suggest is one where BT Openreach deploys fibre on behalf of everyone and provides access at reasonable wholesale prices is still the most appropriate."However, we should expect a lot of noise and politics to cloudy the issue in the short to medium-term."'Very odd'Any regulation is only likely to fall on BT. Ofcom has not found thatVirgin Media has significant market power, which would bring it withinthe regulatory framework. Any publicly-funded fibre roll-outprogramme, meanwhile, would almost certainly come with 'open access' conditions attached and so BT is likely to be the only builder.Over at Morgan Stanley, Nick Delfas has looked at the ConservativeParty's plans to ensure that speeds of up to 100Mbps are available tohalf the population by 2017 and branded them "very odd"."Virgin alone will shortly provide this much; Virgin is already at 50 Mbps but getting to 100 Mbps... is in the works. So this is a policy commitment to let what will naturally happen take its course.""It is already EU policy to unbundle ducts," he added. "The Frenchhave already concluded a huge project to map and price all the ductsin the country. Even so, competitors say operationally it is difficultto get access. In the UK we doubt there is a comprehensive map of the ducts; BT may even not know itself where they are or what exactlythere is in them. And then there is the issue of capital availabilityfor an operator to take advantage of them."Livingston himself suggested as much when earlier this week hestressed "duct access has been adopted in other countries but normally as the only way for companies to access an incumbent's network.There are plenty of existing ways in which companies can access BT's network and so its impact may be less dramatic in the UK. We will only know for sure once they are opened. BT is taking a considerable degree of commercial risk by rolling out fibre and it will be interesting to see if others are willing to join us."
&bull; Will the eternal churn at MySpace ever end? Not yet, it seems, after Owen Van Natta, only installed as CEO a year ago,was suddenly replaced. Our chums at PaidContent say that the setup is "being called a mutual decision, butVan Natta didn't really have a choice", given the way the business had been set up. There's bound to be more coming to light on this, one way or the other.&bull; Remember that Tory pledge to bring100Mbps broadband to most British homes? It may not be all it seems. According to experts, opening upBT's fibre optic lines isn't necessarily a political victory, for a whole bunch of reasons that our own Richard Wray describes in his piece. That news comes, interestingly, just as Google announced plans totrial 100Mbps fibre optic lines in the US.&bull; Meanwhile, further to the news we brought youearlier this weekthat Iran was clamping down on internet connections, it seems they're alsoblocking other services, including Gmail and text messaging. A Google spokeswoman told me that  she could "confirm a sharp drop in traffic" and that while the company wanted people to be able to communicate with each other but that "sadly, sometimes it is not within our control".You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
When discussing the artistic merits of video games, it's the big cinematic  productions that feature most heavily. That's understandable: from the  painterly style of the 2006 gameOkami, and Renaissance Venice in Assassin's Creed 2, the graphics of games are now often glorious. But while independent games creators don't have the budgets for these lush images, many are now writing games with ­artistic statements at their core.Jason Rohrer, a New Mexico-based games designer, has created a series of tiny games whose pixellated graphics would have looked cutting-edge 20 years ago. But the art is in the concepts. In his gamePassage, you can collect as much loot as you like but you'll still  inevitably die at the end. His genuinely moving autobiographical gameGravitationreproduces the mood swings of manic depression and  creativity. During the manic phases, the player can move around quickly, accomplishing a great deal, but when the inevitable depression sets in, the player's field of vision narrows and those achievements – in the form of solid blocks – can prevent the pixel- character from reaching his family.Argentinean designer Daniel  Benmergui, on the other hand, creates games with the dreamy artistry of magic realism. His short gameI wish I were the Moonwas inspired by Italian writer Italo Calvino's storyThe Distance of the Moon. In ­another game,Night Raveler and the Heartbroken Uruguayans, your challenge is to unravel the tangled love lives of a set of apartment-dwellers: it's easy enough to break them up, but impossible to control who they fall in love with.This is an exciting genre, whose growth has largely been made possible by digital distribution of games. There's a lot to celebrate in the artistry of the large boxed games, but arguably it's  independent creators who are producing the most singular, artistic visions.
Less than a year after he was parachuted in to run MySpace, Owen Van Natta is out of a job as the ailing social network tries once again to revitalise itself.Van Natta, who spent several years as a senior executive at Facebook, was brought in by News Corporationlast Aprilto replace ousted MySpace founderChris DeWolfe.But in a surprise move late on Wednesday, the company said that Van Natta himself was being replaced by two other executives brought in alongside him, Mike Jones and Jason Hirschorn. The duo are now MySpace's co-presidents, reporting to News Corp's digital chief, Jon Miller.Miller, himself a former chief executive of AOL, was hired by Rupert Murdoch to reorganise the mogul's internet businesses. In a statement, he said that Van Natta's contribution had been an important one."Owen took on an incredible challenge in working to refocus and revitalise MySpace, and the business has shown very positive signs recently as a result of his dedicated work," he said."However, in talking to Owen about his priorities both personally and professionally going forward, we both agreed that it was best for him to step down at this time. I want to thank Owen for all of his efforts."Once seen as a darling of the dotcom world, andbought by Murdoch in 2005 for $580m, MySpace has struggled in recent years tomatch the explosive growth of Facebook.Since the shakeup which brought Van Natta on board, the company has undergone drastic reorganisation as News Corp's digital businesses have come under increasing pressure to reap more financial benefits for their parent company.Despite redesigning and relaunching the site, however, things have remained problematic at the Los Angeles-based company.Last year MySpacecut 30% of its US workforceand then slashed itsglobal operationsby two-thirds."MySpace is an incredibly unique place and we're made real gains," said Van Natta in a statement. "I'm proud of the work we've all accomplished together and look forward to watching its continued growth."
It's only February, but 2010 has already seen a classic release (Mass Effect 2), some very good titles(Bioshock 2– allegedly, I haven't played this yet) and a ton of above average releases (Dante's Inferno,Darksiders). And that's not includingBayonetta, which reviewed well but left me button-bashing bored.The next biggie on the horizon isHeavy Rain, the PS3 exclusive from Quantic Dreams. I've been playing final code over the last week and it's very good. Truly excellent in parts, but it isn't for everyone. I have thoroughly enjoyed the (at times) glacial pace of this interactive moviegame. Modern Warfare 2 fans, for example, will probably not. But anyone interested in a game that treats its audience as an adult rather than an over-caffeinated teen has to be a good thing - for rarity value at least. The opening level is a good example. Any parent who has experienced that stomach-churning fear when they lose sight of their child, even for only a second, will have huge emotional engagement with the father character that you control as he desperately tries to find his son in a busy shopping mall. Similarly engaging situations crop out throughout and there is real feeling – rare in games – that you actually care about the characters on show.The controls are fairly fluid if occasionally gimmicky – though any game that has teeth brushing in the tutorial has to be praised for originality – and should theoretically help more casual gamers who are interested in playing. The QTE sequences though demand some more old-fashioned gaming reflexes and can get surprisingly tense.For a game that is so obviously movie orientated, and so needs emotional attachment to the characters, the graphics in Heavy Rain had to be good. And, in the main, they are. The facial uncanny valley is occasionally an issue and probably will be until PlayStation 5, but the visuals are certainly more than good enough to keep you immersed in the story. Sadly some occasionally cheesy dialogue and voice acting do their best to ruin the illusion.Heavy Rain is highly recommended for adult PS3 owners and is also the perfect "over the shoulder" title that partners will enjoy watching and shouting at while you play.  I've not quite finished the final code yet but the quality is obvious. Due out at the end of the month Heavy Rain looks set to be yet another must-buy in this crazily hectic release schedule.
Google is to begin testing ultrafast broadband in America as it lobbies the US government to spend more on improving internet access across the country.The company announced today that it was planning to run trials of so-called "fibre to the home" connections - which replace traditional copper phone lines with fibre optic cables that can carry many hundreds of times more information than the average broadband line.The proposed 1gigabit per second connections would allow to download an entire Hollywood movie in less than two seconds - speeds that it says could help revolutionise the way people think, work and use the web.In a post on Google's blog, product managers Minnie Ingersoll and James Kelly said that the plan was aimed at encouraging people to consider the potential benefits of being so highly connected."We're planning to build and test ultra high-speed broadband networks in a small number of trial locations across the United States," they wrote. "Our goal is to experiment with new ways to help make Internet access better and faster for everyone."The scheme is aimed at providing a service "at a competitive price" to around 50,000 people, potentially rising to 500,000. Google said it is looking for communities that wanted to host the tests.The internet leviathan is one of a number of groups that have lobbied the US government to invest in high speed networking as a way to boost productivity and competitiveness.In Britain, fibre to the home has been mooted for many yearsbut failed to gain much tractionthanks to the high costs involved. However, the idea could once again start gathering momentum after the Conservatives pledged to use money from the BBC's license fee todeliver superfast broadband to a majority of British homes by 2017.But Google has spent an increasing amount of effort pushing for faster internet, in large part thanks to its core belief that higher speeds encourage greater use of broadband - which in turn drives up profit at the Californian company. It has previously covered the costs of free Wi-Fi in US airports, and runs a municipal free wireless network in its home city of Mountain View.In an opinion piece intoday's Washington Post, chief executive Eric Schmidt said that high speed access was vital for US businesses to remain competitive."Broadband is a major driver of new jobs and businesses, yet we rank only 15th in the world for access," he said. "More government support for broadband remains critical."However, not every plan put forward by the company has come to fruition. In 2005, the company touted a plan toprovide free wireless internet access across San Francisco, but largely failed to deliver.The move also marks yet another venture into new territory by Google, which still relies heavily on its core business of web search and internet advertising to make money.Yesterday the companylaunched a social networking application, Google Buzz, that sits inside its webmail service and uses a number of elements made popular by Facebook and Twitter.
So did you see it? On last night'sopening episode of Jo Frost: Extreme Parental Guidance(a title that responsibly portrays the delicate practice of family counselling as some sort of dangerous sport), the straight-talking presenter tackled the problem of violent video games.Together withDr Doug Gentileshe orchestrated an experiment in which 40 boys were asked to play games for 20 minutes – half played a football sim, the other half "a first-person war game". They then had to view some violent news footage. Throughout, each participant had their heart rate monitored. At the end, the figures showed that the boys who played the violent game retained slower heart rates during the news footage."Shockingly, just 20 minutes of violent gameplay was enough to densensitise the boys," says the sonorous voice over.But are we to draw from this that those boys may suffer long-term desensitisation? Frost's melodramatic reaction to the findings, and the lack of any sort of qualifying analysis, would seem to lead us in that direction. But that would of course represent a massive oversimplification, a confusion of short-term physiological and cognitive effects with long-term psychological impact. I'm no neuroscientist, but with the biological stress response recently engaged, surely it's no surprise that in the few minutes after violent gameplay, test subjects react differently to violent stimuli?So really, what does this all say about the long-term effects of exposure to violent video games? I would suggest very, very little. That's why, there is absolutely no conclusive data in this area, despite dozens of similar research undertakings around the world, and despite Dr Tanya Byron's exhaustive analysis for the government'sDigital Britainreport.Late in the same programme, the boys were interviewed by Dr Gentile who, during the course of each chat, knocked a jar full of pencils on to the floor, in order to test the subjects' capacity for empathy. Of those who played the violent game, only 40% helped to pick up the pencils, half the number of the other group. So should we understand that players of violent video games are less empathetic?Not necessarily. There are many criteria at play here – the unnatural laboratory conditions; the unspoken expectations and subliminal pressure applied (knowingly or otherwise) by an interviewer looking for a certain response; and, of course, the fact that the boys were being filmed in an adult, school-like environment admitting that they enjoyed playing games like Call of Duty – 18-certificate games. Is it possible that the guilt response outplayed empathy for these boys? Furthermore, the programme seemed to be suggesting that it was just the 20 minutes of supervised play that made the boys less empathetic, yet they were clearly being questioned about previous gaming activities, which included violent games. The parameters of the whole experiment were shrouded in hyperbolic drama.This methodology, and the conclusions reached, will be hugely familiar to anyone who's been following this sort of research over the past 10 years; the results are unsurprising – and utterly inconclusive. Cognitive neuroscience is a complex field; it is perhaps not something to be prodded and poked at during a piece of reality TV voyeurism masquerading as documentary material.Here are the factors that must always be taken into consideration. Correlation isn't validation. AsHenry T Jenkinshas pointed out, video game violence could well be a risk factor with anti-social behaviour, but only ever alongside much more immediate and pressing influences – such as, you know, family life. Also, there's the underlying question of causality – do violent games make people violent, or do they attract people with a propensity for violence?Finally, the underlying statistical nugget that haunts this whole debate: violent video games have been around for 30 years. If just 20 minutes of exposure is enough to turn normal boys into desensitised monsters, our streets should be filled with violence. They're not. Violent crime hasplungedduring that period. And of the violence thatdoestake place, how much more would be prevented by restrictions in the sale of alcohol rather than of violent games? Police would scoff at the very question.
Google Buzz? It's as popular as a thing that's not very popular, it seems, at least going by the early reactions. A rapid roundup from the web...Dave Winer, of scripting.com and Userland (which made hooking up to RSS easy to do)isn't a fan:"It violates the prime directive of new software. It starts turned on, and the way to turn it off is all-but invisible. And it invades a space that heretofore Google helped to protect. One of the big values of Gmail is its spam filter. Now all of a sudden it's as if the exhaust was reversed, and it was spraying dirt into my message stream, instead of filtering it out."New software should be easy to try out, and there should be no penalty for doing so. Here, they didn't even give us an option, I was automatically signed up, and the way out was hidden. The first bit, which is fun -- create a new post -- is followed by a flood of new messages in a semi-sacred private place, my email inbox."Meanwhile Lifehacker channels Steve Rubel to explainhow to remove Buzz updates from your Gmail inbox:"Any Buzz notification automatically matches the Gmail query label:buzz, so all you've got to do is set up a quick filter to keep those Buzz notifications out of your inbox."Pity - my email inbox is such a lonely, empty place, like yours, I'm sure.Kevin Rose (of Digg etc fame) has alist of feature requests/complaints, ending up with the slightly hopeful"Not sure where Buzz fits in my arsenal of social media tools, how often I'll use it, or if it will eventually feel too much like unread email — but I'm happy to see Google taking social media seriously. It's early days, let the attention/follower wars begin."Next,Robert Scoble, who never saw a social media service he didn't like, though whether the feeling is mutual is an open question. But it seems this is one that, while he doesn't not like it, he isn't exactly showering hosannahs on it either. His reasons (cut down - see the post for the full list):"1. Facebook has a defensible position in identity. 2. Google isn't trusted socially. 3. Google doesn't have Mark Zuckerberg. "Mark gets how to hook people in through social tricks that very few people understand. FriendFeed, for instance, didn't get it. Neither does Twitter." 4. Google has big company disease that Twitter never had. 5. Google doesn't have developers that Facebook has. 6. Google isn't willing to piss its users off to get to the next level."Mashable isREALLY EXCITED about it, but then Mashable seems to get really excited about everything. Just my impression?Of courseYahoo is unimpressed(it's had a Buzz for a year - who knew?) andMicrosoft disdainful.The consensus that seems to be gathering is that it requires considerable computing resource - you can use it if you're mobile on the iPhone or Android 4.0, but otherwise you're out of luck - which perhaps once again shows the tunnel vision of people who live in Silicon Valley. (It also geotags everything, so it's only going to be for the spiffiest of smartphones.)The thing that's fantastic about text messaging, and hence Twitter's ability to squeeze itself into text messages, is that it's applicable all over the world right now. Google Buzz may be just what people want five years from now, but that gives Twitter - and of courseGoogle's newest, most dangerous threat, Facebook- a five-year head start. That might not be so clever.Still, we'll just go back now and continue doing our work on Google Wave. Oh, hang on - we never did. Does anyone (still) use Wave? If so, what for?
This just in from Google:"Just sawyour piece on the GPS Street View car in Germanyand wanted to let you know it was a hoax :-) . Free Art and Technology (F.A.T.) Lab is an art organization which recently used a fake Street View car as an art project in Berlin and claimed to have put a GPS tracking device on in to track its route. This car was not an official Google car, as we are currently not driving through Germany as there are not optimal weather and light conditions at this time of year. As soon as we'll restart driving you can find the driving schedule athttp://www.google.de/streetview."I blame myself for not joining the dots far enough to realise that February in Europe, with its short days and low sun angles, wasn't going to be prime Street View-shooting material. And, of course, for not checking. Apologies. Oh, those art pranksters. Can we ever get enough of them?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
A couple of years agoFlickrco-founder Stewart Butterfield made waves when hequit Yahoowith a characteristically leftfield statement that left many scratching their heads. In it hetold his bossesthat "I don't need no fancy parties or gold watches" and said he was quitting to look after "my small but growing alpaca herd".Turns out the alpacas weren't all he was tending to: the Web 2.0 pioneer has just pulled the curtain back on his latest project, a massively multiplayer game calledGlitch.For the past year or so, Butterfield has been working withTiny Speck, a crack team  largely constituted of former Flickr chums, to put together the game - a sort of bizarre, psychadelic, collaborative 2D platformer.You can read an extensive (if vaguely hagiographic)background piece at CNet, but I caught up with Butterfield to find out more about the game - which he hopes to launch towards the end of the year.The first question: why are a bunch of people who built a photosharing website going into games?In fact Glitch is in many ways a return to the roots of the team: Flickr itself started life as a massively multiplayer number calledGame Neverending, which was turning into a bit of an underground obsession until it hit a wall. That was the point when the company decided to focus on one element of what they'd built - photosharing - and turn it into a product.Now they're returning to a games arena that is much richer and broader than it was back in 2002, thanks to everything from Facebook to World of Warcraft to the Wii.As a result, Glitch shares the DNA of many different games and genres, Butterfield told me. It's casual and cute on the surface, but underneath it has deep collaborative puzzles, exploration and elements of play that suck in everything from Mario to the Hitchhikers' Guide.Watch the video on their siteand you can probably get a sense of some of the elements it draws on: the Japanimation cuteness ofKatamari Damacy, the mind-bending 2D platformerBraid, the puzzletastic Flash of something likeSamorost.But there's also an element of text adventure and roleplaying games that will appeal to more hardcore gamers: you gain different skills (such as animal husbandry and gardening) that you can level up and use to perform different tasks. Again, it's not the traditional model: anyone familiar with the anarchic, cultish hitKingdom of Loathingwill be familiar with the sense of humour that permeates the world.The backstory for the game is notional - set somewhere in the far future, inside the minds of the giants who create the world by singing - but most importantly it represents the off-the-wall humour that Butterfield (a philosophy graduate from Cambridge who is liable to segue at any point into random, surreal musings) and his crew enjoy.The idea of making it a Flash game is to make it as broadly accessible as possible - pretty much everyone can play a Flash game - but one of the things that makes Glitch really different among platform games is that it isn't just you playing: it's massively multiplayer.That means players will be able to team up and work together to solve problems and puzzles, and the world itself expands as new players go around and visit Glitch's different areas (each drawn by a different illustrator to try and make them feel distinct). The world itself gets bigger and better the more people play.There are some things that the game is deliberately missing: a 3D engine, for example, which might seem the done thing for MMOs but which the team saw not only as a potential visual turn-off, but also as an unwanted technical limitation - creating a multiplayer world in 3D requires fast internet connections and low latency, which in turn deters casual play.Similarly, there is no combat. Again, this has technical benefits, but also makes it clear that the game is meant for playing together - not playing against each other.Butterfield also says that Tiny Speck should be able to make the game feel different by bringing their web chops to bear - and some of the ideas they've helped push along the way. Alongside Butterfield the team includes top engineer Cal Henderson, a British coder, whose credentials include building much of Flickr's initial infrastructure and helping start notoriously outre message boardb3ta, and Daniel Burka, former creative director atDigg.That includes taking a web development approach to upgrading the game itself, with a selection of APIs that let them pump new objects, information and areas into the game without having to change the core code. Other developers may also be given access to add their own twists into proceedings.So what's next?The title should enter alpha testing soon - likely to start with small, specific groups playing for short periods - and then out to a wider beta test later in the year.Butterfield was understandably bullish about the prospects: he wants to get thousands, then possibly millions, of players who can fund the development by purchasing in-game items and objects (a similar model to many other online games). That will be important, considering he's sinking some of his own money into the company (which has already spent $19,000 buying its domain name,according to this report.So there you have it; a new gaming startup that comes with some serious credentials and a title that feels a little different to the slew of similar games out on the market. Let's watch and see where they go.
&bull; After a bit of hoopla,Google's mooted version of Gmail with added social features arrived and...it's a version of Gmail with added social features. In one fell swoop the company has managed to validate the existence of lots of small "activity stream" startups - and possibly kill the idea off for them at the same time. Certainly it's raised hackles atYahoo(which has its own "Buzz" product) andMicrosoft(which is pooh-poohing the idea). Despite all that, plenty of people are still trying to find out if it's worth using it.Will you be one of them?&bull; Some interesting data on digital music downloads from Warner Music Group, one of the world's biggest record labels.As reported by MediaMemo, the company has seen growth of music sales slow down since Apple introduced variable music pricing on iTunes last year - that means tracks can cost 59p, 79p or 99p. There are other variables of course, includingdropping DRM(which happened at the same time) as well as that little old recession that we've been going through. But worth thinking about, nonetheless.&bull; And another seven days has passed, so that must mean that thelatest episode of our Tech Weekly podcastis out! We've got an interview with Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales and a chat with a cyberwarfare expert, plusmuch more as always.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Whatever Google Buzz is, it's certainly got people talking.After the launch ofthe company's new attempt to integrate social networking and emailon Tuesday morning, some of the reaction has been good (people "may flock to Google Buzz," said web punditLouis Gray) and some of it is bad ("They put a virus into Gmail,"cried urblogger Dave Winer).Despite the talk of a "revolution" at the launch, a lot of Google Buzz looks awfully familiar, from the Facebook-like sharing of information to the Twitter-like "@" replies. But most of all it is reminiscent ofFriendFeed, the activity stream aggregator that wasbought by Facebook last yearfor an estimated $50m. No surprise, perhaps, given that FriendFeed's founders had previously worked on Gmail and Google Maps.Indeed, the similarities were so glaring that during one journalist asked during the launch event Q&amp;A how Google had managed to acquire the rights to reproduce Friendfeed when it was Facebook that bought the service.The eerily familiar feel to Buzz - delivered in that sparse-yet-sometimes-overwhelming style that is Google's hallmark - means that the product's certainly not as confusing on first glance asGoogle Wave. But it still has to make its mark.At the event I shared a brief, interesting chat with Google VP Bradley Horowitz, who previously tried tochampion social search at Yahoobefore (somewhat controversially)switching sides in 2008. Is Buzz part of Gmail or a separate product? It's already got several standalone components, he said - it will be able to stand alone soon.And, he stressed, it is part of a long-term plan the company has to expand into social areas and improve the way it brings you the information you're looking for. Indeed, Sergey Brin seemed annoyed that the company's previous forays into the social web have been deemed failures. Other companies would kill for the sort of penetration Orkut has in Brazil, he said (but clearly Google would kill for the sort of penetration that Facebook has, well, pretty much anywhere else).Horowitz is right when he says it's a long game - whatever happens with Google Buzz, this growing warfare over the social web is unlikely to go away any time soon.Anyway, as I'm writing this, my email inbox still hasn't been Buzz-enabled yet - so I've yet to give it a proper, real-world test run. Have you got it yet? And will you be using it?
Google founder Sergey Brin at the Buzz event. Photograph: Robert Galbraith/ReutersGoogle is to expand its email service by turning it into a social network to take on the growing challenge it faces from rivals like Facebook.In an event held at the company's headquarters in Mountain View, California, the search engine announced a new product – Google Buzz – that draws on elements of Facebook, MySpace and Twitter, and creates what senior executives called "the poster child" for the company's future.Buzz – which is based around the company's Gmail web email service – allows users to start sharing information, photographs, videos and messages with each other, as well as see what is happening around them through their mobile phones.While such features are already the fashion for social networking sites, the company said that moving into this area was vitally important to Google's future."We're launching this today because we're just getting started," said Bradley Horowitz, the company's vice president of product marketing. "There's so much opportunity, we can wire this up in so many ways to other parts of Google, other parts of the internet."Instead of forcing users to hunt for their friends online, Buzz uses information from their existing email accounts to automatically show updates and media from people they talk to regularly – though it also allows people to share information privately if they want.Google is hoping that it can convince users of Gmail, which has more than 150 million users worldwide, to start using Buzz –  something that could automatically slingshot it past MySpace to become the world's second-largest social network.The move brings Google into closer conflict with a number of smaller rivals than ever before. Although the company remains the most powerful force on the web – and has even seen profits from its internet advertising business continue to rise despite the recession – it has also been feeling increasing pressure from competitors that have tapped into a desire to connect with friends and family online.Facebook, which celebrated its sixth anniversary last week, now boasts more than 400 millionusers worldwide and has becoming the homepage of choice for many people. Social messaging service Twitter, meanwhile, remains one of the hottest internet startups around and is expanding quickly.To combat this groundswell of activity,Google has already started rolling out a number of new features for its main search engine– incorporating new features such as photos from your friends and real-time messages from a range of sites.But the company's previous attempts to harness social activity on the web have not proved particularly successful: Orkut, a social networking site the company launched in 2004, has a significant number of users in countries like Brazil but has failed to make inroads elsewhere.Meanwhile Google Wave, a product previewed last year that combines email, instant messaging and social networking, remains in testing.Co-founder Sergey Brin said that the company's social experiments had been more successful than it was given credit for – but that Buzz would be more than just talking with friends and playing games."I think that social services on the internet have undergone a number of revolutions and significant expansions over time," he said. "There will always be competitors, and will continue to be. But I hope the trend will continue, and we'll make our own contribution."
(Click the image to see the US pricing for comparison)After a nailbiting few minutes when the Apple Store (online) went down earlier today, and a few people prayed that either Apple would release new MacBooks and/or MacBook Pros and/or prices in the UK for the iPad, it came back instead with Aperture 3.In other words, no price yet for the iPad. But don't go away - there is a story here. Besides the app for professional photographers who want to spruce up their photos. ("With more than 200 new features and enhancements, Aperture 3 is the perfect choice if you're ready to take your photography to the next level." OK, that's nice.)Let's head over to the US store andsee how it's priced. Ooh, looky, $199 for the full version, or $99 for the upgrade.And in the UK? The price of thefull version is £169, or for the upgrade it's £79. Though of course those are the "international English" versions.How does that work, exactly? What is it about the "international English" versions that mean that they have to cost extra?First, there's the question of how much extra. First, take off VAT at 17.5%: that gives you prices of £144 and £67.Now, the US exchange rate presently says that $1 = £0.603. On that basis, prices of $199 and $99 would translate to £120 and £59.72 respectively. (Please, commenters, don't give us "oh, Apple is hedging against currency fluctuations" as a reason. For the dollar to reach a level where $199 = £144,[corrected]the dollar would have to hit £1 = $1.38[corrected], which itlast hit some time in 1985. And any economist will tell you that the pound is far more likely than the dollar to weaken over the next year* (which would mean that you would getmorefewer[thanks, @nomster in comments]dollars per pound; in other words, the exchange rate would move more towards$1 = £2 than towardsparity).So clearly we're on the wrong side of this calculation - by a factor of between 18%-20%. (That is, you translate from US$ to UK£ at the exchange rate, and then add 20%, andthenadd VAT.)First, we can note that this continues the absurd practice by which US companies price stuff in the UK at prices which don't make any sense. (See stories on Apple and Adobe passim.)But secondly it tells us something about what iPad prices might be like. You'll recall thatMacworld had a stab at thosea while back. It said:"A good rule of thumb is to take the US price, convert it to the UK price using the daily exchange rate, add on the 17.5 per cent VAT, then add on another 7 per cent or so (Steve Jobs said during the iPhone launch that this was simply because "it's just a bit more expensive to do business here… store stuff, ship stuff around".)"However, we've found a better rule of thumb is to take a product on the US store that matches the US price you're looking at, then find the same product on the UK store and see how much it is."OK, but we now prefer to try this "add 20%" rule of thumb. And on that basis the prices for the iPad become...US:Wi-Fi only: 16GB: $499; 32GB: $599; 64GB: $699.Wi-Fi + 3G: 16GB: $629; 32GB: $729; 64GB: $829.OK, so exchanging dollars into pounds ($1 = £.603), adding on the 20%, and then the 17.5% VAT we get:UK:Wi-Fi only:16GB:£424; 32GB:£509; 32GB:£594.(Guardian estimate.)(Macworld estimate: £388, £510, £591)Wi-Fi + 3G:16GB:£534; 32GB:£619; 64GB:£705.(Guardian estimate.)(Macworld estimate: £490, £612, £693)Is it just me, or are those a bit eye-watering? It's certainly going to be a lot better for sales if the prices are closer to - or even lower than - the Macworld prices than those ones.What would help a lot, of course, would be if Apple would get on and announce the prices for the UK. But so far it's shown no inclination to do so. Nor, of course, to announce upgraded laptops - despite them being overdue according to theMacrumors buyer's guide (in time orderto help the impatient). Oh well.*go and read up about it if you like
Kenneth Geers, the US representative at the Cyber Centre of Excellence in Estonia, leads the team through the annals of cyber warfare, and helps to dissect the implications of the recent Google-China conflict.Jimmy Wales, founder ofWikipedia, tellsMercedes Bunzabout his new initiatives,WikiaandHunch.com, and sticks up for user-generation in 2010. But is there value in contribution? Charles, Aleks and Kevin debate the resilience of web 2.0 in the face of an increasingly consumer-focussed digital world.All this, plus more on the increasing opposition to the UK government'sDigital Economy bill, your comments from the blogs and the team's take on the other headlines making waves around the web.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
So you've bought MAG, taken it home, removed it from the packaging, excitedly placed it in your PS3, and then you discover that it won't work unless your console's connected to the internet.So you connect your console to the internet, wait more than half an hour for software updates to download and install, agree to a new set of terms and conditions, and then, once you've done all that, and then spent a couple of minutes customising your character, and then slogged through a rather buggy training mission, and THEN spent a good few hours getting to grips with the early levels, (which will mostly involving running around lost for a few minutes before getting shot in the head) – then, finally, you might start actually enjoying MAG. But not all that much.As online shooters go, it's really nothing special. The battlegrounds, although huge, are all grey and brown industrial blah; the controls and weaponry are fine, but hold no surprises; and the whole concept seems to be a bit of an afterthought – it's the year 2025, and you're a mercenary with a private military company that's at war with some competing private military companies, and that's about it. MAG's sole USP is the sheer number of online players – up to 256 at one time. It's certainly impressive that the game runs so smoothly with so many participating, but unfortunately the huge number of people you're playing alongside is also MAG's biggest drawback.The aim is to organise into efficient units, with more experienced players getting promoted to leadership roles, giving orders to eight-player squads or four-squad platoons. It's a nice idea but, as anyone with any experience of similar games will know, teamwork is never an easy thing to foster. Most players won't have headsets, and most will follow orders sporadically at best. Some might be entirely useless, or insufferably bossy, or just leave their mic open while they repeatedly scream at their 12-year-old brother to get out of the way of the TV. Others might just shoot their team-mates for a laugh.MAG is really intended for serious gamers – those who'll think long and hard about their battle strategy, and who won't appreciate team-mates who don't take the game's objectives seriously enough. Unfortunately, most people probably won't be taking it all that seriously, and in the end everyone's just going to get vaguely annoyed with everyone else.There is fun to be had with MAG. In many ways it's a perfectly serviceable, if unspectacular, online shooter, but for every one of its good points there's a niggling irritation. Zipper Interactive could perhaps have made a much better game had they kept in mind that size isn't everything.
Several years ago, you couldn't wander into your local game shop without being visually assaulted by rows of squad-based military shooters, all promising a highly strategic approach to, well, shooting people in the face with guns. It all started in the late nineties with two defining titles: Ubisoft's Rainbow Six and Hidden &amp; Dangerous from Czech developer Illusion Softworks. Both featured small squads of differently skilled operatives, usually sneaking about carrying out fiddly missions behind enemy lines. Players were required to plot waypoints for their AI team-mates and work as a cohesive unit to overcome the mostly rather cerebral mission objectives.After this came an influx of similar titles, which tweaked and refined the squad-based mechanics. Operation Flashpoint maintained the hardcore tactical approach while the likes of Conflict: Desert Storm and Brothers in Arms took a slightly more intuitive approach, often by grouping the AI soldiers into one controllable gang rather than demanding that you direct them all separately. Later, Ubisoft came to dominate the squad scene with its Ghost Recon and continuing Rainbow Six series'. It was very much the genre to be seen in for developers of shooting simulations.However, in the wake of the military FPS onslaught captained by Call of Duty, squad-based action has drifted to the periphery. Seduced by the raw emotional immediacy and explosive action of Infinity Wars' creations, mainstream gamers have largely abandoned in-depth, in-the-field strategy, for a combination of heady narrative thrills and weapons management. In the CoD titles, your relationship with allies is fleeting and almost entirely out of your control, you're just subordinate vessels together, reacting to orders and doing your jobs. Maybe, amid the political and military complexity of the Iraq/Afghanistan era, that's all we want.But now, Ubisoft has announced a newGhost Recontitle, so the squad-based game is back on...Set for release this winter, there's very little information available yet about Future Soldier. Indeed, the publisher has conspicuously not mentioned which platforms the game will arrive on, although the fact that a multiplayer beta is being offered with the Xbox 360 version of Splinter Cell Conviction suggests that at least Microsoft's machine is on the list.We know it'll be from the Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter team and will feature all the usual high-tech weaponry and prototype gadgets, as well as plenty of multiplayer modes. That's about it. The press release says that the game will, "go beyond the core Ghost Recon franchise and deliver a fresh gameplay experience." Which could mean anything.So what would be necessary to make squad-based games fashionable again? A substantial co-op mode seems an obvious start-point. I'd also suggest a highly scaleable squad management system, which like the driving set up in Gran Turismo or the Assistant Manager settings in Football Manager give you a sliding scale of direct responsibility for the mechanisms of interaction.I'd also like to see mission designs that absolutely could not be completed without proper squad tactics. I loved GRAW 2, but often I used my team-members as glorified bullet fodder, shoving them into open spaces ahead of me to test the enemy response. What I certainly don't want is Operation Flashpoint's mind-numbing multiple-menu approach filled with formations, commands and tactical manoeuvres. But that's just me.Importantly, there's no reason why a good squad game cannot match the gutsy, adrenaline-charged chaos of a decent lone soldier shooter - the co-op mode in Left 4 Dead, and the manic Army of Two: 40th Day, proved that. But what can Ubisoft do to really bring this genre bang up to date?
Google has warned the creators ofa lookalike Chinese siteto scrap their logo because it infringes trademark rights.Goojje appeared shortly after the US internet company saidit was no longer willing to censor its Chinese serviceand its home page included what appeared to be a plea to the firm to remain in China. The Chinese doppelganger offers search and social networking services.Today one of its college student creators said Google had sent them a letter from its lawyers warning them to stop using its current logo or anything that might mislead the public into thinking there was a connection with the American firm. A Google spokeswoman told Reuters it had asked Goojje to stop copying its trademarked logo.The Chinese website's logo also incorporates the paw-print motif of Baidu, the domestic company that dominates the search market in China.In an email to the Guardian one of the site's founders, who uses the pseudonym Xiao Xuan, said: "We will continue the site; we will insist on our own path; we will not give up; we won't abandon it. Anyone who knows Chinese knows the difference between the two."The site's name is a pun because the second half of Google's Chinese name, Guge, sounds like the word for older brother, gege. The latter part of Goojje sounds like "jiejie" or "older sister".The homepage of the website originally bore the slogan: "Brother is leaving ... sister will miss him." That appeared to be a reference to Google's acknowledgement that its decision to stop self-censoring could lead to its departure from China. After executives stressed they hoped to keep doing business on the mainland, Goojje changed the statement to express happiness that "brother stayed for sister".Xiao told China's Global Times newspaper the site had 60,000 registered users and had repeatedly suffered cyber attacks.Fang Xingdong, founder and CEO of Chinese blog portal Bokee, told the paper: "I don't believe Goojje will survive long. It's likely that these college students set up the site for fun. If they mean to be serious, it would cost a lot of cash and need advanced technology to support the website."
More people are coming to US news sites via Facebook and other social networking sites such as Twitter – supplanting Google News, which had been one of the primary sources of readers, according to research by the metrics company Hitwise.During the past year, the proportion of traffic that Facebook sends to US media sites has tripled from around 1.2% to 3.52%, while that sent by Google News has remained roughly static, at around 1.4%, says Heather Hopkins, North America analyst for Hitwise.The growing power of Facebook also means that publishers which want to demand money from – or alternatively to lock out – Google News because of claims that it "leeches" on their content could do so without fearing a dramatic impact on their reader figures.With more than 400m users, Facebook forms the newest – and most unexpected – threat to Google, say some analysts. Last weekend the search engine spent $5m on a TV advert during the Superbowl, puzzling many who do not see a threat from rival search engines such as Microsoft's Bing, which has less than half of its proportion of search queries.But Hopkins notesin a blogpost for Hitwisethat: "Facebook could be a major disruptor to the News and Media category. And with the Wall Street Journal already publishing content to Facebook, perhaps the social network can avoid the run-ins that Google has suffered recently with Rupert Murdoch. We will continue to watch this space."Murdoch's editors and executives have repeatedly criticised aggregators such Google News, claiming it is leeching off their content by displaying snippets of their work. In the UK, the Murdoch-owned titles have gone as far asblocking access to their sites by Newsnow, a smaller news aggregator.Eric Schmidt, chief executive of Google,has argued that publishers should take advantage of the trafficthat it sends them – pointing out that it sends about 4bn such links per year.But Facebook provides the perfect counterweight, where publishers can choose how much of their content they display and view how well it is followed. Sites such as Facebook and increasingly Twitter contribute hundreds of thousands of visits every month to UK sites, according to analysis by the Guardian.John Minnihan, the founder of the software code respositoryFreepository, warns that Facebook poses one of the biggest threats to Google on the web. "With recent data showing a large uptick in 'Facebook as home page', [Google] may well indeed need to remind emerging generation who/what it is. In that case, the [Superbowl] ad makes some business sense. Whatever the real reason, it has nothing to do with 'sharing video more widely'. If FB dev'ed an integrated web-wide search engine, think about how much traffic would evaporate [from Google] overnite. That's nightmare stuff."Tellingly, Minnihan's comments were made on Twitter — which Google is rumoured to be trying to compete with in a "social version" of its Gmail webmail product to be launched today. Google has already tried – and failed – to create a world-scale social network with its Orkut product, but been obliged instead to purchase access to Twitter's search results to provide real-time insight into what people are talking about. Facebook's content however lies beyond its reach – and that could be crucial in the forthcoming months as news publishers in the US and UK consider putting up higher paywalls or demanding money from aggregators.
It's been a while since our last dip into mobile gaming, so here's a selection of recent iPhone and Java titles for your transportable gaming pleasure. I've been helped by Jon Mundy over onPocket Gamer, who's suggested his own favourites from the last four weeks. You may have already sampled these, but just in case...Oh and feel free to make your own suggestions in the comments section!Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars(iPhone)"The same open world crime masterpiece that graced the PSP and DS last year, but for a mere £5.99? It would be a crime not to," says Jon. And I concur - it's a mighty, you may even say,benchmark, App Store offering, a huge, engrossing adventure, that matches its Nintendo DS predecessor in almost every area. Almost? Well, as ever, the virtual d-pad can be fiddly, and driving (via left and right icons on one side of the screen, and accelerate and brake icons on the other) takes time to master and is never as intuitive as the DS system. But honestly, all those GTA-lite titles that have cluttered the iPhone release schedule for the last year have just been brutally gunned down.Broken Sword: the Director's Cut(iPhone)Revolution Software's lovingly produced remake of its hit PC adventure title adds a whole new sub-plot, lots of fresh cut-scenes (created by Dave "Watchmen" Gibbons no less) and a range of other tweaks, apparently boosting the play time by 20%. But setting aside the new additions, this is a rich and intriguing mystery with all the globetrotting, Knights Templar-themed action of a Dan Brown novel without the tortuous writing. Fans of the original will already have bought it - everyone else, especially those who've now completed the similarly excellent iPhone version of Monkey Island, should follow them as quickly as possible. Just beautiful.Vancouver 2010 (Java)No sports tournament is really complete without a button-mashing mobile tie-in, and Finnish developerMr Goodlivingis the master of the genre, previously responsible for the brilliant Playman Summer Games titles. "A fabulous selection of winter sports mini-games, each of which requires a perfect mix of skill and frenetic button mashing in order to attain those high scores," says Jon.Jewel Quest 3 (Java)Yes, it's another match three puzzler, but the Jewel Quest series has really honed this genre, engagingly mixing its main gameplay action with a swooping Indiana Jones-inspired narrative. "It shouldn't really work, but it does," says Jon, and I know what he means.Battle Blasters(iPhone)This handy little one-vs-one combat game from Toronto studioLittle Guy Gamespitches futuristic soldiers against each other in a small arena where they must fight to the death with guns and other weapons. The presentation and sardonic futuristic setting remind me of the Bitmap Brothers during their Chaos Engine pomp, which should be enough to intrigue some of our more mature readers. "The single player mode is fun enough, but Battle Blasters's true worth is in its novel single-handset multiplayer mode," says Jon. Yep, you can play against a pal using opposite ends of the screen - like one of those old table top coin-ops. Smashing.Funkyball Worlds(iPhone)Guide a ball through three futuristic landscapes, in this effective platformer, which combines the graphical style of LocoRoco (Funkyball developerGamelionworked on the mobile conversion of Sony's cult gem) with challenging physics-based action. "By asking you to tilt to move your little ball, touching the screen to jump, Funkyball Worlds manages to feel remarkably fresh. Classic platforming, done the iPhone way," says Jon.
Since it was first created40 years ago, the internet has had a huge impact on the world: it's helped connect millions of people around the globe, reshaped industries and changed the way many of us live and work. But should the internet win the Nobel Peace Prize?I've just noticedthis reportsuggesting that the net is one of the contenders for next year's prize, along with some other gambles. Since the Nobel committee doesn't actually reveal who the losing nominees are, we don't know for certain, but there's a push initiated byWired Italiaand laureateShirin Ebadi.There are arguments on both sides. From the pro-Nobel side, there's the conviction that more communication is better for us all; that it helps erase differences and challenge authoritarianism; and that the network is more important, in a global sense, than the work of individuals – however great it may be.On the anti-side there are a number of points, too. Some of them – that there are better technologies, and the value of internet in promoting peace has yet been proven – are highlighted by theilluminating sceptic Evgeny Morozov.I'd also wonder whether the connections that the internet can create are just as likely to encourage divisions – just look at the wide extremes of behaviour on political websites, the insipid sofa activism of Facebook campaigns or the kneejerk reaction of some Twittergasms.I'm not sure whether giving the internet a Nobel would be an interesting twist, or estimate the net's capacity to solve problems - but if Barack Obama can win the prizewithout really doing anything, it's surely up for grabs.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull;Googlehas been slowly trying to improve its social web offerings - recentlyintroducing search results from your contactsandreal-time updates, for example. But the company's now planning to push even harder in this arena, with an event on Tuesday set to unveil some new features - reports suggestit's adding more feature to Gmail- but whatever it is, I'll be at the press conference in Mountain View tomorrow to see what they've got up their sleeve.&bull; Another event on Tuesday is the start of this year'sMacworld Expo, notable for being pushed back to February and the absence of an Apple product launch (remember when Apple said just before last year's event that itwasn't going to go any more?). It will be interesting to see what comes out of the event without the marquee performance from Jobs and co - and how long Macworld can survive without being able to bask in Apple's halo.&bull; Meanwhile, the troubles continue atElectronic Arts, which announced itslatest financial results on Mondayand didn't leave much positive feeling. Although losses were cut at the company - whichlaid off 1500 workers last year- game sales were down and it expects to miss its next set of targets too. More job cuts could be in the offing.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
It's the EU's annual Safer Internet Day today andCEOP, the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre, is using it to raise awareness among children and parents. In particular, it's promoting a new animated film,Lee and Kim's Adventures, which aims to help children aged from 5-7 to understand "the concepts of personal information and trust" and thus stay safer online. Research published last year by Ofcom suggested that 80% of this age group use the net.CEOP has also worked with Microsoft to add features to the Internet Explorer 8 browser, mainly by installing a Web Slice, though it's also possible to add search suggestions and Favorites (bookmarks). AWeb Sliceadds a button to the Favorites bar and shows a panel of content that can be updated from the site. In this case, theClickCEOP buttonprovides links that children can click for help with cyberbullying, harmful content and other problems, or ask for age-appropriate advice.Users who don't have IE8 can download the CEOP version. Where children use a different browser, parents can add a link tohttps://www.ceop.police.uk/reportabuse/This web page provides the same information.CEOP is also running a Protect programme, where volunteers from O2, Visa Europe and Microsoft are "joining forces with CEOP to deliver online safety into hundreds of schools".Jim Gamble, chief executive of the CEOP Centre and lead for the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) on protecting children on the internet, said:"This is about behaviour, not technology. But it is also about delivering contemporary, dynamic advice that is sympathetic to the needs of the children and young people we reach and helps the parent or carer to play their role in a way that is positive, supportive and understanding. CEOP's materials do that. We have updated them to cover new issues such as 'sexting' and new forms of bullying and we have listened to teachers to deliver new cartoons for very young children."Children's Secretary Ed Balls said: "The internet is a fantastic tool for young people and can open their eyes to tremendous opportunities. But it's important that parents and children understand the risks involved with using the internet, as with any area of life."Cynthia Crossley, director of Microsoft Online in UK, said: "This is about making kids more savvy. You want to raise your children to make smarter decisions about what they do online."Although Safer Internet Day ispromoted by the EU, these are UK-only initiatives.
Apple has spent years fine-tuning its incredible reputation for secrecy - doing everything frominvestigating its own employeeswhen information is leaked to the media tosilencing teenage bloggerswho appear to know too much.The latest individual on the receiving end of the company's appears to be Alan Murray, a senior Wall Street Journal executive who mysteriously deleted a Twitter message he had apparently sent from an iPad during a secret meeting with Steve Jobs.Ajuicy report from Valleywagpoints out that Murray hastily deleted a message he sent to Twitter last week, at exactly the same time thatJobs was doing a circuit of New York's big print publicationslike theNew York Timesand (yes) theWall Street Journal."This tweet sent from an iPad. Does it look cool?" he wrote on February 4th.The messagequickly disappeared, but it's still visible thanks to the joys ofGoogle's cache.Jobs has a testy relationship with the Journal - whichbroke the news about his liver transplant last year- but there's no suggestion yet that Jobs himselfgot out the flamethrowerto burn Murray personally. The WSJ editor did, however, tell Valleywag that "Apple's general paranoia about news coverage is truly extraordinary— but that's not telling you anything you didn't already know".It's a great little piece of gossip, but the thing that's really interesting to me is that Jobs is doing the rounds to try and drum up interest in the iPad. With the insane amount of coverage the gadget has got in the past few weeks, it's easy to imagine that everybody is gagging.Indeed,at the launch eventwe were told the New York Times had spent several weeks holed up near Apple's Californian headquarters. So we know Apple was working in conjunction with some big media groups.But here's one of the most powerful individuals in the technology industry out there, himself, trying to convince publishers that they should be producing applications for the iPad. That tells me there's a lot at stake here, for Apple and for Jobs himself.
It's almost hard to remember now but theoriginal Lego Star Warswas a revelation. Cutesy yet cool, hugely playable and a genuine cross-generational experience. Five years on and the excitement is long gone, with numerous and increasingly formulaic Lego titles hitting the shelves since. Actually, Lego Indy had its moments and Lego Harry Potter looks quite promising but you can't help feeling that the Lego games are now very much focussed on the kids market rather than the nostalgia plus family appeal of the Star Wars days. The announcement thatLego Star Wars III will be released this Autumndoes little to change this theory, with the game based on the Clone Wars TV show rather than, say, Han Solo's finest moments.Tom Stone, director at the developer TT games is talking big:LucasArts is an amazing partner, and working with them on the next iteration of the LEGO Star Wars series continues to be a great experience. The team at TT is working hard at making this simply the best LEGO game ever with all new gameplay and features never before seen in a LEGO game.According to the release these "all new gameplay and features" include, "brand new battle modes, giving players unique, head-to-head combat and an upgraded level builder, allowing the creation of customised bases and in-game battlefields." Multiplayer seems to be even more key then. But as always the best Lego games have been the ones that have appealed to the both adults and the kids - can a games based on the Clone Wars show really do that?Anyway, I have to ask. What film/book/whatever would you like to see get the Lego video game treatment? Personally I would love to see a Lego Sopranos, or maybe a Lego-ised version of a gaming brand. Lego Call of Duty or WoW maybe? Anyway, what do you think?
Perhaps Google's biggest threat doesn't come from Microsoft: perhaps it comes from Facebook. That might explain why it just splurged pots of money on an advert during the US Superbowl (a traditional piece of traditional media willy-waving): because it's worried about people using Facebook and other social networks instead of its product.Update:the below struck-out paragraphs aren't right - but the overall point is. Scroll on to the good stuff...I'd like at this point to show you the picture showing how the Wall Street Journal's website traffic from Google News has remained largely static, while that from Facebook has shot up. But as the picture has a "no commercial use" licence, I'll point you to it instead (here it is at the original size).What it shows is that while in January 2009 visits from Facebook to WSJ.com were about 1.3% of traffic, and from Google News were about 1.5% of traffic, by the end of January 2010 they were 3.45% from Facebook, and still around 1.3% for Google News.Conclusion from that slide: Google News isn't becoming more important as a traffic source for WSJ.com. But Facebook is.(And don't think that there's a paywall; if you follow a link from Google News to WSJ.com, you'll be allowed straight in to the full text of the article.)Heather Hopkins, North American analyst for Hitwisenotes in a new blog postthat "Facebook was the #4 source of visits to News and Media sites last week, after Google, Yahoo! and msn", and that the proportion it sends to US media sites has grown dramatically from about 1.2% to 3.52% over the past year, while that sent by Google News has remained roughly static, at around 1.4%.And she adds:"Facebook could be a major disruptor to the News and Media category. And with theWall Street Journal already publishing content to Facebook,perhaps the social network can avoid the run-ins that Google hassuffered recently with Rupert Murdoch. We will continue to watch thisspace."Combine that with a point made on Twitter by John Minnihan, the founder ofFreepository, that the real threat to Google (or as he calls it, $GOOG, the stock ticker term) isn't from Microsoft with Bing plus Yahoo (which aren't gaining any scary amount of traffic), but instead from Facebook - as Minnihancommented, "With recent data showing a large uptick in 'Facebook as home page', $GOOG may well indeed need to remind emerging generation who/what it is. In that case, the $GOOG ad makes some business sense. Whatever the real reason, it has nothing to do with 'sharing video more widely'. If FB dev'ed an integrated web-wide search engine, think about how much traffic would evap. from $GOOG overnite. That's nightmare stuff."And that may well be the real threat. As Minnihan says, it's really not very believable that you're going to blow $5m simply becauseyou thought a video about France was nice. No way.Meanwhile, bonus link: Spain's Telefonica hasgot into the act, saying that Google, Bing and Yahoo are using its networks "without paying anything at all".Es loco, si?
It is difficult to know where to start with a game this perfect, so let's go straight to the headline act: the storyline.Much has been made of Bioshock 2's narrative, and for good reason: it's glorious. You could watch someone else playing and enjoy it as a movie. At its centre is the ideological battle between free-market individualist Andrew Ryan and proto-Stalinist collectivist Sofia Lamb, and this philosophical conflict affects everything you do. You are moving through the wasteland that they created, trying to find the girl you were charged with protecting, and as you progress you learn more about Ryan – who was the deus ex machina in the first game – and about Lamb, who is a new addition. There is an ongoing argument about whether games can be considered as literature, and this one presents by far the most compelling case yet for "yes".The dilapidated underwater city of Rapture is rendered so lovingly that simply exploring it is a pleasure. The art deco, jazz-age-meets-Jules-Verne architecture is achingly beautiful, and the environment brims with thoughtful little touches. For example, Splicers (your main enemies, the grunts of Rapture) do not simply stand and wait for you to arrive; instead, they have their own lives, and conversations on which you can eavesdrop. At one point, I crept into a dilapidated bar to see two of them dancing together, one of many genuinely touching moments.But Bioshock 2 isn't just a pretty face: there is a fundamentally excellent shooter here too, with some of the best combat dynamics in the business. Fans of the first game will understand the significance of playing as a Big Daddy. For the uninitiated, these are the titanic guardians of the vulnerable Little Sisters – half deep-sea diver, half behemoth killing machine. You start with a gigantic rock drill and an industrial-sized rivet gun as your primary weapons. Because you are so big, the combat has become necessarily much grander since the first game, but the combat mechanics are perfectly judged – satisfyingly meaty when you just want to go nuts, but allowing for all sorts of cunning alternatives as well.There are larger, scarier enemies after you than Splicers, too, including the genuinely unsettling Big Sisters – spiky terrors that come after you when you free their diminutive siblings. Their screeches warn you of their approach, giving you time to prepare, setting traps and choosing the best defensive position from which to meet them. Similarly, Big Daddies do not attack until you attack them, allowing you to prepare yourself before doing battle. This ability to pick your fights is a welcome alternative to the standard boss-fight convention.The game deserves its 18 rating; it doesn't pull any punches, gore-wise, and is genuinely scary at times – partly because the quality of the writing makes you very quickly invested in the characterisation. But it manages to be vastly rewarding intellectually as well as viscerally satisfying. Bioshock 2 is a modern classic; a 7-star computer game. More than that, it is a powerful answer to anyone that still thinks all computer games are mindless, childish or dull.
The Last Hope is a prequel set around the time of the original Star Ocean, the fourth instalment of the Star Ocean series. Set around 2090, just after the third world war, humanity voyages into the stars in search of a new home and a fresh start.You take control of the main character, Edge Maverick – a member of the Space Reconnaissance Force (SRF) and crewman of the starship Calnus. It is SRF's maiden voyage and predictably enough you find yourself in a bit of trouble and end up marooned on an alien planet along with the rest of the squadron. Your first challenge is to scout around and see if it's safe, but it's not and you dispatch some familiar looking bugs. This impresses the captain and he sends you on your next mission to look for other survivors.The Last Hope has a number of stunning environments and elegant cut scenes, but you would expect no less from Square Enix. It's just a shame that the actual gameplay lets it down. My first impression is that the character movement in and out of battle mode is not great and slightly clunky. Considering that there is a lot of running involved you would have hoped that the movement would have been a lot smoother, and it becomes frustrating at times.The Last Hope sees the return of the real-time combat system that broke away from the classic turn-based RPG; in other words, the main difference is that there is no waiting between turns. You, your party members and enemies all fight at the same time. In battle you're able to toggle between other party members at any time, but when not in control, the characters' AI takes over. They stick to a battle plan set in the menu screen and this keeps them out of trouble. Toggling between characters and their abilities increase the overall speed of the battles. This is great fun and makes the game very entertaining. There is something satisfying about catching an angry wasp off guard with a swift but firm blindside attack.Like previous Star Oceans and other RPGs, you can gain experience points after you have completed each battle. These scores improve your health points, mental points, attack, defence and most of your other abilities. There are other skills which can be acquired, not just to be used in battle mode, but are also useful for exploring worlds and creating and refining items. Battle mode includes some sweet combos, which are activated by the shoulder triggers. You can link basic attacks which adds more hits and racks up the damage and your skill points. This becomes quite an effective offence as it just about doubles your hit bonuses. You also receive board bonuses on winning battles or by certain objectives within battle, which improves your characters' abilities. One thing you might want to do is to turn off the in-battle voices, as they can become pretty annoying.Throughout your quest you will come across various beautiful and detailed landscapes to explore. You can collect raw materials to use for refining and upgrading your weapons, armour and items. Along the way you will recruit new companions, who have their own special skills, in and out of battle. Along with the main storyline, there are side quests to keep you occupied. These can involve finding someone or something, or fighting a beast. So there is something to occupy you if you get bored smashing your way through battle after battle.&nbsp;After playing the game for a good few hours, I gradually started to see past the clunky character movement, dialogue, annoying camera angles and cut scenes, and began to play the game for real. For a while I was collecting, refining and going through the story, but the biggest problem for me was that I couldn't take the characters or the storyline seriously. There was just no drive to find out what happens next. I'd never played the other Star Ocean games, and wanted to become involved with it like I did when I first played Final Fantasy VII and VIII. Unfortunately, this didn't happen so I found myself just running round looking for fights, which became a bit repetitive.Taking all of this into account, I feel that The Last Hope is a very average game; it's not a proper RPG and it's not a pure button basher. It's a shame because when I played on Final Fantasy I always wanted to be able to run around and fight my own way like you can in Star Ocean but, it's just not as good as I'd hoped. If you're new to the Star Ocean series you might be a little disappointed, but if you've been a fan for a while you might think differently. It was fun for a while, but  it would really benefit from an online co-op mode. Back to Modern Warfare 2 it is, then.
I'm writing this using the beta of Microsoft Word 2010, part of the Office 2010 suite due to hit the shelves later this year. You can try out the whole suite for free, too – the beta isavailable for download.So what's new in Office 2010? A hell of a lot: the reviewer's guide that Microsoft helpfully provides for the likes of me runs to 174 pages, covering everything from the extension of the ribbon interface to Outlook 2010 to how to drill down and display data in Excel pivot tables. Other highlights include being able to slice and dice video into a Powerpoint presentation, and out-of-the-box PDF support, which Adobe isn't going to like. Neither is Adobe going to like the fact that you'll be able to edit images directly within Office apps.What's more interesting, however, is the determination of Microsoft to make Office 2010 as widely available as possible, including online and via mobile devices. There's no need to buy – for large sums of money – the entire suite; you will be able to access via any browser and your Windows Live login pretty much full-featured versions of Excel, Word, Powerpoint and OneNote and use them to work collaboratively. If you're a business, you'll be able to host the Web Apps on your Sharepoint server and your minions will be able to access them via that.This means, for example, if you're at a conference with a Powerpoint presentation on a USB stick and no laptop, and suddenly some new data arrives via email on your mobile, you'll be able to plug the stick into any computer and update the presentation using the online version of Powerpoint. It doesn't matter if it's a Mac and doesn't have Powerpoint installed; and, unlike the current version of Outlook Web Access on Exchange 2007, it doesn't matter what browser you use, either: the Web Apps are fully featured on any browser.Clearly a riposte to the mighty Google and its Google Docs, Microsoft's Web Apps are, for my money, a better and richer experience than Google's offering. Like Google Docs, they will be free for the casual user. But why offer a free version of one of your biggest cash-generating suites of software? The answer is to expose as many people as possible to Office 2010, and to hope that they'll love it so much they'll shell out for the entire suite.This version of Office is very much more focused on the world outside your PC. As well as the collaborative nature of the Web Apps, you'll be able to keep on top of what your colleagues and contacts are up to, either via your company's Sharepoint infrastructure or via the big social networks. So, via Outlook, not only will you be able to check up on whether Jack from Accounts has said yes to the meeting, you'll also be able to see, via Facebook, if he's still hungover from the weekend. Which would explain why he's showing up in your People Pane in Outlook 2010 as "out of the office".As is usually the case with Microsoft, there will be lots of different flavours of the suite, ranging from the least eyewateringly expensive version aimed at students and home users – which, infuriatingly, won't include Outlook – up to the all-singing, all-dancing Office Professional Plus.Pros:richer multimedia tools, ability to use apps  free online and to collaborate online.Cons:Bound to be expensive, sheer size of suite and variety of tools can be confusing.Office.microsoft.com
After a protracted beta test, Star Trek Online finally makes it out of space dock. So is it set to live long and prosper?Initial impressions are promising, with Cryptic's usual flair for deep characterisation allowing you to define just about every aspect of your character. You can choose your species (including human, Vulcan, Liberated Borg or your own customised alien breed), career, gender and a wide range of body and head shapes. Each of these has two preset attributes and two more to pick yourself. After this, it's straight down to business, familiarising yourself with moving around, using standard WASD controls and the right mouse button to look around.Set a few decades after the plot of Star Trek Nemesis, the universe is once again at war, between the Federation and Klingons (your two playable factions) and the Borg back to its usual aggressive tendencies. Missions usually involve picking a star system, planet or mobile target which triggers the attached events. These can be solo, group or public, but they're always linear in nature and if you return to them once completed, exactly the same events will play out. Successful missions are rewarded with experience points, currency or equipment, with points to be spent either on yourself or your crew of which you can unlock up to three other bridge officers to command as you level up.The trouble is, whether you choose space or planetary missions, combat lies at the heart of them all. On land, this involves stabbing the number keys or left mouse button, whereas from the Bridge the Spacebar fires phasers and CTRL launches torpedoes. As for interaction, hitting the F key takes care of almost every object and although there are plenty of NPCs hanging around, disappointingly few of them could be communicated with. Ultimately, STO's concentration on combat seems to overlook half the appeal of Star Trek. Where is the exploration, the moral dilemmas, the sense of the unexpected? Perhaps hiding in some later mission but certainly not adequately displayed in the bulk of the game.In fairness, as this review was based on the beta test, we're missing the human factor which can make all the difference between a good and a doomed MMO. However, it's hard to see how even a server full of passionate Trekkers will compensate for the linear missions and the fact that, impressive though the space battles are, there's precious little to do other than fight.
The Stalker series (of which this is the third instalment) has always had its standout moments counterbalanced by irritating lapses in translation and play testing. Call of Pripyat may not shed that inconsistency entirely, but it is the best of the bunch so far.For a start, few games have made better use of lighting – including areas when only torchlight punctuates the total darkness, and not just the murky, semi-gloom so often used for shock-value alone. All this forces you to rely on your instincts in a way horror games have long understood but first-person shooters have largely neglected. Pripyat is one of the bleakest games you'll ever come across – both in the drab, fetid wastelands you traverse and the mood swings you experience when at last you see a friendly face in the distance, only to discover it will rip your limbs off at the first opportunity. Combine this with the underground levels swarming with mutants and the weather which, when it's not raining, will periodically sear your flesh to the bone, and light relief is certainly not a phrase you'll ever have cause to use.Pripyat is also rock hard to play, both from your initial vulnerability to the harsh conditions until you pick up better suits, armour and weapons and the unnervingly accurate AI that sees enemies pick you off at distance or in total darkness, apparently without needing any of the gear you need to pull off the same tricks. Upgrades come in numerous forms, from the usual reactive healthpacks and weapons to pre-emptive measures that protect you against the environment. And although friendly human NPC's are relatively few, they always have something useful to contribute, whether it's information, weapon repairs or quests. On the downside, with so many of these sub-quests and such a featureless landscape, it's incredibly easy to get lost, which makes it tempting to simply abandon quests rather than push on to receive the often disappointing reward at the end. The single-player storyline, however, is stuffed with atmospheric set pieces, even if the game's ultimate location, the city of Pripyat, is something of a letdown after all the build up.If you enjoyed Far Cry and want a nightmarish twist on the same kind of open-ended gameplay, then Call of Pripyat is definitely worth checking out. And even if you've tried the previous Stalker games and found them wanting (usually for technical rather than gameplay reasons) then this one more than justifies a second look.
On the flip side of the debate aboutwhetherFlashis ill, in rude health, or simply untroubledby Apple's wilful refusal to countenance it on the iPhone/iPod Touch/iPad, we have an analysis from Peter-Paul Koch, a "mobile platform strategist, consultant and trainer" who says (with plenty of swearing to boot, if you're in filter territory) that the iPhone is the Internet Explorer 6de nos jours.Yes. That's right. He's saying: don't develop for it. Or rather, don't develop exclusively for it to the exclusion of other mobile browsers, and certainly don't give it special status.Thelong, detailed and faintly angry blogpostdoesn't pull any punches:"The iPhone has become an obsession. If we don't pay attention, we'll have a mobile web that only works on the iPhone. And then we'll have the real mobile web that wasn't made by us and doesn't give a shit about web standards and best practices."Oh? Suppose, he suggests, one proposed the following:1. IE6 is today's most advanced browser. (Note: this was actually true back in 2000. Please bear with me.)2. IE6's market share is about 80%.3. The other browsers are way worse than IE6, and developing for them is a pain; something we're not interested in and are a bit afraid of.4. Therefore we will develop websites exclusively for IE6.Would you agree with those sentiments, even if we're back in 2000 and IE6 is really the best browser we have? Or would you reply that our sites should work as well as they can in all browsers through the use of web standards, progressive enhancement, and all the rest of the best practices we've been preaching for the past ten years?Well, would ya, punk?Certainly he's making some of the same points that were made in comments to my earlier post about Flash:"No "mobile web development" specialist ever mentions Nokia ever. After all, Nokia only sells more smartphones than BlackBerry and Apple combined, so there's no reason to mention it."He thinks that the iPhone doesn't really have the claimed 50% share of the mobile web:"Mobile browser detection is really hard. None of the reports I've read so far show how they detect browsers. Lots of mobile browsers have iPhone in their UA strings to work around browser detects that obsessed web developers have set up. Do all traffic market share reporters work around that problem? Most probably do, but we can't be sure.""Besides, what will happen when the operators abandon the economically untenable flat rate for iPhone data traffic? Will iPhone users maintain their current traffic market share when they have to pay as they go?"Well, let's deal with the second one first: if mobile operators do that, they'll find iPhone customers abandoning them by the thousands, and demanding their money back, and suing them for breach of contract. That sort of data deal that Apple got from AT&amp;T, and from all other mobile operators, is a ratchet - you can't go back to a pay-by-byte, just as anyone who's experienced broadband is simply not going to go back to clock-watching unless they're taken to another country or location where the internet is in a rudimentary state. It may be true that iPhone users are the exception, but it will be more common - a family member who has a BlackBerry got a pleading letter from Orange imploring them to upgrade to an all-you-can-eat data package for just £5 per month.Back to the blogpost..."Do you ever see any mainstream mobile web development article that talks about S60 WebKit or the (lousy) BlackBerry browser? Due to our iPhone obsession we are deliberately not paying any attention to a user group that's four times as large as the iPhone."We have come full-circle back to developing for only one browser. Worse, we are congratulating ourselves on that bit of cleverness. Christ, do we really have to go through the whole standards movement once again?"This is the core of his argument, and it is a good one: that in developing only for the iPhone, you ignore all the other people out there, and that's not good.Then again, the closer a mobile browser comes to being standards-based (if there is such a thing - which is another question entirely) the easier it should be to develop for.And of course one can't help thinking that a lot of this development for the iPhone is still based on the same thing that got sites developed for IE6, and which was the prevailing credo of Willie Sutton.Sutton, you'll recall, was abankrobber of great notorietyin the early 20th century. Caught and interviewed by the FBI, he was asked why he robbed banks.Sutton shrugged. "That's where the money is," he replied.
Want to know where the Google Street View car is? In the UK, there was a collaborative effort totrack it through pictures and crowdsourced mapswhen it was over here collecting the pictures for Google Nostalgia (ah, those days when Woolworths was open).But a team of German artist-pranksters – the self-assigned Free Art &amp; Technology group – has done rather better: while the Street View car was idling outside their offices, they nipped over and attached a GPS device to it.The result:for a while on Sundayyou could see in real time just where it was, and the group also generated a map showing where it had been. (Or see thereally large map.)Much hilarity ensued, although Google obviously got wise to it and seem to have removed it. (Either that or they've been parked since Sunday, which seems unlikely.)The fabulous irony being their instruction to people to: "Come help us find and tell your friends about the evils being committed by Google's streetviews car and crew."Which they've plotted on a … Google Map.Update Weds 10 Feb:the hilarity, it turns out, will have been at F.A.T, as this was a hoax. SeeGoogle's statement in our later blogpost- it doesn't do Street View shooting at this time of year as conditions aren't good enough.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Internet connections in Iran are apparentlygrinding to a haltahead of upcoming anti-government protests. Why? Officially, the government is blaming it on the fact that "part of the fibre-optic network is damaged." - by which time the latest round of protests are likely to be over.&bull; It's not often we talk aboutSAP- the German software giant that, thanks to its huge business market, is one of the world's most powerful technology companies in the world - but the men in suits are in the headlines. Why? Becausechief executive Leo Apotheker has suddenly resignedas revenues fell and great rival Oracle continued making ground.&bull; The war betweenAmazonand Macmillan appears to be over, for now, afterthe internet retailer started stocking the publisher's books again.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Google's aversion to advertising its search engine on TV ended with a bang on Sunday night as the company paid  an estimated $5m to run a commercial during the Super Bowl.The minute-long spot marks the biggest venture into mainstream advertising for a company that has become notorious growing almost exclusively through word of mouth and online exposure.Indeed, the move is such a remarkable turnaround for the internet giant that it even moved chief executive Eric Schmidt to publish arare message on Twitter, in which he claimed "someone said 'Hell has indeed frozen over'".Google's "Parisian Love" commercial, which featured a variety of plugs for the company's search engine played out as a virtual love story, was aired during the game's third quarter and lasted a full minute.As one of the world's most-viewed TV events, the Super Bowl is a opportunity for advertisers to reach huge audiences in one swoop - and a notorious cash cow for the NFL. With companies charged around $2.5m for a 30 second spot last year's game, which lasted just over three and a half hours, made $213m from advertising alone.But experts said the decision to spend millions on a highly-visible ad betrays how Google is feeling the heat from competitors - in particular Microsoft's Bing search engine.Danny Sullivan, the editor ofSearchEngineLand, said that Microsoft's was almost certainly behind the decision to try and advertise to such a large audience."This pretty much confirms that Google is absolutely feeling the pressure from Bing,"he wrote. "The company has never, ever seriously advertised its core search offerings before in this manner."Running an advert of this magnitude marks a significant turnaround for Google, which has regularly turned its nose up at offline advertising.While is not the first time that Google has ventured into mainstream ads – in recent months the company haspromoted its web browser, Chromeand run aninternational campaign to publicise its web-based software- it has done little or no external marketing of its search engine for most of its life.Indeed, such has been the antipathy towards promoting its basic products through traditional channels that senior executives have even launched attacks on the company's rivals for using advertising.In an interview on Fox Business News last summer, Schmidt railed against Microsoft for trying to spend their way to a market-leading position."You don't buy it with ads," he said. "You earn it, and you earn it customer by customer, search for search, answer by answer."According to advertising experts, Google's Super Bowl debut was a hit: Tim Calkins, a professor of marketing with the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University in Illinois, said Google's advert proved the most successful during this year's event, according to their tests."The Google spot laddered up to the emotion but maintained function,"Calkins said.
