Astronomers from the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory have produced aguideshowing how to turn SOHO imagery into UFO snapshots, reportsMSNBC. This is the lab's response to silly claims like those fromEuroseti.
"Many Factors Behind Microsoft's Dividend" says theLA Times[free registration required]. As well as the obvious ones, it seems Microsoft got a letter from Ralph Nader's organisation, Consumer Project on Technology, which "pointed out that a rarely invoked U.S. law allows for a 39% tax on retained company profit 'beyond the reasonable needs of the business'." The piece concludes: "Nader's group says it plans to write a pro-dividend letter to Cisco Systems Inc."
We often moan about technology going wrong, but sometimes you have to appreciate how some things work really well. Take GSM mobile phones, for instance. In the US, the GSM standard is not as widespread as the rest of the world, and what GSM service exists is on a different frequency. This creates problems - as a piece onTechdirt, on the horrors of travelling abroad with a US mobile phone, demonstrates. A lack of foreign roaming agreements, not to mention the differences between the US technologies and frequencies, make going abroad and staying in touch a nightmare. "After traveling to four continents in the past two months with two phones, I have found that travel indeed can be perilous, but the worst muggings may not lurk around street corners but are in fact on the other side of the "Send" key," writes Derek Kerton. Praise be to standards. And to everybody following them.
She was the queen of the European internet scene, a founder of the First Tuesday networking club who became one of the most photographed and feted entrepreneurs of the dotcom boom.Yet two years after the tech bubble imploded, Julie Meyer has been plunged into a battle with the very medium she did so much to promote.A series of detailed memos purporting to be written by the entrepreneur and suggesting her latest business was in difficulty have appeared on US website fuckedcompany.com, the market leader in dotcom doom stories.Yesterday a furious Ms Meyer categorically denied that she had written the memos. She is consulting lawyers about what action she can take.Her business Ariadne Capital is progressing "superbly well", she said - and having attracted clients including Volkswagen, T-Mobile, BT and Royal Mail, is operating at a profit. "The emails have been fabricated; they are false, and the content is wholly untrue," she said.Legal advisers believe the memos could have been forged by a disgruntled employee of the venture capital and consultancy firm.In common with many firms that have appeared on fuckedcompany.com, Ariadne is likely to have difficulty getting the memos removed. The site is hosted by an internet service provider in the US over which UK law has no authority.Ms Meyer has a reputation as one of the best networked and most driven young entrepreneurs in Europe and spent millennium night on a business trip to Israel.She was one of four friends who set up First Tuesday, an informal monthly cocktail party for entrepreneurs which evolved into a high profile organisation for those looking to launch internet start-ups. She fell out with the other three founders when they sold it to venture capitalists in 2000.In an interview with silicon.com last year she explained what drove her to succeed after the internet boom ended. "I knew how to seize the opportunity, and it all boiled down to one thing: I must get out there again - forget that holiday - regardless of whether the market had shifted 180 degrees, to prove my success is market-independent, recession-neutral," she said."I understand where the next curve is. My abilities are not tied to all boats floating on a rising tide."When the markets return, and the masses flood in, the real opportunities will be gone - but I will be ahead of the game. This is why my schedule these days is super-punishing. While others are vacationing in Italy, I'm scared I'm going to miss the next big thing. Call it an obsession. Why do I keep on going? As a friend of mine says, that dog hunts."
Read this, and the next time someone tells you that, of course, Betamax was superior to VHS, you can tell them that they are wrong. It's an urban myth.This is not news: the information has always been available to anyone who could be bothered to look. However, it seems to me that the survival of this and many similar notions is not just a matter of techno-arrogance: it shows a failure to understand how technology markets work.Soon after I joined the Guardian in 1985, to launch Computer Guardian, another journalist showed me an article he had written about the IBM PC. I went through the introductory paragraphs step by step and explained that, as a matter of fact, every single point was wrong. "Oh well," he said, "that doesn't matter. That's what everybody thinks".That and similar experiences as an ordinary reader led me, eventually, to two conclusions. The first is that a lot of comment is based on a sort of received wisdom, a common currency, that appears to be picked up from the atmosphere. It certainly isn't based on reality. The second is that almost no journalists, and no geeks, have ever come across the concept of "the whole product", though it is well known to marketing people. Real people may not be aware of it, but the "whole product" model is an accurate description of the way they buy things.Let's take a simple example: digital audio tape (Dat). Get someone to compare Dat with a humble C90 compact cassette and they will find Dat to be technologically superior, especially for recording music. However, if you consider "the whole product", Dat is vastly inferior for most people most of the time. This is why people still buy millions of cassettes, while Dat has virtually disappeared from consumer use.The point is that when someone buys and uses a product, the technological aspects are a small and often uninteresting part of the decision. When you choose compact cassette, you are also buying into a vast infrastructure of capabilities, services and support. These include the availability of cheap cassettes on every high street, cheap personal stereos, and the ability to use the same format for a wide range of applications (personal stereo, portable radio/cassette players, in the car, in your hi-fi stack).You are buying the ability to stick a cassette in the post to your relatives in Australia with 100% certainty that they will be able to play it - and what's more, you won't care about never getting that tape back.Similarly, when someone buys a Wintel PC, they are buying the ability to choose from dozens of models from hundreds of hardware suppliers, or have one built to order, or build one themselves. They are buying the ability to access hundreds of peripherals, hundreds of thousands of applications, and millions of websites that work best with their system.They are buying the choice of hundreds of magazines, thousands of books, and all the supporting services from educational courses to repair shops.They are also buying the confidence that their system will keep progressing even if individual manufacturers fail.In marketing terms, "the core product" - such as a car, a computer, or a video recorder - is just the start. You have to add on all the things like reliability, service and support (the expected product), its expansion capabilities (the augmented product), and its potential for future development (the potential product) to get "the whole product".Since real people make real buying decisions based on "the whole product" (and if they didn't, we'd change the model), simpleminded comparisons of products by technological feature are very likely to get it wrong.I've been operating with the concept of "the whole product" for about a decade. It's much older than that, of course, but I first discovered it in Geoffrey Moore's book, Crossing the Chasm: Marketing and Selling High-Tech Products to Mainstream Customers, published in 1991. That and Moore's follow up - Inside the Tornado: Marketing Strategies from Silicon Valley's Cutting Edge - are the two most important books ever written about hi-tech marketing. In the Valley, in the 90s, they were used as bibles.It had a strong effect on me. When you get a new tool, you want to apply it, and I applied it. I'd spent half a decade deriding Microsoft Windows - as a user, I'd preferred Digital Research's Gem, and I was a keen supporter of open systems Unix - but it didn't take me long to work out that Windows had won."The whole product" model also provided a convincing explanation of why VHS had thrashed Betamax. VHS offered a bigger choice of hardware at lower cost, the tapes were cheaper and more easily available, there were a lot more movies to rent, and so on. All of this matched my own experience.I remember perambulating Hammersmith (doing the Maplin run) and finding VHS recorders more readily available to rent, while the video shop had three walls of VHS movies and only one for Betamax.Indeed, the main thing that didn't fit was the idea was that Betamax was "technically superior". Standing in a shop at the time, there was absolutely no visible difference in picture quality, and some reviews had found that VHS's quality was superior.I "knew" Betamax was superior -- that was the received wisdom, even at the time - and maybe it was, in a lab. But I wasn't buying a lab test rig. In terms of "the whole product", VHS was clearly superior, so that's the way I went. Along with everybody else.Later I found out that Betamax had owned the market, but lost it because Sony got one simple decision wrong. It chose to make smaller, neater tapes that lasted for an hour, whereas the VHS manufacturers used basically the same technology with a bulkier tape that lasted two hours. Instead of poring over the sound and picture quality, reviewers could simply have taken the systems home. Their spouses/children/grandparents and everybody else would quickly have told them the truth. "We're going out tonight and I want to record a movie. That Betamax tape is useless: it isn't long enough. Get rid of it."Betamax was the first successful consumer video format, and at one time it had close to 100% of the market. All of the video machines in use and all of the pre-recorded movies were Betamax. It had a de facto monopoly, and an element of lock-in (because of tape incompatibilities). It lost because, at the time, it could not do what consumers wanted: record a whole movie unattended. And although Betamax playing times were extended, they never caught up with VHS.Other elements of the oft-repeated Betamax story are also wrong. For example, while Sony was certainly slow to bring in other manufacturers, it had tried to license it to rivals such as JVC before VHS was even launched. Betamax was not generally more expensive: Sony had to slash its original high prices but generally it was competitive. Indeed, after it had lost the market, Betamax machines were often cheaper than VHS ones.And at the beginning, there was no comparative shortage of Betamax movies to rent: actually, they were all Betamax. (Stan Liebowitz, Professor and Associate Dean of the School of Management, University of Texas at Dallas, has done most research on this, but seeurbanlegends.comfor a quick guide.)Even if Betamax had been "technically superior", it wouldn't have mattered. VHS users have long had the chance to upgrade to the compatible SuperVHS format with superior picture quality. But rather than demanding better pictures for today's TV sets, consumers have shown more interest in LP (Long Play) modes that reduce the picture quality to provide longer recording times.VHS won because "the whole product" did what people wanted at a price they were willing to pay. And when people use the VHS v Beta analogy, they are not indicating a market failure but their own ignorance.
Microsoft has launched a new "community supported" Web site,WM Plug-ins.com, where users can pick up add-ons for the Windows Media 9 system. To begin with, there are more than a hundred add-ons from more than 20 different companies. The site also has a section for developers, with a software development kit (SDK), advice and some support.
Nintendo will release its next games console in 2005, according to a Reuters interview reported atGamers.com. "The PlayStation 2 debuted one-and-a-half years ahead of the GameCube," according to Nintendo President Satoru Iwata. "If we had launched the GameCube at the same time as PlayStation 2, the result would have been different. We will get ready for a (new) battle in 2005 although foreign game developers are now saying that rival next-generation systems won't come until 2006." Comment: Nintendo's problems started when the SNES (Super Nintendo Entertainment System) was horribly late. By the sime it arrived, Sega had already taken over the market with the MegaDrive/Genesis and Sonic the Hedgehog. Nintendo may have taken a decade a wake up, but it finally seems to have realised that it would not be a good idea to make the same mistake three times in a row. Next time, there may not be a phenomenon like Pokemon to save it.
A lot of people have been looking forward to Sony Ericsson's long awaited -  and much delayed - P800 model, if only to see whether it is really possible to have a phone that doubles as an organiser or personal digital assistant and is compact enough to carry around in a shirt pocket.Sony Ericsson (SE) has already impressed mightily with its T68i, a featherweight phone with camera attachment and all the bells and whistles including Bluetooth. But it wasn't enough to restore SE's flagging financial problems. For that they need a successful family of phones.Had the P800 come out when it was expected to last autumn then it would have looked even more innovative than it does today when built-in cameras are taken for granted. Now it has to make up a bit of lost ground.The P800, which weighs 150g, is the first phone with decent handwriting recognition on the screen enabling you to write down notes in Jotter mode with a stylus as they occur to you.The words are then transcribed to digital form unless you opt to keep your own handwriting. The upper part of the screen recognizes numbers and the bottom half of words. It is actually quicker to type in web addresses than to use the (stylus-driven) keyboard.Once the retractable clamshell-style dialing keyboard has been opened it has the biggest colour screen of any phone I have come across.The P800's built-in camera beats the Nokia 7650 for resolution, though the zoom facility is better on the Nokia, as is the ease with which you can send multimedia messages.The calendar feature on the P800 is better than Nokia's similar looking one, mainly because it is slightly bigger and you can enter information by writing with the stylus.I went to SE's website and filled in all the details to get them to send my phone an instant text message to enable the phone to connect with my POP3 server. That part went fine, but the phone call wouldn't make the connection to the internet until I had inputted a few more details which hadn't been included in the text message.But it was worth the hassle. The phone successfully read Word and Excel attachments that had been sent to my POP3 email address. The P800 was big enough to read an 8k Excel document down eight columns and across 12 rows on a single screen. It's impressive stuff, and easily the best I have come across on a phone. SE claims that the phone can also handle PowerPoint and Acrobat documents, and I have no reason to doubt it.Other features such as video replay and audio worked impressively well. Indeed, it is a reflection of how quickly we have taken these amazing facilities for granted that mention of them comes so late in this review.The phone comes with a couple of games (including a very playable version of chess) and is kitted out with Java for downloading the growing number of Java -based games on the web. The phone also comes with a cradle enabling it to sync with your PC, which I wasn't able to test.In conclusion, I only had this model for a few days and kept blowing hot and cold over it depending on how well it is working (a fuller report will appear in Online after more experience has been gained).If full-production models work to the specifications claimed it will be a very impressive phone. But, as with some previous Ericsson phones, there is a slight feeling that technology may have been running ahead of usability. The P800 will be coming onto the UK market within the next month or two at a price yet to be announced. Make sure that web access and email settings are working properly before you leave the shop.
Japan'sNEChas started selling its small and light VersaPro Tablet PC, which is about half an inch thick, says the IDG News Service.
It's almost Man v Machine time again. Six years after losing to Deep Blue, Garry Kasparov is about to take on Deep Junior, a three-times World computer chess champion. The match will be held in New York andThe New York Times[free registration required] is covering the story.
Online bookshop Amazon has reported its first profit in the UK with soaring sales over Christmas as shoppers abandoned the high street for the internet.The company, which launched four years ago in the UK, is one of the few internet ventures that not only survived but flourished in the face of the dotcom pile-up.Worldwide the group reported its second ever profit of £1.7m for three months to the end of December 2002, confirming its position as one of the handful of dotcom trailblazers to mature into a profitable business.This Christmas was Amazon.co.uk's biggest and most successful yet, with the company shipping 6.2 million items between November 1 and Christmas Day.Among the best sellers were Jamie Oliver's cook books, DVD players and the Robbie Williams CD Escapology.The company's UK managing director, Robin Terrell, said the site was also hoping to cash in on Harry Potter mania and had already received 30,000 pre-orders for the new book months before it goes on sale in June.However, group profits were down 48% on the same period last year, when the company turned its first profit in the three-month run-up to Christmas.It blamed the fall in profits on currency exchange rates and the rise in its share price and pointed to record quarterly revenues of £900m as evidence that it was still growing.Amazon's chief executive, Jeff Bezos, confidently predicted sales would grow a further 15% in the coming year. "I think it's going to be a very good year," he added.The UK arm of the company, its second biggest operation outside the US, saw growth of more than 60% on last year, fuelled by the overall increase in online shopping and a free delivery promotion before Christmas.Amazon said the free delivery offer was such a success that it was extended into the new year on all orders over £39."Over time you'll see the payoff, the payback, get better and better," said Tom Szkutak, the company's chief financial officer. "We believe it's the right thing to do for our customers, which will translate for our shareholders as well."Despite celebrating its second profit, analysts remain concerned that Amazon can no longer justify its high share price, which soared by 75% during 2002.Internationally, annual sales rose by 76% on 2001 and the company said its Japanese operation was also close to profitability. It also confirmed plans to launch new sites around the world.
The creative power of South Korea's new media may have won victory for the incoming president, Roh Moo-hyun, but their destructive power has also ruined the career of at least one journalist.Last May, Fred Varcoe, veteran sports editor of the Japan   Times, was in full swing preparing for the World Cup finals when he was suddenly given an ultimatum: "Either resign or you're fired."It was an abrupt end to his 15-year employment with the daily   paper at what should have been the highpoint of his career. Fred was well known among British sports journalists and foreign correspondents (me included) as the most prolific writer on Japanese football in the English language.His personal and irreverent style probably had as many critics as fans, but that was his well-established trademark. He also got some important scoops. The Fifa president, Sepp Blatter, once blamed him for the headaches of co-hosting the World Cup, a suggestion that Fred claims he was the first to make.But on the eve of the tournament, he was given his marching orders as a result of a report that appeared in another country, another language and another medium.Fred had probably never heard of OhmyNews until the influential South Korean online news site brought about his   downfall with a withering criticism of one of the World Cup   preview stories that he had written for the Japan Times.   That story - an introduction to Seoul - began with Fred reminiscing about being propositioned by a prostitute during his first visit to the South Korean capital.It was exactly the   kind of old-fashioned, run-down, sleazy image that the host   nation - which has never been more self-confident or assertive - did not want to present to the world. The URL of the offending article was sent anonymously to Bae Eul-sun of OhmyNews, who criticised the contents and the writer online in her own trademark aggressive style.Although Ms Bae had not called for Fred to lose his job, her   article spawned a furious online campaign for his dismissal. Fred's Korean wife received email death threats and the South Korean embassy in Tokyo twice visited the Japan Times to demand action.Although the paper had been running similar stories by Fred for years and no one inside the paper had complained at any   time when the offending article was submitted, edited or published, the Japan Times - whose publisher, Toshiaki   Ogasawara, has business interests in Korea - decided its   sports editor must go. Days before the opening game, the   paper withdrew his tournament accreditation. He refused to resign and was fired on July 4 for, among other reasons,   "insulting the honour of Korean women".It appears to be a salutary tale of the risks of online journalism, which is still at an embryonic stage even in South   Korea - the world's most advanced internet nation. Although the new media have played a mostly positive role in   democratising South Korea in ways that other countries have not yet experienced, its ambitions are in danger of running too far ahead of its resources and the establishment of safety checks.OhmyNews is just three years old, but with 3 million readers it   has become as influential as any newspaper - helping to propel Roh Moo-hyon into the presidency and starting anti-American campaigns that drew in tens of thousands of people. But its   young, idealistic staff admit they are too rushed off their feet to check the comments posted by readers."I feel guilty," said Bae Eul-sun. "It was not my intention to get Fred sacked. That was a proposal by one of the readers. Even though his article was insulting, I don't think it is   democratic to fire journalists just because you don't like what   they say."The South Korean embassy also claims the consequences were unintended. "We passed on the feeling of anger expressed on OhmyNews about Mr Varcoe's yellow   journalism, but we did not specifically ask for him to be fired," said a diplomat.Nobody at the Japan Times was available for comment. According to Fred, his old employers share the biggest burden of blame for failing to stick by a story that they had published."This would never have started without OhmyNews, which is   able to fire off insults unchecked, but the biggest culprit is the   Japan Times, which would not fight my corner or give me the   opportunity to defend myself," he said.Fred will file a legal case against the paper for unfair dismissal next week. If he wins, his former employers may end up wishing they had followed the old-media journalistic principle of sticking by a story rather than caving in to pressure from the South Korean government and accusations by a sometimes wild new media.
It is half past four in the afternoon, the 16th arrondissement. In a bleak industrial corner on the outskirts of Paris, the rich and the famous of the fashion world are queuing to get inside a warehouse. There is an angry knot of striking fashion workers protesting that the manufacture of haute couture (high stitching) is leaving the city.Inside, the atmosphere is equally tense. The Dior show features the work of Britain's John Galliano, one of the biggest names at Paris Haute Couture, and he is running two hours late. Stiletto heels are tapping restlessly on the concrete floor.And then, suddenly, it begins. A firework display of camera flashes. Music. Lights. Beautiful girls. In the second row, Jo-Ann Furniss, a freelance fashion writer from Manchester, is taking pictures above the usual huddle of fashion photographers working the pit. The models seem not to notice her, but then again, Furniss is taking pictures on her mobile phone."What's really good about it is that it's very unobtrusive and there's no flash," explains Furniss. "We've been given great access to the shows and we've gone backstage before it's all started and, to be   honest, people are not really aware that you're taking their picture."Furniss is on an assignment forShowstudio.com, an independent fashion website operated by the acclaimed fashion photographer Nick Knight. The pair have been given two new picture phones to report from Paris Haute Couture week. For the past four days, they have been attending each of the major catwalk shows and photo calls. They have been using picture messaging to send images and short commentaries from the shows.Furniss's biggest problem is the battery. Halfway through the Dior show, her phone goes dead. "I took too many pictures," she admits, as she and her partner, Jonathan Kaye, take a taxi back to their hotel to recharge it. "It is quite addictive using these phones. I'm surprised, seeing as I'm quite technically inept, but even I could use it."Back in London, her messages are uploaded to the Showstudio's website in just minutes and have provided almost live coverage from the catwalks. Even during the two-hour lull as Furniss rushed back for the recharger, the site still managed to publish pictures from Paris, pipping to the post bigger   commercial outfits such as Vogue and Elle by two days.The pictures might be easy to take but are they any good? One of the main criticisms of the new picture phones is that the quality of the images is poor. But speaking from his bedroom in Richmond, Nick Knight says that misses the point: "One of the mistakes that students of photography   often make is to try to get the best camera. If you have something to communicate, it doesn't really matter if you use potato print or you drag someone into a photo booth. A writer doesn't worry about what pen they have."What's also interesting about Showstudio is that they have found some kind of commercial use for the new   picture phones. It is among a number of businesses that are looking at picture messaging. In the coming weeks, expect media companies to start offering Multimedia Messaging Services. The BBC is developing picture messaging for its news content and the Met Office will shortly start offering weather imagery to mobile phones. Both Northamptonshire police and the Met are developing uses for MMS to help tackle crime. And a number of estate agents and second-hand car dealers are considering applications for the phones.In Bosnia, medical staff of the Swedish peacekeeping battalion use picture phones, and a number of Swedish hospitals are running trial schemes.Culture, too, is beginning to pick up the phones. The ICA used picture messaging as part of its digital festival last November. Last summer, four friends in Hoxton, east London, used the picture phones for three weeks and published a book, What I'm Talking About. Contra Publishing of Helsinki released it in time for last Christmas.This is all much-needed good news for the telcos and the manufacturers. Both are desperate to find new uses for their phones. Revenues for voice calls have levelled off after many years of increase and they are keen to develop new markets prior to the full launch of 3G.The mobile phone companies are also under pressure from camera manufacturers. The latest digital cameras come with Bluetooth - the wireless system that allows data to be transferred over short distances. That allows images of higher quality to be sent. Also, although they are beginning to fall in price, the handsets remain expensive. According to the Mobile Data Association, more than half a million have been sold in the UK so far.Still, it's early days for picture messaging. Many of those who use the camera phones report a general excitement, even addiction to the new phones. Back in her hotel after a long day flitting between catwalks and photo calls, a tired Furniss reflects: "This is a practical use for this phone," she says. "It's just really useful and it's not like carting a big camera around. I work with text normally, but this simply encourages you take pictures."
Net negativesI admire the contribution of Paul Hanson (Feedback January 16), and am pleased the net works for him. There is a downside. I have a son with paranoid schizophrenia who won't accept the diagnosis and finds weird and wonderful   sites that convince him his brain and body can be inhabited by the devices of others. He is thus encouraged to not take his medication and becomes worse, recently resulting in sectioning to a hospital ward.Name and address suppliedPhones for usJakob Nielson writes of the difficulties of computer and web pages designed by young people (Online, January 16). The same problem arises with modern telephones. Mobiles and modern digital phones are getting ever smaller. If you are in your 80s and your sight is fading, you used to be able to buy "large print" hand sets. But modern phones now have buttons with little numbers and smaller letters, printed in black on dark blue or green, with tiny screens. Maybe when the designers themselves have grown older, they will design for us crumblies.David Lewisdavedlewis@yahoo.comStick to rulesJakob Nielsen's article on web site accessibility is a must for all designers and web managers. However, the issue is significant for moral, legal and commercial reasons. The problem lies with disparate sources of standards and tools to assist in building accessible sites, along with an ambiguous government position.   It does not require large investments of time or resources to create and sustain accessible sites. Adherence to the simple guidelines offered by theRNIBor the web accessibility initiative can ensure the accessibility of any site.Marty Carrollmarty@theusabilitycompany.comGood sites costThe vast majority of sites ignore users who are unable to access them in the conventional way. The worst examples are Flash-based sites, whose content is opaque and unusable by users with less-than-perfect vision or motor control. Although accessibil  ity guidelines exist, few designers and even fewer clients are aware of their existence and importance. I am a web designer providing sites for museums and art galleries and always consider accessibility.Standard design practices such as using cascading style sheets that allow users to specify font sizes and colours and providing alt tags on all images allow the sites to be used effectively by partially sighted and blind users with little extra work.  Creating a fully compliant site involves around 20% extra work and therefore expense. You have to add extra Javascript for non-mouse input devices and go through each page adding things such as titles for tables to make the    site more comprehensible when converted to speech. The client has to be willing to pay for the extra work.Jason Hurleyjasonhh@blueyonder.co.ukHelp at handEnsuring that all visitors get the most from our website is key. It has been designed with the input of older people and offers clear navigation, an uncomplicated design, a crisp colour scheme and the option of text enlargement. It also meets accessibility guidelines for the visually impaired. The huge number of websites that exclude older people by being designed by young people for young people is shocking.Steve JonesDirector of marketing,Help the Agedsteve.jones@helptheaged.org.ukBank of ideasBen Hammersley's article drawing attention to the importance of communicating ideas on the web (Online January 16) is timely. Sites such as theGlobal Ideas Bankhave thousands of social inventions (a non-product idea to improve society) to browse, use and vote on. People can submit ideas, projects they are running or schemes they have heard about, for the rest of the world to learn from.Nick TempleNicholas Albery FoundationEase of UnixBen Hammersley (Online January 16) misses an important point about X11 support on Mac OS X. Not only do X-based programs become available for the Mac, but it turns the Mac into a workstation whereby a user can run an application on a remote Unix machine, but have it displayed on the Mac. X11 is a network protocol, not an application, and relies totally on the client-server model that makes Unix remarkably easy to administer remotely.Julian Rawcliffejulian.rawcliffe@ntlworld.com
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:As public opposition to war with Iraq mounts, will America and Britain attack Iraq without UN approval? Can this war be prevented? What do you think?LadeezMan:nicolle kidmans hot nowcapitalistpiglet:the US wants oil &amp; will stop at nothing to get itPashmina:i know she got some golden globes &amp; allLadeezMan:yes she doesHost_Chris2:I suppose it's still possible for Saddam to go into exilePashmina:they are v good for predicting the oscars*Bronco has entered the NewsRoom*Bronco:hi pplPashmina:hi bronco hows yr detox month goingBronco:fine I finished early. hows yr thingPashmina:growing back but it itchescapitalistpiglet:if GWB wants a war he'll have one, UN resolution or no*Osama_bin_Laden has entered the NewsRoom*Bronco:retoxing nowPashmina:lolOsama_bin_Laden:mullah'omar been in erePashmina:go away osamaHost_Chris2:let's try to stay on the topic for onceOsama_bin_Laden:quiet infidel. mullah'omar u in ereBronco:is omar the one with the coathanger handscapitalistpiglet:no thats abu hamzaABUHAMZA:SOMEONE SAY MY NAMEOsama_bin_Laden:hi abu hows uPashmina:omg they is friends!!ABUHAMZA:FINE U*mullah'omar has entered the NewsRoom*mullah'omar:osama u in ereBronco:how can he type with coathanger handsOsama_bin_Laden:omar hows uABUHAMZA:FASTER THEN U INFIDELmullah'omar:fine uPashima:tererists is takin over this chatroom!!!Osama_bin_Laden:yes we areHost_Chris2:perhaps we should discuss something less contentiousLadeezMan:such as Nicolle Kidman &amp; her golden globescapitalistpiglet:you can't stifle debate because of a few nerds w silly usernamesBronco:she got nice tits &amp; allPashmina:men!Host_Chris2:top-up fees - now there's a hot topic...Osama_bin_Laden:bronco are u blasphemingBronco:nomullah'omar:yes he just blasphemedBronco:how can u smell it over the internet&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
Tracks from artists including Eminem and Kylie Minogue will be given away free to internet users as part of a major initiative to combat the growing threat of online piracy.OD2, the company formed by former Genesis frontman Peter Gabriel is behind the Digital Download Day Europe initiative, designed to educate consumers about the range of tracks available to buy online.The company has teamed up with all the major record labels - bar Sony - and online music retailers including HMV, Ministry of Sound, MSN, Freeserve and Dotmusic to give away 5 euros (£3.42) worth of free tracks.A pilot of the initiative last October saw hundreds of thousands of UK users logging on to download free tracks and this time the offer is being extended to France, Germany, Spain, Italy and Holland.In an effort to counteract the problems the OD2 website suffered when it was besieged by users last year, they will be able to pre-register from today before the event itself on March 21.The chief executive of OD2, Colin Grimsdale, said the fact that the industry had got behind the initiative showed that it was starting to face up to the problem of online piracy."The CD business is contracting, and online piracy is one of the major contributory factors. The industry was slow to react but I've felt for some time now that they are starting to understand how essential it is," said Mr Grimsdale, who co founded the company with Gabriel in 1999."Whereas two years ago people were talking about it, in the last six to eight months we've started to see some real urgency," he added.He said that the task was to make a compelling case for consumers to pay for something that they could get elsewhere for free."There's an increasingly widening gulf between the quality of peer-to-peer files, which are increasingly virus ridden and unreliable, and the premium grade service provided through legitimate channels," he added.The plan has been welcomed by Jay Bermann, the chief executive of the international federation of the phonographic industry."European Digital Download Day is an excellent showcase for the growing legitimate online music business. Record companies in Europe are now providing tens of thousands of tracks for consumers to buy - and that undoubtedly puts our industry in a better position to fight back against music theft on the internet," he said.The scale of the problem is shown by figures suggesting there are an estimated 4.5 million people accessing around 1 billion pirated tracks at any one time.The debate surrounding the issue has dominated the annual music industry Midem conference in Cannes, stoked by Robbie Williams' pronouncement that online piracy was "great" and he was happy to let people download his songs for nothing.
Sly RaccoonPS2 	&#163;39.99 Sony 	***Is nothing sacred? Nintendo was once the place for platform games, with Mario and Co satisfying every gamer's need to jump around and collect goodies.Now it's Sony's PlayStation 2 where the genre is thriving. Following on from the sublime Jak &amp; Daxter and Ratchet &amp; Clank comes Sly Raccoon, which borrows many elements from those classics.Sly Raccoon involves lots of leaping and grabbing as the titular hero attempts to avenge his father. The plot may be derivative, but the bits that matter - namely camera, graphics, that factor that keeps you playing - are spot   on. The controls are simple and helped by a camera that doesn't attempt to use artistic angles and instead allows you to dominate the action. As for the visuals, think Hanna Barbara mixed with the animated Pink Panther.Sadly, the action is fairly linear, with the player channelled down one route, with little scope to explore. This is one Raccoon who likes to sneak. Whether it's scaling outside windows or avoiding searchlights, these stealth sections work well, breaking up the athletic collect-a-thon.It may look easy, but Sly is far from it. Having a small number of lives, combined with a one-hit-and-you're-out policy, gives the game something of a retro feel that makes it harder to play than its competitors. Visuals apart, there is little here that hasn't been pilfered from elsewhere, but Sly Raccoon does it with such style that you can't help but feel lenient. (GH)Scrabble 2003 EditionPC 	&#163;19.99 Runecraft/Ubi Soft 	****From Monopoly to Risk, barely a year passes without the back catalogue of family favourites being raided. Scrabble has been converted many times, succeeding better than most because it doesn't mess with the basic format.By incorporating the Cham bers Scrabble Dictionary, S2003 at last provides a level of AI that could give even expert Scrabblers a run for their money. But the basic game almost offers too much help, with a Hint feature that marks out on the board where points can be scored and spells the best words for you.Admittedly, this feature can be tweaked to show less information and disabled in online play, but it is still hard to resist for single players - with a game that almost plays itself if you let it. As for multiplayer action, several players can take turns with the same keyboard, although you can also face up to four opponents over a LAN or on the internet.Finally, by including an extra five gameplay modes (including Conundrum and Anagram variations), the developers make a brave stab at variety. However, this remains a game for purists. If you love Scrabble, this is the most faithful and playable version yet. (MA)Toe Jam &amp; Earl IIIXbox £39.99 Sega/Microsoft ****This beguiling platform game neatly highlights the dangers      inherent in making sweeping statements about unfamiliar subjects - as culture minister Kim Howells did when      railing against the "heartlessness" and violence of videogames.Toe Jam &amp; Earl III not only possesses heart, but      also soul and, crucially, The Funk. A belated follow-up to an ancient 16-bit game, Toe Jam &amp; Earl III eschews      violence in favour of an amusing daffiness that will appeal to youngsters and their parents. You can play as Toe      Jam, Earl or Latisha, all of whom can only be described as alien homies.Your mission is to head to Earth and      locate the mighty Funkopotamus's 12 Sacred Albums Of Funk. Which mainly involves converting Earthlings to The      Funk by way of your "Funk-Fu" moves (which improve as you progress) and judicious use of timed power-ups such      as spring heels, Icarus wings, x-ray glasses and decoys.Each mission is fetchingly set out by a trio of digital      gospel singers, and the levels are populated by a hilarious cast, including mad dentists, a wise man in a carrot      suit and cute schoolgirls apt to utter phrases such as "Red Rum", in an unexpected nod towards The Shining.Integrated mini-games add variety and the initial learning curve is shallow, with an eye on making sure that the      very young are not excluded. Toe Jam &amp; Earl III may not blaze any pioneering gameplay trails, but its sheer      exuberance and amiable weirdness gives it a fresh feel. If Bootsy Collins and George Clinton made a game for      12-year-olds, this is what it would be like. (SB)
One of the web's better kept secrets is the amount of government business you can do online. According to thee-envoy, we're already two-thirds of the way towards the target of all possible government services being available electronically by December 31 2005.When it comes to promoting individual online services, however, government bodies are a little bashful. Most local councils, for example, hardly promote their web activities.  That's partly because most online services qualify for the 2005 target whether anyone uses them or not. But some officials are nervous about encouraging take up. Following crashes at the Environment Agency'sflood warning serviceand the1901 census site, many services have been given "soft launches" with no publicity.Hence, perhaps, the British public's apparent apathy about e-government. Certainly, something needs explaining: in November, Tony Blair admitted that fewer than 10% of us had contacted the government online  in the past year.When it comes to local government, responsible for most public services, that figure drops to 7%, according to research published this week by Portfolio, a communications firm.Its ICM survey found that only a minority consider looking for local government on the web, and that proportion drops off rapidly with age. Luckily, it's getting easier to find both local and central government on the web. There are two places to start.  UK Online, a portal site run by theOffice of the e-Envoyis a blazingly fast search engine that cuts the confusion around organisational names.Even better, it attempts to organise public services around people's lives. Pick from eight tweely named life stages ranging from "babies" through "world of work" to "terminal illness and death".Or, for local services such as education, refuse disposal and the hundred-odd other duties of councils, go to your local authority website. Find the URL from UK Online or try the name of your borough, district or county plus .gov.uk. Every one of the UK's 486 local authorities has a website (the last, Bridgnorth in Shropshire, will be officially launched this month).Offerings vary wildly: generally, councils are better at collecting money, such as council tax and parking fines, than responding to requests. Some services, such as the Royal Borough of Kingston's Isisproperty information serviceare outstanding. Anomalies, however, abound.The emphasis on online tax payments is questionable: according to the office of the deputy prime minister, 90% of council tax is collected by direct debit so there's little point in doing it online. On the other hand, attempts to set up a useful service - a one-stop notification of change of address - are on hold because it's illegal for a council to share such information between departments.The Lord Chancellor's department is working on legislation to end that absurdity, but it will face scrutiny.  A generic problem with online government is that a vast majority of services offer information rather than transactions. Such information is not necessarily trivial:NHS waiting listsis a remarkable example of a service that would not be possible without the web.Another site that should be generating traffic is theofficial database of residential property pricesin the latest quarter at regional, local authority or postcode levels. Keep up with government spin as it emerges from press offices onwww.nds.coi.gov.uk. AndParliament's comprehensive siteis a must.Conducting a two-way transaction is more tricky. Straightforward e-commerce applications are easy enough: buy an angling licence from theEnvironment Agencyor atelevision licence.For anything more sensitive, you'll need to register either at the government gateway or at sites such as theInland Revenue. Because many processes involve sending documents, such as applying forchild benefitora passport, most of the "transactions" available on the web allow you only to download a form, which must be posted or taken to an office.Likewise, it's not possible to renew car tax online. The e-envoy's solution to the authentication problem is thegovernment gateway, which allows users to register to either receive a PIN by post or, if you have one, a digital signature. The gateway is designed to be the hub for all secure transactions, but until the government finds a secure and cheap way for citizens to prove who they are electronically, it won't be much use.
What is the secret of Friends Reunited's success?We've just tapped into a general wave of nostalgia along with things likeSchool Discoand all the TV programmes looking back at the 80s.A lot of other dotcoms were retail sites taken on to the web, whereas this was the perfect internet idea - it just wouldn't work without the net. We launched the site in 2000 and things were already going a little pear-shaped with the dotcoms. It was becoming obvious that the advertising, which a lot of sites relied upon, was not a sustainable revenue model. In a way I was actually pleased that some dotcom sites were falling over as you could see that a lot of them were worthless and that borrowing millions of pounds for ideas that weren't that good was madness!Why the decision to move on?We've had a number of offers over the past few months and we're currently reviewing our options. That could be carrying on as normal, bringing in a management team or selling. None of us are "managers" and it's turned into this multi-million pound business. We're realising that there are so many potential things you could do to the site and we've reached a watershed. So it started off with one quote to the press, and by the end of the week, I'd heard on the radio that we'd sold it for &#163;35m!Any advice for budding net entrepreneurs?Don't go too mad and don't give away too much of your idea to the moneymen! Start small and be prepared to work hard. In terms of designing a site, we practised what we appreciated as users of the web - keep it simple. We hate advertising and pop-ups, so we designed the site cleanly in the first place. If I was to go to a site and it started asking unnecessary questions, then I'd immediately be put off.Spam or viruses?We're always getting attacks but our firewall can cope with it. We had commercial people trying to spam but we have pretty good controls within the email system - it cancels your account if you try to contact more than a hundred people in a day. It's been reported in the press that we've had viruses but we haven't. Personally, I'm proud of the fact I've never had a virus on my PC in 10 years.Broadband?I've been on BT Openworld from the start. Because I work on the net all day long, it's made a huge difference. There were initial problems with it, but I can't remember now what it was like before with slow downloads!How do you see the net evolving?As people reflect on it, we realise the net does change your life in a more boring way. I use it for banking, news, train timetables and buying stuff. So, rather than revolutionising people's lives, it has become another utility, like TV or the mobile phone.Favourite sites?www.google.co.uk,www.iii.co.uk/shares,www.willhill.com,www.bbc.co.uk/cbeebies(with my daughter!)Visit:www.friendsreunited.co.uk
Researchers in the US have used modified desktop printers to create the beginnings of living organs, New Scientist magazine reports.By replacing cartridge ink with solutions containing hamster cells, they were able to "print" successive layers of cells on to glass slides in circular patterns, alternating with layers of gel.Scientists warn that creating entire organs this way would be a vastly more complex undertaking. Vladimir Mironov of the Medical University of South Carolina, one of the researchers, said: "This could have the same kind of impact that Gutenberg's press did."The team's work have yet to be peer-reviewed or published and there are two massive obstacles.One is that organs are made out of many different kinds of cells. The other is that the printing would have to be carried out, the cells fuse, the gel removed, and nutrients begin flowing through the new structure within a couple of hours, otherwise it would die.Despite their findings, the mainstream view remains that organs are likely to be grown from human stem cells, like plants from a cutting, rather than printed or built.None the less, tissue engineer Anthony Atala, of Harvard Medical School in Boston, said: "I think this is extremely exciting technology that has the potential to overcome some of the major obstacles we have seen in the past."
An online game turning into reality is the stuff of film fantasies. But for Huy Nguyen, an online game about films in which he gambled and won a billion fantasy dollars became a real game in which he gambled and won thousands of pounds.Nguyen, a City lawyer, started playingHollywood Stock Exchangein August 1998. This free, web-based game allows players to bet on the performance of films.New players get H$2,000,000 (in Hollywood dollars, the game's currency) to invest on films being developed, all of which have stock prices based on what players will pay. As with real stock exchanges, these prices must eventually be backed up with real results.For HSX, these are provided by the film's "gross": how much money it takes in the United States and Canada over its opening weekend, then over its first four weeks. The HSX "share price" is revalued when these figures are released. If a film never reaches North American cinemas, the film "delists" and its shares are worthless.By August 2001, when he retired, Nguyen was the second highest-rated player in the world: his virtual portfolio was worth over H$1.3bn.But a new possibility had arisen when London-based, spread-betting bookmakerCantor Indexbought HSX in May 2001. Spread-betting is a risky way to gamble. The   bookmaker offers a "spread" on an event with quantifiable results. For example, it might set a spread of $13m to $15m on a film's opening weekend.In this case, the gambler can buy, or "go long on" the spread: this means he bets that the film will take more than $15m. Or he can sell, or "go short", betting it will make less than $13m.If a gambler buys a &#163;10 stake on this spread, he would win &#163;10 for each $1m the gross exceeded $15m. But if he sells a &#163;10 stake, he must pay the bookmaker &#163;120, his stake times 12, for each million dollars between $13m and $25m.Winnings and losses are limited to 50 times your stake, so a stake of &#163;10 can win or lose you &#163;500. As a result, Cantor requires gamblers to provide copies of passports and proof of funds.This requirement stopped Americans, who dominate HSX, from playing the real-life version. Internet gambling is illegal in the US. In reality, gamblers there use offshore online casinos. But Cantor's need for identity checks means Americans cannot play.This left Nguyen, as one of the very few experienced non-American HSX players, in a strong position. He took it, making money on Cantor's first two film spread-bets, Jurassic Park III and Planet of the Apes.Then, in August 2001, came Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, directed by Kevin Smith. Market research predicted an opening weekend worth $20m to $25m. Cantor   was more conservative, setting a spread of $16 to $18m.Nguyen thought this was still too high. "Kevin Smith has a large and dedicated fan base, but no one outside that fan base cares," he says. Smith's previous film, Dogma, took $8.7m on its opening weekend.Nguyen felt Jay and Silent Bob might do better than Dogma, but not twice as well. So he went short, and won handsomely when the film took just $11m in its first weekend.Nguyen used his experience in particularly devious fashion when betting on the multiple of opening weekend and four-week grosses. This multiple is usually about three: a film making $10m in its first weekend will normally make roughly $30m over the four weeks.Takings are difficult to predict, but the multiple is easier. American Pie II, also released in August 2001, was a classic example of a "front-loaded" film. In other words, takings will peak and then quickly die away, producing a lower-than-average weekend-to-four-week multiple.Nguyen went long on the weekend and short on the four weeks. "Sequels are hugely front-loaded, as you have a built-in audience," he says. "It was for teenagers, who are far more likely to see a new movie on the opening weekend, and it was heavily promoted, leading to high initial awareness."Finally, a high-quality film will generate "good word-of-mouth". Viewers will recommend a decent release to their   friends, but this boosts the four-week takings rather than the first weekend.American Pie II - awarded one star out of five by the Guardian - was unlikely to do this. The end multiple of a little under 2.8 was higher than Nguyen expected, but he still made modest profits on his double bet.In 2001, Nguyen did what few get the chance to do: turn an online game with no real-world rewards into a way of making cash.Last year, though, he lost money. "With Spider-Man, I got it wrong at every single turn. I thought there was a limit to what it could do on its opening weekend." So he went short on that. "I was wrong. Then I thought, it wouldn't have great legs."Nguyen thought takings would fall away, so he went short on the four-week figure. "I was wrong there, too. The reviews were very good, and there wasn't much else on. Then I cut my losses."However, soon after Nguyen "bought out his position", cancelling the bet for a fee rather than risking a big loss when the four-week numbers were announced, interim data showed that the film's takings were at last falling away. "I thought, I don't understand this movie."Nguyen wonders if his recent mistakes are due to giving up HSX. "I suspect I've lost my edge," he says.
Ask awayI know you don't normally deal with general queries, but..." wrote Bill Garner. Pardon? Of course I deal with general queries, but few people send me any. This column is based on answering queries from real people. The only other principle is that I try to cover things that will help a significant number of people, rather than those specific to one machine.If a question is answered in print, it's a safe bet that several people have asked similar questions. This tips the balance towards the most commonly used software, particularly Microsoft's Outlook Express, and I make no apology for that.There's no point running a reader service that ignores readers' needs. But it would be nice to have more variety. Last week, the numbering of emails in the Ask Jack folder went over the 10,000 mark and I've decided to archive the whole lot and start again. This is bad news for readers who wrote towards the end of December, when I was on holiday but, I hope, good news for everyone else.I still have a file of already answered questions waiting for space, but new ones are welcome. As long as the topic is digital, you can be as general as you like.Jack SchofieldSound tracksMusic copied from CD to hard disk using Windows XP is saved in a WMA (Windows Media Audio) sound format. My video editing software, Adobe Premiere, will only accept the AVI, MOV, AIFF and WAV formats, and will not do the conversion.Tony ThompsonJS:When it comes to "ripping" CDs to the hard drive, the obvious formats to choose are MP3 and WAV (waveform audio, developed by Microsoft). On principle I would try to avoid proprietary formats such as WMA and Sony's ATRAC. (MP3 is not free either but, like Windows, it is ubiquitous.) You can buy a plug-in that adds MP3 encoding capability toXP's Windows Media Player.However, why not use a free program to rip CDs? There are many options, including CDex, which you can download fromhttp://cdexos.sourceforge.net/download.php. CDex will rip to MP3 or WAV. When it comes to adding sound to video, I would expect most software to support both formats. I am surprised to hear that Adobe Premier does not support MP3, which is part of the Moving Picture Experts Group standards committee's MPEG-1 format.However, many programs will convert files between audio file formats, includingCoolEdit 2000,GoldwaveandAudio Converter.Shareware Music Machine has a huge list of software for Windows atwww.hitsquad.com/smm/win95, and also has sections for Atari, Linux, Mac and other platforms. For a good guide to video tools, seewww.vcdhelp.com/tools.htm.Playing itI have deleted Winamp but it seems to have hi-jacked certain types of video file, calling them Winamp Media Files. It won't allow me to play them in Windows Media Player.Nick BotfieldJS:"Winamp Media Files" are MP3 files. Go to Windows Explorer, select Tools|Folder Options, and click on the File Types tab. Scroll down to the file format you want to change - MP3, AVI, WMV etc - and see which program has been designated to open files of that type. It should say Windows Media Player. If not you can change it by clicking the Change button, then selecting the program you would prefer to use. You should have two versions of Windows Media Player available. One is shown by a triangle inside a circle (the latest version) and the other by a clapperboard.That is the old WMP 6.4 ((MPLAYER2. EXE). If there is no Change button, delete the entry for the file format and close the dialog box. Next, double-click a file of that type, and Windows will ask you which program to use to run it. If you cannot see the three letter file extension that shows the file type, go back to Windows Explorer|Tools|Folder Options, and click the View tab. Untick the box that says: Hide file extensions for known file types and click OK to finish.Picture itI am interested in upgrading my PC so I can get started with photo imaging. I have been unable to find any reliable guide that will tell me the minimum/    desirable processing specification needed.Roy SturmyJS:There is no minimum processing requirement for photo imaging: you can do it on almost anything. It is just that on an old or slow machine, it may take a long time. It really depends on the size of your images, and what you want to do with them. Any PC, Mac or similar computer should have no problems handling small images (up to 250K), but manipulating multimegabyte files in a heavyweight program such as Adobe PhotoShop needs a fast processor and, especially, lots of memory. Professionals often go for 1GB of RAM.Here are some comparison speed tests that may help:http://masl.to/?Z54B21A23. These show that even today's cheap PCs, with 1.7GHz or faster Pentium 4 chips, perform at professional levels if given enough memory. A fast graphics card with, for example, a GeForce 3 or 4 Ti or Radeon 9000, 9500 or 9700 processor would also be a big help.Backchat* Peter Wood asked about typing type French accents in Outlook Express. Last week, readers responded with numerous additions and alternatives to my suggested keystroke approach. Steve    James adds that you can use a UK keyboard with a foreign language setting if you know where the keys are. If you don't know, there are images atwww.sussex.ac.uk/USCS/Facilities/PC/Keyboards.* Dudley Turner asked about recycling his old PC. Julian Davey complains that on the Tools for Schools website, supported by the Guardian, "the form for donations is set up for a corporate donor, not an individual, and imposes a charge if fewer than 20 computers are donated at one time". Norman Chapman advertised his ancient Amstrad in Simsbury's as a giveaway and had two applicants. Tammy Dickinson from theLondon Community Recycling Networkin Bethnal Green says they recycle almost anything.
After years of producing devices that only connected together locally via cables, consumer electronics companies offered their vision of a networked digital future at the recent International Consumer Electronics Show (ICES) in Las Vegas.The connected home was on the lips of everyone from Microsoft's chairman Bill Gates, who talked of "devices working together with synergy to realise the potential of the digital decade", to Sony's chief executive, Kunitake Ando, who predicted the re-birth of the TV as "an always-on connected device". Although the concept of    home networking is still in its infancy in the UK, in the USA, a country where broadband internet connections are already widespread (33.6m homes, according to Nielsen Net Ratings), huge growth is predicted over the next few years.In keeping with almost every area of consumer electronics, home networking is in the middle of a format war. For distributing video around the home, consumers can choose from wired systems, like Texas Instruments' 1349b and HomePlug AV, and wireless alternatives such as 802.11a. Although they can't yet rival the bandwidth and flexibility of wired connections,    the convenience of wireless formats should ensure that in the long term, they come out on top.One of the highlights at ICES was the Air5 wireless solution offered by the San Diego-based chipset manufacturer Magis Networks. The system takes the physical specification of the 802.11a system and adds proprietary technology, which allocates bandwidth based on the priority of data type.Up to seven video streams could be delivered from a central server to different screens around the home. Several manufacturers of plasma and LCD screens demonstrated the system at ICES, including Sanyo, which billed its set as the first completely wireless TV.Analysts predict that the preferred means of distribution for wireless video will be    via a central server. Aware that Microsoft is grooming the next generation of its Media Center PCs to fulfil this role, a cluster of companies showed their home entertainment servers. Panasonic displayed its AVC server system, which combines a high capacity hard disk video recorder with a Wi-Fi transmitter to output video signals to TVs, screens and PCs around the home.Sony showed its Cocoon, a personal video recorder with an enormous 160GB hard disk (enough for more than 100 hours of video), and features a broadband internet connection, which searches an online viewing guide for the programmes you want to record.  At the opposite end of the price spectrum, the American company SonicBlue unveiled    a DVD player that can access PC content such as MP3s and still images and videos.The Go Video D2730 can work either via a wired Ethernet connector or as part of a Wi-Fi system. It goes on sale in the US in March for around $250. Other products included Pioneer's Digital Library DL 1000 - an 80GB hard drive that can store music, images and video content and connect to the net.It goes on sale in the US in May for $1,000. If distributing video around the home wirelessly is challenging, transporting MP3 files from the PC to the living room is slightly easier.  Philips displayed the latest version of its Streamium internet connected hi-fi system. The MC-i250, due here in the next few months, connects wirelessly with a PC   via Wi-Fi to access internet radio stations and MP3 files.Yamaha displayed its MusicCast server, which combines a CD player with an 80GB hard disk. It can use a Wi-Fi system to stream 10 different songs to up to 10 locations around the home. British companies were also well represented in the audio server sector. Imerge showed its S2000 Soundserver, Meridian its Reference Music Server and Linn its Kivor Index 250.The next big move in home networking will come from the PC rather than the consumer electronics industry. Later this year should see more developments in Apple's Rendezvous networking technology. Meanwhile, the second generation of Microsoft's Media Center XP technology, scheduled for launch at next year's show, should help re-position the PC as a complete media server. It will be interesting to see how consumer electronics companies respond.
Six degreesSix degrees of separation is a theory devised by Harvard psychologist Stanley Milgram in the 1960s. He sent letters to 300 randomly selected people in Omaha, Nebraska, asking them to try to get the letter forwarded to a single person in Boston using only personal contacts. Of the 60 letters that reached their target, the average number of steps they took was six. Milgram concluded that there were therefore only six degrees of separation between any two US citizens.After a John Guare stage play and Hollywood movie explored the theory in the early 1990s, Six Degrees was updated for the internet by Brett Tjaden and Glenn Wasson, two students at the University of Virginia. In their online game The Oracle of Kevin Bacon, players can enter the name of any actor and see how many degrees of separation there are between them and Kevin Bacon; the average is just under three. The game makes use of the Internet Movie Database, which includes more than   500,000 actors.Now, you can take part in an experiment that tests Milgram's idea. Academics at Columbia University in New York are repeating his experiment with email. Once registered, you are given a target recipient and asked to forward the email to someone who might be able to help it reach its destination. If you want to know more about the science of social networks, look out for a new book called Small Worlds by Duncan Watts, one of the Columbia academics. It will be published in the UK in May.www.cs.virginia.edu/oraclewww.imdb.comhttp://smallworld.sociology.columbia.eduOn trialThe trial of Slobodan Milosevic at the International Court in the Hague rumbles on.  A full video archive is available for each day of the trial soon after the close of the day's proceedings. The archive is supplemented by transcripts of the trial and references to other net-based documentation about the trial and its issues. These include news reports, background material, and analysis from academic experts. It is a useful site that demonstrates a commitment to freedom of information, and essential for anyone with a serious interest in international affairs.http://hague.bard.eduwww.un.org/ictyDelia onlineDelia Derbyshire, who died in July, worked for the BBC's pioneering Radiophonic Workshop, which is seen as one of the pioneers of electronic music. She is best known for her production of Ron Grainer's famous Doctor Who theme. But after being told that her music was "too lascivious for 11-year-olds" and "too sophisticated for the BBC2 audience", Derbyshire moved on to create music for film, theatre, and some of England's first electronic music "happenings". Her music has continued to enjoy occasional releases in Sweden and Japan. A site dedicated to her work was launched before Christmas. It offers a comprehensive biography, a full discography and precious few audio clips, with a promise of more to come.www.deliaderbyshire.orgFilm reviewsMovie buffs should check out the recently launched Tookey's Film Guide, which claims to be the largest online collection of film reviews in the world, although &#163;9.99 for a year's subscription will deter all but the most avid fans. There are 13,500 films reviewed on the site, each with several reviews from a variety of publications, including the Guardian. Some reviews date back to 1902. The site is the work of Chris Tookey, a   former Daily Mail critic.Elsewhere, the American Museum of Moving Image has launched an archive of conversations with people such as Terry Gilliam, Jennifer Jason Leigh and David Lynch. The site is free, but it does require registration.www.tookeysfilmguide.comhttp://pinewood.movingimage.usWhy not?Artists Miranda July and Harrell Fletcher want you to be more creative. So much so that they have built a site to encourage just that. The pair set a number of tasks to get your imagination off to a flying start. One invites you to write your life story in a day, another to record your neighbours singing. New tasks are being uploaded every week.www.learningtoloveyoumore.comCollectiveCollective is BBC Online's new listings magazine, where users are invited to upload their own ratings and reviews. You can rate current music and video game releases and take part in online discussions. What the Beeb has, which many other similar talkboards have not, is a massive archive of video and audio content that is being integrated into the site.www.bbc.co.uk/collectiveOcean onlineAmateur oarsman Martin Wood set off alone in Pacific Pete last Friday to row across the Atlantic. You can follow his progress online.www.3000miles.co.ukNew &amp; noted&#183;Follow the history of techno:www.detroithistorical.org&#183;Taste the joy of soup:http://joyofsoup.surreally.com&#183;Go on a virtual tour of the cave of Chauvet-Pont-d'Arc:www.culture.fr/culture/arcnat/chauvet/en&#183;Watch the US national debt clock:www.toptips.com/debtclock.htmlSix of the bestCricket World CupOfficial sitewww.cricketworldcup.comUnofficial sitewww.cricketworldcupweb.comBook ticketswww.livingwiththelions.co.ukBoycott itwww.petertatchell.netEngland's homewww.ecb.co.ukCoveragehttp://sport.guardian.co.uk/cricket
It's a bit like hearing Osama bin Laden enthusing about real ale. Or Ken Livingstone promoting sports cars. But
    Microsoft really is positioning itself as a supplier of open source software. As far as governments go, anyway.Last week, the company announced it would provide national governments with free access to its most jealously
    guarded intellectual property - the source code for Windows. Microsoft's government security program builds on
    an earlier deal, the shared source initiative, under which it allowed "trusted partners and customers" a peek at
    its crown jewels. These moves won't impress campaigners for free shared-source software such as Linux.But
    they may be enough to swing Microsoft's real target - public bodies considering Linux as an alternative to
    Windows and other proprietary programs, especially in big server systems. Pressure on governments to go open
    source has been building for several years.The argument is partly financial - the UK government spends
    hundreds of millions of pounds a year on software licences - but is mainly about integrity.Open-source
    campaigners say that such sensitive transactions as electronic votes or military commands should not be
    dependent on a single (foreign) company's intellectual property. Medical records are another sensitive area: in
    October 2000, the British Medical Journal argued that to ensure health data could be trusted and remain freely
    available to researchers, all medical software should be open source.Governments have started listening. The
    EU's e-Europe Action Plan, agreed by heads of government in 2000, commits member states to "promote the use
    of open source software in the public sector and e-government best practice". This resolution was seen as an
    embarrassment to the UK government, which was working closely with Microsoft in education and key projects
    such as the government gateway, a hub for secure e-government transactions. However, in what may be the
    shortest official govern ment policy document on record, the Office of the e-Envoy and the Treasury's Office of
    Government Commerce announced last summer it was taking open source seriously.The document, Open Source
    Software: Use WithinUK Government, sets out five brief principles. The government (which includes local
    authorities and the NHS) will:* Consider open-source systems alongside proprietary ones, and decide according
    to value for money; * Seek to avoid "lock-in" to proprietary IT products;* Buy systems that interoperate with
    others through open standards;* Consider obtaining full rights to all software code it procures; and* Favour
    open source in government-funded R&amp;D software. Apart from in R&amp;D, where open source is the "default route",
    this policy goes a long way short of committing the UK government. But officials say that the policy means that
    government IT projects must take open source seriously.If a system is available, so long as it represents better
    value for money and reduces a project's risk, it must be chosen. Don't throw away your Windows for Dummies
    books yet. Microsoft is deadly serious about staying in the government business and is likely to be a force for
    some time, especially in desktop systems.Microsoft will argue that free software licences do not necessarily
    represent best value for money, that the general public licence under which Linux is distributed adds to the risk
    of using open source and that in some cases, useable open-source products are simply not available.Microsoft is
    even prepared to behave a little like an open source vendor. Hence last week's announcement of the government
    security program. However, the full code will be available only to representatives of accredited governments who
    travel to Microsoft's headquarters.Even they will not be allowed to modify software, only to "review and debug"
    it. But if national security, democracy and medical care are to depend on software, that's a good start.
The huge telecommunications industry is sinking deeper into a sea of trouble . Hardly a day goes by without a report of a company in difficulty. Yet the communications bill does little or nothing about it.The appointment of Lord Currie as chairman of Ofcom is a welcome step. He should make a root-and-branch examination of the whole situation.Many of the difficulties are due to business misjudgments. But there can be no dispute that in Britain, the policy of "facilities-based competition" (FBC) - the construction of physical networks to duplicate that of BT - is a major factor. The cable industry is deeply racked by financial problems; no one knows what its future holds. The biggest single cause is the huge debts that the companies have had to incur to build their competing distribution networks.It is claimed that the loss of economies of scale due to network duplication is more than offset by competitive pressure on costs and prices. I believe the reverse is true. Customer distribution circuits have always been notoriously under-utilised and duplicating them was bound to make matters worse. Further into the network, the loss of economies of scale decreases as the volume of traffic increases. But you have to get to very big volumes before it disappears.The reduction in long distance prices since the introduction of competition is pointed to as evidence of its benefits. But they have been dropping steadily ever since the 19th century, including a 38% real reduction between 1973 and 1982. Local prices,   too, have always dropped in real terms. The reason in both cases has been the constant advances in technology.Practically all the present technologies - digitalisation, packet switching, optical fibre, satellite transmission and cellular radio originated under monopoly. The driving force behind them was the professionalism of the engineering community, which has received far too little credit. Engineers are taught unceasingly to seek ways of reducing costs.Rather than accelerating, innovation in network technology in Britain actually slowed down after 1984. I believe this was due to the reluctance of the company boards to invest in new developments in the face of FBC. The financial health of the operators ultimately depends on their skill at the very expensive game of network R&amp;D and investment. Even under monopoly this was fiendishly difficult. Add on the market share uncertainties of FBC and it becomes beyond the wit of man.Britain fell behind on broadband because the industry had become a confused mosaic, with each operator pursuing its own short-term objectives and no one steering the overall result in the national interest.FBC is an expensive luxury we can no longer afford. We should move to a structure based on provision of all  services by competition but with the inland network as a regulated monopoly. BT should be a separated regulated subsidiary running its inland network, with an auditable duty to meet the needs of other service providers. It should negotiate the purchase of the inland assets of the network competitors.Everyone would gain. BT group's cash flow and profit would increase. Competitors would be free to continue as service providers without their present financial burdens. The full momentum of network engineering could be restored. And BT could merge the present cable distribution networks with its own and greatly accelerate the creation of the countrywide broadband distribution system we so badly need.&#183;John Harper is a former managing director of BT's inland operations, and has been an adviser to Commons select committees on broadband
If you download plenty of software demos and other internet freebies, you're probably tired of filling in the same lengthy form with mandatory questions. You could make your life easier by downloading a utility, such as Gator eWallet, which fills in all your online forms.Gator also remembers your logins, IDs and can store your credit card information in encrypted form. Should the alarm bells be ringing? Yes, they should. Gator and its ilk are what's known as adware.It works by installing a hidden tracker program on your hard drive to keep a record of the banners you click on and the websites you visit. Your computer then acts as a server, sending this information to advertisers so they can target their campaigns more accurately.Many users are not aware their private information is being passed on in this way, mainly because so few read the entire licence agreement when they install the software. If they had, they'd have noticed a clause that says something to the effect: "I hereby waive all rights to privacy on my computer and I'm willing to open the door to spam-merchants and racke  teers."And it's not just being spied on that's irksome: it's having your bandwidth gobbled up by all those interstitials, or whatever the marketing folk call their pop-up ads now. Some adware programs have also been blamed for causing frequent bouts of "the blue screen of death".Adware isn't illegal, just odious, and it's more prevalent than you think. Here are some of the more common utilities that contain adware:Aureate(known as Radiate): The first adware program.BonziBuddy:One of the largest banner advertisers. Fighting a class action lawsuit for masquerading their banner ads as Windows error messages.Comet Cursor:Provides "fun" cursors. Instead of a boring arrow, you can have Dilbert or the American flag.Gator:For people who can never remember their passwords and hate filling in forms.KaZaA:The popular file sharing tool is available without the adware atwww.kazaalite.com.RealPlayer:Sued for privacy violations. If you must have RealPlayer, choose "cus  tom install" and don't install components you don't need. Look for check boxes that authorise RealPlayer to send out data, and uncheck them.If you've downloaded adware and you want to get rid of it, a couple of useful utilities will help you clean up your hard drive and sort out your registry. PepiMK Software provides a free utility  (donations welcome) calledSpyBot Search &amp; Destroy&lt;/A, which searches your computer for adware and then asks if you'd like to get rid of it. Unfortunately, it doesn't run on Mac or Linux machines.For $39.95,PestPatroloffers an anti-hacking utility that detects and removes hacker    tools, adware and trojan horses. As well as using spyware removal tools, it's also important to use a firewall such as ZoneAlarm.This monitors the traffic entering or leaving your computer, and prevents programs from accessing the net without your permission. The first time many people discover they are harbouring    an adware parasite is when a program they have never heard of tries to "phone home" and is blocked by the firewall.If you need to download freeware, make sure it is from a reputable site, such as ZDNet, which alerts you to software that contains adware. Be cautious of any program that asks for tonnes of personal information before you register, and always read the licence agreement before you click I Accept.To keep abreast of who is snooping on you, visit websites such asParasiteware,Tom Cat, andwww.cexx.org.Although adware is a parasite, it is one that funds the development of freeware, such as the file-sharing utilities KaZaA and BearShare. Kill off the adware and you cut the revenue supply to developers of these utilities. If you don't like the idea of being snooped on, you'll have to put your hand in your pocket. There is no such thing as a free utility.
Hollywood has got hackers all wrong. They are portrayed as lonely souls in dark rooms with only a pizza deliveryman for social interaction, who type away at their computers, incredibly quickly, until some remote system yields to their persistence and offers up access.The problem with this image is that real world hackers will always look for weak points in a target system and while, of course, computers have their vulnerabilities, the achilles' heel can often be the user. Some hackers, therefore, have good communication skills ready to play tricks on the unwitting. They call it "social engineering".This week sees the world's most famous hacker, Kevin Mitnick, freed from his bail conditions. He has spent the past seven years in techno exile, imprisoned for five years and then forbidden from touching a computer for a further two.But Mitnick's talents were never just about computers. Testifying before the US Congress in 2000 and talking about social engineering, he said: "I was so successful in that line of attack that I rarely had to resort to a technical attack."His recent book, The Art of Deception, catalogues a whole spectrum of scams where naive employees are duped into revealing information about their computer system to an unidentified voice on the   phone. In one story, Mitnick persuades Motorola employees that he, too, is an employee, and they send him any information he wants; no computer hacking needed."Social engineering is any attack that involves deception," says Thomas C Greene, security columnist at The Register e-zine. "It's just a technological confidence trick. Calling someone and saying you are the systems administrator and you need them to reset their password is a classic one."Times are changing, and so new opportunities arise for social engineering attacks. Bruce Schneier, co-founder of Counterpane Internet Security Inc, recognises that humans have always and will always try con tricks but, he says: "We are starting to see more automated social engineering attacks. That, I think, is pretty interesting."Examples of this include the fake eBay site that was launched last month. The shadow site replicated the real eBay.com site - but it was registered to two men in Lithuania.These, one assumes, would be the people who received   your credit card, bank account, drivers' licence and social security numbers were you to follow the instructions and submit them.Even virus writers are taking up the mantle. The LoveLetter virus would arrive in your inbox with an attachment called "LOVE-LETTER-FOR-YOU". Despite regular warnings about the possible nefarious content of attachments, people could not resist clicking to see why they were so loved, and infected themselves in the process.Comical extensions to this are the email virus hoaxes such as SULFNBK. This message had no malicious payload but played on users' lack of knowledge about their system. The message warned that if the user had the SULFNBK file on their system, then they should delete it because it was a virus.The file existed all right -but was just part of Windows. Nevertheless, people happily deleted it and then passed the message on to all their friends; it was a perfect social engineering ruse.But users will be users and making them aware that people like to play such tricks is an uphill battle. "Any competent security manager has known this for ages," says Greene, "but they have a hard time persuading rank and file employees."For this reason, security companies have considered other ways that they might protect their customers' precious data. Schneier's   company, for instance, used to be a consultancy, analysing and designing solutions for security problems, but even the most elegantly crafted systems were still being broken in the real world."If I sell you a door lock that keeps your house secure and someone knocks at your door and says 'please let me in, I'm a policeman' and then they rob your house, it's not the lock's fault," he explains.For reasons like this, he decided that security was more about risk management than building impenetrable defences. So he changed his company to provide network security monitoring.And he has caught social engineers. "When you are an alarm company, you don't have to detect the point of entry to detect malicious behaviour," he says. "It is the only technical solution to the problem."Kevin Mitnick will now be enjoying his first surfs on the internet. It has changed immeasurably from the one that got him in trouble seven years ago. He claims that his hacking days are over - a life of consultancy and conference talks awaits him. But at some point, someone like him will come along with new con tricks. Human fallibility will always be too attractive for hackers to resist.
The war machine of the future is on its way. Unstoppable and invulnerable, it moves at terrifying speed, giving opponents no time to react. Enemies will not even see their human opponents, just a front line bristling with robots, unmanned aircraft and remote sensors.This is the US army's future combat system (FCS), which will reach a critical decision point in April. If it is judged successful, within just five years the US will field a revolutionary new force.The 60 ton tanks and 30 ton personnel carriers that rule the battlefield are on their way out. According to the new vision they are dinosaurs, too heavy to be flown to the scene of conflict and needing too much support. This new vision of the army is not "platform-centric", concentrating on vehicles, but "network-   centric", built around a system of shared data.The future soldier will not use heavy metal to protect him or strike the enemy; attack and defence will be a matter of data management. The system is a family of light ground vehicles with attendant robots and drone aircraft, seamlessly welded into a single fighting unit by a powerful and robust network. Just as an office PC network allows users to share data, the FCS network will allow troops to see and hear everything within range.Sophisticated software will fuse the input from different sensors, building up a three-dimensional picture of the battlefield. Even the lowly infantryman will be wired, transformed into an objective force warrior with global positioning system (GPS), rifle-mounted video camera, laser rangefinder and data visor. "Network-centric warfare is to war what e-business is to business," says the Department of Defense's report to Congress."It has the potential to increase warfighting capabilities by orders of magnitude." The report explains how the new vision extends warfare from the physical into the information domain."The information domain is the domain where information lives. It is the domain where information is created, manipulated and shared."Winning in the information domain means gaining information about the enemy while ensuring that the enemy is kept ignorant or deceived. The network-centric force can fight over a wider area with a smaller force, always one step ahead of the enemy, all of its units perfectly coordinated.To realise this grand scheme requires hardware: the future combat system. The individual elements of the FCS will be smaller and lighter than existing armoured vehicles. The need to fit easily into Hercules transport aircraft limits them to about 16 tons. But the power of the network means they can together create a team stronger than the individual elements.The army's precision fire is currently limited to line of sight, around five kilometres. The FCS will be able to attack targets 100 kilometres away using NetFires, known as "rockets in a box".NetFires consists of a container with 15 missile launch tubes, which can be mounted on the back of an armoured vehicle or a truck, or left on the ground. When a commander identifies a target using imagery relayed from robot scouts, he can call up fire support at the click of a mouse.NetFires identifies the nearest launcher and looses a missile, programming it with the target's details. The missile is equipped with a radar sensor and linked in to the network. It can loiter overhead for up to half an hour, so the target can be confirmed before it dives in for the kill.Shorter-range weapons will include a new high-speed missile. This will have the same velocity as a tank shell, but without the weight and recoil of a tank gun. This fast missile will have precision guidance. Smart mortar and artillery shells will also feature, and for peacekeeping operations, the FCS will have a "scaleable lethality" weapon that can stun rather than kill.The human soldiers will be kept at a safe distance from the front. The FCS vehicles will be hard to spot, with quiet engines and chameleon paint which changes colour to match the background.Advocates say the FCS unit will see first and shoot first with deadly accuracy, denying the enemy the chance to get a    shot in. However, there will still be a need for more protection than just lightweight armour.This protection will come from the use of networked information. Attacks will be defeated by active measures. Radar, infrared and other sensors will detect incoming missiles and artillery rounds. They will then be engaged, by jamming or dazzling their sensors, or by firing projectiles to deflect or destroy them in a miniature version of Star Wars.Smart armour will react by disrupting anything that strikes it. Lasers and high-powered microwaves are also being considered. Mobility and flexibility are part of the concept. The vehicles can be carried by helicopter or parachuted into action: a computer-controlled parafoil will land the FCS anywhere to within a few metres. The FCS-equipped force will require a fraction of the logistical support and backup of current forces. The light vehicles will have efficient engines, and ammunition will be a few smart rounds instead of thousands of dumb ones.It will even be able to produce drinking water from the vehicle's exhaust. Robots are everywhere: small remote-controlled aircraft that look like flying buckets, and larger ones like the Predator drone. Land robots include portable ones for exploring buildings and autonomous armoured vehicles. The manned vehicles will be largely automated.The FCS    may even be able to drive itself. Some of the robots will be load carriers bringing supplies to the front line and transporting NetFires. The biggest challenge is developing a vehicle capable of navigating rough terrain, and a "follow the leader" approach is being evolved.The lead vehicle will leave a trail of electronic markers for a convoy of robots, reducing the need for smart robots. The FCS is budgeted to spend $5 billion over the next five years.  The lead contractor is Boeing, a company with no experience of building tanks but a long history in military electronics.The FCS will be built around its electronic systems, as combat aircraft are built around their avionics (radar, control and communications), but costs will have to be much lower. Not everyone is happy with the network-centric vision. The US Army, 200 years old, values its traditions.Soldiers are sceptical of newfangled hardware until it has been proven in action. In the 1991 Gulf war, US tanks shrugged off antitank weapons at point blank range and destroyed Iraqi tanks at will. Soldiers are concerned about trading their tanks for a "plastic tank" relying on untried technology for defence, and with little built-in firepower.Some are horrified that FCS designs favour wheeled rather than tracked vehicles: they are better for long distances along roads,    but inferior in cross-country ability. One critic describes it as a system that "cannot move, cannot fight and cannot survive if hit by enemy non-guided weaponry not subject to electronic gadget countermeasures, that relies on mouse-clicked pleas for bombardment from others to hopefully kill the enemy for it."Rather than maximum technology, such critics want a force with fewer and more rugged gadgets. They point out that complex electronics can fail, and can be vulnerable. An opponent who brought down the FCS's networked communications could bring the force to a halt without firing a shot.The robots would be paralysed, commanders left helplessly trying to reboot and NetFires silenced. The US army has had bad experiences with high tech. One was the MBT-70, a 1960s program to build a tank ahead of its time. This featured an advanced gun/missile launcher, special armour and a variety of features including a remote-controlled gun turret and a chemical toilet.It was an impressive assemblage of technology, but was abandoned in 1971 after eight years of development, judged too expensive and too unreliable. The FCS program is ambitious, having been brought forward four years since the original plan. However, not all of its capabilities will be part of the first "Block 1" version. Block 1 vehicles will not  have the full protection suite or chameleon paint, and the robotic elements will need human supervision. The biggest question mark hovers over the networking (see panel).Existing secure military networks operate at speeds of 9.6 to 14.4 kbps; some doubt whether a 100 Mbps capacity, the sort that FCS is likely to require, will be ready before 2010. A decision to go ahead will be a bold one. Army budgets are tight - the billion-dollar Crusader artillery program was cancelled last year - and the FCS will eat up huge amounts of cash. The figure of $5 billion covers only development; production costs are anyone's guess.The failure of any of the technology, including networking, sensors, robotics, protection or firepower could see the FCS joining the MBT-70. However, if the FCS performs as advertised, the US army's lead over the rest of the world's forces will become a gaping chasm.Dominance of the information domain will be as important as dominance of airspace, with as much effect on ground troops. How will allies be able to fight alongside US forces if they cannot connect to their network? They might be a political necessity, but in the net-centric future, an ally outside the network will be as relevant on the battlefield as the regimental mascot.Fitting the pieces togetherThe FCS data, voice and video communications will require major advances in networking technology. The program is called Mosaic - multifunctional on-the-move secure adaptive integrated communications. By 2004, it is expected to demonstrate a self-organising cluster of at least 15 nodes, with a data transmission rate between 56kbps and 15Mbps, with the lowest speed applying at the maximum separation of 100 kilometres. It will have to be secure, and highly robust, in the face of electromagnetic interference or jamming, while at the same time it must have a low chance of being detected by the enemy.This probably means highly directional antennae operating across several different radio bandwidths. Reconnaissance units may rely on   other means such as the laser communication used between stealth aircraft.Bandwidth management is vital. The FCS will potentially have information flowing around it from multiple video feeds and other bandwidth-hungry inputs. It will only be able to handle these with a combination of powerful compression tools and intelligence built into the sensors so that they extract key information rather than transmit raw data.There is a considerable potential for civilian spin-offs. A secure network that can be set up anywhere with a two-minute installation time and can link mobile users many kilometres away would solve many networking problems - if it is affordable.&#183;Comments toonline.feedback @guardian.co.uk
To hear some Mac users talk, you'd think Apple had invented X11, rather than its recent announcement filling what had been a gaping hole* in its latest version of Unix (the operating system underneath Mac OS X). Still, for those who've only just heard of this interesting 1980s phenomenon, there's now an explanation of its place in the world onCNet. * Unless you count something likeXFree86orAfterStep, versions of X11 already available for Mac OS X.
The Recording Industry Association of America is chasing an individual user for sharing music files.The New York Times[free registration requried] says: "The record industry, which holds online piracy responsible for much of the precipitous decline in CD sales in recent years, has so far largely limited its lawsuits to companies it sees as aiding large-scale copyright infringement, like Napster and KaZaA. But lately industry officials have signaled that they are preparing to pursue some of the millions of people who infringe copyrights using the Internet."
Fortunemagazine has interviewed Microsoft boss Bill Gates. In one of many interesting remarks, Gates has extended and adjusted the range of computer targets in line with his CES presentation. "There are five form factors: wall-sized, desk-sized, tablet-sized, pocket-sized, and wrist-sized," he says. I've always liked the desktop/laptop/palmtop/wristtop formulation for personal computers, though technically that's only a subdivision of the mainframe/mini/personal computer division from the 1970s and 1980s. "Tablet-sized" clearly suits Microsoft's agenda better than "notebook", though that's not a term I've ever been happy with. "Phonebook-sized" might be more appropriate in the UK, though not in the US, where most phone books seem to be more than twice as thick.
"It's game over for Britain's video game publisher Rage Plc. after receivers realized they could not sell off enough assets to keep the company operating, the accountants handling the matter said Wednesday."Reutershas the story.
The chief executive of one of the largest pornography empires in Europe believes  adult content will account for the vast majority of data revenues for mobile phone companies in the next three years.Charles Prast, the chief executive of the Private Media Group, said mobile phone companies could expect 80% of traffic to the new third generation networks to come from users downloading porn while on the move.He reckons that a staggering £2.5bn will be spent on pornography by mobile phone users annually by 2006."In new technologies, adult services usually account for 80% of traffic. It has been so with video, the internet and DVD. It is natural to assume it will be the same with mobile internet," Mr Prast told Reuters.His remarks come less than a week after MediaGuardian.co.uk revealed that nearly all the mobile phone companies in this country are hoping to tie up deals with adult content providers such as Playboy.Experience shows that the share of such content later falls to around 20%t of the total, he added.Figures from research company Visiongain estimate the value of the pornography market will be a colossal £46bn by 2006 and that £2.5bn of the total could come from mobile telephony.The company, set up by Swedish-born porn king Berth Milton, who serves as its chairman and has a majority stake, already has agreements with all operators in Britain and Spain as well as several operators elsewhere in Europe for porn-related text messages.It expects to sign similar deals with two US operators soon. It also publishes dozens of adult magazines throughout Europe, as well as running two television channels and various pay per view internet sites.The UK's first 3G network, 3, will be launched by Hutchison this Easter. Having already signed content deals with the Premier League for football clips and Emap for content from its magazines, it is understood to be looking to team up with an adult content provider.Virgin Mobile has already appointed a head of adult services to investigate the possibilities for porn over new multimedia messaging phones, which combine colour photos with animation and sound.Vodafone, which launched its Vodafone Live service around Europe late last year, has already discovered that porn can pay. In Holland, porn already accounts for much of its revenue over MMS services, according to industry sources.But the likely success of adult services is a double edged sword for mobile companies. While keen to persuade customers to spend money on data services to claw back some of the billions they've spent on 3G networks, they're wary of a consumer backlash if they put too much emphasis on porn."It is clear that there is big money in it for the operators, but for obvious reasons they keep a low profile," Mr Prast said.But he added that they should embrace adult content, particularly as mobile phone companies already had discrete billing mechanisms in place.
An unemployed warehouseman from a seaside resort in north Wales was yesterday jailed for creating computer viruses with the potential to wreak havoc across the globe.Simon Vallor, 22, was told that he was one of a new breed of criminal whose ingenuity allowed him to cause worldwide disruption on an "unimaginable scale".Vallor's viruses, which he created on three computers in the bedroom of his family's pebbledash home in Llandudno, hit tens of thousands of computers in 46 countries.Had he not been stopped by Scotland Yard's computer crime unit and the FBI, many more companies, organisations and individuals could have suffered, Southwark crown court, London, was told.Vallor, who was jailed for two years, is only the second British man to be imprisoned for creating computer viruses.The industry, which often accuses the courts of not taking the offence seriously enough, welcomed the sentencing.Vallor's three viruses, GoKar, Redesi-B and Admirer, were spotted on the internet in December 2001 by the FBI's Newark field office.Federal agents linked the viruses to someone who used the nickname Gobo and traced him to Britain. Scotland Yard's computer crime unit was then alerted.GoKar was Vallor's most prolific virus. It appeared as an email on an user's computer with an "intriguing" single line of text such as: "If I were God and I didn't believe in myself would it be blasphemy."When the email was opened the body of the text contained another apparently innocuous, if puzzling, message such as: "They say love is blind" or "Happy birthday, mine not yours."Unbeknown to the user, the virus automatically sent itself off to every contact in the user's address book.One anti-virus filter service alone stopped it 33,000 times. It had the potential to clog company computers and even force them to shut down email systems.Scotland Yard claims that at one point GoKar was rated the third most prevalent virus of all time. But Vallor's other viruses, Redesi-B and Admirer, had the potential to be far more destructive.Like GoKar, they looked like ordinary emails, again with inviting message lines.Redesi-B purported to be a security update from one of the computer giants. The user was then invited to open an application that would help make their machine more secure. But, once this application was opened, it planted a virus in the computer with a delay mechanism.After a certain period, the virus wiped off all material from the computer's hard disk. All the user would be left with was the message: "Bide ye the Wiccan laws ye must, in perfect love and perfect trust." Wiccan is a pagan religion that Vallor has claimed he has connections with.The Admirer virus, which tempted users with messages such as "Secret admirer" and "Happy Valentine's Day", could also destroy material that had not previously been saved.Ironically, the police raided Vallor's home, where he lives with his father and brother, on Valentine's Day. Vallor was in bed at the time.Before his jailing, he said: "It was totally mind-blowing. One minute you're asleep, the next you've got Scotland Yard in your bedroom."The police had taken about three weeks to trace him via his BT internet account. He told police his motivation was simply to see if he could do it.In court his counsel, Grant Vanstone, depicted him as an "unremarkable young man" who left school with four GCSEs and worked for a time in a warehouse.After his mother died during a holiday with relatives in 2000 he lost his job and became introverted and obsessed with computers.He began writing GoKar on his birthday in 2001 because he was "feeling sorry for himself". Mr Vanstone said: "He was shocked when it spread as it did."But after his arrest he did not appear contrite on his website, the Devil Within.He wrote: "I caused no harm, endangered no one, hurt no one, damaged nothing yet I may very well be going to prison, while there are drink-drivers, rapists, even murderers who get let off."The judge, Geoffrey Rivlin QC, made it clear that Vallor's sentence should be heeded as a warning by other virus writers. "People who commit offences such as this are not just boffins or nerds sitting alone with their computers," he said."They also happen to be criminals who are difficult to detect and have the capacity to cause disruption, consternation and even economic loss on an unimaginable scale."So many people rely on computers that any interference with that use must be regarded as a very serious matter." It was a crime, he said, which "cries out for a deterrent sentence".
Looks as though the company with the best inventory control in the computer business underestimated demand for its Axim PocketPC handheld.ZDNet Newssays buyers are having to wait a couple of weeks or more whereas Dell desktops ship in three to five days.
A site hosted on Windows 2000 has, for the first time, appeared in Netcraft's 50 sites with the longest uptime -- the longest period of time since the last reboot," reports theSydney Morning Herald.www.byteandswitch.comhas been running continuously since November 2000. TheTop 50is usually dominated by versions of the BSD version of Unix, which emerged from the University of California at Berkeley at the beginning of the 80s. (It is also the operating system that underlies the Mac OS X interface.) It's unusual for Windows 2000 to go more than a year without rebooting, mainly because Microsoft has some sort of phobia about making machines reboot when users add or update the software.
Infinium Labs says in apress releasethat, later this year, it will ship the world's fastest games console. (Microsoft's Xbox is currently the fastest and most advanced machine.) The Web site is short of useful detail but there's aphotothat looks vaguely similar to the Xbox. But since games consoles are sold at or close to a loss, it's hard to establish a new one without the kind of money that a Sony or Microsoft can splash around.
BBC1's 10 O'Clock News has followed in the footsteps of Radio 4's Today programme and launched its own website giving viewers a chance to chat about the news or text presenters Huw Edwards and Fiona Bruce.The site launched this week to coincide with the relaunch of the flagship BBC1 news bulletin with the new presenting duo.Edwards will be the main anchor, presenting the 10 O'Clock News from Monday to Thursday, while Bruce will take over on Fridays and at weekends.The 10 O'Clock News website features an introduction from programme editor Mark Popescu, the latest stories and background features about the show and the production team.Viewers can watch the show and take a virtual tour of the BBC newsroom. Other features include a Meet the Team section with profiles of Edwards, Bruce and the Ten's correspondents; and Dear Huw, which invites viewers to email Edwards with comments about the show and story ideas.The website also provides country profiles to back up the Ten's remit to provide greater foreign coverage than any other BBC1 bulletin.A senior BBC news insider said the 10 O'Clock News website was part of a move to bring more of an interactive element to BBC1's news coverage."There will be more maps, information, graphics and stills. If you're after more on the Iraq crisis, there's a map of the country and a profile of Saddam Hussein," the source added."Over the course of this year we will be adding extra levels of interactivity, particularly around the Ten."The Six O'Clock News also has a new presenting line-up from this week, with Sophie Raworth and George Alagiah taking over from Edwards.BBC1's lunchtime and evening news bulletins will have a revamped set as part of the changes introduced today.
The world's most famous hacker, Kevin Mitnick, is about to use the Internet again for the first time in 8 years, reportsReuters. "I paid my debt to society and I'm trying to do a positive thing. I can't change the past," he says.
It should be Linux news week, with this week's trade show in New York attracting the heavy hitters.CNethas a preview that includes some interesting info. One is some costing from Aberdeen analyst Bill Claybrook, who says: "If Red Hat Advanced Server is part of a deal with Oracle (9i database software) on a cluster of four Dell machines, each of which has four CPUs, Oracle gets $60,000 a CPU, or $960,000, Dell gets $150,000 or so for the hardware, and Red Hat will get $10,000." Now you know, if you didn't already, how Oracle boss Larry Ellison can afford to give blondes cars as a chat up line. $1 million for a bit of software? Well, if that sounds a lot compared to a copy of Windows, you haven't shopped with IBM.....There's also a nice line from open source co-founder Bruce Perens about the lust for money among companies in the Linux industry. "Chasing after the pot of gold is drawing people pretty far away from the community spirit," he says. Well, Bruce, the whole point of open source was to be business friendly, remember? Before you andEric Raymondbroke away, the whole "open source" business was actually called the free software movement, as promoted byRichard Stallman'sFree Software Foundation. At least calling it "free software" ensured that no one really expected to get rich from it.In fact, the whole point of "free software" was to foster a community spirit. So, today, there's nothing surprising about that community spirit being exploited, abused and lost in the switch from "free" to "open source". It's exactly what a rational person (well, me) would (and did) expect to happen. The fact that the Perens/Raymond et alOpen Source Definitonis virtually identical to the definiton of free software hardly offers any protection because most people don't have a clue what "open source" actually means. Most of them just think it means you can read the source....
The way the world is using the internet is changing and so is the way advertisers measure its effectiveness. Where once the admen only checked hits, clicks and page impressions, in 2003 and beyond the key measurements of new media success will increasingly be more sophisticated.And although many in the new media industry both welcome and expect the advent of this sophistication, the company at the forefront of internet audience measurement says that changes are not happening fast enough."The online advertising industry has got to grow up," says Bill Pulver, chief executive of Nielsen NetRatings (NNR). "It's got to stop selling itself on page views and the AOLs, the Yahoo!s and the MSNs have got to lead the way." According to Pulver, the   Aussie who took over at NNR early last year, there is a "sad lack of sophistication in how to sell the internet." He adds: "At the moment the leading online companies are positioning themselves like an outdoor advertising medium. We are trying to give them the tools that give them the same stature and sophistication as the rest of the media industry."Of course, as the head of a company that makes its money selling audience research tools, Pulver would say that, wouldn't he? But Pulver isn't alone in his critique. "There has been a polarisation in the marketplace in the last 12 to 18 months between those that get it and those that don't," says Andrew Walmsley, of specialist online advertising agency i-level.Part of the problem with the ad men's perception of new media comes from the retrenching since the internet bubble burst; many companies that experimented with online during   the boom dropped it like a hot potato. Even today the UK online advertising market is still relatively small, accounting for 1.5% of total advertising spend, but consumers are using the new medium much more than many advertisers give it credit for.In fact, the internet's share of all media consumption by the average adult in the UK is about 7%, according to i-level. "These figures include adults who don't even have an internet connection and have never heard of the internet," says Walmsley. "That says that marketers are substantially under-investing in online."The good news is that ad budgets are including growing amounts for online campaigns. This year, UK online advertising is expected to grow 46%, according to forecasts from i-level. So with the increase in traffic, it's no wonder that changes in measurement are inevitable.When internet was booming, the   websites and the advertising industry were both focused on traffic - how many hits the website had or how many page impressions there were. In fact, all those newly-minted internet companies liked the idea of ramping up these eyeball numbers because it was a surefire way of increasing their stock market valuations.After the dotcom bust, it became clear that even if a site attracted a massive number of eyeballs, this wasn't enough to fulfil a business plan. In addition, there was confusion about how different new media "experts" - that is, everyone from websites to research groups to industry associations - were measuring effective internet usage."The days of selling online advertising because it's cool are dead," says Bob Ivins, the research director at Yahoo! Europe. "You need to be able to sell facts like 'We reach the right audience' or 'We are cost effective' or 'We can measure brand equity more accurately'."Still, some parts of the industry are still holding on to page impressions as their key measurement tool. "Page impressions are not the only arbiter, but they do have a use and also the UK industry is saying that this is what they want right now," says Richard Foan, managing director of ABCe, a UK industry-owned electronic media auditor specialising in census-style measurement such as page impressions. "Page impression is an easy metric to grab on to and it has a comfort zone because it has the word 'page' in it, but there is a lot of sophistication behind it like the length of time between impressions."Knowing the number of page impressions is not a bad thing, but it can distort the whole media picture if viewed in isolation, says Walmsley. "The reason people are so obsessed with page impressions is because they are implying old media metrics. It's   important to know the circulation of a newspaper if you're buying an ad because you're buying the whole circulation. But it's not important for a website because you're only buying a finite number of page impressions."Pulver's view is that the jump to measurement using large internet user panels and away from simple counting of eyeballs needs to happen now. After all, he has spent the past 12 months and $71m (&#163;44m) in cash and stock buying up his main rivals in the internet measuring business to create a portfolio of audience measurement services that makes NNR an "online solutions" company.By March, Nielsen NetRating will launch a 50,000-household measurement panel in each of the three leading European online countries - the UK, France and Germany. This number of households is the kind of sampling size that new media measurement needs to rely on. In the UK, for example, NNR's biggest panel previously has been less than 10,000 households.NNR is not alone in its race to change the online measurement environment - and quickly. Another American-based company, Comscore Networks, claims to have been operating a UK panel of more than   100,000 households for at least a year, mostly for US-based companies. The UK is Comscore's second largest panel outside the US and the company is set to increase its sales presence in the UK as well.The whole new media industry knows that panel research delivers richer results such as insights into online behaviour and e-commerce patterns. Also, smaller panels used in the past have not caught the smaller websites, but the larger panels can do this and also deliver the rich material."You need mega panels in order to give significant data," says Pulver, "and, once we set them up, we're home from the races because TV and radio can't do these things. With a mega panel we can go in and, for example, ask extra, more revealing questions."This can only be good news for niche websites that might have high appeal to advertisers but today are "under-measured." According to a recent PriceWaterhouseCoopers survey for the Internet Advertising Bureau 79% of online ad spend in the UK goes to only the top 10 internet sites, including the usual suspects, such as MSN, Google, Yahoo!, AOL and Freeserve. The problem is that these top 10 portals only represent about 30% of the total UK web traffic or impressions."You could argue that if the panels were big enough you could measure all the websites," says Foan. "The trouble is that the smaller the website, the bigger the panel you need to give statistically relevant data on the visitorship and usage of that website. So it's all very well saying you don't need census-based traffic research providing you've got panels of hundreds of thousands around the world, but at the moment they haven't."So, as the battle of the mega panels gets under way in the UK in the next few months, this verdict will be given at least a good run for its money.
Friends Reunited is the website we all wish we'd thought of. Conceived in a scruffy computer programmer's back bedroom, it was a model of thrift from the start in the otherwise rapacious dotcom frenzy of the late-1990s. It epitomises a simple idea that not only worked on the internet but would not have been possible without it, tapping into a basic human yearning for times past by putting people in touch with old school friends. Like sex, news and gambling, nostalgia has proved to be a safe haven during the web's darkest days as a commercial mediumIn the two years since its launch, the site has taken on the characteristics of a real-life interactive TV soap: more than 10 babies have been born as a result of people meeting through the site; adopted children have tracked down their natural parents; people have sued each other; marriages have been made and wrecked; and skeletons dug out of cupboards"They have done what very few others have managed to do, which is to create a brand online and entirely from scratch," says Calum Chace, head of media practice at KPMG's strategic and commercial intelligence group. "It's a prestige brand on the net, one that people trust, which could get Yahoo, AOL and Microsoft into a bidding war." It is these titans of the online world that the site's owners say have been forming a queue over the past 18 months with offers to buy Friends Reunited. ISPs and portal companies are desperate to develop paid-for services to break out of their core business. Equally, big companies from the offline world are said to be interested, including well-known high street namesThe site was launched when things looked grim for the dotcom industry, but the number of people coming to it nevertheless grew beyond the wildest dreams of its founders. Close to 8.5 million people have now registered, which is close to half the UK's online population, and between 5,000 and 10,000 join every day. Users pay an annual membership fee of £5 to email other members, although only a minority of them actually pay this fee. Most simply visit the site out of curiosityIts computer programmer founders, Jason Porter and Steve and Julie Pankhurst, stand to make as much as £30m from a sale. "In someone else's hands, that much traffic could generate a lot of revenue," says Chase.But Steve Pankhurst says a sale is only one option. They may instead opt to bring in an experienced management team to build growth or "just continue as we are". This seems unlikely. Although the computer servers on which the service runs have been moved out of the back bedroom and into London's Docklands, Steve Pankhurst and Porter continue to run the service from their homes. After launching offshoots of the site last year in Australia, South Africa and continental Europe, the founders concede that it's getting too big for them to handle.  It would only take one of those overseas sites to follow the UK site's growth pattern, starting slowly then snowballing as more people sign up, for them to lose control.The other compelling argument for a sale, according to Tom Johnson, group account director at Mediaedge: CIA, a strategy and buying agency for digital media, is the question of how long Friends Reunited's popularity can last. "Once you've contacted two or three people from school, there are not that many reasons to go back," he says. That means it has to expand internationally and develop new services, but without damaging trust in the brand.Success has come at a price. "We didn't go out at all in the first year, and spending time on financial accounts is just not really us," says Pankhurst. "But there is huge potential to expand internationally and to add more content to do with nostalgia. As far as I'm concerned, I think of my teens in terms of music." Later this month, the company will release a Friends Reunited CD, the result of a survey of its members' views on the best hits of the 80s. CD compilations for other decades will follow and this summer it plans to stage a concert, called UK Reunited, TV programmes, toys, and films are the other obvious paraphernalia, says Pankhurst.Certainly, the site's vast database of names offers the potential to develop the site into a full-blown retailer in its own right. But it could also become an online directory service, a dating service, a powerful digital marketing machine and a trusted gateway to a range of other web services."Obviously there are data protection issues to take into account, but because the site's users choose an area of the site to go to and demonstrate their age and geography, there is huge scope here for digital marketing because it becomes easier to handle more detailed information," says Chace. "It should be possible to display advertisements according to people's age and where they live." "The challenge from here is to monetise the community that it's built and develop a profitable business that's sustainable," says Jon Watts, a consultant with Spectrum Strategy Consultants in London."Reorienting the service would not be an insignificant operation. They need a strong partner." The omens seem good. The amount of money people spend on buying goods and services on the web is growing. US research firm e-marketer estimates that Americans spent $1.2bn on web content last year, not including e-commerce, gambling or pornography. The founders need to seize the opportunity now while the company is ahead of the pack, says Olivier Beauvillain, an analyst with Jupiter Research in Paris. "This is a market where the winner takes it all - there's no room for three or four competitors." It's clear there is significant upside in the site's ability to charge more money but the challenge is to expand into new areas without damaging the trust that the brand has built.Pankhurst and Porter are adamant that they want to guard the ethos of the site. They remain resolutely scruffy and reluctant to embrace the trappings of wealth and success. But if the site is to build on its early success, it looks like a sale is inevitable.
Over at weblog watcherBlogdex, at number 25 in their list 'o' popular links at the time of writing, is the fairly remarkable claim that "the Guardian has gone pro-war". Blimey. Judging by the Blogdex timings, the assertion seems to have been made first by armchair general (or "warblogger") Glenn Reynolds, who linked tothis leaderfrom... er... yesterday's Observer (the clue is in the URL). He did qualify the statement with a "well, strictly speaking it's the Guardian/Observer, but still. . .". So doubtless he'll be claimingtoday's Guardian leaderis a remarkable u-turn, and the other me-too weblogs will trot along behind once more. If nothing else, it serves to highlight the mindless re-serving of opinion and links (with nothing added while reheating) that passes for a large chunk of blogdom. Why do they bother?
Microsoft has announced a system that would enable a CD to play normally on both a PC and a CD player yet still allow music providers to control copying, according to aReutersreport from theMidemmusic industry exhibition now on in Cannes. The Windows Media Data Session Toolkit "was co-developed with technology partners Phoenix-based SunnComm Technologies and France's MPO International Group", it says. Presumably this is a Microsoft Toolkit for the SunnComm copy-control system known asMediaMax CD-3 Technology, launched last October. Update: Yahoo now has aNewsFactorstory with more detail.
Microsoft's SPOT watch initiative, announced at CES, has received strikingly little coverage, but the Washington Post has now had a look inBill Gates Meets Dick Tracy. Again. This has some interesting info on various failed attempts at the market. "Given the history of smart watches, it's certainly safer to be pessimistic," says the piece.
A personal appeal. My wife is stuck on level one - yes, I repeat, level one - of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, on the GameBoy Advance. She has been stuck on level one since Christmas Day. She wanders the house muttering "I can't find the fifth gem", so I am now issuing this plea: can anyone help? Answers, please -please- in the box below.
WinInfo's Paul Thurrott has an exclusive preview of Microsoft's SPOT (Smart Personal Object Technology)wristwatcheson his WinSupersite.
Back on November 2, in an item headedThe single best way to stop spam is ... Bayesian, I linked to Paul Graham's statistical approach to creating a spam-filtering system that actually works. It was such a good idea, I thought it would disappear forever. But maybe not. Yesterday there was a spam conference at MIT where, according to Scarlet Pruitt of the IDG News Service,here, programmer William Yerazunis showed it implemented in a program called MailFilter. The report says: "In tests Yerazunis performed, MailFilter was 99.915 percent accurate in identifying spam. 'I'm only 99.84 percent accurate at identifying spam, so this is much more accurate than I am,' Yerazunis quipped." For more info, starthere. [TheMailfilterprogram at Sourceforge is a different one.]APandComputerWorldalso reported the MIT conference. SpeakerJohn Graham-Cumming, who features in the latter story, is a former contributor to Guardian Online. William Yerazunis calls himself Bill.
Yahoo!, the web portal, yesterday said it was considering a move into the fiercely competitive internet access market in Europe after success with a broadband product in the US.The comments were made by the managing director of the European business, Mark Opzoomer, after Yahoo! provided evidence that efforts to rebuild the US business are beginning to pay off. In results posted late Wednesday, the company swung into profit during the fourth quarter and recorded a 51% jump in revenues. Earnings were $46.2m (&#163;28.6m), reversing a loss of $8.7m a year ago.Faced with a dramatic drop off in advertising when the dotcom bubble burst, Yahoo! embarked on a strategy of diversifying its revenue streams. The plans were the brainchild of former Warner Brothers executive Terry Semel who was hired to rescue one of the best known brands of the internet.Around 2.2m people have signed up for premium services in the US including online personals, larger email boxes and high-speed internet access. The company offers broadband access to one-third of the US and will expand that to the rest of the country this year, pitching Yahoo! into direct competition with the likes of America Online and Microsoft.Yahoo! Europe has performed sluggishly compared with the US and Mr Opzoomer is keen to draw on elements of the US plan to bring the loss-making unit into the black. Premium services will be launched in Europe in the first half of 2003.
