It was three weeks ago that my virtual world disintegrated. I had been struggling with a digital littering problem in my Social Simulation Research Lab and I wanted to automate the cleanup process. As the home of my PhD research is the virtual world of Second Life, I need to ensure that my online space looks professional and tidy so any potential participants who visit will instantly recognise my good intentions. I'd spent days lining up little planks of wood, straightening out the interactive books on the shelves and placing the windows just so. All that I needed to do, I was assured, was flick a little switch and foreign objects would be removed. I flicked. Then everything disappeared.You mustn't underestimate how much time I'd put into this place. I was so proud. I had taken people on guided tours. I had spent hours indexing the resources. More pressing, an in-world educational newspaper was doing a write-up on the library the next day and I was anticipating a tsunami of attention from the academic community. Unfortunately, all this was moot. At that moment it was gone.A few days later, after I'd cobbled together what passed as a shadow of the former lab, a Second Life-wide controversy exploded. The CopyBot hack (The duplicitous inhabitants of Second Life, November 23) wreaked havoc on the economy, threatening mass closure of the tens of thousands of businesses which produce the real-life livelihoods of many of its commercial property owners. I admit that at the time the potentially devastating effects didn't faze me; an automated replication of in-world properties sounded just what I needed when my virtual space experienced cosmic meltdown. But the more I hear about it, the more excited I get about the implications. Second Life has reached a philosophical crisis and the result is potential civil war.The formerly libertarian landscape has been overrun by rampaging nouveau-capitalists. They want centralised governance and stern economic ruling. Everyone is a potential thief. Fingers are being pointed and, in some extreme cases, avatars are being attacked. The digital idyll has become a world of accusations, violence and bitter political dispute.And so, once again, the real world comes crashing in. Sooner or later, most online communities reach this crisis point because the ideals of the founders are replaced by regulations demanded by the different types of people who interact in them. We shouldn't be surprised; what we do when we interact online is replicate the social practices we are familiar with offline. Inspired by this milestone, I'm going to add a wing to my new lab. And inside will be a shrine to CopyBot, the little hack that transformed Second Life into a real world.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Cricket 07PC, PS2, &pound;29.99, cert 3+EA Sports, 3/5If your frustration at England's fumbling efforts to retain the Ashes is too much to bear, the timely release of Cricket 07 may offer some relief. It will let you take the helm for the current Ashes series, and lets you replay the 2005 series, either in full or in scenarios - in which, for example, you must score 50 runs as Kevin Pietersen at Lord's, with Glenn McGrath having reduced England to 21-5. But past versions of EA Sports' expensively licensed Cricket franchise have had an Achilles' heel: batting was impossible. Luckily a new system works beautifully, thanks in part to a timing meter. Cricket 07's graphics could be better, but the commentary from Mark Nicholas and Richie Benaud is great, and it is by far EA Sports' best cricket game ever.SBGuitar Hero 2PS2, &pound;49.99 (with guitar), cert 3+Red Octane, 3/5With Singstar, Wii and Eye Toy, gaming has never been so energetic. Guitar Hero 2 - the sequel to the unique rock music videogame - is another example of this. Not that you specifically have to throw yourself around while playing, but once you've gripped the plastic guitar it's hard to stop pulling those rock shapes. Whereas the original Guitar Hero was an underground hit, GH2 is the release that hits the mainstream. Not only are the tunes better - Police, Nirvana, Thin Lizzy - but the multiplayer mode allows two guitarists to play together on bass and lead. And for those who fork out for two guitars - original ones work fine - the band feeling is worth the effort, especially if you put the practice in. Unfortunately, the difficulty is cranked up to 11 - pleasing for nimble-fingered fans of the original but offputting to more casual strummers.GHHappy FeetPS2, &pound;29.99, cert 3+Midway/Warner, 3/5The latest Hollywood CGI movie makes it to videogame, and all the usual boxes are ticked: horribly cute hero, cloyingly sentimental script and simple gameplay are all present and correct. Happy Feet knows its audience: little kids who liked the movie. There is plenty to occupy them at first, from sliding down glaciers and underwater endurance races to dancemat-compatible stomp-alongs. They may all be simple to play, but such are the sumptuous production values that you can't really fault them. However, you soon realise that despite 28 levels there are only a handful of challenges, and the cutscenes and frequent loading times will begin to grate. Still, toddlers will love it.MA
Let's see: three separate teams each of eight programmers and testers and designers and a manager, plus six layers of managers for each team, plus an &uuml;bermanager for them all - that's 43. The number comes from Moishe Lettvin, who spent his "worst" year out of seven at Microsoft working on a feature for Vista whichhe says"should've been designed, implemented and tested in a week".The feature? The menu that Vista users choose from when they've finished working. What you'll get on a laptop is a choice of "off" or lock; plus an advanced menu offering (deep breath) switch user, log off, lock, restart, sleep, hibernate and shut down.Plus, as the developer Joel Spolskypoints out, the options of pressing the physical power button, or (on a laptop) just closing the lid. Spolsky reckons Vista offers 15 different ways to shut down a laptop. (Sure, you might not see the advanced menu. But which, of shut down, sleep, hibernate, log off or switch user, is the simple "off"?) Spolsky suggests that the dithering implied by having so many confusingly similar and utterly different choices every time you're done with a session "produces just a little bit of unhappiness every time".What are the comparisons? On Apple's OS X, which Lettvin's team used "as a paragon of clean UI [user interface design]", there are four options presented on pressing the power button: restart, sleep, cancel (ie oops! wrong button), shut down. How many people did that take? It's a mystery lost in time, as the "choice of four" has existed since at least 1997. Linux distributions have an uncountable team; the Gnome distribution offers just "suspend" and "hibernate". On the iPod, there is no on/off button - a design choice made, yes, by Steve Jobs. (Instead, it turns itself off once paused for a set length of time.)Now - 43 people? Isn't that a lot? Yes: three teams (Lettvin's "mobile" team, the "shell" team, and "kernel" team) of eight each, plus 16 managers, plus their manager. But, says Lettvin, the worst thing was that "of those 24 there were exactly zero with final say in how the feature worked. Somewhere in those other 17 was somebody who did have final say but who that was I have no idea since when I left the team - after a year - there was still no decision about exactly how this feature would work."He concludes: "The end result of all this is what finally shipped: the lowest common denominator, the simplest and least controversial option. I have no idea how much of the rest of Vista ended up like this. I think (indeed hope) my team was a pathological case; unfortunately it's a visible one."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's nearly 1,000 years since England and Denmark last shared a government. Among people running British public services, however, there's a certain nostalgia for the days of Canute.The king's Danish descendants appear to have solved an administrative problem that eludes their UK counterparts - creating a single, up-to-date national database of addresses (www.ois.dk/default.aspx).Success was possible because Danish public agencies agreed not to try to make money by selling each other licences to use data created at the taxpayer's expense. Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign argues that Britain should adopt a similar policy.As in Britain, Denmark's 2.2m addresses include the efforts of several public bodies. Denmark's 271 local authorities (shortly to be rationalised to 98) are responsible for assigning street names and addresses. The national post operator generates four-digit postcodes; and the national mapping agency, geographical coordinates.Unlike in Britain, where at least two plans for pooling data have collapsed, Danish agencies have agreed to collaborate to maintain a national register of buildings and dwellings. All major organisations in the public and private sector - from emergency ambulances to banks - use the same public data.The register is one of seven run on a data warehouse called the Public Information Server, which is run by an agency of the Ministry of Finance and Industry as part of the national infrastructure. "Ownership is not an issue," says Morten Lind, adviser to the agency. Other registers that are available on the server cover land parcels, property taxes and planning permissions. Addresses are a distinct element in the register of buildings and dwellings. This is important because, while addresses are freely available, some details in the register are classified as personal data, to which access is restricted.For the past three years, information on the server has been freely available to public authorities and individuals who want to check their own details.The server's owner, the National Agency for Enterprise and Construction, also licenses bulk data to commercial re-users, such as estate agents and finance businesses.About 15 commercial users pay an annual subscription of about pounds 5,000 and then about 10p per megabyte, which the government says is the marginal cost of connecting them and supplying data.Before 2003, commercial users had to request individual property details, at a fee of about 50p each. Under the new arrangements, demand for data has soared, says Ulrik Roehl of the agency."When we started, we thought there might be around 10 distributors, but we exceeded that in two years," he says. The distributors download about 65m property details a month.The Danes are too diplomatic to comment on the British imbroglio; they stress that their solution was a commonsense solution for Danish conditions. "There is no grand plan, just pragmatism," says Lind.Nonetheless, Technology Guardian recommends that the British government takes a look - before spending any more money on consultants and lawyers and all the paraphernalia of negotiating licensing terms for data we already own.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Strictly speaking, no. Our trawl of the World Health Organisation (who.int) and National Library of Medicine (pubmed.com) databases shows that there have been no scientific papers published that have studied whether Wi-Fi networks cause any physical symptoms.So for those of a scientific, and thus sceptical, demeanour, that means there's no proof of any effects. That doesn't mean, however, that people are making it up if they claim that they feel ill in a Wi-Fi network - as the author Kate Figes did last week. It simply means that there have been no scientific studies to investigate whether people who claim such symptoms are indeed affected by the electromagnetic radiation, or some other effect - or not at all, but just think they are.Part of the reason is that Wi-Fi has only recently reached any level of ubiquity. Ms Figes "spent hundreds of pounds installing wireless internet in her Stoke Newington home, then found it made her so ill she had to scrap it". That was two years ago; she says she can detect there is Wi-Fi in a room, and says the experience is like "being prodded all over your body by 1,000 fingers".Ms Figes might have what some scientists call (for the purposes of research) "EMF sensitivity" - that is, a reaction to electromagnetic fields. A number of studies are now under way in various British universities that are trying to discern whether EMF sensitivity exists, including one being carried out at the University of Essex which hopes to report early in the new year.There, researcher Stacy Eltiti is working on a project which aims to find out whether people who say they are sensitive to the emissions from mobile phone masts are indeed affected by them, or by something else, or if they are reacting in some other way (such as having a psychosomatic reaction when they see or learn of the presence of a mast).The two-year project is now in its closing stages, with the research all carried out, after a difficult beginning in which Eltiti struggled to find enough "sensitives". In 2004, she was hoping to find 132 people who were sensitive to masts. That number would have produced a study that in statistical terms would have been unassailable.In the end, the team settled for 55 "sensitives" and 120 control individuals, who had to make a total of 12 visits over four weeks while they were exposed (or perhaps not; they wouldn't be told) to emissions at mobile phone mast frequencies from the GSM and UMTS bands. That will give the study sufficient statistical power to be accepted by major scientific journals.The study could be relevant to Wi-Fi because GSM transmissions are made at 900 to 1800 MHz, and UMTS at 2.1GHz - not far off Wi-Fi's 2.4GHz frequency.So what has Eltiti's team found? When we spoke to her earlier this week, she was - as scientists are ahead of publication - chary of giving away any details. "We're just in the process of doing the analysis of the data," she said. The number of participants "should give us enough power to tell what symptoms are relevant to mobile phone base stations". She is hoping that the paper, once written, will be published by one of the big health journals such as the Lancet or British Medical Journal.That doesn't mean they've found a link; scientific results can be negative, and indeed, one of the most important scientific papers of the 19th century, theMichelson-Morley experimentproduced a negative result. We'll just have to wait.Meanwhile, what's the best option if you think Wi-Fi makes you sicken? Simple: find a friend and get them to flip a coin. If it's heads, they (silently) turn your router on while you have your back to them and it. (Pulling the cord out of the back is better than an on/off switch, which makes a noise.) Note whether you feel ill. Repeat 16 times. If you're right 12 or more times, you may be sensitive. To be sure, repeat another 16 times. If your total score is over 24, let your friend try. If they score under 12, email us: you may be Wi-Fi sensitive.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I'm just about to make a video call using my mobile phone. I dial the number, select "video call", press the green button ... here we go ... but suddenly my phone's display spits back: "Video call not supported by network."Why the heck not? The 3 network launched the UK's first 3G service more than three years ago (on 3.3.03, actually). Back then some thought the possibility that mere mortals would be able to engage in Star Trek-like communication was enthralling.Not so, it seems. I got my first video-capable phone with Vodafone in 2004 and immediately set about excitedly making a video call to my colleague's videophone, which was on 3.Still no go. The reason this time: it wouldn't work across different networks. Of course it wouldn't, silly me.Last year I tried again. I made a video call to a friend of mine, also on Vodafone. We both had the correct equipment and we both had good 3G reception (because we were in the same room - we were taking no chances). Surely this time I would be successful. Again it didn't work, and I can't even remember why.I'm sure that if I had persevered, I would eventually have got through. I'd have been able to marvel at hearing my interlocutor speak and then about a second later watch a smeary mess of pixels moving around the screen as he did a good impression of a badly dubbed Bruce Lee.No-one I know has ever, to my knowledge, made a single video call. I see three main reasons for this. First, it doesn't work; at least, not as reliably as it should. Second, it's too expensive. But I think the main reason is that it is simply not as appealing a concept as certain people let themselves believe.Outside specialist circles such as the emergency services and service engineers, there is no real need for mobile video communications. Is my blurry face really so vital - more so than my clearer voice?Even if I could make video calls, I'd have to limit them to about 10 seconds each because the phone companies have decided, in their foolhardy arrogance, that video calls are a "premium" service, and should be charged as such: about 35p a minute. I can imagine how that pricing decision was made. Picture the conference room:-Right, we need to find a suitable price point for these great new video calls we are about to offer. Any ideas?-How about an introductory 10p per minute offer, rising to 15 or 20p? That sounds reasonable.-No, no! We'll never make any money at that rate. We should start at 35p per minute rising to 35p per second if you're calling from abroad.It's one case of corporate greed too many for me. Don't look now - I'm not calling.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The future is scaryMy life is already run by my computers (Tell me when I get there, November 23). Imagine what it would be like if your significant other could add geotagged to-dos to your phone? There you are, walking down the street when your phone reminds you that you are outside the drycleaners and your significant other's cleaning needs collecting. You go to the pub and your phone reminds you that you shouldn't be there ... Scary!www.mmisoftware.co.uk/weblogBenefits of blog spamEven India might now be a tad expensive for such endeavours, but there is no shortage of other countries willing to pick up the slack (The price of humans who'll spam blogs is falling to zero, November 23). There is just no way to totally eliminate spam.http://blog.wificat.comIt's hard to come down against something that puts money in the hands of those who need it: people who work in a Captcha farm are likely to be people for whom the marginal value of a dollar a day is the highest.http://thirtyfour.blogspot.comLook at it this way: the future of spam will raise the standard of living for many people.www.howardowens.comNow hear thisMaybe the people who make the decisions about DAB sound quality (Letters and blogs passim) have damaged hearing through going to nightclubs and rock concerts. Perhaps Ofcom staff should have a hearing test?Tony WardLoughboroughI'm not sure where Jack Schofield finds his evidence for listeners caring for sound quality (The future of UK radio, November 23). Ripping CDs to a computer or iPod is about convenience, not quality. Many people now have all their music on a PC or iPod and are listening on either on a mini hi-fi, portable speaker systems, earphones or even PC speakers. Most will be using MP3. Very few will have decent headphones or a decent amp and speakers. Most people don't care enough about sound quality.Gavin BaileyKeeleController freakKeith Stuart (Geeks and commanders meet on the battlefield, November 23) makes the astonishing claim that "if you can operate an Xbox 360 controller, the chances are that you can deploy a guided missile". Perhaps Mr Stuart knows something we don't, and military chiefs really do control missiles with the 360's famously temperamental D-pad. If so, it might explain the accuracy rate of the American military.Wesley Yin-PooleLondonMaking sense of BabelJohn Klensin commented (Tower of Babel, November 23) that my domain &pound;.com has somehow been "sneaked through" and that its registration has been "prohibited all along". Both comments are incorrect, as the registration of &pound;.com (xn--9a.com) was made within Icann's guidelines.Furthermore, &pound;.com has existed as a website for several years so I don't understand why he would imply that something unsavoury has either quickly or recently occurred. His final comment, that the domain name is a "communications nightmare", is untrueand nothing short of scaremongering. I am aware that the American "pound" (#) symbol may be used as a programming command, but this has nothing to do with the British pound symbol (&pound;) and, in any case, symbols have no effect on domain names.Richard HaighNottinghamEasy answerI read with incredulity the complications involved in getting rid of spam from one's inbox (What else can we do?, November 23). I have a very simple solution. Mozilla Thunderbird recognises spam and sends it directly to the trash. It works for me.Simon BarnettHigh Peak
When you first get a camera, you soon learn that the picture you see in your mind is nothing like the one that appears in the viewfinder; though usually the difference is obvious only when you look at the finished print. Slowly, perhaps, you teach yourself to see what is actually in the viewfinder. Even if you get this wrong, a digital camera means that software can adjust what you see on the screen to be more or less what you thought that you saw in the first place.The problem that nobody talks about comes when you have to get the picture that looks perfect on screen on to printed paper. Modern photo printers can be remarkably cheap and will print on good paper at a very high resolution. Commercial printing services can make prints that look extremely good, and may even be cheaper than the ones done at home.But it is almost certain that they will look good in different ways to the ones on screen. The colours will be subtly or grossly different. Since every monitor may display colours differently - and Macs and PCs will differ visibly in their relative brightness - the print that comes from a commercial service can't be matched to your monitor. It may look good, but it won't look the same.Pain and confusionMaking this last little adjustment looks as if to ought to be trivial at home. In fact, it leads you into a world of pain and confusion. The problem starts because monitors and printers generate their outpts entirely differently.Monitors make colour by adding light to a dark monitor, so that if you mix all the available colours together you get white. Printers start with blank white paper, and make colours by adding inks, so if you mix all the inks together, you get black. The result is that printers produce a smaller - and different - range of colours than those you see on a monitor.A friend who is a professional photographer has his own solution to the problem: just not to care. If something looks good on paper, who cares if it looks good in exactly the same way as it did on screen? But he shoots mostly in black and white, and spends a small fortune on specialised ink to get that right. If you want to be certain that the colours of a print will match the colours of the original, you are going to have to start exploring colour profiles.What these do is to map the colours available on the screen on to the most compatible set available from the printer. There is a recognised standard way of doing this, known as ICC profiles, which is built into Windows and Mac OS X. If you have the ICC profiles of a printer and monitor, the computer can work out how to match the colours of each as closely as possible. Problem solved.Customised profilesExcept it isn't. You can't get a profile for a printer. You can only get one for a particular combination of printer, ink, and paper. Naturally, the printer manufacturers only supply profiles to work with their own inks and papers. Those are what make their profits.If you want to use cheaper, generic paper and inks with this method, you must pay between &pound;25 and &pound;30 to one of the services that make customised printer profiles: they send a file of colour swatches for you to print with the paper and ink you want profiled, and then examine the printouts you return with a spectrometer to produce a digital profile that is emailed to you.Dedicated printer nerds will want instead to spend $80 (&pound;41) on software that will do the whole thing at home. Then there is the matter of getting the monitor set up exactly right, with the help of a colorimeter, a device that clamps on to the screen like a spider. That will be another &pound;70-&pound;100.Whether you think all this is worth it or not is a matter of taste. I had to learn about it because I was photographing some embroideries to be sold and the results needed to resemble the colours of the real thing as closely as possible. It is possible to do all the tuning by hand, but it takes so much time and ink that proper profiling must be cheaper.The whole story illustrates the iron law of digital photography: that it can be an excuse to spend just as much money fiddling around with the developing and printing as ever film cameras were.It is perfectly possible to get by with free or cheap software that will do almost everything that the professional stuff will do, but the last little bit of power costs more than most digital cameras - Adobe Photoshop, the software that lets you do almost anything, costs around &pound;500. Getting it right can be expensive.&#183; So where do I get a colour profile from?There are two approaches to making printer profiles - and remember that you need one for every combination of paper and ink you use.You can buy software to make your own, though for this to work you will also need a decent flatbed scanner, so that the software can "see" the colours actually printed. The most used for Windows seems to beProfile Prism. I haven't used it myself, but it comes from the same programmer as Qimage, an excellent Windows photoprinting utility, so it should be trustworthy. It costs $80 (pounds 41).Otherwise, you can order a profile over the web: a British company,PureProfiles, offers them for pounds 20 each, or pounds 15.75 each if you order four or more; while an American woman, Cathy Stratton, has been offering the service for some years: cathysprofiles.com. She charges $40 a profile. These seem to be the two cheapest alternatives, and they have not left trails of outraged customers across the web. In both cases, the company has the scanner as well as the software: you print a reference page and post it off to them; the profile is emailed back.Monitor profiles require hardware. The most frequently recommended cheap hardware is the Colorvision Spyder 2, which comes in three versions: the two cheapest are about pounds 70 and about pounds 120 online. Both will work with both Mac OS X 10.3 and up and Windows.If, after all this, your prints, though perfectly colour-matched, still are speckled with noise - and this is a problem which afflicts all digital cameras in low light without flash - then there is one magic piece of software to clean them: Noise Ninja, which is available frompicturecode.com.
There's a memorable scene in the film Black Hawk Down after US Ranger Corporal Jamie Smith is shot in the upper thigh. The wound extends too high for a tourniquet to work; direct pressure is inadequate and his severed femoral artery cannot be clamped. He messily bleeds to death in front of his helpless comrades. It has happened: Black Hawk Down is based on real events in Somalia 13 years ago.Colonel Tim Hodgetts offers Smith's death as an example of where military first aid failed to stop catastrophic haemorrhage. Hodgetts has served in hotspots around the world including Belfast, Kosovo, Iraq and Afghanistan. As an adviser for emergency medicine covering all three armed services - and honorary professor of emergency medicine at Birmingham university - Hodgetts knows battlefield injuries at first hand. Smith's death saw the US military turning to researchers and industry for new solutions. "If you look back through history, many advances have been made in medicine through conflict," says Hodgetts.Bearing the bruntAlthough body armour means soldiers are now better protected, it has altered injury patterns. Limbs now bear the brunt and the most common cause of potentially avoidable battlefield death is external haemorrhage. "Catastrophic external haemorrhage from the limbs is a real priority," says Hodgetts.American figures show that almost 50% of combat fatalities before evacuation in Iraq and Afghanistan are attributed to uncontrolled bleeding; two minutes may be all it takes."If you're next to somebody who has had their leg blown off by a landmine, then the first thing we do is rapidly apply a tourniquet - called the combat application tourniquet," says Hodgetts.The tourniquet - which can be applied with one hand - has been given to soldiers in operational areas since April 2005 along with a new emergency bandage. They also have ready what Corporal Smith's comrades did not."The difference today is that we have provided products that are designed particularly to control massive haemorrhage in those areas of the body that are too proximal [close to the torso] for a tourniquet and where pressure through a dressing alone is not adequate. These injuries are in the junctional areas of the groin and axilla [armpit]," says Hodgetts.Those parts of the body are most at risk because the arteries come closest to the skin. The new products, used in Iraq and Afghanistan, are topical haemostatic (to stop bleeding) agents for application directly to the wound.The British army has given the HemCon bandage to its team medics, who comprise one in four combat soldiers. It controls bleeding by becoming extremely sticky when in contact with blood and promoting clot formation. HemCon has saved more than 100 lives in the US military.Another life-saving technology - QuikClot - is also used by British medics further back in the evacuation chain between the point of wounding and hospital. It's an inert, grainy mineral that is poured directly into the wound and acts like a molecular sieve. It sucks up water molecules from the blood, leaving platelets and clotting factors behind to promote rapid natural clotting, and so prevents severe blood loss."HemCon and QuikClot have been used, but a lot more extensively by the Americans," says Hodgetts. "The feedback we get from the frontline troops is that they have great faith in the products."But not everything is so professionally rewarding. Hodgetts takes issue with a front page story in the Guardian (Veterans' groups criticise "guinea pig" decision, September 16) which said the MoD had decided that soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan could be treated with a blood-clotting drug without controlled trials.That drug is NovoSeven (Recombinant Factor VIIa or rFVIIa), made by Nodo Norvisk, the Danish pharmaceuticals company. It has only been licensed for use with haemophilia patients and it works on the complex process of blood clotting.Hodgetts says: "The inference was that we use this drug widely, we use it indiscriminately and we are experimenting on soldiers." But, he says, "We are extremely cautious about its use and have rigid guidelines. It is only used by consultants and is only used at hospital level."NovoSeven has been used twice on UK soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan after consultants had exhausted all other methods of treatment. The two soldiers were bleeding from severe pelvic injuries.Says Hodgetts: "It was used when everything else was failing and the clinician thought that the patients were going to die. Both of the patients survived."The civilian worldTim Coats understands serious injuries in the civilian world. As professor of emergency medicine at Leicester University, he has a research interest in bleeding. Half his time is spent at Leicester Royal Infirmary where he treats badly injured patients.While gunshot wounds are rare in NHS hospitals, road traffic accidents resulting in blunt trauma are not. Coats says blood may leak internally from many small vessels or ooze from damaged organ surfaces. This calls for a different approach."That's where the haemostatic agents come in," says Coats. Although he has not used it, he knows about NovoSeven which strengthens and accelerates this process. There is some feeling, he says, that the military is a little more enthusiastic about the drug than the current medical evidence supports.It is not licensed for use in trauma cases - but that's not a prohibition. "NovoSeven is occasionally used as a drug of last resort in the NHS. Most of the largest UK hospitals might have used it for trauma once or twice. It is certainly not in common use," says Coats. Another much cheaper drug, tranexamic acid, is undergoing a large international clinical trial in trauma patients. Routinely used in heart surgery, it's believed that tranexamic acid may be of benefit in trauma by stopping the body breaking down a new clot.The military remains eager for new medical technology, and Hodgetts says: "We are constantly scanning the horizons. Every year we will re-evaluate what our strategy is for haemorrhage and, if something has changed significantly and there is good evidence, then we will change our strategy," he says.Nanotechnology may be one possibility for the future. In experiments with animals, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Hong Kong University researchers have shown that bleeding can be stopped in seconds - far faster than present methods. A liquid made from peptides (protein fragments) is applied to open wounds. The peptides self-assemble into a nanoscale protective barrier gel. This seals the wound, stops the bleeding in less than 15 seconds and eventually breaks down into molecules that cells can use for tissue repair.Haemorrhage is still a battlefield reality. But technology is making it less lethal.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Cleaner computingI have an old Dell laptop that occasionally powers itself off for no obvious reason, apparently without loss of data. I assume it is overheating: it uses a 2.4GHz Pentium, not an M series. Do you have any advice on cleaning the ventilation pathways?Tim GosslingJack Schofield replies:Overheating sounds like the right diagnosis, but cleaning a notebook is tricky. You can remove some visible dust with pipe cleaners, cotton swabs or an artist's paintbrush. However, it's hard to remove large amounts of the sort of muck that notebooks can suck in unless you are willing to take the case apart. If there are strong indications of a build-up of fluff, you could ask a local laptop repair shop to do the job for you.Blasts of clean dry compressed air can help, and products with long nozzles are sold for the purpose. If you feel around the outside of your laptop while it's running, you should be able to figure out which slots suck air in and which blast it out. Turn the machine off, unplug it, remove the battery and try blowing compressed air into some of the inputs.Don't blow air into any of the drives. I'm not convinced this will do much good but, done with care, it's not very likely to do much harm. Your hard drive should be backed up regularly, of course, but make sure any cleaning takes place after a backup, not before!IE7 glitchI updated to Internet Explorer 7 and now when I start up I get a message about "SmartBridgeAlerts blueyonder-istnotifier.exe entry point not found" and the dynamic link library PSAPI.dll.Margaret Levy, Richard Wood and othersJS:This is connected with some "broadband helper" software that your ISP may have installed. Basically, you need to find the ISP's version of PSAPI.dll, which will be in a directory called something like Program Files\BT Broadband Desktop Help\SmartBridge.Rename this file to PSAPI.dll.old and restart your PC: Windows should find the correct version in the C:\Windows\System32 directory. For full details, see Marc Liron's site atwww.updatexp.com/ie7-issues. He is producing short videos to help with IE7 glitches.Disk trackingHow can I tell what my disk is doing? Often the disk light is on continuously when there is nothing actually happening that I am aware of.Nick PorterJS:Use Sysinternals'FileMon, a free program that tracks every open, read, write or delete. This was produced independently, but Microsoft liked Sysinternals' utilities so much it bought the company. However, FileMon and RegMon have now been replaced by Process Monitor for later versions of Windows including Windows 2000 SP4, XP SP2 and Vista.But it's generally easier to identify activities by looking at the running processes using Windows Task Manager or, preferably, Sysinternals'Process Explorer. This also means you can kill a process and see if the disk activity stops. Often the culprit is the Windows Indexing Service (cisvc.exe).Offline readingOne useful feature from earlier versions of Internet Explorer has been removed from IE7 - the ability to save a website in the Favorites list to make it available offline - and I miss it. Firefox does not seem to support offline saves either. Microsoft suggests I save the favourite website a page at a time, which sounds like a dull way to pass a winter or two.Roger KidleyJS:The offline feature doesn't work with dynamic sites, as you know, and offline reading is moving to RSS syndication, which IE7 now does support.What you could do instead is try searching for a website ripper, which will download a site, or a working subset, to your hard drive. Try the WinHTTrack website copier/offline browser, because it is free and open source (www.httrack.com).Open OutlookI am trying to implement an open-source policy. Is there a program that will replace all of the functionality of Outlook?Alan JamesJS: In a word, no. Outlook is an email program, a personal information manager (PIM), a component part of Microsoft Office, a groupware program that works with Microsoft Exchange and SharePoint Server and a synchronisation program that works with most PDAs and some mobile phones.However, you may be able to get the functions you need from alternative programs. For email, there is Thunderbird, a companion to Firefox; a calendar program, Sunbird, is in the works. For other functions you can look at Chandler (http://chandler.osafoundation.org), which is developing rather slowly, and Ximian Evolution (gnome.org/projects/evolution) but there's a Windows installer athttp://shellter.sourceforge.net/evolution, which is often used with the Gnome desktop on Linux. Both are open-source. If you just need a good PIM, there's still Ecco Pro (compusol.org/ecco).Backchat&middot;Gavin Evans asked why computer and adding machine keypads have 123 along the bottom whereas phone keypads have 123 across the top. Roy Wilson says: "The Post Office Engineering Department (pre-BT) used to test everything about the telecom system" and "the 123 layout produced the least errors". Bev Pease says that in the US, "the Bell Labs folk, and others, did huge amounts of research" with the same result. Andrew Emmerson notes that desktop calculators and adding machines "were used by skilled clerks often called comptometer operators" and the "adding up" keypad layout was very efficient for them. However, "human factors tests with all manner of different keypad layouts proved repeatedly on both sides of the Atlantic that the 'counting down' scheme pleased telephone users best".&middot;Bob Hattersley says he has also tried upgrading from Norton Internet Security 2005 to 2007, and after many problems, returned to the 2005 version. "I wasted a day at least, and quite a lot of hair. I have no complaints about Symantec support - they responded quickly, and gave me a refund without arguing - but this software seems to be toxic."
One of the more successful myths disseminated about government IT is that we live in a blame culture. Public officials, supposedly, are condemned for failure but not rewarded for success, and consequently live in fear. "We have found a perception ... that well-publicised failures are driving a culture of risk aversion," reports the National Audit Office in its study of government IT successes (Delivering successful IT-enabled business change,nao.gov.uk).The report is worth reading, and I'll get on to it in a moment. First, however, let's knock on the head the idea that the government maintains a gulag to which it consigns disgraced mandarins and IT managers. It doesn't. Architects of government IT failures are more likely to end up in the gardens of Buckingham Palace than in the job centre.If failure hasn't done civil servants any harm - bar a couple of hours perspiring in front of a House of Commons committee - suppliers seem actually to flourish. Judging by recent bidding shortlists, a fiasco seems to have not the slightest effect on an IT company's eligibility for government work.In an important new book, Digital Era Governance, researchers led by Patrick Dunleavy of London School of Economics paint a hilarious sketch of the board of Fujitsu flying to London in consternation at a decision by its UK subsidiary to pull out of a government contract. In Japan, that would have finished the company as a government supplier; in the UK, cancellation would be "no more than par for the course" and any reputational damage would be temporary. (This is not journalistic hyperbole - the team's research over several years ranks Britain as the worst of seven countries at running government IT projects.)Now, back to successes. The NAO lists 24 examples of "successful IT-enabled business change". Eight are from central government, seven from other parts of the public sector, five from overseas and four from the private sector.However, if the government was hoping for a catalogue of triumph, it will be disappointed. Even in the context of researching a "good news" report, the NAO found it difficult to come up with case studies. Only one of the eight central government successes, the Department for Work and Pensions' benefits modernisation effort, is the billion-pound class of project that is a UK government speciality. Most of the rest are tiny. As expected, the NAO found no miracle recipe for success. The common factors identified are all well known: a project must have support from the top, must manage its suppliers intelligently and must identify and realise the benefits of change.And the auditors found that the government has a long way to go before it meets even its own criteria for sound IT management. One fifth of "mission- critical" projects still seem to blunder along with no ministerial leadership; only a handful have gone through all five stages of the review process. And the contents of those reviews, the NAO reminds us, are still secret.My feeling is that, despite the supposed climate of fear, a lot of good stuff is happening on the front line. Hats off to the London borough of Hackney, for example, for encouraging four out of five parents applying for school places to go online. But in central government especially, contracts are still being awarded by, and to, the leading actors in previous fiascos. Funny kind of blame culture.&#183;Digital Era Governance: IT corporations, the state and e-government. Patrick Dunleavy, Helen Margetts, Simon Bastow and Jane Tinkler. Oxford University Press, rrp &pound;25. To order a copy for &pound;23 with free UK p&amp;p go to guardian.co.uk/bookshop or call 0870 836 0875&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Finally, more than five years after the launch of Windows XP, users can think about swapping the rolling hills where Teletubbies might play for the brighter, sharper landscape of Windows Vista - a view that will probably appear on well over 500m PCs over the next five years. Microsoft plans to start shipping its new operating system to business users today, though consumers will have to wait until after Christmas.In the computer equivalent of blasting the market with both barrels, Microsoft is also announcing its new Office 2007 productivity suite today. Together, these two generated sales worth $25bn (pounds 12.8bn) in Microsoft's last financial year, and in its 2006 annual report, the company predicted "double-digit revenue growth primarily as a result of [these] upcoming launches".Observing traditionCynthia Crossley, head of Windows in the UK, says she expects businesses to adopt Vista faster than any previous version of Windows. However, Natalie Lambert, an analyst with Forrester Research in Boston, reckons the conversion will go beyond 2010. "Some companies are just now completing their XP deployments," says Lambert. They don't even want to think about Vista.As with every new version of Windows NT (New Technology), certain traditions are being observed. For critics, the main ones are to lambast Microsoft for being late with its new operating system and falling behind; then, when it appears, to say the old version is still perfectly good and wonder why they bothered. Microsoft traditionally replies that the new Windows is packed with innovation and is the most secure version it has ever released. Thousands of hackers then set out to break it.This time it's the same only more so, because security is a major part of the sales story. A recent study by SecureWorks found that almost half of "botnet spam" came from PCs running XP SP2. Another 37% came from earlier versions of XP. Yet XP SP2 was, until today, the "most secure" version of Windows ever. Clearly, Vista needs to do very much better at protecting users from themselves.Mikko Hypponen, chief research officer at the F-Secure anti-malware company in Helsinki, says: "Yes, Vista will definitely be more secure than XP SP2, and in the very beginning, it will probably be as secure in practice as Linux and [Apple's] OS X ... but it will be heavily targeted, because it's going to be a hugely successful operating system."David Emm, senior technology consultant with the Russian anti-virus company Kaspersky Lab, points out that Windows is where writers of malicious code make their money. "Today, most of the code we see is designed to gather information and make money from it. The people with a vested interest in malicious code don't want to see that dry up. They're not going to quit: they're going to try harder."Ben Fathi, corporate vice-president of Microsoft's Security Technology Unit, says that even if viruses get into the system, they will not be able to do as much damage. Vista's defences include the "sandboxing" of Internet Explorer 7 in a protected virtual space - malware that gets into the browser may think it's accessing the system, but it isn't - and the removal of the 'administrator' account.Administrator accounts have always been the bane of Windows NT security (which includes NT4, Windows 2000 and XP). These powerful "root accounts" are rarely or never used in Linux and Unix, including Mac OS X; they were not supposed to be much used in the NT line, but proved repeatedly to be an achilles heel to hackers. However in Vista, user access control (UAC) will force users to run in accounts with limited powers. "You still have admin privileges," says Fathi, "but you get a prompt when you want to use them. You have to manually override the system to say yes, I do want to do this."Other features include the Security Center and Defender anti-spyware program, network access controls, USB device controls, BitLocker drive encryption, the PatchGuard kernel protection system (64bit only), TPM (Trusted Platform Mod ule) support, and address space layout randomisation, which is Windows boss Jim Allchin's favourite feature. "Basically, it means that when we boot the system, we load the DLLs at random addresses," Fathi says. Hackers will no longer be able to work out where any particular block of code sits in memory, and jump to it."One we rarely talk about is Windows service hardening," Fathi says. "There are dozens of services running in Windows, and we went through all of them and blocked them from doing things they shouldn't do. For example, with a web service listening for web access, we know it shouldn't be writing to the registry."Plumbed inAuthor and lecturer Mark Minasi is impressed, and he has been delving deeply into Vista security for a book he's writing for IT professionals - Administering Windows Vista Security: The Big Surprises (Wiley, January 2007). But he also reckons Microsoft has backed off in several areas."Take the very controversial user access control," Minasi says. "UAC isn't for you and me, it's for Dad, so when he's browsing and a box comes up, he'll stop and think before doing something that's a bad idea. This was built for 98% of the world, not the 2% of geeks who beta-tested it. My fellow geeks have done a very bad thing for the world!"Another example is "Windows Mandatory Integrity Control, which we've only really seen in military systems before", says Minasi. "They've put the plumbing in, but they've turned off most of it. I really wish they'd gone further with the integrity stuff. People would have bitched about it, but they bitch about wearing seatbelts." Microsoft has also given ground to its competitors in the security field. Symantec and McAfee certainly appear to have bounced the EU into making Microsoft backtrack on PatchGuard, even though this had been out for two years in 64bit Windows XP.This is not a new problem. Microsoft continually tries to balance the need for security with the need for backwards compatibility - even with old and badly written software - and the need to preserve competition. Still, as Minasi observes, with Vista, Microsoft has "turned the dial towards security".There are, of course, many arguments in favour of a competitive security market. Third parties can introduce new features without waiting for Microsoft. They can also move rapidly to meet new types of threat. F-Secure's Hypponen says: "The vast majority of the viruses that we see today won't work in Vista, unless the user plays along, so I think we'll begin to see Vista-specific malware pretty quickly."But even if Vista really is secure, it won't make the problem of botnets, spam, phishing and denial of service attacks go away overnight, because most people, at home and in businesses, won't upgrade their machines (and so to Vista) for years.Worse, there could still be millions of PCs running Windows XP without the security of the SP2 service pack: Microsoft doesn't provide it for "not genuine" copies of Windows. That leaves plenty of room for botnets, spam and phishing. Microsoft UK says the Windows piracy rate is between 17% and 25%, and much higher in many other countries.If there's a worldwide installed base of 1bn PCs, about 400m could be vulnerable. That's more than enough insecure PCs to keep the malware industry going. But Vista might save you from joining them.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"Author Kate Figes, spent hundreds of pounds installing wireless internet in her Stoke Newington home, then found it made her so ill she had to scrap it. Ms Figes, 49, claims she is so sensitive to wi-fi's electro-magnetic waves she can instantly tell whether it is installed in a particular room," reportsThis is London.Comment: Well, that's good, because it should be very easy for Ms Figes to prove it in a double-blind test. I'd bet that she can't, but it would certainly be interesting.Can she also detect her neighbours' Wi-Fi systems? How about their kids' remote-controlled toys? Can she detect cordless or mobile phones? What about all those dreadfully damaging radio waves being pumped out by the BBC?A quick scan ofhttp://www.electrosensitivity.org.uk/suggests there are millions of people who are hypersensitive to electromagnetic radiation. In which case, it should be possible to do a properly controlled, open minded scientific study....Update by Charles Arthur: we've also done a Newly Asked Question this week in the print section ("Is there any proof that Wi-Fi networks can make you sick?"). We also suggest there a good-enough first test to see if you're "electrosensitive" to Wi-Fi: all you need is a friend, a coin, a wireless router and about 15 minutes. Try it.Originally posted at 2006-11-25 13:34:09
It is difficult to know these days whether the internet is re-inventing photography or vice versa. The convergence of cheap digital cameras, affordable computers and low-cost access to the internet has made photography vastly more popular than it has ever been and transformed it from a personal to a community experience. People can now post snaps on the internet so that any web-enabled person in the world can share the experience and often build a new relationship around a shared interest.This new world is dominated by North American giants such as Yahoo/Flickr, Google, Photobucket, MSN and MySpace, which host hundreds of millions of photographs. But there is still room for smaller niche players. A good example is the UK sitegeograph.org.uk, which allows people to submit photographs and text for every square kilometre of Great Britain and Ireland. So far an impressive 58% of all the grid squares (each 1km2) in Great Britain have been filled with photos and 7% in Ireland. In the past week alone almost 3,500 fresh photos were uploaded. It is quite easy to use. If you have a postcode to hand, a search box will translate it into a grid reference. You can browse for photos on your desktop and upload them either as a geograph (if it is an original and relevant photo for that square) or as a "supplemental" if others are already there.The result is a growing photographic record of the British Isles and a good instance of one of the ongoing delights of the web: returning to places that don't get much publicity when they are launched but just go on getting better. If the exercise could be repeated every five years we would have an enduring record of the changing face of Britain.A new Dutch site,woophy.com, tries to do something similar for the whole world by encouraging amateurs anywhere to upload high-quality images to fulfil its modest ambition "to ultimately cover every inch of our world map with images that represent the world's beauty". Woophy (it stands for WOrld Of PHotographY) presents you with a map of the world studded with photos from enthusiasts everywhere.It is only a minnow at the moment with barely 184,000 photos, but it does show that there may still be room for niche players in a world dominated by giants. And who knows, one might eventually displace them.Zooomr.com(three 'o's, not two) is a fascinating American startup with big ambitions, now run by the photographer Thomas Hawk. It has fewer than 100,000 photos so far but does have interesting features including an easy way to fix an exact location (geotag) to your pictures, an option to view others nearby, plus the ability to see pictures through light boxes, not to mention trackbacks so you can find out why a photo of yours gets a lot of views. You upload an image and click on a button to the right marked "Geotag it now". You then zoom in from a map of the world to the exact place you want to locate your photo. This part of it was a bit moody, doubtless due to problems one expects will be solved by the time it comes out of beta mode.The emergence of truly huge banks of photographs has spawned a new industry. Companies such as istockphoto.com in the US and the much smallerfotolibra.comin the UK (not to mention Flickr) are undermining the business models of companies such as Getty Images and Corbis by offering high-quality images on practically any subject at a tiny fraction of the price charged by the big boys.This may help to explain why Getty Images recently bought istockphoto. Video uploading sites such as YouTube grab most of the headlines, but in many ways they are less sophisticated and much less successful than their stills rivals in generating real communities. Photo sites are also largely free of pirated material. They are the web's true monument to user-generated content.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Best GamesAnimal Crossing: Wild WorldNintendo DSA successful return to one of the Gamecube's finest moments, this is a delightful combination of cutesy arcade adventure and life-sim. Innocent and nearly irresistible in small doses.MABattlefield: 2142PCThe fourth instalment of the Battlefield series takes a jaunt into the future. 2142 retains many of the great features of Battlefield 2, but cranks them up with weapons, vehicles, oodles of unlock- ables and the great new Titan mode.RPBlackPS2, XboxCocking a snoot at the next-gen 360, Black is a technical marvel that allows players to enjoy visceral combat on a level hitherto unseen on the PS2. Brawn, not brain, is all that's needed for this powerful first-person shooter.GHCompany of HeroesPCSecond world war strategy games have been done to death. Or so we thought until we played Company of Heroes, which invigorates a flagging sub-genre with both substance and style. Just what the gaming doctor ordered.RPDaxterPS2Intriguing gameplay meets imaginative design to create a game that looks fantastic and rewards your dedication with lots of secrets.MAGears of WarXbox 360Good enough to redefine the shoot-em-up genre, this videogame teaches new techniques, looks amazing, is utterly brilliant when played cooperatively and above all provides one of the most intense and varied gameplay experiences ever. Admittedly, adult devotees of this game will also need to get their hands on Activision'sCall of Duty 3, which is a harrowingly realistic depiction of the D-Day push in the second world war.SBMario Kart DSNintendo DSAs racing games get more realistic, Nintendo keeps going in the other direction with its offerings. Mario Kart owes nothing to real physics and everything to brilliant gameplay and colourful characters.MAMedieval II: Total WarPCThe Total War games just keep getting better: this is the perfect blend of turned-based and real-time gameplay; it's everything a strategy fan could want.RPNew Super Mario BrothersNintendo DSYes, the format is more than 30 years old, but nobody does platform games like Nintendo. Featuring elements from just about every Mario title, this is retro-gaming of the highest order.MANintendogsNintendo DSNot quite the new Tamagotchi, but still a charming and unique cyberpet with a touch of Pok&eacute;mon. Raise your puppy, teach it tricks, and remember that a dog is not just for Christmas - it's for impressing your friends, too.MAProfessor Kawashima's Brain TrainingNintendo DSAn inspired twist on the old Mensa-style memory games, perfectly suited to the hardware. Take the tests once a day and see if your scores improve.MAPsychonautsPS2, XboxFantastically warped platform game with an above-average script and story. Psychonauts has the Simpsons-like ability to appeal to adults and children and was much overlooked on release.GHPro Evolution Soccer 6PS2Yes, the 360 version looks better but the Pro Evolution Soccer 6 on the PS2 is the real deal, with more options, better animation and a more refined feel to the action. Ignore the amateurish presentation and lack of licences, this is the finest football game ever created.GHTekken: Dark ResurrectionPSPThere were doubts that this would translate well to the small screen. Luckily, Namco crams all the best bits in.MAWait until 2007OkamiPS2Gorgeous and evocative, and proof that gaming can reach a higher artistic level,Okami will thrill gamers of all ages. Players control a female wolf in a breathtakingly beautiful world.GHWorld of Warcraft: The Burning CrusadePC, MacNew areas, new races, new flying mounts - this will make 7.5m people very happy.GHAvoidSuperman ReturnsPS2, X360It's a bit of a mystery why EA delayed this title, and possibly even more of a mystery why they let it out on to the streets at all. Bad gameplay, bad controls, bad everything! And just when we thought that movie tie-in games were actually becoming decent.RPThe Ant BullyPC, PS2This is a slightly better tie-in title than Superman Returns, but nevertheless its lack of polish and depth suggest that the developers may have been temporarily blinded by dollar signs appearing in front of their eyes. It's an all-too- common occurrence.RPGangs of LondonPSPGiven the success of the Getaway games, this transition of the genre to the PSP console should have been a shoo-in. Unfortunately, the lacklustre, repetitive and bland gameplay have killed what could have been a neat little spin-off series.RP
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Every week we get far more letters and responses on blogs than we can print. But webspace is (effectively) unlimited, so here's the full text we chose from of this week's reaction.GEOTAGGING&gt;&gt; Curiously this is the 4th time I've been linked from the Guardian, the first two times were about www.geobloggers.com, the third time was bizarrely about my daughter's garden play house.http://geobloggers.com/archives/2006/11/23/dear-guardian-readers-links-to-the-items-raised-in-the-article/&gt;&gt; I already find that my life is run by my computers (usually by iCal and an 'in-house' project manager (which may be released one day)). The thought of being nagged further by the computers and cell-phones/PDAs in my life is a terrifying one (imagine what it would be like if your 'significant other' could add 'geotagged' to-dos to your PDA/phone? There you are, minding your own business walking down the street when your phone goes off to remind you that you are standing outside the dry-cleaners and your 'significant others' cleaning needs collecting. You go to to the pub and your phone reminds you that you shouldn't be there Scary!!!).http://www.mmisoftware.co.uk/weblog/?p=176BLOG SPAMMINGIt's rumoured that captchas are fed through to free porn sites. If you wanna go to the next image/vid, do the captcha and back to titillation. The porn-surfing individual puts the other hand back on the keyboard for 2 seconds and another captcha is foiled. Ben Miller, Tokyo&gt;&gt;The scary thing is that even India might now be a tad expensive for such endeavors, but there is not shortage of third world country willing to pick up the slack. In short, this proves that there is just no way to totally eliminate spamhttp://blog.wificat.com/?p=1199&gt;&gt; I think the problem here is with the basic SEO behavior. The websites for which spamming is being done should be punished and excluded through all indexes. This will harm the basic purpose for which they employ spamming, and can help the situation.http://ifacethoughts.net/2006/11/26/back-to-manual-spamming/&gt;&gt; It's even worse than it appears: at PubCon, I spoke to many, many folks who employ various forms of blog spamming (this is one of the things that was so cool about PubCon. Most of these folks asked if they could get their blogs listed in Blogdigger. I told them to go ahead and try ;) ); one group of folks I spoke to, when I asked if they used blogs, responded, "Yes, we have a fewthousand." When I asked where they host them - on their own site, as subdomains, etc. - they said, "All over: Blogspot, Wordpress, Typepad" Many of these guys told me that the CAPTCHA systems in place are pretty much useless; software exists and is readily available that cleans up the image (all that flaky, static-like stuff is meant to confuse an automated program) and is able to get past a CAPTCHA without human assistance.http://gregword.com/2006/11/25/the-current-state-of-captchas-its-even-worse-than-it-appears/&gt;&gt; Actually, cracking captchas has been done reliably and cheaply. I would be comfortable saying that it's a solved field that a script-kiddy could learn enough about online to write his own captcha-breaking spam bot.http://elliottback.com/wp/archives/2006/11/25/solving-captchas-with-mits-100-computer/&gt;&gt; In the last few months, we've noticed an increase in spam comments we believe to have been left by people, not machines. They are typically just a sentence or two and fairly general, yet still quite relevant to the meaning post. These are distinct from another common post-specific type of comment spam which seem to key off a key word in the post, such as mentioning Google and are undoubtedly automated. The only way I can identify these as spam comments is that they (1) don't add a very meaningful comment to the post and (2) the commenter's URL points to what is clearly a commercial site unrelated to the post or comment.http://ebiquity.umbc.edu/blogger/2006/11/25/blog-comment-spamming-being-outsorced-to-india/&gt;&gt; The big question is how much money will be applied to a spam industry devoted to using human spammers? There is the possiblity that human captcha farms, which "employ" hundreds or thousands of human spammers, could emerge if the profit potential is big enough for spammers. It isn't difficult to imagine a scenario where illegal firms employ hundreds of people to fill in captchas. A similar situation has occured in the online gaming industry.http://www.bloggersblog.com/cgi-bin/bloggersblog.pl?bblog=1125061&gt;&gt; Hardly a day goes by when this blog isn't attacked by spammers who've gotten past our [CAPTCHA-style] numerical filtering system. I've banned 389 IP addresses -- nearly 300 of them since May. Now it makes sense.http://blog.news-record.com/staff/jrblog/archives/2006/11/random_thoughts.html&gt;&gt; It's hard to come down completely against something that puts money directly in the hands of those who really need itthe people who would agree to work in a CAPTCHA farm are likely to be the people for whom the marginal value of a dollar a day (or less, or more) is the highest. CAPTCHA farming is analogous to call centers, offshore or otherwise, in which people who value their time less than their employers value their own time are paid to sit and spam via the phone.http://thirtyfour.blogspot.com/2006/11/captchanomics.html&gt;&gt; Look at it this way: The future of spam will raise the standard of living for many people.http://www.howardowens.com/2006/captcha-solved-with-human-labor/DAB: MAKE YOUR VOICE HEARDI suspect that, perhaps unwittingly, Les Hewitt (letters passim) has got to the nub of the problem. Maybe the people who make the decisions about DAB sound quality are like Les and have damaged hearing through going to night clubs and rock concerts. Hence they cannot appreciate the differences to which Jack Schofield refers. Personally, at 67 I find that the quality of Radio 3 is immensely better on FM that on Freeview especially when heard through a good hi-fi system and I would be very reluctant to give FM up until digital radio can at least match it. Perhaps Ofcom staff should have a hearing test as qualification before any binding decisions are made? Tony Ward, LoughboroughI have been getting hot under the collar about the BBC's internet radio &amp; TV offerings. For two reasons 1 They seem incapable or unwilling to face up to the copyright issues which should allow them to re-broadcast anywhere in the world programs that have already been transmitted once by radio. This means that if you are in UK you can receive World Service but not if you are abroad! Which is ludicrous. Someone somewhere has to break the grip of copyright owners to geographic rights. 2 They are locked into two commercial coding systems for radio internet broadcasting (Real Player and Windows Media). They refuse to use an open software standard or to provide streams that match the needs of each and every customer (In my case Apple Quicktime). Is it legal for them to recommend users to install Real Player or Windows Media? Is this not advertising? Antony Watts (no post town given)I'm not sure where Jack Schofield finds his evidence for listeners caring for sound quality (The future of UK radio is now in your hands). Choosing to rip CDs to a computer or iPod is about convenience not quality. Many people now have all their music on a PC or iPod, and are listening on either on a mini hi-fi, portable speaker systems, earphones, or even PC speakers. Most will be using mp3 (the most widely supported) and not AAC or other superior formats, even if their player supports them. Very few will have spent extra money to get decent headphones or a decent amp and speakers. Most people don't care enough about sound quality. Gavin Bailey, KeeleJust one more point, is the BBC already cutting the "strength" of its FM transmissions? I have lived in the same house for 20 years in Camden, London; use the same radio equipment and there have been no new high rise buildings built in the half mile area around my home. But over the last year the "strength" of the Radio 4 transmission, as indicated on my tuner, has fallen first from "5" to "4" and now to "3", resulting sometimes in very bad reception. Recently the "strength" of the Radio 2 transmission has dropped from "5" to "4". I realise that the indicator on the front of my tuner may not be that accurate, but is something going on? Bob Labi, London&gt;&gt; The problem I have with Jack's campaign and the possible switch to MP4 is that I own two digital radios that won't play MP4 and three FM radios so if this campaign is successful I'll need to buy 5 new radios. As we speak the number of digital radios sold with MP4 playback is almost zero in the UK so I won;t be alone in having problems if this change happens.http://www.alwayslisteningin.com/radio/radio-mp3-technology/the-future-of-radio/&gt;&gt; "The problem is that people choose their radio stations for content rather than sound quality." What a 'problem'. Everything that is confused about the audiophile world view in one line. Genius.http://0ct0pus.livejournal.com/72525.htmlGAMESBLOGI read with interest Keith Stuart's column "Geeks and commanders meet on the battlefield". Mr Stuart makes the quite astonishing claim that "If you can operate an Xbox 360 controller, the chances are that you can deploy a guided missile." Shame on you Mr Stuart. I might expect such a ridiculous comment from a Daily Mail reporter, but not a seasoned game writer. How preposterous to suggest such a thing. While I have never deployed a guided missile in real life (the virtual world has afforded me the pleasure on many occasions, see Defcon), I seriously doubt my expertise with Microsoft's Xbox 360 controller would in any way provide me with a grounding for such a thing. Perhaps Mr Stuart knows something we don't, and military chiefs really do control missiles with the 360's famously temperamental d-pad, with points awarded for head shots. If so, it might explain the accuracy rate of the American military  half the time when I press back I jump instead. Wesley Yin-Poole, LondonINTERNET BABELI feel I must reply to Mr. Klensin's comments, in your article 'How engineers tamed the internet's Tower of Babel'. He commented that the domain, .com, has somehow been "sneaked through" (on the internet) and that its registration has been "prohibited all along". Both comments are surprising and wholly incorrect, as the registration of .com (xn--9a.com) was made entirely within ICANN's own guidelines. Furthermore, .com has existed as a website for several years so I don't understand why he would now want to imply that something unsavoury has either quickly, or recently, occurred. His final comment, that the domain name is a "communications nightmare", is quite untrue and nothing short of scare-mongering. I am aware that the American 'pound' (#) symbol may be used as a programming command but this has nothing to do with the British pound symbol () and, in any case, symbols have absolutely no effect on domain names. The internet has always had a long and interesting history of unusual domains. To illustrate this fact, and to provide further perspective, let me give an example... In 1993, when the internet was still in its infancy, three single-letter English domain names were registered, q.com, x.com and z.com. At that time, however, ICANN were concerned that single-letter domains might undermine the very infra-structure of the internet so they quickly reserved the remaining twenty three letters (of the English alphabet) from registration. As the internet developed, it became clear that their fears were unfounded and all three (.com) names are now held by large American companies: ccording to recent reports, ICANN ia now considering selling the remaining twenty three single-letter domains in all TLD formats. Anyway, thanks for having commented about .com. I just wanted to respond to Mr. Klensin and his (somewhat bizarre) statements. Richard Haigh, Nottingham [owner of .com and poundsymbol.com]&gt;&gt; You know, I could write an all-encompassing, entirely accurate article about IDNs covering every area. But it would be 30,000 words long and the only people that would read it would already know everything in the article. Such is the lot of the journalist.http://kierenmccarthy.co.uk/2006/11/24/guardian-article-on-idns-wait-for-the-complaints/[Kieren McCarthy wrote the article]JUST HOW MUCH ONLINE PORN IS THERE?Interesting study indeed! Exposure to pornography via the Internet shares a common thread with computer viruses that have also been propagated via the glorious World Wide Web and email. As computer viruses started to become prevalent in the early 1990's, anti-virus vendors started to appear to offer a solution to prevent infection and clean already contaminated files. Today there are around 20 major anti virus companies and in an effort to stay ahead of rivals, many now offer anti-spam, anti popup, Anti-spyware  in fact any annoying thing the internet can do, some vendor, somewhere has an antidote for it. Will anti pornography be next? Anti pornographic image software is not new. A simple Google search for the phrase "anti porn software" will start you off on a journey of fantastic claims and software packages that offer to protect you, your family and especially the kids from offensive imagery. But closer inspection of the vendors offering these applications will find a collection of very small software companies with little marketing clout to get promote their applications to the same level as the big anti virus guru's of Symantec and McAfee. So, why have the anti virus vendors not gone down the anti-pornography route? Well firstly, it is rather difficult to do. A virus performs a set of instructions on a computer and those actions can be tested and an objective distinction can be made as to whether these unauthorised actions make up a irus, trojan or worm. Creating a subjective test for pornography and coding a machine to understand context, form and posture to be determine these things is very difficult. The state of the art in categorising illicit images has moved on in the last few years, mainly due to increases in computer processing power. Several of the larger anti virus vendors are currently revaluating the viability of including anti pornographic image blocking technology. Detection rates are heading into the 70%-80% range and like the nuclear arms race, the first big anti virus vendor to offer this type of solution will tip the others into following suit. Technology is important but the attitude of governments is also key in providing a safe Internet experience. Australia's plan to set up and operate a portal that Australian users can view the Internet through and allows parents to set different grades of screening is a innovative approach. However, few governments are prepared to spend an equivalent to the AU$116.6 million that has been proposed. Whether the solution is via portals, anti-virus style porn filters or even just (shock!) getting parents to surf online with their kids, the internet is still a pretty filthy yet wonderful place and simply ignoring the problem does not make it go away. Anne Harding (no post town given)UNIVERSAL MUSICIn this editorial, you could have addressed the following issues: 1. What are the legal ramifications of a popular social network building its enormous valuation on other companies' copyrighted content? 2.Does the U.S.'s DMCA "Safe Harbor" law apply to a company whose entire business model depends on encouraging users to upload content (much it copyrighted) to their site to generate traffic and ad revenue? 3. If Myspace is so intent on protecting other peoples' copyrighted work, why do they provide tools (video players, audio players, etc.) that make it easy for users to upload content they don't own? 4. Why did Youtube strike a deal with Universal and other record companies? 5. Is Universal entitled to any compensation for the ad revenue generated by their content appearing on the Myspace in unauthorized form? 6. Why has Myspace suddenly decided to explore filtering technology after all this time? 7. Why are companies who own copyrights required to sue to protect their copyrights? What happens if they don't sue? Does it set a legal precedent if they don't? 8. Is there any middle ground for these two companies? You could have explored any or all of these issues, but that would have required a modicum of thought and a smidgen of research. Instead, we get the editorial that you publish, which is so devoid of intelligence, so bereft of any actual analysis, that it could have been written by a ten year old child. You must be proud of your intellectual capabilities. (no name or post town given)POSTCODE MADNESSIn reference to your article 'A one-way street to postcode madness', 16/11/06. As the ex-National chair of the NLPG Custodian Group, the post that David Heyes now holds, there are two issues that don't seem to be discussed on this subject. Firstly, during the negotiations on the NSAI project it was clear recognised that the majority of Local Land and Property Gazetteers (LLPG) were created using the Ordnance Survey's (OS) Address Point data, if not for the textual records, then most for the geographical locations e.g. the dots on the map. Hence the issue of IPR was created, but remember this was from advice given by Government Information House (LGIH) and Intelligent Addressing. What was never formally recognised was the work that Local Authorities put in to improving that data. We often found Address Point data dumped in the middle of streets or the centre of the villages. No wonder we had express vans delivering passports to a pet food manufacture, and elderly couples getting a delivery of car parts from Holland. Local Authorities have corrected a lot of the data, putting the right locations to properties, and are constantly improving the data by adding new records. This is why Gazetteer Managers feel aggrieved by the OS and Royal Mails (RM) hold on our joint data. Secondly, the postcode search fee is unworkable and unfair; a point I raised many times with the LGIH. Unworkable as monitoring the number of searches on a website is very difficult, standard page hits will not work. For example, if I search on DE74 2* I may receive 1 page back but with 200 properties; is this one 1/2p transaction, if not how do I monitor it? If I search on 35 Dunkirk Road* this is not a postcode search but the same result page is delivered, how do I filter that off? Also, there is no way of auditing the result e.g. I can claim 500 searches and OS / RM can not prove this figure. Then unfair, what is stopping OS or RM from using our search engines to increase their profits. I did request the IP numbers that OS and RM use so I could discount these from my totals but was never supplied them. Also, does Google, Yahoo, etc. pay this fee? Google will index a Local Authority website and documents including the postcode, and searches will pick-up material from the same data source; thus should be liable. Try it, put your postcode in a search engine and see the result. Why are Local Authorities picking up a bill when there is a big backdoor open? In fact why do not Local Authorities utilise this loop hole and let Google do the search! And remember Postcode are mainly used to help Royal Mail delivery the letters, we could always stop using them! Peter Whitehouse, NottinghamSPAM: FINALLY SOLVED?I have been proposing a solution to SPAM for some time to various bodies and press journals. In essence it is this: all emails should carry digital signatures that allow users to identify the sender. This would be done by using Public Key Cryptography for which each prerson has a secret key and a public key. Messages can be sent to a person by using his public key (look it up in a sort of telephone directory). But can only be decoded by his secret key which he keeps to himself. Any email without any signature would be rejected. Those with one would publicly identify the sender and could only be decoded by one person to whom it is sent. How would a person keep his public and private keys. Why on his government issued ID card of course. This would give a real good reason for issuing us all with ID cards! We could, I hope, trust the government to keep safe our private keys (GCHQ?). Antony Watts, (no post town given)I read with incredulity the complications involved in getting rid of spam from ones inbox. I have a very simple solution. Mozilla Thunderbird has been trained to recognise spam and duly sends it directly to the Trash folder which is then emptied on closing the program. It works for me and probably would work for the majority of home users like myself who do not want the hassle of those other schemes as put forward in the paper. My computer has been checked to see if it is a spambot machine and thankfully it isn't. I enjoy reading your section on Thursdays but miss the science part. Simon Barnett, High PeakWith reference to all the discussion about I'd like to recommend that my experience suggests that that only sure way to stop it, (but only temporarily) is to change one's e-mail address by going to a different ISP. I've been with 3 since starting out with home computing, and each time freedom from spam lasts about a year. I guess that two main means are used by spammers to glean addresses- first is by unscrupulous employees selling organisations' address lists to email address brokers (do a search for "buy email lists" and see how many sellers of such lists there are); also secondly it seems now one can buy software which scans message sites for e-mail addresses of correspondants. Currently I have BT Broadband using BT Yahoo mail. They told me I could have up to 5 addresses, so since I have recently started to receive spam from one of the viagra suppliers at this address, I tried changing to a second. However, I like to deal with mail through Outlook Express and so far I have not been able to persuade OE to recognise this proposed second BT Yahoo address. When my current contract with BT is up I will be looking very seriously at taking my own advice and changing provider. Perhaps you could help my quest to remain (relatively) free of spam by not publishing my e-mail! David Mills, York
I have an old Dell laptop that occasionally powers itself off for no obvious reason, apparently without loss of data. I assume it is overheating: it uses a 2.4GHz Pentium, not an M series. Do you have any advice on cleaning the ventilation pathways? Tim GosslingOverheating sounds like the right diagnosis, but cleaning a notebook is tricky. You can remove some visible dust with pipe cleaners, cotton swabs or an artist's paintbrush. However, it's hard to remove large amounts of the sort of muck that notebooks can suck in (from clothes, carpets etc) unless you are willing to take the case apart. If there are strong indications of a build-up of fluff, you could ask a local laptop repair shop to do the job for you.Blasts of clean dry compressed air can help, and products with long nozzles are sold for the purpose. If you feel around the outside of your laptop while it's running, you should be able to figure out which slots suck air in and which blast it out. Turn the machine off, unplug it, remove the battery and try blowing compressed air into some of the inputs. Don't blow air into any of the drives.I'm not convinced this will do much good but, done with care, it's not very likely to do much harm.Your hard drive should be backed up regularly, of course, but make sure any cleaning takes place after a backup, not before!Backchat: Joachim Stoeber says he used the nozzle of a high-powered vacuum cleaner to suck dust out "through the mesh of the fans where it had entered in the first place. Afterwards: fans again silent, notebook again fast and batteries again lasting for two hours because the fans are not on high speed all the time. It solved my laptop problem and saved me lots of money -- now I don't need a new one anymore."
I updated to Internet Explorer 7 and now when I start up I get a message about "SmartBridgeAlerts blueyonder-istnotifier.exe entry point not found" and the dynamic link library PSAPI.dll. Margaret Levy, Richard Wood and othersThis is connected with some "broadband helper" software that your ISP may have installed. Basically, you need to find the ISP's version of PSAPI.dll, which will be in a directory called something like Program Files\BT Broadband Desktop Help\SmartBridge.Rename this file to PSAPI.dll.old and restart your PC: Windows should find the correct version in the C:\Windows\System32 directory. For full details, see Marc Liron's site athttp://www.updatexp.com/ie7-issues. He is producing short videos to help with IE7 glitches.
How can I tell what my disk is doing? Often the disk light is on continuously when there is nothing actually happening that I am aware of. Nick PorterUseSysinternals' FileMon, a free program that tracks every open, read, write or delete. This was produced independently, but Microsoft liked Sysinternals' utilities so much it bought the company. However, FileMon and RegMon have now been replaced by Process Monitor for later versions of Windows including Windows 2000 SP4, XP SP2 and Vista.But it's generally easier to identify activities by looking at the running processes using Windows Task Manager or, preferably,Sysinternals' Process Explorer. This also means you can kill a process and see if the disk activity stops. Often the culprit is the Windows Indexing Service (cisvc.exe).
One useful feature from earlier versions of Internet Explorer has been removed from IE7 -- the ability to save a website in the Favorites list to make it available offline - and I miss it. Firefox does not seem to support offline saves either. Microsoft suggests I save the favourite website a page at a time, which sounds like a dull way to pass a winter or two. Roger KidleyThe offline feature doesn't work with dynamic sites, as you know, and offline reading is moving to RSS syndication, which IE7 now does support.What you could do instead is try searching for a website ripper, which will download a site, or a working subset, to your hard drive. Try the WinHTTrack website copier/offline browser, because it is free and open source (www.httrack.com).
I am trying to implement an open source policy. Is there a program that will replace all of the functionality of Outlook? Alan JamesIn a word, no. Outlook is an email program, a personal information manager (PIM), a component part of Microsoft Office, a groupware program that works with Microsoft Exchange and SharePoint Server and a synchronisation program that works with most PDAs and some mobile phones.However, you may be able to get the functions you need from alternative programs. For email, there is Thunderbird, a companion to Firefox; a calendar program, Sunbird, is in the works. For other functions you can look at Chandler (http://chandler.osafoundation.org), which is developing rather slowly, and Ximian Evolution (http://gnome.org/projects/evolutionbut there's a Windows installer athttp://shellter.sourceforge.net/evolution), which is often used with the Gnome desktop on Linux. Both are open-source. If you just need a good PIM, there's still Ecco Pro (http://www.compusol.org/ecco).
Or maybe not. "The nation has struck the agreement with the Office of the US Trade Representative as it seeks entry to the World Trade Organization. The US has suggested that it would hold up Russia's acceptance in the WTO unless leaders there took action against digital piracy,"reports CNet."Russia will take enforcement actions against the operation of Russia-based websites," according to a press release issued November 19 by the US Trade Representative. "(Russia will) investigate and prosecute companies that illegally distribute copyright works on the Internet."However, Allofmp3.com is still operating:"AllofMP3 doesn't expect the Russian government to take any action against the company since it operates within the current law," said Rory Davenport, an Allofmp3.com spokesman. "The company is fully committed to its business."
"Newspapers desperately need some out-of-the-box reinventing. The industry has gone through a roller-coaster month, with The Philadelphia Inquirer saying layoffs are 'unavoidable,' feuds at the Los Angeles Times, and on and on," writesKevin Maney of USA Today."But here's what I found out: These tech folks don't really have any radical, interesting ideas for newspapers."Comment: Well, who does? Apart fromWalter Bender....
Last week, a so-called "older" gamerposted to /.about his anticipated decline in gaming skills as his years continue to advance, and requested that the community suggest games that he should play if he were to never play again. While the resulting commentary belied the average (mental?) age of the /. contributor and the original post was a tad morbid, I had considered forwarding the intention on to this blog to see what our well-rounded and well-meaning readers might suggest to this 44-year-old guy who appears to think he's on the brink of incapacity.However, I was listening to the ever-entertainingDigital Planetpodcast from the BBC and this week's instalment raised the point that technology is driven by demand, which seemed a much more interesting frame for his request. Here in the West it seems our needs include escapism, high action and lots of rather unsettling bright flashes and loud noises on the games side, and on the general technology side, machinery which offers all of our needs in one handy packet (e.g., newfangled mobile phones) and software which brings us together (e.g., social networking websites and Web 2.0 apps).But how will all of this change as we get older?The example which the podcast's Japanese interviewee used was to describe how different generations in his country use handheld computers. In particular, older folks who "have trouble remembering their PINs" simply touch their Palms to a reader on ATMs, and the locally stored information provides access to their funds.Arguably, this is exactly why the Wii is so attractive to non-traditional gamers - andwhy Nintendo had a presence at the AARP last month. Their philosophy appears to be to respond to the demands of people who've never picked up a (confusing) controller in their lives, not to people who have games hard-wired into their brains.So if, for the sake of continuity, this move on the part of Nintendo and Sony (EyeToy, SingStar etc) is aimed at gratifying the demands of people who are getting older, what else will we see in the future which concedes to the degeneration of the human body as the world's largest demographic in history marches inevitably towards the geriatric ward?
In this week's print edition ofGuardian Technologywe ask whether Vista will be safer from hacking, choose games of the year, ask whether Wi-Fi can make you sick, how many people it takes to shut down a Vista PC, and much more..Will Vista keep my PC safe?It should, says Jack Schofield, but hackers will be working hard to get around the layers of new protection built into Microsoft's upcoming version of Windows.Denmark has shown that pooling public data can be done - easilyThe UK government needs to take a look at how the pragmatic Danes manage their public information.The best - and worst - games of the yearOur experts give you the lowdown.Real life crashes into Second Life's digital idyllAleks Krotoski: It was three weeks ago that my virtual world disintegrated. I had been struggling with a digital littering problem in my Social Simulation Research Lab and I wanted to automate the cleanup process.GamesCricket 07 | Guitar Hero 2 | Happy FeetHow many people does it take to turn off a Vista PC?Let's see: three separate teams each of eight programmers and testers and designers and a manager, plus six layers of managers for each team, plus an bermanager for them all - that's 43.Is there any proof that Wi-Fi networks can make you sick?Strictly speaking, no. Our trawl of the World Health Organisation (who.int) and National Library of Medicine (pubmed.com) databases shows that there have been no scientific papers published that have studied whether Wi-Fi networks cause any physical symptoms.Snapshot of the true content generatorsVictor Keegan: It is difficult to know these days whether the internet is re-inventing photography or vice versa.TechnobileJamil Shehadeh: Video killed the radio star, but it's corporate greed that killed any hope for cheap mobile video calling.Why printing can make you see red ... and greenGetting a print to match the image on your monitor can cause a lot of pain and confusion. Welcome to the world of colour profiles.Everyone's a winner in the government IT blame gameMichael Cross: One of the more successful myths disseminated about government IT is that we live in a blame culture. Public officials, supposedly, are condemned for failure but not rewarded for success, and consequently live in fear.A matter of life and death on the battlefieldUncontrolled bleeding can kill a soldier in minutes, so new techniques and drugs are vital to save lives.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Please visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.
It's that time of year again - no, not Southampton FC's annual attempt tothrow away a 3-0 lead- when the games of the year are chosen. Today's Technology supplement has picked out thebest and worst games of 2006- Gamesblog will be doing a similar roundup next month - with three games chosen across most formats. As you'd expect the likes of Gears of War, Nintendogs and Company of Heroes get chosen while Superman Returns is the highest profile stinker. I pitched in with what I considered to be the three best current-gen games released in 2006 - Pro Evo 6, Psychonauts and Black - plus I chose Okami and Burning Crusade as two to watch in 2007.Elsewhere thereviewsare in with Cricket 2007, Guitar Hero 2 and Happy Feet all getting three stars, whileAlekstalks Second Life and Copybot.
Chart Track has confirmed today that two million DS consoles have been sold in the UK. The retail research company also announced that Nintendo is the 2006 UK market leader in video games hardware, "surpassing all competition in both the home console and handheld console markets". Meanwhile, SCEA propaganda minister David Karraker hasrevealedthat US PSP sales have shot up by 280 percent since the launch of PS3.No wonder a lot of third-party publishers, currently scratching their heads trying to figure out PS3, are turning to the handhelds to tide them over. That's according to GDC chief Jamil Moledina whoclaimsthat DS and PSP have become the focus of many a 2006-2007 development schedule.It's an interesting development. Usually, handhelds are an afterthought on the multiplatform roll-out, with most conversions outsourced to obscure studios in sparsely inhabited Eastern European villages. Now apparently, they're the target machines, with next-gen developments having to wait their turn.
Fans of cult operate-'em-up Trauma Centre are in for a treat - German mini-publisher JoWood has picked up DS gameLifesigns: Hospital Affairsfor release in the UK. Developed by Spike, the team behind the Trauma Centre series, this one's more of a soap opera-style RPG with players taking on the role of a young doctor, who must roam the wards placating patients and chatting with other staff. There need to be more medical drama games - I never got over the fact that Sega didn't convert brilliant arcade titleEmergency Call Ambulanceto Dreamcast. Why? Why did they do 18 Wheeler and not Emergency Call Ambulance? Why?Lifesigns is out in early 2007. I just fancied writing about something that doesn't involve Wii or PS3.
Following on from Spolsky andThe Windows Shutdown crapfest (below), you can read aboutthe Mac equivalent....
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
BBSpot has a great story about the latest efforts of theMotion Picture Association of Americaand its efforts to control the market -- which now extends to "any home with a television larger than 29" with stereo sound and at least two comfortable chairs, couch, or futon".The story says:Los Angeles , CA - The MPAA is lobbying congress to push through a new bill that would make unauthorized home theaters illegal. The group feels that all theaters should be sanctioned, whether they be commercial settings or at home.MPAA head Dan Glickman says this needs to be regulated before things start getting too far out of control, "We didn't act early enough with the online sharing of our copyrighted content. This time we're not making the same mistake. We have a right to know what's showing in a theater."Comment: Today, this is a spoof, of course. But it's so believable, who can be sure about tomorrow?
Dave Winer's inthoughtful mood:In the late 90s, the period of irrational exuberance, we knew the end would come, and we knew what the end would look like  a stock market crash of the dotcom sector. So, if Web 2.0 is a bubble, and if like all bubbles it bursts, how will we know when it happens?...Google stock will crash. That's how we'll know. When I realized this, I should have known, because I've been saying for almost a year that Web 2.0 is nothing more than an aftermarket for Google. Startups slicing little bits of Google's P/E ratio, acting as sales reps for Google ads, and getting great multiples for the revenue they generate by fostering the creation of new UGC to place ads on. When Google crashes, that's the end of that, no more wave to ride, no more aftermarket, Bubble Burst 2.0. And the flip of this is also true  as long as Google's stock stays up, no bubble burst.This is of course predicated on the idea that a stock pricemeanssomething of itself. It doesn't - the stock price is simply (remember this) the market's evaluation of the future dividends that you'll earn on that share in the company's lifetime. Often it's wrong, in which case the price corrects itself. But a fall in the stock price doesn't affect how much cash the company has in the bank (remember this too: cash is king, cashflow is, um, prince).Even so, there's a ring of truth to this. If Google's stock craters, venture capitalists will see the sector as one which doesn't have such great promise, and Google as being unable to jump at acquisitions (for if Google's interested in a startup, then Microsoft and Yahoo are almost obliged to be).Google's P/E ratio (in English, how many years it takes to earn in dividends what each share costs you) is already bonkers, at somewhere around 50. It's strictly a share for speculation, which could make it the canary in the Web 2.0 coalmine. Dave said it first.
BBC News reports: "Blogs and other internet sites should be covered by a voluntary code of practice similar to that for newspapers in the UK, a conference has been told."Press Complaints Commission director Tim Toulmin said he opposed government regulation of the internet, saying it should a place "in which views bloom". But unless there was a voluntary code of conduct there would be no form of redress for people angered at content.Comment: Thanks to the PCC, British tabloid newspapers are, of course, stupendously accurate and models of propriety, and they are only too eager to correct any stories that might ruin people's lives.Good luck in getting bloggers in the US, Japan, China, Russia, Iran etc to sign up to these Great British Standards, and thus stave off government regulation.
"Later this week, we will stop accepting new questions inGoogle Answers, the very first project we worked on here. The project started with a rough idea from Larry Page, and a small 4-person team turned it into reality in less than 4 months. For two new grads, it was a crash course in building a scalable product, responding to customer requests, and discovering what questions are on people's minds," says theOfficial Google Blog(assuming it hasn't been hacked again).This isn't a big surprise since Google Answers was an invitation topayfor an answer, whereasYahoo AnswersandAmazon's Askville(in beta) are free.And with Yahoo doing so much marketing for Yahoo Answers, Google doesn't really want to look like an also-ran.Update: Guardian Unlimited now has the story,Search engine runs out of Answers.
Should I install IE7, or should I stick with Firefox and Thunderbird, which I am led to believe are pretty safe? Mike MitchellYes, you should install Internet Explorer 7, because parts of the IE code are used by other programs, even if you don't use it for browsing. It is more secure than IE6 and offers big improvements in many other areas, such as tabbed browsing, bookmarks, printing and the handling of CSS (web style sheets) and RSS (web feeds). Do not give up on Firefox, but IE7 is a more competitive offering and better in some areas. And don't give up on the Thunderbird email program: IE7 does not include a new version of Outlook Express.From other queries, the main problem with IE7 seems to be the missing menu bar with File, Edit, View etc. You can restore this by going to the Tools icon on the far right, clicking the drop-down arrow and ticking Menu Bar. Another key feature is the ability to load a number of sites at once. You can do this by loading a selection of sites, then clicking the new Star+ icon on the left and selecting Add Tab Group to Favorites from the drop-down menu.A drawback is that IE7's user interface elements have not been implemented as command bars, so you can't just grab their handles and move them about, as you can in IE6 and other programs such as Microsoft Office.Microsoft is delivering IE7 via Windows Update, so anyone running XP SP2 should already have installed it, or will have it soon. But it does not work on earlier versions of Windows. If you have tried to upgrade to SP2 and failed, I recommend installing Maxthon (www.maxthon.com) as well as Firefox. If you are one of the small minority still running Windows 95/98/Me or Windows 2000, consider yourself abandoned.Original post time: 2006-11-23 12:12:41
Radio 1's broadcasting a documentary tonight about Christmas Games duringColin Murray's new show. I contributed to it, as did aFrag Doll(which one I don't know because we were interviewed at different times), and recall speaking about how computer game culture has seeped into the mainstream, and how the next generation of consoles is going to push the boundaries even further. The result will hopefully be more than the average "this is a brilliant game, and this one's rubbish" malarky. Indeed, from speaking with the producer, I expect it will.Listen, if you will, between 10pm and midnight tonight, and let us know if you think they've done games justice!
There's now a quick way to catch up on the ARG scene:the first white paper from the IGDA's ARG SIG"provides a full introduction to the genre as well as a wealth of practical and analytical information on design methodologies, business models, and current and recent games."Though, without too much trumpet blowing, I reckon you're better off starting with an Online (as it then was) cover story,Puppet masters(Thursday December 11, 2003) written by freelance Andrew Losowsky.It also helps if you own ablack Buzz Rickson's MA-1 Flying Jacket-- or at least get the reference.IGDA = Independent Game Developers Association ARG = Alternate Reality Game SIG == Special Interest Group
In case you missed all the hubbub yesterday, Nintendo announced that over 600,000 Wii units were sold during the machine's US launch week, with 454,000 copies of Zelda following the machines out of stores across the continent. That's USD190m flooding into Nintendo's coffers. Gamasutra (or rather some guy with a calculator they employed for the purpose)predictedlast week that the console will go onto ship 150,000-200,000 units per week for the rest of 2006.As for PS3,apparently, all Sony would confirm is that all the machines it shipped to the US were sold out within a week. Now, this figure wassupposedto be 400,000, butindustry punditsreckon it could have been as low as 150,000-200,000. the company is sticking with itsplansto have one million machines chugging ff the production lines by the end of the year.The discrepancy in numbers hasn't stopped USA Todaydeclaring Wii the champbased on some dodgy stats, gamer vox pops and a head-to-headreviewby respected videogame expert, Entertainment Weekly. Incidentally, USA Today refers to Wii as the underdog. Is that still the case? I'm not so sure.
Confirmation, if required, that the DS is the king of handheld gaming.Chart Track datashows that more than 2 million DS units have been sold in the UK, helped by the likes of Brain Training and Nintendogs which have sold over a million copies each in Europe. Perhaps even more interesting is the confirmation that the DS is outselling the PSP by more than 2.5 to 1. Some developers have expressed concerns about the state of the PSP - particularly low software sales - but I've got a feeling the PS3 launch will see a revival for Sony's seemingly unloved handheld.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Richard Stallman, founder of the Free Software Foundation, recently gave an entertaining talk about GPLv3 in Tokyo, and FSF Europe haspublished a transcript. It provides a very accessible guide to the thinking behind v3 and the problems it aims to address, such as TiVo-isation. It also includes comments on the Novell-Microsoft deal, where Stallman explains:What has happened is, Microsoft has not given Novell a patent licence, and thus, section 7 of GPL version 2 does not come into play. Instead, Microsoft offered a patent licence that is rather limited to Novell's customers alone.It turns out that perhaps it's a good thing that Microsoft did this now, because we discovered that the text we had written for GPL version 3 would not have blocked this, but it's not too late and we're going to make sure that when GPL version 3 really comes out it will block such deals. We were already concerned about possibilities like this, namely, the possibility that a distributor might receive a patent licence which did not explicitly impose limits on downstream recipients but simply failed to protect them.There's also the usual knockabout humour about the GPL, which is designed to destroy the traditional software industry ("Proprietary software is evil"), and, inveitably, someone gets a drubbing in the Q&amp;A for asking about "open source" licences. ("We're not working on open source, we're not interested in open source.")For latecomers: Linux was released under Stallman's GPL (General Public License) and became the kernel for Stallman'sGNU (GNU's Not Unix) operating system-- hence his references to GNU/Linux.
"Last year, Wired News started what promises to be a long-held tradition: the crowning of the 10 sexiest geeks of the year. This year, we're asking for your help choosing the brainy men and women who filled your Google search boxes and fueled your dreams," blogs Bodyhack's Kristen Philipkoski atWired News.The post has already attracted a huge number of suggestions....
An early heads up, a week in advance, but I'll be on a panel at the Science Museum's Dana Centre in London on Tuesday 5 December with a gaggle ofverycleverpeoplediscussing virtuality and cyberstuff. From theblurb:The Internet provides new ways for people to interact and socialise that were unimaginable a few years ago. Gaming worlds host over 5 million players, where thousands of people interact and play online simultaneously.Virtual environments let people create their own digital identity with their own unique psychology. However, when people create their own representation what does it say about them? What can the digital world tell us about how we interact in the real one?When online do we treat people differently? How do the software and hardware change how we would normally act in the real world?With so many ways new ways of being and befriending, how will our online identities develop in the future? Will we have a united or fractured personality?Come discover the future technology, psychology and society of virtual worlds.You're advised to pre-book, if interested.
"The idea here is that you have to press play on the following videos (in vertical order) so that they all stream to you at the same time. You may need to adjust the volume on each respective network, though. Press play on the top (YouTube) video, then immediately press play on the second (Google Video), and then press play on the third (Revver). Bam, bam, bam - and you should see 'em playing back simultaneously," writesChris Pirillo.
We're grateful to Antony Mayfield for pointing out that most people in the UK who have internet connections have broadband. He points to the data from theOffice of National Statistics report for September 2006. And here's the graph:As Mayfield remarks, "it means that when considering the average UK web user we nowpresumethat they have an always-on, fast connection.But how many people are connected? The ONS doesn't say. It only offers an index of connectivity, which is not a lot of use, really. What's interesting is that the index of connectivity shows that people aren't taking up the Net so quickly. In fact, it's levelling off; it's grown only 10% since March 2005, and only grew by 0.8% in the past quarter - the second-slowest growth since 2003.If you know where we can find the correct figure for Net connections, do offer a clue.
In anexcoriating review of Microsoft's Zune, Andy Ihnatko writing in the Chicago Sun-Times puts his fingers on many of the points that are so disturbing about (the) Zune. He has the by-now obligatory installation hell. And then things get worse...You'll find that the Zune Planet orbits the music industry's Bizarro World, where users aren't allowed to do anything that isn't in the industry's direct interests.Take the Zune's one unique and potentially ginchy feature: Wi-Fi. You see this printed on the box and you immediately think "Cool. So I can sync files from my desktop library without having to plug in a USB cable, right? Maybe even download new content directly to the device from the Internet?"Typical, selfish user: How does your convenience help make money for Universal? No wonder Doug [Morris, chief executive ofUniversal Music] despises you.No, the Zune's sole wireless feature is "squirting" -- I know, I know, it's Microsoft's term, not mine -- music and pictures to any other Zune device within direct Wi-Fi range. Even if the track is inherently free (like a podcast) the Zune wraps it in a DRM scheme that causes the track to self-destruct after three days or three plays, whichever comes first.After that, it's nothing more than a bookmark for purchasing the track in the Zune Marketplace. It amounts to nothing more than free advertising.The Zune is a complete, humiliating failure. Toshiba's Gigabeat player, for example, is far more versatile, it has none of the Zune's limitations, and Amazon sells the 30-gig model for 40 bucks less.His conclusion:Companies such as Toshiba and Sandisk (with its wonderful Nano-like Sansa e200 series) compete effectively with the iPod by asking themselves, "What are the things that users want and Apple refuses to provide?"Microsoft's colossal blunder was to knock the user out of that question and put the music industry in its place. Result: The Zune will be dead and gone within six months. Good riddance.He really doesn't like it, does he? Ihnatko, it could be pointed out, is a longtime Apple user, but his point - that the Zune is not designed for the benefit of users - does ring true. Gone in six months? We'll see.You know, we aretryingto find positive Zune reviews, but all these negative ones keep popping up. It's weird.
"The online video boom is starting to eat into TV viewing time, an ICM survey of 2,070 people for the BBC suggests," which is obvious enough. But don't get too excited. The survey also says: "online video viewers are still in the minority, with just 9% of the population saying they do it regularly. Another 13% said they watched occasionally, while a further 10% said they expected to start in the coming year."So 77% of us don't watch online videos at all, and 67% have no plans to start.Comment: I'd have thought more people were doing it, because of the apparent popularity of viral videos. Wouldn't you?
The PS3 has received plenty of criticism - price, lacklustre online service - but what about the games? Let's face it, Resistance heads a pretty weak bunch - though it should be boosted by the time PS3 launches in Europe - but how does the PS3 lineup compare to other console launches?1up took a lookat the US review scores for all consoles since the original PlayStation and discovered that the PS3 actually compared well. Which begs the question - what was your favorite console launch? For me it will always be the N64.
Anshe ChungisSecond Life's foremost property baron. This morning I received an enthusiasticpress releasein my inbox proclaiming that the avatar, owned and maintained by a wife and husband team, now had a net worth of over 1 million US dollars.Not bad for a bunch of ones and zeros.Fierce debate about what all this means (and whether the claims are economically valid) is currently underway atTerra Nova.Chung was born in Asheron's Call in 1999, but moved into the property market in summer 2004. Since then, her meteoric rise has been extraordinary. She's been vilified and celebrated, and notably survived crisis when Linden Lab, the company responsible for the virtual land on which Anshe has made her million,devaluedhuge swathes of her property by changing the way in which Residents get around.More information on Anshe can be found at hermedia pageand in the now-famous article inBusiness Week, which featured the avatar on the cover of that issue. Arguably, media coverage of Anshe and her doings have been responsible for the huge influx of businesses who have dipped their toes into the virtual world pond, and the hundreds of thousands of curious people who've heard about Second Life's potential. You can also find out more at herwebsite.
