Government agencies around the world demanded access to the information of over 38,000 Facebook users in the first half of this year, and more than half the orders came from the United States, the company said on Tuesday.Facebook's first "global government requests report" covers the first six months of 2013, ending 30 June. It comes as the social network giant and its peers are coming under intense scrutiny following revelations about their co-operation with the National Security Agency's mass surveillance of US and foreign citizens."Transparency and trust are core values at Facebook. We strive to embody them in all aspects of our services, including our approach to responding to government data requests," Colin Stretch, Facebook general counsel, said in a blogpost. "We want to make sure that the people who use our service understand the nature and extent of the requests we receive and the strict policies and processes we have in place to handle them."US authorities made 11,000-12,000 requests for information on 20,000-21,000 individuals over the six months. The company complied in 79% of cases. Facebook said it had to give a range for the US figures in order to give an indication of "all criminal and national security requests to the maximum extent permitted by law".The figures released by Facebook give no detail on the types of requests received or of what type of information the company handed over. Facebook, along with Google and others, is currently pressing Congress to be allowed to give greater detail the number of requests it receives from the US authorities. The NSA has the the authority to demand data about communications with non-US citizens without specific warrants and gags companies from disclosing even the most basic details of those cases."We continue to push the United States government to allow more transparency regarding these requests, including specific numbers and types of national security-related requests. We will publish updated information for the United States as soon as we obtain legal authorisation to do so," said Facebook."As we have made clear in recent weeks, we have stringent processes in place to handle all government data requests. We believe this process protects the data of the people who use our service, and requires governments to meet a very high legal bar with each individual request in order to receive any information about any of our users," said Stretch.It is not clear from Facebook's report whether the US figures take into account collection of communications under section 702 of the Fisa Amendments Act, which allows the NSA to target non-US persons without an individual warrant. In June, the Guardian revealed that this was done via the agency'sPrism collection programwith NSA documents claiming that Facebook had been a corporate partner since 3 June 2009.Under the law only one end of the communications needs to be foreign, meaning that US persons' communications can be collected if they are in correspondence with a foreign target. And it has also emerged that the NSA inadvertently sweeps up large amounts of purely domestic US communications in the course of its foreign intelligence operations.Facebook, and Twitter, have become organising platforms for activists around the world. The figures show Facebook pushed back against requests from governments in both Egypt and Turkey. Egypt made eight requests for information on 11 account holders over the six months and Facebook did not comply with any of them in that period.In Turkey, where prime minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan called social media "the worst menace to society", authorities made 96 requests for information on 170 account holders. Facebook complied in 47% of cases over the time period."We fight many of these requests, pushing back when we find legal deficiencies and narrowing the scope of overly broad or vague requests," Stretch said. "When we are required to comply with a particular request, we frequently share only basic user information, such as name."India made the next highest number of requests for information, 3,245 requests on 4,144 users. Facebook complied in 50% of cases. In the UK authorities asked for details on 2,337 users and Facebook complied in 68% of cases.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUK ISP Sky broadband says no need to fear SessionCam snooping &gt;&gt; ISPreview UKSky Broadband has moved to reassure people after some of their customers noticed that the third-party SessionCam service appeared to be monitoring private activity upon sensitive parts of the ISPs online account management (My Sky) pages, such as the page for entering payment details.The chances are good that you won't be familiar with SessionCam. It's essentially a powerful visitor tracking tool that allows websites to forensically monitor the activity of their readers, such as by recording key presses, mouse movements, mouse clicks, mobile gestures, scrolling and it can even replay the activity as a video.The two-year lifespan of an iPad &gt;&gt; PC Pro blogBarry Collins on his ailing iPad 2:I'm not arguing that Apple has misled anyone over the longevity of the iPad, nor that any of the first-generation Android tablets have fared any better. But is two years or so of active service really all people expect from a device costing that much? Certainly, if you'd bought a £700 Mac two years ago, you'd expect it to be ticking along merrily today.iPads, it seems, are closer to smartphones in longevity than they are PCs. Hardware refresh cycles just started spinning a little faster.(Thanks #beardyweirdy666 for the link.)Driver-less cars: a $600 billion opportunity &gt;&gt; Digits to DollarsJay Greenberg:There is some very compelling math behind this idea. So far, most of the analysis of self-driving cars has focused on the cost of upgrading a vehicle to drive itself. The Journal did an article last year where they calculated that the additional sensors and computers needed for such a vehicle cost about $15,000 to $20,000 per vehicle today. But those figures are for prototypes, and much of the cost is the sensors. When these become mass-produced, the self-driving components will probably end up adding about $5,000 to the cost of a car. Not a big number, but it enough so that this is not an obvious upgrade for everyone…The average American drives 24 minutes to work every day, or 48 minutes per day. That works out to 206 hours per year per worker. The average American salary [PDF] is $50,054 per year, which equates to roughly $25 per hour. With 119 million Americans driving themselves to work every day, all of this works out to $616 billion per year in time spent commuting to work, or $5,162 per worker.By this math, an extra $5,000 per car to upgrade to self-driving frees up enough time for the upgrades to pay for itself in one year.Tasty business opportunity.Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer's legacy: a salesman without product vision &gt;&gt; Fast CompanyAustin Carr:The problem is that Ballmer was never much of an innovator. A former high-level Microsoft manager describes Ballmer's approach to product: "It really all boils down to the innovator's dilemma," the source explains. "Are you going to have 50 people work on something that's interesting and that could maybe make $100m in three to four years? Or are you going to use those 50 workers to increase the SQL server sales team, which could generate $1bn in additional revenue in nine months?"Ballmer simply wasn't a product guy. As top insiders told me not long ago, Ballmer offered no direction on the features and user interface of Windows 8, for example; he never even got together with the team to green-light the redesign. When asked if Ballmer was ever involved in any product decisions, one longtime designer said "no" flat-out. Another added, "Not at all." As one source said, "I don't think Steve could even spell the word design."Failing to oversee Windows 8 more closely may have been the key failure.Taiwan vendors concerned about the possibility of cheap iPad mini &gt;&gt; DigitimesSince the hardware development of tablets has almost reached maturity, other than upgrades in hardware specifications such as the processor, industrial design, camera module, panel and touchscreen module, there are not many new surprises tablets can offer to consumers. As a result, the US vendor's pricing strategy has received more attention from its competitors than the new features it puts out in its latest products.…If Apple decides to keep its new iPad mini priced at around NT$10,500 (US$351) and drop its previous-generation model to around NT$8,500, it could significantly impact all the non-Apple tablet vendors and even change the tablet ecosystem.Have to love that list of "other than…". (What about addingSenseg's haptic technology, eh?)China white-box handsets less popular in emerging markets &gt;&gt; DigitimesChina white-box handsets have seen declined popularity in emerging markets where mobile telecom carriers and retail channels are eager to look for products of better quality, according to Taiwan-based supply chain makers. This is likely to create business opportunities for Taiwan-based handset ODMs.China-based white-box handset vendors had been active in emerging markets including China, Southeast Asia, Africa and Latin America, the sources indicated. However, as telecom carriers have gained more control and consumers become more brand-conscious amid growing demand for smartphones, China-based white-box handset vendors have seen business decline in Southeast Asia, Africa and Latin America, the sources noted.Telecom carriers, local vendors and retail channels in those emerging markets are expected to release handset ODM orders, but they tend to avoid China-based suppliers, the sources claimed. Therefore, Taiwan-based ODMs stand a good chance of obtaining such orders.parallax.js &gt;&gt; GithubFun on desktop (move the mouse) or mobile (tilt the device).Omate TrueSmart: water-resistant standalone smartwatch 2.0 &gt;&gt; KickstarterAlready well past its $100,000 goal - it's at $374,000 with just 1,900 backers. Costs at least $179, delivery promised for November. It's an actual tiny Android phone, running 4.2.2.Get used to people looking at their watches a lot more in meetings.Samsung ATIV Q In danger of being cancelled due to patent issues? &gt;&gt; G4GamesAnnounced two months ago, the Ativ Q would be a tablet running both Windows 8 and Android. However...According to the Korean press, the reason why we haven't heard anything new about the ATIV Q is that the manufacturer has run into some serious patent issues related to the dual OS (Windows 8 / Android 4.2) system. According to the same source familiar with Samsung-internal state of affairs, the company is trying its best to overcome the situation but the odds are not looking good right now.It has also been reported that Samsung has canceled all the pre-orders (probably the source means pre-orders made by retailers) and advertisements. We even checked Samsung's official website, and even though the source code still mentions the ATIV Q in the HTML title tag, the device is nowhere to be seen on the page itself.Can't be many companies owning patents relating to running two OSs on a device. Odd if Microsoft is pressuring Samsung not to make a Windows 8 tablet.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Running Microsoft is not for the fainthearted: its software is essential to millions of companies around the world, and more than 1 billion people use PCs with its Windows software. The new chief executive will have to fit&nbsp;into a unique corporation.External contendersStephen Elop, 49, chief executive at Nokia, the Finnish mobile phone group, since September 2010. Oversaw Nokia's high-risk shift to the Windows platform. A&nbsp;former Microsoft insider, having been the head of the Office division. He has intimate knowledge of&nbsp;the mobile market that is key to Microsoft's future, but he also understands the enterprise side of Microsoft, which sells services to big businesses. Chance:highSteve Sinofsky, 48, fired in November after overseeing the poorly received launch of Windows 8. Now independent, after 23 years at Microsoft. He is a&nbsp;potential frontrunner. Chance:highVic Gundotra, 45. At Microsoft from 1991 to 2007 but now high up at Google&nbsp;as senior vice-president of engineering.His appointment would bring knowledge of how Google relentlessly innovates and captures the technological initiative. But would those techniques thrive in a different environment? Chance:lowInternal contendersJulie Larson-Green, 51. a Microsoft employee since 1993, Larson-Green has worked on hardware (Xbox, Surface) and software (Office, Windows). Head of the new devices and studio engineering group, and is part of the company's new direction. Chance:highSatya Nadella, 44, is head of the cloud and enterprise group, in charge of programmes such as Azure, a cloud computing service A 22-year Microsoft veteran. Chance:highQi Lu, 51. Oversees the Bing search engine, Skype and Office. He is a relative newcomer, having joined Microsoft in 2008, but has a high-profile position. Engineering skills would make him a popular choice with staff. Chance:highKevin Turner, 49: chief operating officer for the past eight years. Looks after sales and marketing. Chance:&nbsp;medium
Steve Ballmer's 13 years at the top of Microsoft began as the new century dawned, but he leaves the world's biggest software company at a crossroads where it must choose between the decades-old desktop market or the 21st-century world of mobiles and tablets.He hinted in thememo for his abrupt announcementon Friday, and in subsequent interviews, that the timing wasn't his choice. "This is an emotional and difficult thing for me to do," he told staff. Asked if it was a sudden decision in alater interview with ZDNet, he said: "I would say for me, yeah, I've thought about it for a long time, but the timing became more clear to me over the course of the last few months."Ballmer had come under intense pressure since May, when ValueAct Capital Management bought in to the company, saying it was undervalued – and Ballmer himself was part of the problem.But the attacks had begun even earlier, starting in earnest in 2011 when the influential investor David Einhorn, of the Greenlight Capital hedge fund, called for him to step down, saying he should "give someone else a chance" and that "his continued presence is the biggest overhang on Microsoft's stock".Microsoft's shares fell below $40 in June 2000 after the dotcom bust, and since then have not gone above $38 – compared with an all-time peak of $58.72 in December 1999. That has frustrated shareholders and led to activists seeking to force Microsoft to dump unprofitable businesses such as search, and concentrate on its highly profitable Office and Server businesses, rather than consumer-facing ones like Xbox and smartphones.As ValueAct began to look likely to win a seat on Microsoft's board – from which it could begin a proxy fight to force him out – Ballmer decided to move on, even though the company is still in the midst of a huge upheaval that will rearrange its 97,000 staff from five product-oriented divisions to a "vertical" model, mimicking Apple's, where marketing and design teams work across all products and services.Key reasons for the heightened pressure on Ballmer were the failure of Windows 8, released last October, to lift PC sales out of a continuing slump, and Microsoft's still-tiny share of the fast-growing smartphone and tablet markets, said Al Hilwa, a director at research company IDC."If Windows 8 had buoyed PC sales it would have let out some of the pressure on him to announce his planned departure since the turnaround would be seen as well under way," Hilwa told the Guardian. "Instead, it is clear there is more work to do. To be sure, he is going to be at the helm for some time and so these are still problems for him to tackle."A key challenge is that Microsoft has failed to find any big-money hits with consumers in the 21st century – leaving it reliant for its gigantic profit flows on Windows licence sales, and renewing licences from businesses.Now Ballmer's successor will have to decide whether to chase consumers with newer products, or intensify the focus on big business as a source of profit. The slump in consumer PC sales – down 20% over the past year – has not been compensated for by tablet or smartphone sales. Newer businesses are losing money. In the last two years alone, Microsoft has lost almost $3bn on its Bing search engine and other internet projects – not counting a $6bn write-off on the 2007 purchase of online advertising agency aQuantive. Last quarter it took a $900m hit on its Surface tablet, which has sold poorly, and only 300,000 of its Surface Pro tablet for business are reckoned to have shipped in the quarter to June – against a world market of 45.1m. Smartphones using its Windows Phone software have only single-digit share in the world market, and only 4.4m out of the 141.8m smartphone users in the US, Microsoft's home market.There is no chance of Bill Gates returning to the chair, say insiders, because he is focused on his charity work. Instead, potential candidates must know how Microsoft operates – and have the mixture of experience, engineering and vision to lead the company.Stephen Elop, who left Microsoft's Office division in September 2010 to take over at Finnish phone maker Nokia, is seen as a strong outside candidate because of his earlier experience with the enterprise and consumer markets, as well as the key business of mobile.Satya Nadella, who looks after the Cloud and Servers businesses, could also be favoured. Qi Lu, an ex-Yahoo engineer leading the Bing search team, is seen as another front runner."Taking an internal candidate like Nadella or some of the other people on the Windows team, that makes sense to keep a steady hand through this reorganisation and strategic shift," Norman Young, an analyst at Morningstar, told Reuters. "But a strong case could be made that the company needs a breath of fresh air, someone who can execute on the strategy but also bring an outsider perspective."Ballmer oversaw a series of errors that have left Microsoft scrambling to catch up with Apple, Google and Amazon. While Apple's success with the iPod was unexpected early in the century, Microsoft's reaction was at first uncoordinated, and then it undercut licencees by launching its Zune music player in autumn 2006. That was Ballmer's idea – but it arrived just as the digital music boom ended and smartphones took over.Similarly, in autumn 2009 he personally killed a project devised by Xbox innovator J&nbsp;Allard – a book-like tablet called Courier which could have arrived at the same time the next year as Apple's iPad.&nbsp;Instead, the iPad went into the market unopposed.In search, Ballmer in 2003 personally vetoed the idea of buying Overture, which owned key technologies relating to search ads – arguing Microsoft could build its own as it began competing head-on with Google that year. Instead, it has lost billions of dollars on its Bing search engine, while Google licensed Overture's patents for its money-spinning AdWords service.Amazon, thought of as just a retailer, stole a march by offering "cloud" services such as storage and processing, a space it now dominates. Microsoft, reliant on desktop software sales, was slow to pick up on its importance, despite Gates having espoused it in 2001.Nor is Microsoft out of the woods, even as it readies the launch of an update to Windows 8. PC makers, seeing sales to consumers slump, are wary about Microsoft's entry into the "devices" business with its Surface tablets. A source at one of the PC industry's biggest suppliers said: "So far Microsoft has been co-operating with us, rather than being in direct competition. But they're at an inflection point. They either pull back [from the Surface] or they push deeper. And if they do the latter, then we are in competition."With PC companies under increasing pressure, – with Dell seeking to go private, and HP seeing single-digit margins from PCs – that could drive them towards other platforms, or to compete fiercely with Microsoft's products.Hilwa  argues however that Ballmer did deliver exactly what the market wanted. "During the period he ran Microsoft, Ballmer is third only to Exxon's Rex Tillerson and GE's Jeff Immelt in the dollar volume of company profits he has delivered," he said. From 2000 to 2012, Microsoft's profits totalled $172,813m, against $199,393m at GE and $388,480m at Exxon."I'm not sure there is someone who can do Steve's [Ballmer's] job 'better'. It's an incredibly difficult job, perhaps intractable," Brad Silverberg, a former senior Windows executive and co-founder of Seattle venture capital firm Ignition Partners, told Reuters. "Perhaps the way the job is defined needs to change, and this is the harbinger of bigger changes to come."• This article was amended on 28 August 2013. An earlier version gave Microsoft's profits from 2000 to 2012 as $172,813bn. That has been corrected to $172,813m. Profit figures for GE and Exxon have also been corrected from billions to millions.
How Economic Inequality Harms SocietiesWho's talking?Professor Richard Wilkinson, an epidemiologist.What is he on about?The effects of inequality on societies all over the world. This will be familiar territory to anyone who has readThe Spirit Level, but for those who haven't it will be eye-opening in the extreme. Wilkinson shows that in unequal societies crime rates are higher, mental health and teen pregnancy are more common, and people – in every income bracket – live shorter lives.Is he right?Yes. It's kind of his life's work.Highlight:Wilkinson's brilliant voice.Use this knowledge to:Reinvigorate egalitarianism; reform everything.Your Body Language  Shapes Who You AreWho's talking?Professor Amy JC Cuddy, of Harvard Business School.What is she on about?The power of a power stance. Cuddy argues that not only do our non-verbal communications govern how others think and feel about us, they also have a significant effect on how we feel about ourselves.Is she right?Yeah, it's kind of her area of expertise. Plus it's all backed up with the science of testosterone and cortisol levels.Highlight:Cuddy's personal story of faking it as a public speaker.Use this knowledge to:Stand tall; fake it; make it.Violence Against Women –  it's a Men's IssueWho's talking?Dr Jackson Katz, an educator, filmmaker and cultural theorist.What is he on about?The need to  focus on the men who commit violence against women – and how other men can stop them. Katz argues that male peer cultures need to change, and this requires brave leadership within male-dominated communities.Is he right?Yes, of course. The more sexist a man is the more likely it will be other men, not women, who change his mind.Highlight:A well-deployed  Martin Luther King quote.Use this knowledge to:Challenge patriarchy;  embarrass sexists; berate your granddad.Depression in the USWho's talking?Professor Robert  Sapolsky, of Stanford University.What is he on about?Depression. Specifically, major depression. Which he defines as "a biochemical disorder with a genetic component, with early-experience influences, where somebody can't appreciate sunsets". Sapolsky argues that it must be recognised as a disease as real as diabetes or cancer. And he says it is absurd and ignorant to suggest that people with severe depression simply need to "pull themselves together".Is he right?Yeah.Highlight:Sapolsky's captivating beard.Use this knowledge to:Sympathise with sufferers; banish ignorance;  appreciate beards.Listening to ShameWho's talking?Professor of social work Brené Brown.What is she on about?The power of shame. Brown's first talk for TED was on the power of vulnerability. It has been viewed over 10m times. In her second, she returns to her roots as a researcher into shame, which she argues "is an epidemic in our culture".Is she right?She is. The talk is light on evidence but rich with authority.Highlight:Her account of the effects of shame on health.Use this knowledge to:Dance like someone's watching; love like you'll be hurt; sing like everyone is listening.Why I Am Not a ChristianWho's talking?Nobel prize-winning philosopher, mathematician and campaigner Bertrand Russell. Back in 1927.What is he on about?The flimsiness of the arguments for God's existence and the stifling effects of religious doctrine on human progress. Long before Richard Dawkins made militant atheism fashionable, Russell had already more or less settled the argument.Is he right?Yes.Highlight:"A good world needs knowledge, kindliness, and courage; it does not need a regretful hankering after the past or a fettering of the free intelligence by the words uttered long ago by ignorant men."Use this knowledge to:Argue with Christians; silence Dawkins fanboys; live.We Need to Talk About an InjusticeWho's talking?Bryan Stevenson, a public interest lawyer and the founder and executive director of the Equal Justice Initiative.What is he on about?The need for drastic reform to the American criminal justice system.Is he right?The facts are hard to argue with. For example: America has the highest rate of incarceration in the world, with 2.3 million people in prison, and one in three black men in America aged 18 to 30 is in prison or on probation or parole.Highlight:"The moral arc of this universe is long but it bends towards justice."Use this knowledge to:Change the world; chastise Americans; check your privilege.The Art of AskingWho's talking?Singer, songwriter and musician Amanda Palmer.What is she on about?The willingness of fans to pay for music if you ask them to do so. She suggests the music industry shouldn't ask: "How do we make people pay for music?" but instead "How do we let people pay for music?"Is she right?Well, it worked for her. The talk is mostly about Palmer's own success with crowdfunding.Highlight:The moment the audience realises just how successful her fan-funded approach has been.Use this knowledge to:Bypass record labels; make great art; crowdsource your mortgage.The Myth of the Gay AgendaWho's talking?Sports journalist and gay rights activist LZ Granderson.What is he on about?The ludicrous notion that there is a "gay lifestyle", let alone a "gay agenda". Granderson argues the entire gay agenda is there in the US constitution: the demand to be treated as equal citizens. He also points out that in some US states a landlord can evict their tenants – and a boss can fire their employees – for being gay.Is he right?Obviously.Highlight:The bit where he has a lightsaber.Use this knowledge to:Get mad; get equal.Brilliant Designs to Fit More People in Every CityWho's talking?Architect and designer Kent Larson.What is he on about?The need for the cities of the future to make more efficient use of space. He calls it "a global imperative".Is he right?Yes. It's a pretty uncontroversial thesis. But Larson's talk goes further and shows off some of the technology that might address the problem.Highlight:That cool new tech: a folding car designed for shared use; an electronic three-wheeled bike; and a two-room apartment that functions like a five-bed town house using transformable multipurpose furniture.Use this knowledge to:Prepare for the future; feel better about your tiny flat.Shaking Hands With DeathWho's talking?Discworld author Sir Terry Pratchett, via actor Tony Robinson.What is he on about?The right to die on one's own terms. Pratchett's moving speech addresses the arguments against assisted dying one by one, subjecting each to a sharp satirical examination.Is he right?As Pratchett puts it: "I believe that consensual assisted death for those that ask for it is quite hard to oppose." After watching this, it's even harder.Highlight:Too many moments of humour and heartbreak to pick one.Use this knowledge to:Fall in love with Pratchett; prepare to die.The Voices in My HeadWho's talking?Academic Eleanor Longden.What is she on about?Her experience of hearing voices. Longden was diagnosed with schizophrenia and told by doctors she would never recover. She proved them wrong with the help of the Hearing Voices Network, which encouraged her to engage in dialogue with her voices to discover and address the underlying problems from her past. She argues for a radical shift in attitudes towards people who hear voices.Is she right?It worked for her. And many others.Highlight:Finding out just how far she has come since.Use this knowledge to:Improve treatment; be compassionate; challenge ignorance about mental health.Arithmetic, Population and Energy: Sustainability 101Who's talking?Physics professor Albert A Bartlett.What is he on about?The same thing he's been on about since he first gave this infamous lecture in 1969: the inevitability of overpopulation; its disastrous consequences in a world of finite resources; and the fact that the US is the prime culprit in terms of per capita resource use.Is he right?Yeah. Although he doesn't really offer a solution.Highlight:The sheer weight of intellect and evidence marshalled.Use this knowledge to:Reconsider progress; check your consumption; become a nihilist.The Coming Collapse of the Middle ClassWho's talking?Harvard law professor and US senator Elizabeth Warren.What is she on about?The precarious way of life of the modern two-income family in America. She argues that in the space of a single generation the middle class have lost the financial capacity to survive income shocks. And, as a result, America is transitioning from a three-class society to a two-class society: the rich, and the debt-ridden rest.Is she right?We'll see. But the stats are pretty convincing.Highlight:All those shocking stats.Use this knowledge to:Demand change; get rich; die tryin'.The Secret Powers of TimeWho's talking?Professor Philip Zimbardo.What is he on about?The way our personal, national and cultural concepts of time affect our health, well-being and careers. Zimbardo divides people into six groups according to their perspectives on time: the past-negative; past-positive; present-hedonistic; present-fated; future-oriented with a focus on work; and future-oriented with a focus on the afterlife. He says many of life's problems can be solved by understanding our time perspectives.Is he right?Maybe. But re-conceptualising time seems less about solving problems than realising how little they matter.Highlight:This short RSA Animate version – for people with less time.Use this knowledge to:Slow down; chill out; save time.The Secret to Desire in a Long-Term RelationshipWho's talking?Psychotherapist and marriage coach Esther Perel.What is she on about?The tension between desire and domestic life. She argues that erotic desire is not about toys, lingerie or Hollywood-derived spontaneity, but the freedom to keep exploring life away from your partner.Is she right?You would have to ask the couples she works with.Highlight:Her thesis that "the erotic mind is not very politically correct" because "most of us will get turned on at night by the very same things we protest about during the day".Use this knowledge to:Stop stifling your partner; keep things spicy; get turned on by benefit cuts.Printing a Human KidneyWho's talking?Anthony Atala, a surgeon and director of the Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine.What is he on about?The capacity of 3D-printing technology to one day solve the organ-donor problem by printing a human kidney one layer of cells at a time.Is he right?Well, he brings a prototype printed kidney out on stage, so he must be making some progress.Highlight:A moving cameo from a boy with an artificial bladder.Use this knowledge to:Save lives; prepare for the future; fax people kidneys as a joke.Do Schools Kill Creativity?Who's talking?Educationalist, author, academic and government advisor Sir Kenneth Robinson.What is he on about?The need to reform education. Robinson says schools are teaching children not to be creative and failing to recognise the diversity of intelligence. He calls for a rethink of the fundamental principles of education, placing creativity front and centre.Is he right?Perhaps. He's certainly popular. With over 23m views, Robinson's 20-minute lecture is the most-watched TED talk so far.Highlight:Robinson's killer gags. It's almost a stand-up routine.Use this knowledge to:Reform education; help your children; annoy teachers.Sugar: the Bitter TruthWho's talking?Professor of clinical pediatrics Robert H Lustig.What is he on about?The high fructose diet. Lustig says fructose – the sweet molecule in added sugar – is the primary cause of the obesity pandemic. He calls it "a poison".Is he right?The science is debated, but there are enormous vested interests behind high-fructose foods; you would expect there to be a lot of disagreement even if Lustig is entirely correct.Highlight:At an hour and a half, the bit where it finally ends. But – if you're not familiar with this stuff already – it's well worth it.Use this knowledge to:Cut your sugar; cut your kids' sugar; hate juice.Moral Behaviour in AnimalsWho's talking?Professor Frans de Waal, a primatologist.What is he on about?The capacity of animals to cooperate and empathise with one another, as demonstrated by chimps, elephants and capuchin monkeys. De Waal argues that this capacity in animals suggests morality has pre-human evolutionary roots.Is he right?Perhaps, although the explanation may have more to do with survival than any meaningful notion of altruism.Highlight:The Capuchin monkeys rejecting unequal pay.Use this knowledge to:Demand income equality for monkeys.
Google's $1bnacquisitionof the travel mapping service Waze is to be investigated by the Office of Fair Trading, on top of an inquiry already being conducted in the US by the Federal Trade Commission.Waze, based in Israel, provides satnav functions with real-time updates to smart phones, and claims to have more than 50 million direct users worldwide. It also supplies anonymous traffic data to Apple's maps service on the iPhone and iPad.If Google is determined to control more than 25%, or have UK turnover of more than £70m, in the "relevant market" through its acquisition of Waze, the OFT could order it to make divestments to ensure a level playing field for rivals.But a spokesman declined to say how the OFT defined the "relevant market" for Google's and Waze's business, which could be taken to include stand-alone satnav devices in vehicles or just the services available to smart phones.The American inquiry wasset up within days of the acquisitionannouncement after pressure from US consumer watchdogs. The FTC is understood to be still considering the competition effects of the takeover.Google announced that it had bought the company – apparently after a bidding war with Facebook – and this monthsaid it would be integrating reports from Waze usersinto its own maps.But so far it has not said whether Waze will continue to provide data to Apple, nor whether the price will remain the same now that the service is in Google's hands.Waze's chief executive, Noam Bardin, said in 2012 that Waze was "the only reasonable competition" to Google in real-time traffic information.Fairsearch, a group critical of Google, complained at the takeover, saying: "If Google buys the only reasonable competitor in maps and it continues to buy app makers to further its dominance, how can a large-scale viable competitor to Google emerge?"Apple previously had been rumoured to have made an exploratory bid for Waze, in late 2012, soon after the release of its own maps service was heavily criticised by users. But it was rebuffed after offering about $500m for the company.More recently Apple haspatenteda system of "user-specified route rating and alerts" which could allow it to function without Waze data while anonymously collecting information from iPhone users as they drive.Meanwhile, Google has also begun putting its own satellite and Street View imagery into the Waze app.The OFT confirmed that it had issued an "invitation to comment" within 40 days for companies and individuals which an interest in the acquisition.Google is understood to have received questions from the OFT relating to the takeover. The company declined to comment.
Facebook bobbed above a $100bn market capitalisation for the first time on Monday, almost exactly one year since its record low.Last week, Facebook's stock rose to $38 – its IPO value – for the first time, and on Monday it closed at $41.34, bringing the company's value by market capitalisation to $100.6bn.Coincidentally, Monday also saw the end of a protracted court case in which Facebook will pay a $20m settlement to users who objected to their information being used as part of advertiser promotions.Five plaintiffs who brought the case in 2011 over Facebook's "sponsored stories", which use "likes" to promote brands to other users, apparently in conflict with a Californian law which prevents advertisers using endorsements without explicit permission.The group protested that users could not contra or opt out of the ads and were not paid for the scheme, which earned Facebook around $234m between January 2011 and August 2012, according to court documents.Plaintiffs also complained that the scheme did not afford sufficient protections to younger users. The judge initially rejected Facebook's proposed $20m settlement, but under a revised deal Facebook will reimburse 614,000 users who responded to a notification of the class action.It is the latest event in a series of controversies surrounding Facebook's use of consumer data for commercial ends, coming at the same time as Facebook's milestone market value.Facebook's chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg anticipated the surge,selling $91m worth of sharesin early August, a regulatory document showed.Facebook's transition into a publicly traded company has beenextremely bumpy. It began with a much-hyped IPO, which saw little enthusiasm from chief executive Mark Zuckerberg, who attended only one prior meeting with investors.During the flotation, the Nasdaq exchange froze three times within an hour, unable to handle the scale of interest from potential investors and from staff selling their stock; in May 2013,Nasdaq was fined $10m, the biggest ever fine of its kind, for the glitches.Meanwhile, the investment bank Morgan Stanley, which was underwriting the IPO, bought back millions of shares to artificially inflate the price on day one.Facebook's market value dropped 20% in its first three days, and the company then faced accusations that large investors were tipped off in advance about lower than expected earnings, breaching financial regulations.Concerns were also raised about whether Facebook was sufficiently prepared for the shift to mobile and the impact that could have in its revenues, though the company has subsequently pushed hard on its mobile strategy.Facebook has since launched Home, Facebook-centric mobile software, and revealed plans to allow marketers tomessage Facebook usersthrough their mobiles. eMarketer estimates that in 2012, Facebook already accounted for the majority of mobile display revenues in the US worth $4.27bn (£2.8bn).• Have you read about theUS government paying Facebookand other consumer web companies to compensate them for costs incurred in complying with surveillance?
Spotify's music classifications just aren't niche enough, or at least that's the suggestion of the newElectrospective app, which says it is meeting the needs to ambient, breakbeat, synth pop, industrial … and every other sub-genre of electronic music.TheElectrospectivebrand has quite a pedigree, pulling in the electro catalogues of Virgin, Mute, Parlophone and EMI Records back to 1958, though the project launched only last year with a compilation double CD.The new Electrospective Spotify app repackages 550 album of electronic music dating back to 1958.Users can browse through 550 albums by decade, artist or genre, and playlists are a major part feature. with tempo and date settings to allow users to compile themed lists.Event playlists are another option, including set lists – The Human League at Kew Gardens in July, for example – and guest-curated playlists, including Mute Records founder Daniel Miller.Part marketing exercise, part acknowledgement that Spotify is the only sensible way to offer a comprehensive digital music service at scale, the app is being promoted as the Electrospective Spotify app.Looking at the success of video music channel Vevo, there seems huge potential in specialist branded digital content channels that has barely begun to be explored.
Skyscanner, the online flight search service, is to double its workforce to 500 in the next year.The Edinburgh-based site is to fund the expansion through cash flow and operating profits, according to theFinancial Times.Skyscanner, which takes a cut on each booking or a commission on each click through to an airline website which converts into a sale, turned over £33.5m in 2012.Founder Gareth Williams told theGuardianlast year that the site would expand tenfold in the next three or four years.Williams told the FT that the site was already bigger than rivalKayakoutside the US "and not far behind them globally".More than half of the new jobs are expected to be in Scotland.• Watch our video interview with rivaltravel startup GoEuro, which compares flights with coach and train connections across Europe.
Just before the Ubuntu Edge project - the attempt to raise $32m by crowdfunding pledges on IndieGoGo for 40,000+ top-end smartphones - vanishes in the rear-view mirror, here's some data for future reference, in case you need to refer to what happened (and didn't happen) at some time in the future.In astatement on the page, Canonical's founder Mark Shuttleworth says:"So ends a crazy month. We've broken records, we've been written and talked about across the world, we've worn out our F5 keys, and we've learned a lot of invaluable lessons about crowdfunding. Our bold campaign to build a visionary new device ultimately fell short, but we can take away so many positives.We raised $12,809,906, making the Edge the world's biggest ever fixed crowdfunding campaign. Let's not lose sight of what an achievement that is. Close to 20,000 people believed in our vision enough to contribute hundreds of dollars for a phone months in advance, just to help make it happen."Only a couple of things wrong with that. The project didn't actually *raise* any money; a total of $12.2m waspledged, but none would be charged against anyone's credit card (not even the usual few percent from a failed project) under a special arrangement with IndieGoGo.And second, it's not correct to say that "Close to 20,000 people believed in our vision enough to contribute hundreds of dollars for a phone months in advance". The number who pledged for a phone is less than 75% of that figure.Ubuntu Edge: the price segments that the phone pledges came fromIn total, pledges for 14,738 phones were received, from - at most - a total of 14,186 people, and four organisations. (It's impossible to say whether some people pledged twice; the system doesn't disambiguate that.) The total number of pledges made was a lot higher - 19,912 in all -because others were for $20 "yay, we like this idea", $30 "D'oh! Forgot the shipping cost of my phone!" and $50 "Yay, make me a t-shirt". (In fact, there were respectively 4,344 pledges of $20, 1,801 of $30, and 5,671 of $50. I haven't counted those $30 pledges towards the total individual figure because they must have come from people who had already ordered a phone. Unfortunately, even those who hoped to get a t-shirt are going to be disappointed.)Out of those 14,738 phone requests, 14,577 came from individuals rather than organisations.Read also:Founder says failure isn't end of the dreamGo ahead and order an Ubuntu Edge - but you'll wish you'd bought a tabletArguably, one of the failures of the Ubuntu Edge project was that it didn't involve enough businesses in the pledging process: out of 50 it apparently aimed to get buying its $80,000 scheme for 100 (later raised to 115) phones, only one organisation signed up - and that only when the project was well into its third week andalready looked likely to fail. Another three (unnamed) organisations pledged for the $7,000 scheme for 10 phones and some Ubuntu servicing. But the first of those came when the project had only three days to run - and failure looked even more inevitable.And of those 14,738 individual phone orders, 5,044 - that's over a third - were made on the very first day, when the phone was being offered at a special earlybird price of $600. In the next 36 hours, another 2,498 phones (that's 17% of the final total) were added as people jumped on the next earlybird run of $625.That's pretty much the tale of the tape: more than 50% of the individual phone orders came in the first 56 hours of the project. After that, interest collapsed and the project lapsed into the "dead zone" - falling under the per-day total that it needed if it were ever to hit its target. As the per-day total mounted, the target fell further out of reach.Ubuntu Edge: how the funding grew - and missed its $32m target by nearly $20mOnly during its first three days did the number of phone pledges exceed a thousand per day - but it needed to do at least that many every day.Lessons to learnSo where did Canonical go wrong with Ubuntu Edge? Was the early bird pricing been a mistake? Should it have had more enterprise involvement?Ben Redford and Matt Collier, the managers of a successful Kickstarter project (to make anInstagram projector), had these thoughts: "We asked for a much smaller amount, and luckily got something far greater. Additionally, crowd-funding favours the independent maker."We also used the same earlybird initiative as it seems to be the best way to draw interest and immediacy to your campaign." They point out that that gets you onto the "popular" section of the site, and so gets more people looking at your project. But they suggested a lower target price is more important: "The quicker the funding target is reached, the more marketable excitement and media coverage. More additional pledgers [means you're] guaranteed of a successful campaign and therefore more likely to back the project."They point out that price may have been a major problem for Ubuntu Edge. "Crowdfunding is a big risk for the pledger - very few people ever purchase the top their pledges. $695 (original: $830) is a lot for a minimum unit pledge. In this case, huge risk means uncertain reward."There's also the question of why you would crowdfund something that you're saying is essential, as Canonical was implying about the Edge."Most Kickstarter projects are not necessary to peoples' lives - you're mobile is and it is usually something you try before you buy, let alone before it is manufactured," Redford and Collier suggest.Collier adds: "Another point that put me off was that the technical specifications were not guaranteed and could be changed by the time the product was shipped. We don't know when the phone will finally be shipped and the other manufacturers may have leapfrogged these specifications in the same time.Enterprise mattersAnd yes, enterprise pledges matter. "For a project this size, it would be very important to get at least a few bulk order to get near the target. After all, one enterprise pledge is equal to around 115 individual backers. [Which is] not only financially valuable but in terms of creating a community to reenforce and support the individual backers."All in all, I think the campaign is too ambiguous and had too many variable times/specifications for the public to get behind the project and have it reach its ambitious funding goal. In reality the crowd funding scene is still in its infancy and isn't trustful enough to back a project of this size and complexity and believe it will deliver.Collier's final thoughts: "For a successful crowdfunding campaign you need transparency, community trust and details; Ubuntu Edge could have done with a bit more guaranteed promises and transparent information."So that's it: the Ubuntu Edge failed because it didn't pull in enough people, was priced too high, and didn't get enough enterprise backing. That might seem obvious in retrospect - but for anyone planning a high-profile project, it's worth thinking about. The most valuable thing about it may be as a lesson to future entrepreneurs.
And so Gamescom is over and the games industry has re-dispersed across the globe once again. It was another gigantic, fascinating and exhausting event, and like most attendees I only got to see a fraction of the games I wanted to. Here is a selection of the titles I actually managed to play, as well as some hands-on thoughts gathered from a few of my colleagues in the gaming press.Of course, there were plenty of offbeat indie treats hiding out there in the more obscure corners of the business halls; but with three days to see everything and a whole bunch of next-gen flavoured exec interviews to do, most of us had to stick to mainstream fare. Whatever, here's some of what I played and found interesting – not always for the right reasons. Everything else was probably at the end of a three-hour queue on the public show floor, or lurking unannounced in a stand far away from the major publishers. One year, I'll get this show mastered …Battlefield 4 (EA, PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One)I wasn't convinced at first. When the demo loaded up and I got my first glimpse of the Paracel Storm map (taking place on a small island within the disputed Paracel archipelago), the landscape visuals looked muddied and scrappy. The main set-piece is series of bunkers and burned out military buildings, and spawning us amid palm trees and sparse clumps of grass did it no favours; there's a lot of work to be done on these textures. However, when the Domination mode really kicked off, this condensed and extremely claustrophobic take on Conquest (which was first seen in the BF3 Close Quarters add-on), proved exciting and demanding.There are three objectives to capture and keep hold of, and the tiny map makes tight co-operative play a must. The impressive new Dual Shock pad takes some getting used to, the smaller, curved triggers and extremely sensitive analogue sticks requiring a measured approach. But once I was legging it through trenches and over blasted walls, the sun glinting in over the buildings, and my assault rifle firing where it was supposed to, it had that familiar EA DICE allure.I'm looking forward to trying one of the larger 64-player locations, and discovering some of the dramatic physics events. There is, for example, the Paracel map where a large abandoned ship can be discovered just offshore and freed from its anchor, allowing it to float aground, bringing a tidal wave with it. But so far, in terms of visuals, this doesn't look like a 1,080p next-generation console game, even with the 60fps frame rate. If anyone can turn it round graphically, it's EA DICE.The Crew (Ubisoft, PS4, Xbox One)Ubisoft's entry into the open-world racing market takes place across a scaled version of the USA and effectively works like a MMORPG – but with fancy cars. Players go online, form crews (effectively guilds) then go on racing quests and raids together, levelling up their vehicles as they would an RPG character. Challenges can be picked up on the fly and success feeds into your XP system, which can of course be used to upgrade you car, which has 19 elements to customise including gears, suspension and tyres. Players can build a garage, but the developers want you to get attached to one specific model, staying with it through the game – as you would with an RPG character.This all sounds like an interesting step on from the open-world racing experiences we've all seen, and with a connected map which shows you the location and activities of all your pals, the social elements are cutting edge too. There's just one problem right now: the handling. Sure, the vehicle load-out can be changed on the fly for tarmac, dirt, etc, but from my brief hands-on, the cars feel unwieldy and unresponsive. Newcastle-based studio Reflections has been involved in the development process but its super fun, devil-may-care driving engine clearly isn't powering the game. Instead, the aim seems to be Forza-esque realism – and maybe the 2010 Camaro  does handle like a disobedient bull in a mud bath. But this isn't Forza, it's a gang-based romp across a stylised USA, and that ought to be a whole heap of thrills.NBA 2K14 (2K Games, PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One)I know very little about 2K's highly respected basketball series, but I'm glad I took the time to check out the latest instalment, which introduces a useful new 'pro stick' control mechanic. Now, the dribble moves and shoot function are all on the right analogue stick, allowing a series of subtle, seamless contextual movements. It's tough at first, and you need to learn that dribbles require just a tap, while shots are a sustained direction push, but experimentation leads to some impressive defence-splitting moves. The block scheme is nice, allowing you to strip and intercept in a range of positions, and there's a new Smart Play function that will call the play for you when you get your player into the correct passing position – great for newbies like me. It also looks beautiful with 3,000 new animations, and lovely stadium models. Oh and LeBron James picked all the music, apparently.Kinect Sports Rivals (Microsoft, Xbox One)The appeal of Microsoft's re-engineered camera device is still being hotly disputed, but Rare has produced a decent showcase of its improved sensing capabilities. Apparently boasting 10 times the motion fidelity of its predecessors, the game features six sports including old favourites football, tennis and bowling, as well as newcomers including wake racing and rock climbing. First, however, the camera scans each players' body and face to produce a 3D model – when I did it, it picked up the fact that I was wearing glasses and a three-day beard growth, although my on-screen avatar bore an unsettling resemblance to muscular Danny Wallace.I tried the wake riding – an event unapologetically inspired by the classic Wave Race 64. You just adopt a handle-holding position and use impressively subtle steering movements to navigate the twisting river circuits. Body movement is used to sharpen turns and you can lean back and forward to do stunts on ramps. It all feels really … fun. At times you miss the fidelity of a controller, but the subtler physical controls mean you genuinely have assertive power over the craft, and the fact that this is a water event, where control is subject to waves and other unpredictable physical forces, it feels right. Rare says the game has been designed so that players won't get horribly out of breath like they did in the original – it can even be played sitting down, although you'll get more points for standing up. Experience points are gathered throughout the events, which can be used to upgrade the three special moves available in each event.We also had a quick look at the rock climbing, which has you putting your hands over key grip points to progress up a nicely detailed rock face. The best bit is, you can play against another competitor, climbing up beneath then and grabbing their legs to pull them down. I asked if you could pull their shorts down but the Rare employee either didn't hear the question or refused to believe a Guardian journalist had just asked it. Either way, I don't know.This was really promising stuff though, and there are some nice social systems, including the ability to compete against the AI representations of your friends online – like the Forza Drivatar system. I was no fan of Kinect Sports, but I can see this working well with my sons – especially as the camera now allows us to get closer to the screen. With the original Kinect, we all had to stand in the doorway of my office to play. Not ideal.Skylanders Swap Force (Activision, PS3, PS4, Wii U, Xbox 360, Xbox One)It turns out that this latest iteration of Activision's toy/game crossover couldn't have come at a better time. The added complexity of the new figures, which can be pulled in half and swapped to open up over 250 new ability combinations, draws a major distinction between this series and Disney Infinity. While the latter has the globally famed brands and a lovely Toy Box mode, Skylanders has an admirably deep action RPG system, with challenging enemies, a decent progression system and lots of loot. My friend and fellow games writer Matthew Reynolds from Digital Spy said that Swap Force really feels like a sort of mini Diablo, and that's an accurate assessment.Anyway, I played one snowy map on the PS4 where the slightly cartoonish visuals have been given an impressive step up in clarity. Of the new Swap Force characters I liked RattleShake, a cowboy serpent who shoots snakes out of his six gun – these either damage enemies or grab and retrieve items, adding a sort of Quack Shot mechanic. Then there's Boomjet, who can rush enemies on his jet engine and also call in an airstrike. My favourite, however, is Grilla Drilla, quite literally a gorilla on a pneumatic drill who can use his machinery to plant cluster bombs and sentry cannons. Better yet, he can summon homing monkeys who will take out multiple smaller targets – useful for boss battles.There is also a new range of 'speed zone' bonus areas, which allow characters to zoom through a series of super fast slalom areas picking up coins. Yes, it's the Sonic bonus stage all over again. There are also more advanced modes for older players and a fresh range of enemies, designed to get players experimenting with different swap combos. Some gamers are never going to clamber onboard with the whole action figure crossover concept, and that's fine. However, Swap Force looks to be a substantial package for fans of the series, and as it's compatible with all the older figures, a pretty good entry point for curious newbies. I've watched my sons play Giants quite a bit, but this looks like the point where I may wrestle the controller away from them.Titanfall (EA, PC, Xbox 360, Xbox One)The Gamescom demo of Resawn's incendiary sci-fi blaster featured one map, Angel City, and one mode, Attrition. It's essentially a fast-paced team deathmatch battle with Titans clunking along the city streets as soldiers use their jet jumps to swoop from rooftop to rooftop. The feel is somewhere between Doom and Modern Warfare – the athleticism of the foot soldiers make the fight much more three-dimensional, like an old-school FPS, but the gritty realism and recognisable class system (there are three pilot classes in the demo: Assault, Tactical and Close Quarters Battle) bring it up to date. It's all about getting a feel for the maps, learning to navigate along walls and through buildings; and then, after a while, your Titan is ready and you can clamber in for crazy several minutes of mega-powered mech action.There are so many interesting conflicting systems in the game, it brings a real richness and intensity to the shooter experience. Choke points feel much more organic than in the likes of CoD and Battlefield; flare-ups can take place anywhere on the map and tend to follow the Titans as they stomp by. Respawn was showing off three Titan classes at the event: a main battle titan, a heavy weapons titan and my favourite, the high explosives titan, complete with a launcher that shoots out four spiralling rockets across the sky. Thrilling.XCOM Enemy Within (2K Games, PC, Xbox 360, PS3)Out on 15 November in Europe, this substantial addition to the critically adored Fireaxis strategy sim, adds 40 new missions, a bunch of fresh weapons and some extra multiplayer modes, as well as lots of other goodies. My brief one-mission hands on, set within a farmyard cluttered with barns and tractors, showed off some of the more intriguing additions. First up of course, the new MEC troopers who stomp around environments in huge cybernetic mech suits. These don't just bring huge amounts of armour, they also have useful abilities like collateral damage, which lets you target a cover object and then add damage to anything behind it – very useful for when a sectoid has crawled up behind a big pile of hay bales and won't come out. For closer encounters, there's the kinetic strike module, which gives you a kind of rocket-powered super punch – overkill against lower alien orders but crucial in melee situations with the aliens' own MEC troopers.Elsewhere, the new gene mods allow you to add new abilities to your solder's brains, legs, chest, etc. In our demo, the Fireaxis staffer showed us how adding flexibility to the legs of snipers allows them easier access to overview positions like rooftops. Also useful is the new needle grenade, a sort of opposite to the Collateral Damage option with a massive fragmentary blast range that'll get everything out in the open, but that doesn't penetrate cover. In essence, we're getting a whole new range of intriguing tactical situations, that'll totally mix up your approach to missions. Also seeing an alien mech giant striding out of cover and toward your soldiers is pretty terrifying.And from other journalists …While at the event, and on Twitter afterwards, I asked a bunch of other journalists about their favourite hands-on experiences. Dan Silver from the Mirror liked the Dead Rising 3 feature that lets you pair your mobile device with the game, so that mission briefings come in as 'phone calls'. Matt Hill, deputy editor of T3, was impressed by the Watch Dogs demo showing off the seamless multiplayer action. Gamesport's news editor, Martin Gaston, enjoyed Frontier Development's Zoo Tycoon sim on Xbox One, especially the feature that allows you to pull faces at the monkeys who then mimic your contortions and pull them right back.There were a couple of recommendations for the sandbox game maker, Project Spark, while most attendees at the EA stand managed to grab a few moments with the rather beautiful next-gen version of Fifa 14, with its complex animations, extended physics and those extravagantly detailed stadia. James Jarvis from Future Publishing tried Gaijin Entertainment's indie MMO, War Thunder: "huge open battles between planes, ships and tanks. Could be PS4's sleeper hit," he Tweeted. He was also  one of several journalists who tried and raved about Eve Valkyrie, CCP's space combat game for the Oculus Rift. Available in full HD, and showing off three-on-three dogfights, journalists were impressed by the sheer clarity of the visuals and the fluidity of the three-dimensional combat. I tried to get a look but was far too late – for now, here'sa breathless report from Destructoid
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamDoing the successor speculation shuffle &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionFrom July 2012, before Steve Ballmer announced his impending departure:Microsoft's next CEO, whoever they are, is unlikely to be someone who ever experienced the company other than as a tech giant. They, and those around them, will recall the dark days of the DoJ battle from the perspective of middle management or external observer. They will have experienced the glory days of the mid-90s as individual contributors and first or second level managers, if they experienced them at all. They may not understand the lost five years or have any personal context on why it was necessary to institute the Trustworthy Computing program. They will have little personal experience on how Microsoft's business model evolved.   On "the playbook" as Bob Muglia used to call it. By definition this means the next CEO will be very different from either Bill or Steve. And depending on Microsoft's state at the time of transition, this will be either a very good or very bad thing.Hal Berenson used to be a general manager at Microsoft. He also has his take on runners and riders for the CEO job.Ballmer departure from Microsoft was more sudden than portrayed &gt;&gt; AllThingsDKara Swisher:According to sources close to the situation, the departure of CEO Steve Ballmer from Microsoft last week was more sudden than was depicted by the company in its announcement that he would be retiring within the next year in a planned smooth transition.It was neither planned nor as smooth as portrayed.There was a hint of that in his leaving statement. It's starting to emerge: this has been months of pressure most recently.Chromebook review: living with Chrome OS was hell &gt;&gt; Digital TrendsJeffrey van Camp loved it for 7 minutes. But he used it for 7 days. Dropbox didn't work, zip files wouldn't unzip, Office documents didn't open by obvious methods:I really want to like Chrome. I kept finding ways to make it work for me throughout the week, but the workarounds just kept getting more ridiculous. No one that isn't a total geek is going to search for workarounds so they can open a Word document and edit it on their Chromebook. There are free programs like OpenOffice that can open any Office document. Why? In fact, a high school near me is giving every student a Chromebook this fall. They're going to have to read all their books using it and do all their work. I feel terrible for those kids. This is an OS marketed toward schools, but it lacks functionality that Windows had in the 1980s. Give the kids something that can play Oregon Trail, at least. Chromebooks are no fun.In defense of Ballmer &gt;&gt; All this"Dr Drang":Gates was lucky in that earlier mistake—when he miscalculated the importance of the internet in the 90s, the focus was on the client side, and he could use MS's monopoly power and vast developer resources to cover up his mistake with Internet Explorer and continue the company's dominance on the desktop.That maneuver, while necessary, probably gave Microsoft a false sense of security—a belief that the desktop was all that really mattered. If you see Ballmer's job as being the preservation of MS's position on the desktop, he's certainly been a success. Microsoft's real customers, IT departments, still trust Microsoft and still buy from them, mainly because Microsoft treats them very well. You say Ballmer's a failure because he hasn't been "disruptive"? His customers don't want disruption—they thought Vista and Windows 8 were too much change.Siri cracks wise at Google Glass's expense &gt;&gt; Jamie RyanI've seen atweet from Matt Allenwhere he tried to invoke Siri by using the "OK Glass" command for Google Glass. I gave it a try myself and there are a few different responses. Here's what I've had so far.War of the voice-activated bots.There's a $20bn pot of gold at the end of the mobile advertising rainbow &gt;&gt; comScoreTotal US internet usage is up – way up – over the past three years. According to comScore Media Metrix® Multi-Platform, time spent on desktop computers, smartphones and tablets reached 958bn total minutes in May 2013, representing a gaudy 93% increase from May 2010.While desktop web usage is still increasing, and tablet now accounts for a meaningful share, we can see that smartphone usage is the biggest driver of growth.Desktop/laptop time up 14%; smartphone used quintupled; tablet time from zero to more than one-fifth of the 2013 desktop/laptop time (and equivalent to a quarter of the 2010 figure for desktop/laptop time).Samsung officially opens registration for first Developer Conference, will unveil new SDKs &amp; S Pen features &gt;&gt; 9to5GoogleSamsung originally planned to open up registration for its first developer conference earlier this month, but after a short delay, the company has finally announced today that it's accepting sign-ups for the event. This will be the first time Samsung comes to San Francisco to host a developer conference, something Google and Apple have been doing for years and commonly use to introduce new products and upcoming developer facing features. Samsung too plans to unveil some new services and features for developers.Including S-Pen, ChatOn, Group Play, AdHub, Context Aware and more. Don't underestimate Samsung's ambitions to create its own ecosystem inside Android - or even separate of it. What if -what if?- Samsung forked Android?Cleveland Clinic extends iPad-based concussion detection to rural settings &gt;&gt; mobihealthnewsThe C3 app captures data in four areas to quantify the extent of cognitive and motor impairment: information processing ability, attention/memory, balance and visual acuity. It also incorporates the Sports Concussion Assessment Tool (SCAT2), a globally recognized protocol for evaluating concussions.Athletes actually strap an iPad onto their backs for the C3 test so the iPad's gyroscope and accelerometer can measure movements that might indicate concussion-related balance problems.Alberts said C3 app evolved from another app he developed to help Cleveland Clinic physicians detect the tremors associated with Parkinson's disease. The concussion app distinguishes between cognitive problems and motor problems, and does it fast.Imagine trying to do that same diagnosis with a laptop computer. This is why tablets are making so much difference and being adopted so quickly. (Of course, you could arguably do it with a smartphone of any size, as they have all the same sensors.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Tuesday.
With reference to the Nasdaq crash triggering fear of data meltdown (Report, 24 August), in the early 1980s, pioneering safety thinkerCharles Perrowdevised normal accident theory. It argues that where a system exhibits key, specific characteristics, then that system will experience catastrophic collapses – not as failures of the system itself, but as a normal and unavoidable (if infrequent) feature of the system's operation.While normal accident theory pre-dated modern electronic IT systems, many such systems are likely to exhibit precisely the key features the theory highlighted. It may well be that recently experienced system collapses are, in Perrow's terms, not failures at all but normal accidents. However, Perrow's work has been given relatively little attention. Decision-makers found the theory too pessimistic. Academics, safety professionals and business leaders paid more attention to the optimistichigh -reliability organisation (HRO) theory. While HRO theory has given us useful insights it does not address the fundamental problem normal accident theory identified.Normal accident theory is pessimistic, but not entirely defeatist: it offers remedies, ways to modify our systems to make them more resilient; but we have not exploited these remedies. In time, we will wish we had not ignored Perrow and the inconvenient truth he tried to help us understand.Jenny McGrotherReading
Five members of a suspected criminal gang who allegedly stole the identities of 700 British citizens have been arrested on suspicion of an attempted £500,000 UK tax fraud.A 35-year-old man from Bologna has been charged with cheating HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) and is in custody after being arrested by its investigators when he landed at Stansted airport, Essex, on Saturday. Four others were arrested at Stansted and in London and Chatham, Kent. They have been released on bail. Italian police said the men were of Nigerian origin.In Italy, state police responsible for investigating cybercrime claimed the man in Bologna had applied for £500,000 in rebates and had collected more than £100,000 over more than a year after stealing the identity of 700 UK citizens. British investigators traced the suspicious online applications and flew to Italy in May to meet a local prosecutor Antonello Gustapane.HMRC is investigating what it termed "a cyber-attack" by a group suspected of illegally obtaining personal data from third parties so it could set up false self- assessment accounts with HMRC, beginning over the 2012 Royal Jubilee weekend, with the intention of stealing false tax rebates.Andrew Sackey, assistant director of criminal investigation, said: "HMRC's online systems proved extremely resilient to these attacks. They correctly identified and prevented the vast majority of false repayment attempts from the outset."These arrests clearly demonstrate that we can, and will, apprehend those suspected of attempting to cheat UK taxpayers by defrauding HMRC, with international assistance if necessary."Italian investigators identified the Bologna suspect who was then tracked by the communications police from his apartment on the city's outskirts. He was said to fly frequently to London. As he was arrested, Italian officials together with two UK customs and revenue officials searched his apartment and removed computers.A member of the communications police in Bologna said: "It was a very modest apartment that the man shared with his wife, mother-in-law and two children. There must be a fault in the UK system to allow this kind of crime," said the official. "We have not seen this kind of fraud in Italy because this kind of operation remains more paper-based."
Representatives of Bitcoin's largest lobby group met federal law enforcement and financial agencies on Monday as the US authorities increased their scrutiny of the controversial digital currency.Patrick Murck, general counsel for the Bitcoin Foundation, confirmed the group was meeting the Federal Reserve, FBI, Treasury Department, tax officials and members of the secret service among others.Unlike traditional currencies, Bitcoin is not backed by a central government, but instead created by a computer program. It can be traded or used to buy goods and services. Authorities have expressed concerns about potential money laundering abuses and its use in funding illegal activities including drug purchases.In an email, Murck said the agenda of the Washington meeting was to "help regulators, policymakers and law enforcement officials better understand the Bitcoin protocol and distributed finance so they can make better decisions and develop new methodologies for identifying and interceding illicit activity."Bitcoin and distributed finance is here to stay and our preferred path forward is a co-operative one, where we all can help ease each other's transition into an inclusive and distributed global financial system."The meeting comes amid signs of a crackdown on Bitcoin. Earlier this month the Senate committee on homeland security wrote to Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, asking for details of any "plans or strategies regarding virtual currencies and information regarding any ongoing initiatives you have engaged in regarding virtual currencies and the name of the person most knowledgeable about any such plans, strategies, or initiatives."Also this month, New York's department of financial services sent subpoenas to 22 companies involved with Bitcoin seeking information on their business practices. The Bitcoin Foundation clashed with California's regulators in July with the state's regulators accusing the foundation of being engaged in money transmission without proper authorisation – a charge vigorously denied by the Bitcoin Foundation.Murck said he hoped the Federal meetings would clear up misunderstandings.  "We view this as the beginning of a conversation about the appropriate role of government and law enforcement in this emerging space. Our hope is that this is the beginning of an open and transparent dialog between good-faith stakeholders to find common ground and develop public-private partnerships," he said."It is refreshing to see US regulators at the federal level take a responsible approach to working with the industry to understand these issues."Contrast that with what we are seeing at the state level: regulators seem more interested in rushing to conclusions and tripping over themselves to be first movers, without regard to the unintended consequences for the industry and US policy at the national level."
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamiPhone 5S, where the S stands for speed. again &gt;&gt; Jamie RyanRyan is ex-Apple, ex-Samsung, ex-BSkyB:I've heard whispers that the framerate on the new phone will be increased dramatically, possibly as high as 120fps giving iOS 7 a very fluid feeling and really bringing to life the parallax and blur effects present throughout the OS.Speed will also apply to the camera, in both stills and video. The stills camera will be incredibly fast at taking photos but the big features will be that the iPhone 5S will record high speed videos. These will play back nicely on the new iPhone and will also have the added benefit of being able to slow videos down to give a slow motion effect.Where by 120fps he means on both the OS screen compositing and the camera. Fascinating prediction.Koushik Dutta: AllCast Beta 4 Heads up &gt;&gt; Google+Koushik Dutta is a developer:Heads up. Google's latest Chromecast update intentionally breaks AllCast. They disabled 'video_playback' support from the ChromeCast application.Given that this is the second time they've purposefully removed/disabled[1] the ability to play media from external sources, it confirms some of my suspicions that I have had about the Chromecast developer program:The policy seems to be a heavy handed approach, where only approved content will be played through the device. The Chromecast will probably not be indie developer friendly. The Google TV team will likely only whitelist media companies.I'd strongly suggest holding off on buying a Chromecast until we can see how Google chooses to move forward on third party applications.Microsoft's Ballmer on his biggest regret, the next CEO and more &gt;&gt; ZDNetMary Jo Foley got her second-ever interview with Ballmer. Likely her last. A number of great questions, including this:Q: Your biggest regret?Ballmer: Oh, you know, I've actually had a chance to make a lot of mistakes, and probably because, you know, people all want to focus in on period A, period B, but I would say probably the thing I regret most is the, what shall I call it, the loopedy-loo that we did that was sort of Longhorn to Vista. I would say that's probably the thing I regret most. And, you know, there are side effects of that when you tie up a big team to do something that doesn't prove out to be as valuable.SteveB's retirement announcement &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionFormer Microsoft GM Hal Berenson:Steve [Ballmer's] biggest crime is that he's never gotten Microsoft out of purgatory. He kept it from sliding in to the depths of hell, but failed to return it to the heaven of industry leadership.  He's never gotten vision, strategy, tactics, execution, employee engagement, collaboration, communication, etc. to all line up at the same time. This dwarfs any individual mistakes he's made, big or small, in terms of how to look at his tenure. No matter how brilliant the vision or strategy, if you can't communicate and execute against it then you'll fail. And no matter how good the execution, if it isn't taking you to the right place then you'll fail as well. Microsoft under Steve was guilty of a lot of both of these.He's not damning of Ballmer; it's a balanced evaluation. He has a surprising suggestion about how long Ballmer has been under pressure to leave too.Home &gt;&gt; elementary OSelementary OS is a free replacement for Windows on the PC and OS X on the Mac. It comes with what you'd expect, like a fast web browser and an app store with thousands of apps. Plus some things you may not expect, like free updates and no known viruses.Looks familiar. Can't quite put my finger on it.Nexus 7 receives bug fix update, should solve multitouch and GPS issues &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaGoogle representative "Paulw" has been dropping details for this update all over the Google product forums. In one thread, he madethe touchscreen announcement…In another threadhe announced the GPS fix.Build number is JSS15Q. (Thanks #RubberNuke for the link.)Delta Air Lines soars with more than 19,000 new Windows Phone 8 and Microsoft Dynamics for Retail devices &gt;&gt; TechNet BlogsThe next time you purchase a meal while 30,000 feet in the air, take a closer look at the device being used by the flight attendant. If you're flying with Delta Air Lines, chances are you'll notice your transaction has been completed on a Windows Phone.Delta Air Lines announced today that its global team of more than 19,000 flight attendants has started using Nokia Lumia 820 handsets powered by Windows Phone 8 to interact with customers. These in-flight, Wi-Fi connected devices will leverage an Avanade point of sale (POS) experience on the Microsoft Dynamics for Retail mobile point-of-sale platform.This suggests they're being used - sorry, leveraged - more as Wi-Fi terminals than actual smartphones. (Thanks #rquick for the link.)Welcome to Realtime Trains v2.0 &gt;&gt; Realtime TrainsTom Cairns:The first thing you'll notice is a fresh, clean design. This design is responsive, which means it scales nicely regardless of your screen size — whether you're using a PC, a tablet or a phone, it formats itself to fit, so it's easier than ever to get the information you want on the move. We've also overhauled the simple view.Also new is a quick search bar, at the top of every page (behind the menu on mobiles.) This makes it a snap to search for a station (with the station name or three-letter code), direct trains (for instance, SOU to BMH), or specific trains by running ID. Just type and hit return for all matching passenger trains. Go advanced to search the whole database: stock moves, freight trains, the lot!Really nice.How Google's Nexus 7 exposes the big myth about Android tablets &gt;&gt; TabTimesThe iPad's all about the user experience, Windows 8 tablets are great for enterprise security and software compatibility and Android slates are just so affordable. Actually hold up – that last assertion might not really be true.Before I walk straight into hate from Twitter trolls and Android fanboys, perhaps I should emphasize that I have no particular allegiance to one operating system or another.I own a Windows PC and a Windows Phone, which are both pretty good. I had a fantastic Android phone, have an appalling Android tablet and an iPad which I really rate highly.But I have an issue with "budget" Android tablets, and that is they really aren't as affordable as they might appear. Let me explain.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday and I'm away for the week! Keep this place tidy and don't have any parties!
Held annually in Cologne,Gamescomis more than mere trade fair for the global games industry. Doubling as a public convention, it attracts more than 280,000 fans eager to go hands-on with hardware and software yet to hit the streets. This year's conference has proven to be one of the most important in recent years, with both Microsoft and Sony revealing more information on their impending new consoles, the Xbox One and the PlayStation 4.Following several policy reversals, the Xbox One will no longer require mandatory online verifications or enforce complicated trade-in rules – and Microsoft was keen to move on and focus on its courting of independent developers. Abandoning certification costs and the need for an established publisher, the newly open platform will welcome innovators from all tiers, providing a home for some of the more creative titles being made today.The company also revealed a strong software lineup.Fable Legends, the fifth in the action role-playing series from Lionhead Studios, introduces four-person co-operative play as a franchise first, alongside a companion app for tablets, while Ubisoft'sFighter Withinutilises the enhanced Kinect camera to map actions into a fighting game, displaying improved sensitivity for the device and promising a hearty workout. The previously announcedProject Sparkalso impressed, delivering a completely open world game that the player creates. It's a powerful yet accessible title that ought to appeal to fans ofMinecraftorLittleBigPlanet.The real coup for Microsoft, however, was the announcement of a partnership with EA's Fifa franchise, whereby pre-orders of the Xbox One will includeFifa 14free. As one of the world's biggest sports games, that will be a considerable incentive.Sony was slightly lower key, having already backed indie developers. With another strong roster of titles forthcoming, among them superhero rompinFamous: Second Sonand alternate history adventureThe Order: 1886, and family-friendly platformers such asKnack, the PlayStation 4 is in fine shape. Going one step further than Microsoft, Sony revealed that its next generation hardware will be released on 29 November in Europe alongside immediate price cuts for its PS Vita.With Microsoft having addressed its greatest criticisms and Sony reinforcing an already strong debut, both consoles are shaping up to be essential purchases. As the two behemoths square up in the final months before launch, a promising future looms for fans of either format.
So the proprietor of the Huffington Post has decided to ban anonymous commenting from the site, starting in mid-September.Speaking to reportersafter a conference in Boston, Arianna Huffington said: "Trolls are just getting more and more aggressive and uglier and I just came from London where there are rape and death threats. I feel that freedom of expression is given to people who stand up for what they say and [are] not hiding behind anonymity. We need to evolve a platform to meet the needs of the grown-up internet."Quite so. I can see heads nodding in agreement. After all, much anonymous online commenting seems to be stupid, nasty, vicious and ignorant. And that's just the stuff that isn't tangential to the topic of the article being commented on. If people have to take responsibility for what they say in public, then they will surely behave better.That seems like common sense. Whether it is supported by evidence is, however, uncertain because at the moment there isn't much research, and what there is seems to be mostly anecdotal. The most striking study I've come across is theexperiment conducted by the (South) Korea Communications Commissionfrom July 2007. From that month onwards, anyone wanting to comment on any of the 146 Korean websites with more than 100,000 members was required by law to submit resident registration or credit card details.The hypothesis behind the requirement was that people would behave better online if they were easily identifiable. But it didn't turn out that way. At any rate, the commission announced recently that it was withdrawing the registration requirement because it had been ineffective in preventing people from posting abusive messages or spreading false rumours. When the regulation was introduced in 2007, malicious comments accounted for 13.9% of all messages posted on internet threads. But a year later, bad behaviour had reduced by less than 1%.Without knowing the details of the Korean experiment, the metrics used to measure bad behaviour, etc, it's difficult to know how seriously to take this result. Personally, I'm sceptical, if only because much of the pathological behaviour that we've observed online – from violent threats, grotesque abuse, "lynch" mobs and bullying to gossip, slander and character assassination – corresponds pretty closely to what psychologists and historians have learned over the centuries about human behaviour offline. Put simply: if people believe that they will not be held accountable for their behaviour, then they tend to behave badly.This is no consolation to those who, like Huffington, want to run websites that seek to encourage user engagement without having to spend large sums of money paying moderators to keep order and enforce civility. But obliging commenters to use their real names will have costs as well as benefits. Chief among the former will be a significant reduction in the volume of commenting, at least in the short term, which in turn will adversely affect the site's advertising revenues. The hit might be worth taking, however, if in the longer term the quality of the discussion on the site visibly improves.For site owners who fear that real-name commenting represents a risk too far, there is a halfway house: pseudonymity‚ ie a system in which commenters are allowed to choose their own user names, but have to associate them with a valid email address (which in the last analysis could be used as an identifier). Last year,Disqus, a company that provides an online discussion and commenting service for websites, published some usefulresearch on the behaviour of different types of site user.The purpose of the research was to address the criticism that there is no substantive difference between pseudonymous and anonymous commenters. Disqus begged to differ, arguing that whereas real names are for authentication (establishing who you are), pseudonyms are for expression: they imply "a choice of identity" and therefore have a communicative function. The company looked through its database of 60 million users and 500m comments to see how commenting practice differed between users who were completely anonymous, those who used pseudonyms and those who had registered via Facebook (and therefore were obliged to use their real&nbsp;names).The metrics used in the Disqus study are crude but the results are nevertheless intriguing. Pseudonymous users produced significantly more "quality" comments (assessed by numbers of times a comment was "liked" and replied to) than either anonymous or real-name users. And they weremuchmore prolific commenters: 61% of the 500m comments came from pseudonymous users, compared with 35% from anonymous users and a mere 4% from the Facebook-registered crowd.And the moral of the story? Think twice, Arianna Huffington, before insisting on real names.
Initially, the numerous obstacles ofCloudberry Kingdomappear impossible to navigate, but the gameplay is centred on the discovery of the precise route through levels similar to the  trial-and-error platformerSuper Meat Boy. It's a collage of popular platforming mechanics, then, and while the presentation and story are weak and there is a dearth of the appropriate fanfare when you complete a level, it's ideal for those who enjoy the genre at its simplest and purest.
Simply put, it's good to be bad in this hectic multiplayer crime shooter. As one of four masked criminals, you'll plan and pull off elaborate heists, banking the cash and improving your ability to take on more challenging crimes.There's a brilliant sense of desperation and a doubtlessly deliberateReservoir Dogsvibe to the gameplay, with safe-cracking gadgets malfunctioning and hordes of police obstructing your getaways, while you try to avoid harming civilians. Best played online though, as solo sessions prove repetitive.
The wings of the experimental aircraft arch more than 63 metres, the same span as an Airbus A340, but they look frail, supported on the airstrip by wheeled struts. They are covered in a patina of 11,268 photovoltaic cells, which look dark blue in the grey predawn. The four 10-horsepower propellers they power now start to spin silently.Bertrand Piccard, a 55-year-old explorer and psychiatrist, dons his helmet and oxygen mask and completes his final checks. TheSolar Impulsequietly taxies forwards. The plane is travelling impossibly slowly – 30km an hour – when it gently noses up and leaves the ground. With air beneath them, the rangy wings seem to gain strength; the fuselage that on the ground seemed flimsy becomes elegant, like a crane vaunting in flight. It seems not to fly, though, so much as float. Piccard spends the day wheeling the solar-powered plane around the Matterhorn and lands 12 hours later, after sunset. But the Solar Impulse is a plane that would fly for ever.This summer, it limited itself to crossing the US. It took off from San Francisco in May and flew past the Statue of Liberty before landing at JFK in July, traversing the country in five stages, with Piccard and the other co-founder of the project,André Borschberg, a former fighter pilot in the Swiss air force, swapping places in the cockpit. The flight was a remarkable achievement: the Solar Impulse flew further than any solar-powered aircraft&nbsp;before.The plane that crossed America is a prototype, with the name HB-SIA. Its successor, the HB-SIB, currently being built, will try to circumnavigate the world in 2015, using about as much power as a scooter does. With no rival, it will have the skies to itself, but on land and on sea, too, a new generation of solar-powered vehicles is making extraordinary journeys, around the world and across continents. Solar power can seem the least exciting of clean energy sources: it just sits there, soaking up the sun. At least wind turbines turn. Now, though, a number of projects across the globe are pushing the boundaries of technical knowledge and coupling them to daring and demanding adventure. That the technology involved might also one day save the planet is a nice bonus.Piccard started the Solar Impulse project because he had a problem with fossil fuels, a personal one – they had nearly cost him his life. In March 1999, along with British pilot Brian Jones, he made the first non-stop circumnavigation of the world by balloon, inBreitling Orbiter 3. "We started with 3.7 tonnes of liquid propane," he says today. "We landed with only 40 kilos." Piccard swore his next circumnavigation would rely on clean energy alone.As remarkable as the Orbiter 3 flight was – Piccard was competing against extremely well-funded competition including Richard Branson and Steve Fossett – it was also anachronistic. The first nonstop aerial circumnavigation of the Earth was completed in 1949; the first non-refuelled circumnavigation was in 1986 by Dick Rutan. To make the undertaking epic, Piccard had to impose constraints, flying in a technologically advanced form of a technologically redundant vehicle, the balloon: a great adventure by virtue of the clauses attached to it. "Orbiter 3 was the end of 200 years of ballooning," Piccard says. "But Solar Impulse is the beginning of a new cycle in the history of aviation."It is also a new type of exploration, a new breed of adventure. Piccard knows about both. His father,Jacques Piccard, piloted a submarine to the deepest point on Earth, seven miles underneath the sea to the Challenger Deep, in the Mariana Trench (no one has gone deeper since); his grandfather, Auguste Piccard, a physicist and friend of Albert Einstein's, invented a balloon that he flew to a record height of 10 miles in May 1931, becoming the first person to enter the stratosphere and to see the curvature of the Earth. (My book,The Explorer Gene, tells the story of these three remarkable generations of the same family.)The MS Tûranor PlanetSolar passes Bora Bora in the Pacific on its voyage around the world. Photograph: EPAToday, though, according to Bertrand Piccard, the job of the modern explorer is "preserving, if not improving, the quality of life on our planet. I think the pioneering spirit is not any more to conquer the planet, because it's been done. There have been 12 people on the moon. Is it useful to be the 13th or 14th one? I don't care. I think now the pioneering spirit should be more about the quality of life, better governance of this planet. Solar Impulse is a symbol of this mindset. We can do better now."Piccard and Borschberg initially considered a zeppelin-like solar-powered airship but realised it would be just as difficult to make as an aeroplane and would be less quick through the air. In November 2003, with only a feasibility study of the project and a model plane complete, they announced the Solar Impulse project. They spent the next decade raising money and building the company ("It's extremely close to running a startup," says Borschberg, who has founded three technology businesses) at the same time as inventing the very means for this new type of adventure.Its solar cells are 135 microns thin – the same as a human hair; its motors waste only 6% of the energy they consume, compared with a typical bleed of 70%; its carbon fibre panels that form the structure of the wings and fuselage are, at 25g/m squared, three times lighter than writing paper. The new plane, the HB-SIB, can fly through night and day, clear skies and storms, at a top speed of 70km an hour. "We built the first plane with the technology of 2007," Piccard says. "We built the second plane with the technology of 2015."Solar Impulse is based in Lausanne, Switzerland. If Piccard needs advice on what a clean energy circumnavigation takes, he doesn't have to go far. PlanetSolar was the first around the world, in a 31-metre, space-age-looking motorboat called theMS Tûranor PlanetSolar, and is headquartered in the same city. "There must be something in the water and in the air also," PlanetSolar's managing director and cofounder, Pascal Goulpié, says, referring to the different nautical and aerial approaches. Goulpié says the simultaneous development of solar-powered vehicles – PlanetSolar was founded two years after Solar Impulse – was because of advances in the commercial photovoltaic market: "It was a time when the PV industry was starting mass production, but at the same time when its market share was very small. The basic concept was to show the maturity and reliability of solar. It was to show what we can do with PV energy. The amount of energy the Earth receives from the sun in one hour is enough to power the total human power consumption for a year. The technology is here, mature and&nbsp;available."The boat began its circumnavigation in September 2010, cruising at a speed of 7.5 knots – "the idea was not to be the fastest, but the first" – and travelling under a French military escort off the coast of Sudan and Yemen. It returned to Monaco, completing the journey, in May 2012. Although the boat was slow, it was extremely efficient: it was able to travel for three days even without sun, thanks to its storage capabilities and lower power demands. And the solar technology proved completely reliable. "It's a very impressive feeling to navigate without smoke, without vibration, with a large boat in complete silence." Now, the MS Tûranor PlanetSolar is serving as a scientific platform for researchers studying the Gulf Stream. For Goulpié, "it was important from the beginning not just to demonstrate, but to make some concrete application".Sky and sea present unique challenges for solar vehicles, which require unique solutions and a lot of funding – Solar Impulse's budget, over 10 years, is €90m; it cost €15m to build PlanetSolar. Solar cars are cheaper and offer the chance for lower cost, bottom-up innovation.Cambridge University Eco Racinghas developed a solar-powered car that will race 20 other vehicles 3,000km across the Australian outback in October. The team behind it comprises 60 students at the university, "without much academic input", according to project manager, Keno Mario-Ghae, a 20-year-old engineering student at Girton College. Cuer's budget is only £500,000, much of it donations in kind – and that's still five times the budget of previous year's attempts (the firstWorld Solar Challengerace was held in 1987; Cuer was founded in 2007). The team also turned to crowdfunding platformKickstarterto solicit hundreds of small donations; anyone who donates £10 or more via PayPal will also get their name on the side of the car.Those contributions, combined with resourceful thinking, add up: through the Kickstarter campaign alone, Cuer was able to pay for an innovative glass canopy that distinguishes its vehicle from competitors. "All solar cars are designed as big flat tabletops to collect as much sun as they can," Mario-Ghae explains. "Our idea is more; if you can build a car that's small and aerodynamic, you don't need so much power to run. So you can afford to use less surface area. You don't need to build a big flat tabletop." This year's Cuer vehicle racer, called Resolution, is the shape of a teardrop. At its rear, "space-grade" solar panels constantly reposition themselves to face the sun, thanks to an algorithm that combines GPS, the car's direction and the time of the day to work out the sun's position; the glass canopy makes the car aerodynamic and lets in 95% of the sunlight. "We did a lot of maths – a lot of painful maths – and we think this design should be very competitive, potentially race-winning."Resolution, the solar-powered car developed by Cambridge University Eco Racing, which is due to compete with 20 other vehicles in a 3,000km race across the Australian outback in October.The car is tiny (4.5 metres long, 0.8 metres wide at its widest and 1.1 metres tall at its tallest) but has a top speed of 140km an hour. Even more impressive, Cuer went from drawing board to finished vehicle in eight months. "Everyone is trying to push the boundaries," says Mario-Ghae. "If you do things the way they've always been done, you're always going to get the same result. No one buys into us because of our eco credentials. It's because it's different and it's an extra that it's eco as well."Cuer's radical reinvention of the solar car was prompted by a rule change from the race's organisers, stipulating among other things that race vehicles should have four wheels instead of the usual three as well as larger cockpits. "There's more of an emphasis on safety. That forces the designs to be a bit more transferable."The hope is that the hi-tech being invented for these grand expeditions starts to appear in workaday contexts. This month, Dutch researchers unveiled aprototype family carthat can travel 420 miles on a sunny day and 250 miles when there is no sunshine, at a low price: its solar cells cost only £2,000. Interactive Fully Electrical Vehicles is an Italian company set up to commercialisesolar-powered vehiclesfor the continent's roads. And the US version of the electricNissan Leaffeatures a solar panel on its spoiler that trickle-charges the auxiliary battery.All these initiatives have a common goal. "We are in close contact with Solar Impulse, of course, and with solar race cars," Goulpié says. "In a different way, we are all working in the same direction, ready to spread solar technology and to show to as large as audience as possible that we can use this technology day to day."Still, the emphasis of Solar Impulse, PlanetSolar and the World Solar Challenge is on the spectacular. As Goulpié puts it: "PlanetSolar is an expedition – it's an exploration to show what the current technology is able to offer human beings." That inspiration creates a virtuous loop: Mario-Ghae was inspired to take up engineering after he saw Cuer present an earlier solar car design. "They were telling me they could have a car go at motor racing speeds using the same power as a toaster," he remembers. "In my head, I was, like, 'Wow, how is that possible?' It's the whole spirit of adventure. We don't just want to innovate; we want to inspire the next generation as well."Piccard sums it up: "The goal is to change the mindset of people through Solar Impulse. If a plane can fly around the world with no fuel, nobody can say that we cannot reach incredible goals with clean technology. You have a lot of resistance to change, a lot of people saying, 'I don't believe in that' because of dogma. They are afraid of change and they are not pioneers."Adventure is about the unknown. If you do something that really faces the unknown, faces the doubts, the uncertainties, and you have to develop new skills to make it happen – that's interesting."
I do enjoy car marketing nonsense. This one employs "fluidic sculpture" design, its sharp creases and crisp lines inspired by the undulating forms of sand dunes... Really? What happens in a storm, I wonder? Do you wake up to find your car has moved off down the street and changed shape?But maybe I can actually see some dunes going on there, in the flanks. I'm thinking of that old Fry's&nbsp;Turkish Delight advert, with&nbsp;the lady (an early love of mine, as it happens) and the sideways dune snake, remember? Full of eastern promise?Anyway, as it's a sand car, let's go to the seaside. Oh, but we've come to the wrong bit, the Dorset coast, all limestone cliffs and fossils. Maybe someone should do a Jurassic sculpture car, with ammonites and brachiopods set into the bodywork. There, you can have that on me, Hyundai, for your next nature-inspired design initiative.To be honest, we haven't come for the beach, we're here for a festival. And in many ways the Hyundai i40 Tourer is perfect for that. A generous 553-litre boot just about swallows our camping paraphernalia, though it still gags a bit and takes some stowing ingenuity (could be that the space is an awkward shape or that I'm just not very good at stowage, most likely a bit of both). We cruise south-west, comfortably, quietly, safely, efficiently, economically. To drive, it's quite nice rather than lovely, but then you wouldn't get a Hyundai estate with 553 litres of boot space for driving loveliness.Inside, it's really rather pleasant. This is the high-end Premium model, so the leather seats will both heat and chill your back and your crack, even your sack if you've got one; there's a sunroof, touch-screen navigation and cameras to help you park. There's even a lane-departure warning system in case all this luxury takes your mind off the job in hand and you drift out of your lane, though it's not as good as the one you get in Volvos – the beeping isn't loud enough, especially if you're playing tunes to get you in the festival mood.Which is quite hard – getting in the festival mood, in the Hyundai i40. It just isn't that kind of car. There's not an awful lot of joy about it, or sunshine (even with that roof), or fun, or funk, or rock'n'roll. It's another one of those cars that you're not going to get because you fall in love with it, but because the numbers make sense.And actually, though many of them do make sense, one of them, the most important, is quite big on this posh model. £27,465 is a lot of money for a Hyundai estate, even if it will chill your sack, and is inspired by sand dunes.Hyundai i40 Tourer Premium SE manualPriceFrom £27,465Top speed124mphAcceleration0-60mph in 10.6 secondsCombined fuel consumption (manufacturer's figure)55.4mpgCO2 emissions134g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating5/10
Grand Theft Auto Vis easily the most anticipated game of 2013 – 3 million first-day sales are predicted in the UK alone – but Rockstar aren't content. They have just announcedGTA Online, a persistent-world incarnation of San Andreas, the series' version of LA. That means your character and his or her cars, planes, fists and assorted weaponry can interact with other real people online, as well as the fictitious ones already mooching about the place. It's a free add-on to GTA V that looks good enough to one day grow into a franchise of its own.This year'sEurogamer Expohas also confirmed most of its lineup, which will include opportunities to play with the refreshingly piratey Assassin's Creed IV, Battlefield 4's multi-player gun usage, Dark Souls 2's delighted willingness to help you meet an untimely demise, and PlayStation 4, the early unofficial winner of the next-generation console war.
More than 9 million adults in Britain have had online accounts hacked and 8% of the population say they have lost money in the past year because of cybercrime, according toa surveyby university researchers.Cyber security experts at the University of Kent said it was "quite shocking" that 2.3% of the population reported losing more than £10,000 to online fraudsters.The survey found that 18.3% of those questioned had experienced attempts to break into one or more of their online accounts, including email, online banking, gaming and social media. One third said it had happened more than once.The researchers found that people aged 55 to 64 were least likely to be successfully targeted by online criminals. The figure for this group was 11.4%, the study said, which may be because they are more cautious or spend less time online, have fewer activities and accounts or maintain better security. More than one in four people aged 18 to 24 (27.3%) has suffered a hacking attack.When asked how much money they had lost in the past year "due to any kind of computer criminal activity," 92% said they had lost nothing, but 3.2% of more than 1,500 respondents said they had lost between £1 and £100, 2.4% suffered a hit of between £101 and £10,000 and 2.3% claimed to have lost more than £10,000.The researchers admitted this data could be open to a number of different interpretations and they would try to learn more in future surveys.Estimates of the financial impact of cybercrime vary. In 2011, aUK government reportsaid the overall cost to the economy was £27bn a year, with identity theft accounting for £1.7bn and online scams and ripoffs a further £1.4bn. The report found that the main loser was British business, which took a £21bn hit, suffering high levels of intellectual property theft and industrial espionage.Reuters reportedthis month that the social media revolution had changed the way cybercriminals operated. It said a computer virus used to steal credit card data had been modified to create bogus Instagram "likes" that could be used to generate buzz for a company or individual. These fake "likes" were sold in batches of 1,000 on internet hacker forums.According to RSA, the security division of US-based technology firm EMC, 1,000 Instagram "followers" could be bought for $15 (£9.50), and 1,000 Instagram "likes" cost $30 (£19), whereas 1,000 credit card numbers cost as little as $6 (£3.80)."It seems online crime has a clear impact on the lives of average UK citizens, with their accounts and credentials being compromised significantly and in some cases multiple times," said Dr Julio Hernandez-Castro and Dr Eerke Boiten, from the University of Kent's Interdisciplinary Centre for Cyber Security Research."Cybercrime may not yet have hit a large proportion of the British public, but successful attacks do tend to lead to substantive financial damage," Boiten said.
"Data is the new oil," declared Clive Humby, a Sheffield mathematician who with his wife, Edwina Dunn, made £90m helping Tesco with its Clubcard system. Though he said it in 2006, the realisation that there is a lot of money to be made – and lost – through the careful or careless marshalling of "big data" has only begun to dawn on many business people.The crash that knocked out the Nasdaq trading system was only one example; in the past week, Amazon, Google and Apple have all suffered breaks in service that have affected their customers, lost sales or caused inconvenience. When Amazon's main shopping site went offline for nearly an hour, estimates suggested millions of dollars of sales were lost. When Google went offline for just four minutes this month, the missed chance to show adverts to searchers could have cost it $500,000.Michael Palmer, of the Association of National Advertisers, expanded on Humby's quote: "Data is just like crude. It's valuable, but if unrefined it cannot really be used. It has to be changed into gas, plastic, chemicals, etc to create a valuable entity that drives profitable activity; so must data be broken down, analysed for it to have value."For Amazon and Google especially, being able to process and store huge amounts of data is essential to their success. But when it goes wrong – as it inevitably does – the effects can be dramatic. And the biggest problem can be data which is "dirty", containing erroneous or garbled entries which can corrupt files and throw systems into a tailspin. That can cause the sort of "software glitch" that brought down the Nasdaq – or lead to servers locking up and a domino effect of overloading."Whenever I meet people I ask them about the quality of their data," says Duncan Ross, director of data sciences at Teradata, which provides data warehousing systems for clients including Walmart, Tesco and Apple. "When they tell me that the quality is really good, I assume that they haven't actually looked at it."That's because the systems businesses use increasingly rely on external data, whether from governments or private companies, which cannot be assumed to be reliable. Ross says: "It's always dirty."And that puts businesses at the mercy of the occasional high-pressure data spill. Inject the wrong piece of data and trouble follows. In April, when automatic systems read a tweet from the Associated Press Twitter feed which said the White House had been bombed and Barack Obama injured, they sold stock faster than the blink of an eye, sending the US Dow index down 143 points within seconds. But the data was dirty:AP's Twitter feed had been hacked.The statistics are stunning: about 90% of all the data in the world has been generated in the past two years (a statistic that is holding roughly true even as time passes). There are about 2.7 zettabytes of data in the digital universe, where 1ZB of data is a billion terabytes (a typical computer hard drive these days can hold about 0.5TB, or 500 gigabytes). IBM predicts that will hit 8ZB by 2015. Facebook alone stores and analyses more than 50 petabytes (50,000 TB) of data.Data is also moving faster than ever before: by last year, between 50% and 70% of all trades on US stock exchanges was being done by machines which could execute a transaction in less than a microsecond (millionth of a second). Internet connectivity is run through fibre optic connections where financial companies will seek to shave five milliseconds from a connection so those nanosecond-scale transactions can be done even more quickly.We're also storing and processing more and more of it. But that doesn't mean we're just hoarding data, says Ross: "The pace of change of markets generally is so rapid that it doesn't make sense to retain information for more than a few years."If you think about something like handsets or phone calls, go back three or four years and the latest thing was the iPhone 3GS and BlackBerrys were really popular. It's useless for analysis. The only area where you store data for any length of time is regulatory work."Yet the amount of short-term data being processed is rocketing. Twitter recently rewrote its entire back-end database system because it would not otherwise be able to cope with the 500m tweets, each as long as a text message, arriving each day. (By comparison, the four UK mobile networks together handle about 250m text messages a day, a figure is falling as people shift to services such as Twitter.)Raffi Krikorian, Twitter's vice-president for "platform engineering" – that is, in charge of keeping the ship running, and the whale away –admitsthat the 2010 World Cup was a dramatic lesson, when goals, penalties and free kicks being watched by a global audience made the system creak and quail.A wholesale rewrite of its back-end systems over the past three years means it can now "withstand" events such as the showing in Japan of a new film called Castle in the Sky, which set a record by generating 143,199 tweets a second on 2 August at 3.21pm BST. "The number of machines involved in serving the site has been decreased anywhere from five to 12 times," he notes proudly. Even better, Twitter has been available for about 99.9999% of the past six months, even with that Japanese peak.Yet even while Twitter moved quickly, the concern is that other parts of the information structure will not be resilient enough to deal with inevitable collapses – and that could have unpredictable effects."We've had mains power for more than a century, but can have an outage caused by somebody not resetting a switch," says Ross. "The only security companies can have is if they build plenty of redundancy into the systems that affect our lives."
A series of system crashes affecting Google, Amazon, Apple and Microsoft in the past fortnight has brought warnings that governments, banks and big business are over-reliant on computer networks that have become too complex.The alarm was sounded by industry experts in the aftermath of a three-hour network shutdown that paralysed the operation of the Nasdaq stock market in New York on Thursday, on what should have been a quiet day of routine share trading on the exchange.Jaron Lanier, the author and inventor of the concept of virtual reality, warned that digital infrastructure was moving beyond human control. He said: "When you try to achieve great scale with automation and the automation exceeds the boundaries of human oversight, there is going to be failure. That goes for governments, for consumer companies, for Google, or a big insurance company. It is infuriating because it is driven by unreasonable greed. In many cases, the systems that tend to fail, fail because of an attempt to make them run automatically with a minimal amount of human oversight."The Nasdaq collapse was caused by a communication failure between its platform for processing quotes and trades and that of another party – reportedly the New York Stock Exchange. So serious was the fallout that it resulted in a third fewer shares being traded in the US on that day."These outages are absolutely going to continue," said Neil MacDonald, a fellow at technology research firm Gartner. "There has been an explosion in data across all types of enterprises. The complexity of the systems created to support big data is beyond the understanding of a single person and they also fail in ways that are beyond the comprehension of a single person."From high volume securities trading to the explosion in social media and the online consumption of entertainment, the amount of data being carried globally over the private networks, such as stock exchanges, and the public internet is placing unprecedented strain on websites and on the networks that connect them.By 2017, an amount of data equivalent to all the films ever produced will be transmitted over the internet in a three-minute period, according to Cisco, a manufacturer of communications equipment.Internet traffic today per person is measured in gigabytes, with six gigabytes of information exchanged per human per year. In 2017, that number will have risen to 16. By then, global data will be counted in zettabytes – roughly one trillion gigabytes.High frequency trading by computers built to automate buying and selling high volumes of shares by hedge funds and banks has triggered and magnified the impact of IT failures on stockmarkets. In May 2010, $862bn (£553bn) was erased from the value of US shares in 20 minutes when one company triggered a cascade of selling."You get under the covers and high frequency trading algorithms are beyond understanding," said MacDonald. "Sub-millisecond trades taking place, tens of thousands per second, and when that fails it fails spectacularly. That is what you are seeing manifested in Nasdaq."This month's spate of outages came to international attention with the two-hour failure of the New York Times website on 14 August, during which it resorted to publishing articles on its Facebook page. While a malicious attack was initially suspected, the problem was caused simply by a scheduled system maintenance.On the same day, Microsoft customers began to report email failures. The outage was traced to problems with the Exchange ActiveSync service which serves email to many of the world's smartphones. When Exchange hit a glitch, the sheer volume of phones trying to connect triggered a ripple effect that took three days to control.On 16 August, many of Google's websites, from email to YouTube to its core search engine, suffered a rare four-minute global meltdown. The episode, the cause of which Google has not explained publicly, served to illustrate the sheer volume of traffic its servers process. During its outage, one monitor put the drop in global internet traffic at 40%.Three days later, on 19 August, Amazon's North American retail site went down for about 49 minutes, with visitors greeted with the word "Oops". No explanation was given, but one estimate by Forbes put the cost to Amazon at nearly $2m in lost sales.On 22 August, Apple's iCloud suffered a blackout that affected a small number of its customers but lasted 11 hours. Storing the collections of photos, music, documents and address books that would once have been kept on shelves at home, iCloud now has 300 million users."The volume of data overall is absolutely exploding," says Rachel Dines, senior analyst at Forrester. "This week has been especially bad for downtime. Because we are now so dependent on these high profile services we notice them more. The impacts for the companies are huge from both lost revenue but also more importantly reputation damage."James Acres, whose company Netcraft monitors outages at data storage companies, says digital businesses are racing, not always successfully, to built the infrastructure needed to cope with the data that many consumers are gradually transferring into the cloud from the hard drives of their laptops or their collections of CDRoms."More and more people are putting their data in the cloud," says Acres, "and to deal with this services are changing their back end to cope, and because it's all quite new they are experiencing some difficulties."As well as selling books and music, Amazon is the largest provider of public digital storage space worldwide, and this side of the business was hit by an outage in 2012 despite upgrades designed to make its servers less likely to collapse."The outage at Amazon last year was traced back to some of the processes and technologies they had put in place to make it more resilient," said MacDonald. "It is almost like an auto-immune disease, where the systems they created to make it more resilient actually spread the failure more rapidly."Lanier, whose Who Owns The Future? details the concentration of power among organisations with the largest computers, said outages would increase until human oversight was improved. "We don't yet have a design for society that can run this technology well. We haven't figured out what the right human roles should be."
Steve Ballmer started at Microsoft in 1980, arriving from Procter &amp; Gamble to become Bill Gates' first business manager. After 20 years at the heart of Gates' team he took over as chief executive, reportedly afterrelations between the two had become strained.His testosterone-fuelled presentational style was the most visible contrast to the geekish, entrepreneurial enthusiasm of Gates. Clips of Ballmermanically leaping and screaming across the stageat Microsoft sales staff events, professing his "love" for the company, have received more than 5m hits on YouTube.Ballmer oversaw a dramatic shift away from Microsoft's PC roots, acquiring Skype and pushing into cloud computing. As new competitors emerged, he promised to "out-innovate Google" and even, on one occasion in 2004, allegedlyvowed to "kill Google", hurling a chair across the room. Balmer has said descriptions of the outburst were exaggerated.Meanwhile, efforts to keep Microsoft at the cutting edge of the digital age have not always inspired the undying love of Microsoft shareholders. Two years ago David Einhorn, the activist hedge fund boss who made a fortune short-selling Lehman Brothers, called for him to go,insisting he was "stuck in the past".Einhorn said Mircosoft – in which his Greenlight Capital is a major investor – had missed a string of opportunities under Ballmer's "Charlie Brown management", referring to the hapless star of the Peanuts cartoon strip.The hedge fund boss has described Ballmer's leadership as "the biggest overhang on Microsoft's stock", after the software firm chief executive had allowed Apple to steal a competitive lead in recent years, developing new markets for tablet computers and smartphone technologies."He has allowed competitors to beat Microsoft in huge areas, including search&nbsp;… Even worse, his response to these failures has been to pour tremendous resources into efforts to develop his way out of these holes."Last week Einhorn repeated his view in a letter to Greenlight investors in which he claimed "a decade of mismanagement has put Microsoft at risk of becoming a shrinking company".On Friday Ballmer admitted the timing of his departure was not as he had previously hoped. "We have embarked on a new strategy with a new organisation&nbsp;… My original thoughts&nbsp;… would have had my retirement happen in the middle of our company's transformation to a devices and services company. [But] we need a CEO who will be here longer term for this new direction."
The queues snaking around Cologne's vast Koelnmesse exhibition centre tell you all you need to know. They consist mostly of teenagers and twenty-somethings, many dressed as their favourite video game characters, laughing, playing handheld games and planning their tactics for when they get inside.The stampede begins at 9am as crowds swarm to the biggest stands eager to be first in line and grab their share of promotional T-shirts, posters and goodies. "It is carnage," says Dave Scarborough, reviews editor of GamesTM magazine, "but you can really feel the excitement here; these kids will queue for hours for a ten-minute demo".This is Gamescom, the gaming industry's biggest annual event, attracting almost 300,000 ardent fans who are on the frontline of a battle that will soon be fought in  living rooms across the world.Sony and Microsoft are gearing up to launch their new consoles this November, the former with PlayStation 4, the latter with Xbox One. The machines are ten times as powerful as current gaming hardware, and will offer a variety of new experiences, not just games but video chat, television content, Blu-ray movies and more.Although smartphones and tablets have eaten into the market, the traditional games industry, including those consoles, is still worth $60bn a year, which is bigger than Hollywood,  and interest in the next-generation consoles has been high. Sony claims it has had more than a million pre-orders for the PS4 console. Microsoft hasn't released figures, but says early demand for Xbox One has been "unprecedented". With about 70m  of each of the preceding versions in use, the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, there's everything to play for.On the show floor at Gamescom, the big new console titles attract huge crowds. Two new science-fiction shooters, Titanfall from Electronic Arts and Destiny from Activision, are the big draws, boasting  detailed visuals and complex online gaming modes.The big third-party publishers are hedging their bets and backing both machines.Ubisoft, creator of the multimillion selling Assassin's Creed series, is providing PS4 exclusive content with its Watch Dogs and Assassin's Creed IV titles, but also Xbox One exclusive elements in its squad-based tactical blaster, The Division.Electronic Arts, meanwhile, is bundling its popular sports sim Fifa 14 with Xbox One pre-orders but EA Labels President Frank Gibeau is keen to stress there is no favouritism. "EA has not tilted toward Microsoft; this was a tactical marketing decision. We make the bullets for the hardware war but we want both consoles to be successful."Notably absent from conversations among developers and publishers at Gamescom is the Wii U, Nintendo's follow-up to the extraordinarily successful Wii.Although its predecessor outsold its two rivals, the new one has seen disappointing sales, shifting a mere 160,000 units in the last financial quarter. So far it has lacked strong software support, and although Nintendo's stand at the show was popular, with new titles like Mario Kart 8 and Super Mario 3D World attracting plenty of attention, third-party publishers are pulling away. Its unique selling point, the GamePad, which has its own touchscreen display, is nothing like as intuitive as the stick-like Wii motion controllers - and it's no longer unique: the PS4 can link up with the Vita handheld console, and the Xbox One can connect to mobiles and tablets.What Gamescom does show, however, is the strength of both PC and console gaming in general, after a period in which sales have started to decline, and enthusiasm has shifted slightly to Android and Apple gadgets."Last year everyone was writing that tablets would kill off consoles; the year before that it was Facebook games," said Gibeau. "But there is huge pent-up demand for the new machines. The console is back."
Microsoft has stepped into a new and uncertain era with the announcement that CEO Steve Ballmer will retire within 12 months, triggering a search for a successor to take over the software behemoth.The announcement on Friday surprised analysts and investors and sent shares surging, reflecting belief that the company will benefit from new leadership as it tries to innovate and chase the market for smartphones and tablets."There is never a perfect time for this type of transition, but now is the right time," Ballmer saidin a statement.The company needed a leader who could see through its reorganisation and new strategy, he added. "My original thoughts on timing would have had my retirement happen in the middle of our company's transformation to a devices and services company. We need a CEO who will be here longer term for this new direction."Ballmer, 57, who succeeded Bill Gates as CEO in 2000, will stay on until a successor is found. Gates, who is now chairman of the board, will be part of a small committee tasked with finding the successor. It will be chaired by John Thompson, the board's lead independent director, and consider internal and external candidates."I'll work closely with the other members of the board to identify a great new CEO," said Gates. "We're fortunate to have Steve in his role until the new CEO assumes these duties."Devices chief Julie Larson-Green was tipped as the most obvious internal candidate but many analysts urged Microsoft to plump for an outsider to shake things up.Ballmer's departure will likely draw a line under Microsoft's origins and traditional tenure. He first met Gates in 1973 when they shared a dormitory hall at Harvard university. He joined the company in 1980 – the company's 30th employee – after it landed a contract to supply an operating system to IBM and swiftly rose up the ranks.Under Ballmer the company developed successful products like Windows XP and the Xbox 360. It grew to be worth $78bn and employ more than 100,000 people. It has more than a billion users and remains immensely profitable.Over the past decade, however, its share price stagnated in contrast to the meteor-like performance of Apple, Google and Amazon. Once the world's most valuable company, Microsoft hemorrhaged more than half of its market value.Critics accused Ballmer of failing to anticipate the explosive growth in tablets and smartphones and the decline of personal computers.Some, though not all, were appeased by a 22% jump in share price this year after the company started developing and selling its own tablet-style computer."The stock is at a relative high at the moment. So it's better to leave on a high note rather than a low note," said Vasudev Bhandarkar, CEO of the Silicon Valley-based Caralta Corporation."If you look at the various revenue streams the future doesn't hold very much for the PC industry. Sales are flattening, revenue streams are under attack. Microsoft will have to reinvent itself just like it did in the internet age."Last month Ballmer announced a sweeping reorganisation to focus more on hardware and make the company nimbler. It appeared to mimic Apple by dividing itself into functions each dedicated to a single purpose such as operating systems, devices, apps or services.Ballmer fired Steven Sinofsky, who had run Windows and was considered to be the heir apparent, to pave the change.Many concluded this meant the CEO would stay for the foreseeable future at the corporation's sprawling campus in Redmond, Washington."That's why today's news is even more surprising after Ballmer achieved such a big change for Microsoft. If his or her successor doesn't like the 'One Microsoft' vision, he'll have to do another reorganization," notedTechCrunch.Ballmer's personal wealth is estimated at $15.2bn, which includes about 4% of Microsoft's stock. Born in Detroit, the son of a Ford motor company manager, he studied applied mathematics and economics at Harvard. He worked at Proctor &amp; Gamble and later dropped out of Stanford's graduate school of business to join Microsoft.Leaving was an emotional, difficult decision, he wrote in a letter to employees."I take this step in the best interests of the company I love; it is the thing outside of my family and closest friends that matters to me most."
The Ballmer era at Microsoft is likely to be remembered as one of stability, but also one of stagnation.While Steve Ballmer ran Microsoft the stock price dropped 40% and the company racked up a history of failed attempts to catch up to more clever competitors, like Apple, with offerings like the Zune music player and the Surface tablet.By the time the company announcedBallmer would retire, the bells were tolling. Activist hedge fund ValueAct, which owns 1% of the company, was pushing for a board seat and agitating for change. Nomura analyst Rick Sherland had downgraded the company to a neutral – or noncommittal – stock recommendation on its disappointing stock performance.This week, Sherlund applauded the attempts of ValueAct to win a board seat at Microsoft and give voice to the widespread frustration among the company's investors. "We think the likelihood of winning a board seat is high given the dissatisfaction with how Microsoft has failed to optimize shareholder value," Sherlund said in a July report.Sherlund restored the stock to a "buy" this week on the assumption that ValueAct's pot-stirring would get Microsoft out of its doldrums.Microsoft's biggest sin, from a business standpoint, was letting its strongest businesses decline. Windows, its original category-killer in software, was diminished to only 25% of the business, and the move to services and devices proved disastrous. The company hit the shoals in computer hardware late last year. Sales of PCs were down in the fourth quarter, reflecting customer disinterest and setting off alarm bells among investors that the future was not auspicious. RBC analysts pronounced themselves "disappointed" by the development.Ballmer, whose wacky "monkey dance" and enthusiasm had once shown him to be a loose, fun manager, was not the man of vision that his predecessor, Bill Gates, was. It was the classic successor's curse.But that's not the only problem at the company: sudden reorganizations and changing strategies favored hot copycat products and left its staid legacy businesses orphaned.That, in turn, left Microsoft marooned between a fading past and an uncertain future. It's easy to see that Microsoft's image was hurt by Apple, in the same manner as an another formerly dominant brand, the BlackBerry. The iPhone and iPad have taken root with business customers, presenting a threat to Microsoft, and Google's Android system is moving towards the dominance that Microsoft once had. Yes, Apple is a threat – as are Google and Amazon. But at Microsoft, the enemy was also within.
Microsoft has said its chief executive, Steve Ballmer, will retire within the next 12 months, once it has selected a successor, sending its shares up almost 9%.Ballmer said in a statement on Friday that he would have timed his retirement in the middle of Microsoft's announced transformation to a devices and services company. But he said: "We need a CEO who will be here longer term for this new direction."The software company said its board had appointed a special committee to direct the process of appointing a new chief executive.The committee is chaired by John Thompson, the board's lead independent director, and includes Microsoft founder and chairman, Bill Gates, as well as other board members Chuck Noski and Steve Luczo.It will consider both external and internal candidates and is working with executive recruiting firm Heidrick &amp; Struggles International, according to the company.Microsoft shares rose by 8.9% to $35.27 in pre-market trading.In anemail to Microsoft employees, Ballmer said: "There is never a perfect time for this type of transition, but now is the right time. My original thoughts on timing would have had my retirement happen in the middle of our transformation to a devices and services company focused on empowering customers in the activities they value most. We need a CEO who will be here longer term for this new direction."He said he was proud of what he had achieved at the company: "We have grown from $7.5m to nearly $78bn since I joined Microsoft, and we have grown from employing just over 30 people to almost 100,000. I feel good about playing a role in that success and having committed 100% emotionally all the way. We have more than 1 billion users and earn a great profit for our shareholders. We have delivered more profit and cash return to shareholders than virtually any other company in history."
Mobile games publisher Rovio has confirmed that its Angry Birds Star Wars II game will be available on iOS, Android and Windows Phone when it launches on 19 September, and that it will be a paid game costing $0.99 (£0.69).That follows the pattern laid down by the firstAngry Birds Star Warsgame, which was released across the three platforms in November 2012, and has since been downloaded more than 100m times.Rovio will release an additional free version of the sequel for Android, supported by advertising. The publisherannounced the news on its blog, along with a trailer for the game voiced by Ian McDiarmid, who played Emperor Palpatine in the original Star Wars films.Angry Birds Star Wars II will include more than 30 characters from the Star Wars universe, andas previously announced, will be accompanied by a line of "Telepods" toys produced by Hasbro, which players will be able to scan to import characters into the game.The toys will cost between £5.99 and £39.99 in the UK, representing the latest non-mobile revenue stream for Angry Birds.45% of Rovio's revenues in 2012came from sales of plush toys and other branded merchandise.Angry Birds Star Wars II will also have its own range of toys, clothing, accessories, books and plush toys. National Geographic is publishing the official book of the game on 17 September.The model for Angry Birds Star Wars II's Telepods toys is Activision's Skylanders franchise, which generated more than $1bn of sales for its publisher in the first 15 months after its debut in 2011.Disney has just launched itsDisney Infinitygame and toy range to follow suit, while Cartoon Network and Lego are collaborating on a similar physical-meets-digital brand calledMixels, which is due to debut in 2014.Rovio will be hoping to surpass the 100m downloads of the first Angry Birds Star Wars game with its sequel, and prove its main franchise is still flying high in 2013.The publisher ended 2012 with 263m monthly active players of Angry Birds games, but has been overtaken in terms of revenues by free-to-play games like Clash of Clans, Candy Crush Saga and Puzzle &amp; Dragons this year.
I remember the first time I saw the Compact Oxford English Dictionary.It came in a slipcase with a little drawer for its magnifying lens. We sold it at the academic bookstore in Toronto where I worked, and we kept a copy in the window. Whenever someone came in and plunked down over a hundred dollars for it, I always struck up a conversation about what a marvellous thing it was.I'd seen the OED before then, of course. We had the 11-volume set in the English classroom in my high-school. I loved pulling down a copy and getting lost in it, browsing it for hours at stretch sometimes. I knew that there would come a day when I'd own this for myself.Then came my adulthood, when I found myself moving, first cross-continent, then overseas and back – twice! – and I never felt rooted enough to invest in quite that much physical product. I toyed with buying various CD ROM editions, but never got to it, at first because it wouldn't run on the OS I was using, then because I'd switched to subnotebooks without CD drives.But two years ago, after finishing work on a novel, I bought both the Compact OED and the Historical Thesaurus of the Oxford English Dictionary, which together constitute the canonical reference on the etymology and usage history of all the words in my mother tongue. I even installed a special magnifying lamp on my desk to make it easier to read them (I'd waited too long to buy the print editions, and by my 40th birthday, the official magnifying glass was insufficient aid for my aging eyes).I spend a lot of time on the road, and for the most part, it doesn't make a difference to my work. My life as a novelist started while I was starting a software company, and came into full throttle while I was the European Director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, and so for nearly a decade, I spent nearly all my time on the road. So it doesn't matter where I am, really: so long as I have a writing implement and a minute or two, I can write. Sure, I miss the comforts of my office – the big monitor and separate mouse, the reliable Internet connection – but these are just luxuries, really. Not necessities.But the OED and the HTOED have worked their way into my life and my writing. They have become necessities. The ability to delve so deeply into the sense and history of any word –everyword – is habit-forming. Finally, I've found an undeniable difference between composing on the road and at home: the presence or absence of the most significant lexicographic references in the English language.A couple of months back, it suddenly occurred to me that this was not an insurmountable hurdle. It had been at least five years since I'd looked at the digital editions of the OED, and now that we were living in the era of cheap ebook readers and ubiquitous smartphones and tablets, surely Oxford University Press would have ebook editions I could take with me when I was on the go. Judging on the pricing of the old CD ROM editions, I expected to pay something like the cost of the print books (more than £600 for the set) but I wasn't daunted. Taken as a pair, the major OED reference works are to a writer what an anvil is to a blacksmith. Well worth the price.It's not academicI hadn't reckoned on the fact that Oxford University Press is an academic publisher, and the academic publishers aren't like trade publishers. They have their own way of doing business – a model that has been the source of significant controversy in scholarly circles, but which has largely passed over the heads of the civilian population of non-scholarly readers.OUP – which has been selling dictionaries and thesauri since the 19th century – will not sell you a digital OED or HTOED. Not for any price.Instead, these books are rented by the month, accessed via the internet by logged-in users. If you stop paying, your access to these books is terminated.I mentioned this to some librarians at the American Library Association conference in Chicago this spring and they all said, effectively: "Welcome to the club. This is what we have to put up with all the time."Academic, reference and research libraries have become accustomed to renting their access to journals and important reference works.These services are called "subscriptions," but the word "subscribe" has a new meaning for libraries. For hundreds of years, libraries that subscribed to periodicals got to keep them forever. When I worked in libraries, I was accustomed to shelving, repairing and circulating periodicals that stretched back decades – sometimes rebound in handsome almanacs, sometimes in archival formats like fiche or film, often in lovingly maintained original paper.Libraries "subscribed" to periodicals the same way I did – and just as I got to keep my back-issues of The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction, so too could my local library retain its copies of important research journals forever.To "subscribe" to a magazine was to purchase all the year's forthcoming issues in advance. But for librarians, "subscriptions" are now effectively rental agreements. I'd known about this, but it didn't hit home until I tried to buy the digital OED and HTOED. And it got under my skin.Oxford University is famed for many things, but among people who care about books, it is celebrated for the Bodleian Library, a "deposit" library founded in the 14th century whose remit is to collect every scholarly work published in English and store it for the ages.Librarians at the Bodleian have literally described their mission as safeguarding essential human knowledge for future civilisations. This mission of stewardship in enduring knowledge has always inspired me. It is indisputably noble, important, and wonderful. Every time I visit Oxford and pass by the Bodleian, my heart beats a little faster.The Bodleian – indeed, the whole idea of archiving – is incompatible with a world of digital scholarship where renting is the only option.Thus, two of Oxford's most iconic institutions – its deposit library and its press's flagship titles – have each embraced a model that the other has utterly rejected.The dreaded fine printIf you've rented anything – a hire car, a flat, an office – you'll know that rental agreements are generally tilted in favour of the owner, and away from the renter. The internet has extended this to every corner of our lives, in the form of endless licence-agreements that are written in a special poetry of unconscionability, rivers of fine print that set out all the ways in which you must surrender your privacy, your statutory rights, your right to redress, and every other right you possess as a condition of visiting websites; paying for music, games, videos, and ebooks; reading your email; and (of course) connecting to the internet in the first place.The rental terms for the OED and other OUP rental services are about what you'd expect. The company reserves the right to retain your personal information – everything that goes into a credit-card validation, including your name, address and phone number – and to store every click and query you make while reading the book; as well as which IP address you visit the site from, and to link these things together. It reserves the right to retain this information indefinitely.It reserves the right to disclose it to a long list of parties, including loosely defined "affiliates," for a wide range of purposes, including equally nebulous concepts like "security." And it reserves the right to treat this data as a company asset, and to sell it along with the company, should the publisher ever be sold on.Taken together, these terms grant the publisher permission to track your movements, your interests, and even your personal relationships (if you log into the service from a friend's IP address, say). They grant the company to disclose that information now or at any time in the future.And they allow a third party to buy the company and change the terms under which the data has been gathered, to sell it piecemeal or to publish it.In this regard, the digital editions of the OED and HTOED are no different from many other digital "products". OUP's terms are not the worst in the digital world, though they're far from the best. What is exceptional is for these terms to be applied to the most significant reference books on the subject of the English language in the world.It's bad enough when this is imposed on scholars – who have always relied upon privacy and the right to choose when they publish as a condition of intellectual integrity. But OED and HTOED have substantial followings outside the academy, with readers whose ebooks may come larded with fine print but are at least sent to your device and are yours to own, without having to keep payments up, be connected to the internet, and stay on the right side of a one-sided licence "agreement."Two sides to a storyDon't get me wrong: I don't think OUP has made the digital edition rent-only because they're wicked or venal or money-hungry. When I spoke at length with Casper Grathwohl, OUP's president of the dictionaries division, he struck me as a man of integrity and intelligence and devotion, who loves the press's reference works even more than I do.He set out lots of good reasons to rent access to reference works, such as the ability of readers to access up-to-the-minute revisions; and the ability of the press to track readers' interests in its books so they'll know where to focus future research efforts. He pointed out that a traditional "flat" ebook would not do justice to the material in the way that an indexed, searchable, cross-linked interactive version does.I agree with him entirely. If I bought a digital edition of the OED, I'd want it to come bundled with a reader that added hyperlinks and advanced search – there are plenty of free/open technologies that run on all major operating systems that would fit the bill nicely. And if I bought the electronic version, I'd be sorely tempted by an annual subscription that kept it up-to-date, downloading fresh versions every now and again (or adding the option of searching OUP's databases if I wanted to expand my queries to the most recent entries). But I'd want it to work offline, too, because I get a lot of writing done on airplanes and on trains where there is no internet. I'm not the only one, and there's also a huge cohort of writers who help themselves focus by shutting off the internet altogether while they're working.And in OUP's defence, they say that they limit their data-mining and data-retention in ways that are much more conservative than their rental terms allow. Usage logs are not correlated with users themselves, and it wouldn't be simple to automate such a correlation. And they have no intention of selling the press, which has been part of the university for centuries.Money mattersFinally, it's undeniable that developing an offline version of the OED and HTOED would cost money and it's not clear that such an effort would be the most profitable way to invest the press's limited funds. And Grathwohl stressed that the press has no philosophical objection to offering an "offline" version of its reference titles (it already has offline versions of many of its lesser reference books, sold as apps).But the point is that we have sleepwalked into a new way of accessing some very ancient tools. Commercial decisions married to the lawyerly norm of asking for the world, the moon, and your first-born in rental agreements have birthed a new, non-negotiable relationship between people who live and die by words and the lexicographers whose work serves them. A university whose name is synonymous with the perpetual archiving of books is now telling scholars that their crucial references can never be their property, and that their ongoing use of those works is subject to continuous monitoring and indefinite retention.The relationship between scholars and the OED has been stood on its head. It used to be that you could buy the OED, and generate only one blip of data ("a copy has been sold"), and you could retain the book forever. You got infinite, perpetual, private access to the OED. Under the new rules, OUP gets perpetual, private, infinite access to your usage data, and you only get to use the OED for so long as you pay your fees.The digital OED has many wonderful features, and is available for site-licensing to universities, schools and libraries – public libraries across the UK all have access to it, and OUP has no easy way of tracking individual library users' access to the service.Grathwohl is an articulate spokesman for the digital offerings, and I hope he represents the attitude across the press. It's true that OUP is no worse than most academic publishers, but as Grathwohl mused, "We have large and uniform respect. Don't we have a responsibility to be as equitable as possible, to set standards that others might use as a benchmark?"
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. There's a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day.For now, read on for this week's iOS selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).Henri Le Worm (£2.99)Some big names are on board for this app, which aims to get children interested in cooking. Raymond Blanc provides the recipes while Simon Pegg provides voice narration for the characters. Based around Henri and his minibeast friends, the app includes storytelling, interactive activities and 10 recipes for kids and parents to cook together.iPadAsphalt 8: Airborne (£0.69)Gameloft's street racing games were popular on mobile phones long before Android even existed. The eighth incarnation offers more cars – 47 in total – nine locations to race them in, and a new emphasis on ramps, rolls and stunts (hence the "Airborne" aspect). Online multiplayer races for up to eight players at once add to the fun.iPhone / iPadSmosh (Free)YouTube comedians Ian Hecox and Anthony Padilla have one of the most popular channels in the world, with just under 12.1m subscribers and 2.6bn views of their videos. Now Smosh is going mobile, with an iPhone app providing access to the videos and "a rich selection of artisanally hand-curated links" for fans.iPhoneFluid Football Versus (Free)Alongside New Star Soccer, the original Fluid Football is one of my favourite new football games from the touchscreen era. This is its sequel, with more of a focus on multiplayer matches as well as the single-player mode. As before, it sees you trying to score goals by drawing lines for your players' runs, then (hopefully) flicking the ball into the net. A real tactical challenge.iPhone / iPadSky Sports Pub Challenge (Free)Sky's latest football app is designed to be used while watching Premier League matches in the pub. Indeed, it can only be used there: you have to check in to a licensed Sky Sports venue to play. The game takes the form of a trivia quiz played before, during and after matches, with predictions for upcoming fixtures thrown in for good measure.iPhoneHeat Magazine (Free)Heat continues to be a go-to magazine for celebrity culture for many people in the UK, and has already spawned a Heat Extra news app. This is different: a digital version of the full Heat magazine, sold at £1.99 per issue or £1.49 for a rolling weekly subscription.iPhone / iPadXing (£1.99)This travel app has been winning awards in cloud company Evernote's developer contests, but now regular travellers can give it a spin too. It's for taking notes and planning trips, synchronising everything with Evernote's servers, and then seeing your notes pop up when you reach specific destinations thanks to its use of location.iPhoneBen 10 Slammers (£0.69)Card-battling has been a popular (and lucrative) game genre on iOS and Android in recent times. This is Cartoon Network's attempt to make it work for a children's brand: Ben 10. The game gets kids constructing their own deck of digital cards to battle against AI opponents and other players. It does use in-app purchases, with packs of credits (used to buy more characters) sold in tiers of up to £6.99.iPhone / iPadNook Video (Free)Only available in the US, this is the film and TV service from Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook brand, now available for devices beyond its own Nook tablets. It's a store rather than a subscription service, with shows and movies available to stream or download.iPhone / iPadSmash Bandits (Free)Lots of positive buzz this week around Smash Bandits, a ridiculous (in all the best ways) racing game that follows last year's successful Smash Cops. The game sees you in a succession of car chases trying to escape the police, upgrading your car as you go with new parts and power-ups. And as the name implies, smashing through scenery is a big part of the gameplay too. Fresh and fab.iPhone / iPadSongdrop (Free)Songdrop is a digital music startup that's trying to get people to collect the songs they hear around the web in one place, "dropping" them using a web-browser bookmarklet from sites including YouTube, SoundCloud and music blogs. This is its first mobile app, focusing on listening to your playlists, while also seeing what other people have been dropping.iPhoneDream House Days (Free)If you've not played any games by Japanese developer Kairosoft, check out its back catalogue: Game Dev Story, Mega Mall Story and Dungeon Village for starters. Dream House Days is the latest game from the firm, and it's another addictive (if familiar, to fans) simulation game. Here, your job is to build and rent out real estate, overseeing your tenants' lives and loves as you go.iPhone / iPadQuilting Patterns by Craftsy (Free)Yeah, you read that right: quilting. Because sometimes your fingers don't have to be using a touchscreen. This is a collection of nearly 5,000 quilting patterns from the Craftsy website, letting you browse them all, and download the free ones. Some are paid, but the purchase has to happen online.iPhonetadaa 3D (£2.49)If you're into your mobile photography, tadaa 3D is worth a look. It's a site to create 3D-like photos that "react as you move your phone", along with more standard photo-app features like filters and social sharing.iPhoneContacts+ for iPhone (Free)Looking for something different to Apple's iOS contacts app? Contacts+ might be it. It pulls in data from Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn, lets you sort friends into groups, and has a clean, attractive design that makes getting around your contacts quick and painless.iPhoneJelly Splash (Free)A match-three puzzle game with jelly in it? Developer Wooga has clearly been watching the success of Candy Crush Saga with interest. In this case, though, you're actually matching little jellies, with more than 100 levels, five modes and Facebook leaderboards. And yes, of course, in-app purchases to buy coins to exchange for boosters to help you through the hard bits.iPhone / iPadRadical.FM - Radio Re-Defined (Free)For now, this app is only in the US, providing competition to Pandora, iHeartRadio and Apple's upcoming iTunes Radio in the personal radio area. The idea: you create your own streaming radio stations by picking genres and artists, with a simple slider-bar system to tweak the music mix until you're happy. You don't subscribe: instead, Radical.fm takes donations from happy users to fund itself.iPhone / iPadCurious (Free)Curious is one of the growing number of websites offering online education through videos. This is its first iPad app, promising thousands of lessons in categories including cooking, DIY, arts and crafts and music. "Do you want to learn how to grow organic asparagus, or brew beer, or flirt in Italian, or use pivot tables correctly?" asks its App Store listing. Well, do you?iPadHot5 Fitness (Free)Can you get fit in five minutes? Hot5 Fitness hopes you can: it's a series of video workouts that last for five minutes, although you can string them together for more. They blend yoga, pilates and regular cardio routines, with various difficulty levels, and eight trainers giving the instructions. Five workouts are free, then you get more through a combination of earned points and in-app purchases.iPhoneHarris + Hoole (Free)The Harris + Hoole app is of limited geographic use: it works for the chain of British coffee shops. But there's one feature I really like about it: the ability to tell the app what "My Usual" is in terms of size, espresso shots, milk type and temperature, then check in to any H+H shop to get it. Loyalty card features are also included.iPhoneThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).Asphalt 8: Airborne (£0.69)Gameloft's street racing games were popular on mobile phones long before Android even existed. The eighth incarnation offers more cars – 47 in total – nine locations to race them in, and a new emphasis on ramps, rolls and stunts (hence the "Airborne" aspect). Online multiplayer races for up to eight players at once add to the fun.Sky Sports Pub Challenge (Free)Sky's latest football app is designed to be used while watching Premier League matches in the pub. Indeed, it can only be used there: you have to check in to a licensed Sky Sports venue to play. The game takes the form of a trivia quiz played before, during and after matches, with predictions for upcoming fixtures thrown in for good measure.Dots: A Game About Connecting (Free)Dots might just be the most addictive Android game yet, thriving on the simplicity of connecting same-coloured dots on a grid in 60-second rounds. Twitter and Facebook are plumbed in to compare your scores to friends, and there is also an untimed mode for practice. In-app purchases of power-ups fund the action.Timely Alarm Clock (Free)Clock apps are ten-a-penny on the Google Play store, but there's something special about Timely. It's simple and elegant to use, with dragging and swiping controls used to set your alarm, gestures to control the snooze function, and a tablet-optimised design. It's free but shows ads after five days if you choose not to upgrade via in-app purchase.Mr Shingu's Paper Zoo (£0.99)Aimed at children, this is a delightful combination of origami and virtual pets. Kids have to populate a zoo with colourful animals by folding them (virtually) together following on-screen prompts, then keep the menagerie occupied with items. Rather than in-app purchases, the app uses a virtual currency earned by playing to fund your child's zoo expansion.Minuum Keyboard (£2.48)Pitched as "the little keyboard for big fingers", Minuum is a clever idea that shrinks the size of your on-screen keyboard, while using auto-correct to detect what you're typing on the reduced number of keys. The company behind it is hoping to expand (so to speak) onto smart-watches and other wearable devices in the future, so this is an early look at how its technology is shaping up.Dragons of Atlantis: Heirs (Free)Social games publisher Kabam had a big hit on Facebook with its Dragons of Atlantis game, which has more than 15m players. This mobile spin-off is separate – existing players will have to start all over again on their phones – but sees a similar mixture of city-building and dragon-raising.Nook Video (Free)Only available in the US, this is the film and TV service from Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook brand, now available for Android devices beyond its own Nook tablets. It's a store rather than a subscription service, with shows and movies available to stream or download.Fluid Football Versus (Free)Alongside New Star Soccer, the original Fluid Football is one of my favourite new football games from the touchscreen era. This is its sequel, with more of a focus on multiplayer matches as well as the single-player mode. As before, it sees you trying to score goals by drawing lines for your players' runs, then (hopefully) flicking the ball into the net. A real tactical challenge.On Beyond Zebra! (£2.58)There are dozens and dozens of Dr Seuss book-apps available from publisher Oceanhouse Media, which has been working its way through the archives. This latest app is a reminder that there's more to Seuss than hatted cats and strange-coloured eggs: this tale of animals beyond the alphabet like the Yuzz-a-ma-Tuzz is a delight.Chegg eTextbooks &amp; Study Tools (Free)Chegg may be better known in the US for its digital textbooks service, but its app is available in the UK too. It lets users access textbooks they've rented from Chegg's website, reading them on a smartphone or tablet. The app also offers free previews of "eTextbooks" from the company's growing catalogue.Contra: Evolution (£0.63)Gamers with fond memories of the original Contra from the late 1980s will definitely want to grab this 2013 remake from PunchBox Studios. It keeps the "run-and-gun" gameplay from the first game, but beefs up the graphics and tweaks the controls to suit modern-day touchscreen devices.Geekbench 3 (£0.69)A more serious tool here for anyone who wants to dig into the speed of their Android smartphone or tablet. It's the latest version of the processor-benchmarking service, running a series of tests to put your device through its paces, and report scores so you can brag (or not) about its abilities.Mecho Wars (£1.31)Developer Luc Bernard's strategy game has regularly been compared to Nintendo classic Advance Wars, but it doesn't suffer from the comparison. It's got more of a fantasy theme than that game, with a combination of solo and multiplayer modes to test your skills.Astro Boy Dash (Free)Another into-the-screen endless runner for Android, following in the footsteps of Temple Run, Pitfall and Despicable Me: Minion Rush. This time, the inspirations are manga characters Astro Boy and Astro Girl, with a mixture of touch and tilt controls helping either character run through the colourful game-world.Buy Me a Pie! Grocery List Pro (£1.92)3m people are already using shopping-list creator Buy Me a Pie on other platforms, so its Android debut should pick up a few more fans. It lets you create and share shopping lists with friends and family members, synchronising the details between people and devices.Hex Boyfriends (£1.99)This is the latest "gamebook" from developer Tin Man Games, which has released a series of interactive-fiction apps over the last couple of years, including official app-remakes of the Fighting Fantasy series. This is newer fare: a "romantic, supernatural interactive novel" that's the sequel to a previous story about Vampire Boyfriends.Mashable (Free)Mashable started life as an industry site about social media and technology, but has mutated into more of an entertainment site over time. Its official Android app plays nice with smartphones and tablets alike, with its key selling point its use of notifications when the "Mashable Velocity algorithm" detects that a story is about to go viral (i.e. you'll see Grumpy Cat's latest thing before your friends).Buddha Finger (Free)"If you can count to 10, you'll love it," promises publisher Made with Marmalade about this action game, which sees you tapping numbers on the screen to kung fu-kick enemies across 61 levels. It looks good fun.HabitRPG (Free)Finally, the latest attempt to blend roleplaying game mechanics with a productivity app. Or, as the Google Play listing puts it: "A habit-building program which treats your life like a Role Playing Game. Level up as you succeed, lose HP as you fail, earn money to buy weapons and armor, compete with your friends." It's the official Android spin-off from the HabitRPG website, used to motivate everything from calling your mum to working out.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Yahoo! attracted more website visitors in the United States than Google during July, pushing the company to the top of the online league for the first time in two years.Nearly 197 million individuals visited a Yahoo! website last month, according to rankings from comScore, versus 192 million for Google. The last time Yahoo! outperformed Google was in May 2011.The improvement suggests that changes under chief executive Marissa Mayer, who was recruited from Google, are beginning to resonate with the online audience. Mayer has revamped the Yahoo! home page, as well as email and weather services.The Yahoo! audience total does not include traffic to its newly acquired blogging platform Tumblr, which came in as the 28th most popular site with 38 million visitors."No online media outlet would have come close to predicting this, and if they had, you would have said they were insane," said Ed Barton, director of digital media at Strategy Analytics. "This will probably have a positive impact on the share price and if Yahoo! keeps this up, it has a chance of becoming relevant again."However, comScore's data only paints a partial picture, because it does not include mobile phone usage, which now accounts for a significant amount of Google traffic.
Gamescom is insane. Multiple giant halls filled with video games, besieged by 200,000 people, all jostling for hands-on time – and swag. While E3 is generally thought of as the industry's major event, this Cologne-based behemoth is the true, public-facing epicentre of the gaming year.While wandering the vast show floors, I've been chatting with journalists and developers, asking about what they've seen and what they wanted to see. Of course, there are plenty of indie gems and low-key treasures to be found here, but these are the titles almost everyone has mentioned. They may not be thebestgames at Gamescom, but they're the ones that have been brought up time and time again over the last four days. Besides the three-hour queues, the giant cheese-drenched pretzels, the cos-play kids and the endless noise, these are the things insiders are chatting about...Titanfall (EA, Xbox One, Xbox 360, PC)Look, okay, it's just a sci-fi shooter and that's not exactly pushing the boundaries of innovative game design. However, the addition of a rocket powered double jump, the ability to run along walls, and of course, the inclusion of personal Titan mechs, all add up to a thrilling and frenetic FPS experience. Oh, and the application of story mechanics to the multiplayer experience is really cleverly handled. I love the epilogue sequence at the end of each match. Here, the losing side in a team-based face-off has to quickly escape to a dropship, while the winning team tries to pick off all the runners. If one of the losers make it, they get bonus XP, softening the blow of defeat. It sounds like a tiny addition, but it's great fun.Watch Dogs (Ubisoft, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, PC, Wii U)After its explosive E3 debut in 2012, this cyberpunk hacking thriller dipped off the radar for a little while. Some began to wonder whether it was just a generic sci-fi action fest, lurking beneath the compelling idea of a character who can hack into smartphones and city infrastructures. But the playable demo on show at Gamescom reveals the fascinating asymmetrical multiplayer mode which crops up during the single-player campaign, allowing randomly matched participants to engage in cat-and-mouse style face-offs. One player has to blend in with the crowd, while attempting to get close enough to hack the PDA of their opponent, while the mouse has to escape. Ubisoft was also showing off the companion app, which allows tablet owners to enter another player's game as a helicopter cop. While the console gamer is escaping in a car, the tablet participant directs police vehicles to their location using scenic objects like drawbridges and traffic bollards to stop them. Clever stuff.Destiny (Activision, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360, Xbox One)Bungie is still being rather coy about its magnificently ambitious MMO shooter, which takes place in a future version of our solar system. The Gamescom trailer shows off a few tiny new snippets of footage – an apocalyptic junk yard filled with rusted out cars, a pink-hued alien landscape, lots of combat. Apart from that, we heard more about the way public events nestle seamlessly into single-player and co-op campaigns, allowing players to bump into the objectives of other groups, joining in the task to gain extra XP. But how these events mix in with the raids, strikes and campaign missions, we're still not entirely sure. It does look lovely though, and the idea of chancing upon other squads of soldiers engaged in their own private wars is strangely compelling.Dead Rising 3 (Capcom, Xbox One)Everyone was pretty down on this at E3, where available footage seemed to suggest a much grittier and therefore more standardised instalment in the zombie adventure series. But the Cologne demo has gone down well, especially the Smart Glass integration which allows Xbox One players to pair their mobile to the game so that missions and objectives are actually delivered via phone calls. Having a game ring you up and tell you to leg it from your zombie infested building is the future.Murasaki Baby (Sony/Ovosonico, PS Vita)Featured during Sony's pre-Gamescom press release, this highly stylised 2D adventure gets the player to guide a toddler through a nightmarish fantasy world, using the touch pad to hold her hand as she explores. The trailer shows the girl wandering about with a balloon in her hand, shrinking away in terror from monsters, and the player's role is to teach her what is safe and what is not – and also to retrieve her balloon when she accidentally releases it. Developed by Italian studioOvosonico, formed by Massimo Guarini, an ex-director of Grasshopper Manufacture, this one really stood out among Sony's cavalcade of indie announcements; it has has hardened journalists wistfully recalling the Ico hand-holding mechanic. More games should have hand holding.Day Z (Bohemia Interactive, PC)The standalone version of Dean Hall's legendary Arma 2 mod has a modest showing in a back alley of the Gamescom business centre, but it has still generated plenty of chatter. The uncompromising open-world zombie apocalypse adventure allows players to heal themselves with blood bag transfusions, but as several journalists have discovered to their ghoulish delight, protagonists can now capture other survivors, handcuff them to beds and use them as blood slaves, farming their red stuff for unforeseen emergencies. I first heard about this from Tim Edwards at PCGamesN, and there's adescription of the practiceon the site. *shudder*
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Nexus 7 (2013) Review &gt;&gt; AnandtechTo make a long story short, don't worry about the ~7% decrease in battery capacity as there are enough improvements in platform power and performance (and thus perf per watt) to more than make up for the smaller battery.And a very high-quality screen (measured in about 15 different ways). (Thanks #HotSoup for the link.)Android tablets just the medicine for Dubai's smart hospitals &gt;&gt; The NationalAll Dubai Health Authority hospitals and primary and speciality health centres are to get Android tablets.Three thousand will be provided for patients and people in waiting areas, the authority said.Rashid Hospital, Dubai Hospital, Latifa Hospital and Hatta Hospital are among the facilities receiving the devices.(Thanks #Oisin75 for the link.)Enterprises warned against first true Google phone, Moto X &gt;&gt; Computer and Security Online"It's engineers gone wild," said Roger Entner, principal analyst for Recon Analytics. "The engineers are [saying], 'Oh, wouldn't this be a really cool idea,' but don't think through the repercussions."The ease-of-use features in the Moto X, designed and built by Google-owned Motorola, are likely to tickle consumers while haunting IT security pros. First is the always-on microphone, which a person can use to activate the device using trigger words, such as "OK Google Now," to make phone calls or access services and features. The feature is possible through a special, low-power chip developed by Motorola that keeps the microphone on without draining the battery.The always-ready microphone, coupled with the massive amount of data collection, makes the Moto X a valuable target for cybercriminals and cyberspies, who are already heavily focused on developing malware to take control of Android devices.No need for plastic cups or laser microphones.The consumer PC market will implode quicker than anybody thinks &gt;&gt; CITEworldMatt Rosoff considers the PC figures from Dell, HP and Lenovo:You can hash the numbers any way you like, but the trends are clear. The PC market is getting crushed by tablets. In fact, I think we've reached a tipping point that will mean the near-total collapse of the consumer PC market within three years. By mid-2016, consumer PC sales will be less than half of where they are today. Probably way less.Gentlemen! Or, how our most successful game is also our least profitable &gt;&gt; GamasutraYann Seznec:It seems unlikely to me that people tried to buy it on Google Play, found it wouldn't run on their device, and then tracked down a torrent instead. It's far more likely that the people who pirated the game have only one method of finding and installing apps, and that is through pirate sites.One thing that helped me reach that conclusion was the location statistics for the pirated copies. About 95% of the pirated copies are being installed in Russia and China (and of those, mostly China). We didn't even translate our Google Play store into Russian or Chinese, so it's almost certain that the pirates just found our app on localized pirate sites. On the other hand, I'm glad our menu design is intuitive enough that you can play the game without speaking English!Yes, piracy of the Android version of the app (yada yada) but Seznec pulls out far more interesting lessons from the experience. (Thanks #ClarkeViper for the link.)Teens and Mobile Apps Privacy &gt;&gt; Pew Internet &amp; American Life ProjectHalf (51%) of teen apps users say that they have decided not to install a cell phone or tablet app after they found out they would have to share personal information in order to use it.Younger teen apps users ages 12-13 are more likely than older teen apps users 14-17 to say that they have avoided apps over concerns about personal information sharing (56% vs. 49%). Boys and girls are equally likely to avoid certain apps for these reasons. There are no clear patterns of variation according to the parent's income, education level or race and ethnicity.One in four teen apps users have uninstalled an app because they found out it was collecting personal information that they didn't want to share.There's hope for the next generation yet. The report has some fascinating detail.Cute-Fight hangs up its gloves &gt;&gt; Derek PowazekIn March, with the small amount of friends and family money gone, my savings dry, and my debt growing, I had to stop paying the team. To their credit, and with my everlasting thanks, they kept on working as long as they could. But a few months ago, we all realized we'd have to look elsewhere for income.There are startup hero stories aplenty in San Francisco. Tales of founders going against the odds, persevering in the face of obscurity, and then finally being rewarded with fame and fortune. But what they don't tell you is that 99% of those stories end with the business shutting down and the founder moving away or getting a job or worse. Most of the time, it doesn't work. And though it pains me to say it, Cute-Fight is one of those 99%. It didn't work as a business.Tim Green: "Only boys use Android..." &gt;&gt; Mobile EntertainmentWhat do teenage girls think about BlackBerry, in-app purchases, Android and more? I asked some…I'm on holiday in a remote corner of Wales, cut off from mobile connectivity and therefore unable to check the important things going on in the outside world. Football transfer rumours for example.I've also little idea what's going on in the mobile space, which makes it tricky for me to comment on the week's big news.So instead, I quizzed three youngsters about their phone habits. They are Lois (16), Marnie (14) and Lucy (12).Really fascinating interview. (Not very comforting for BlackBerry though.) Be interesting to see a version interviewing boys.FC3: Who's Watching You? &gt;&gt; ongoingTim Bray (who works at Google):Wor­ried about being watched? Me too. So who's doing it, and why, and what can they see, and what can you do about it?A very neat rundown, well set out.Tridiv : a CSS 3D EditorTridiv is a web-based editor for creating 3D shapes in CSS.Rather nice. Chrome and Safari only at present.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
European technology companies are trapped in a funding bottleneck as venture capital firms refuse to reinvest in the sector until they see a return from earlier investments, such as music service Spotify, via successful stock market flotations.As US companies such as Twitter gear up for multibillion-dollar flotations, European venture capitalists say that they need to see share issues that will recoup their initial forays into the technology sector before seeking out the next Google.One senior investment banker said success on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) was essential for companies such as Spotify, property website Zoopla and Klarna, a mobile payment service. Funds raised by a wave of initial public offerings in technology companies can then be returned to venture capitalists, who typically invest small sums in startup businesses and then reap the reward when they float or become a commercial success.Facebook's earliest venture capital investors included Accel Partners, which also invested in payday lender Wonga."We need some good visible success stories, floating on major European markets – really the LSE," the banker said. "These companies need to perform well in the after-market and make money for the institutional investors who buy in the IPO [initial public offering] – that way we will start to build a sustainable environment for financing, building and exiting [selling stakes in] tech companies in Europe."The banker said once investors saw a return from technology investments in the wake of flotations, more funds would become available. "This will eventually lead top-tier venture capital firms to be able to sell down their stake so they can return money to their investors. If the flotations go well there is an expectation that the UK market will become more receptive to venture-backed tech companies."He added: "We believe that for the LSE you need to focus on demonstrating that the companies are great companies in their own right, not 'tech companies' – for instance Asos and Rightmove."Asos, an online clothing retailer, joined the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) in October 2001, just over a year after setting up, and is now valued at £4bn, while property website Rightmove floated in 2006 and is now valued at £2.4bn.Although technology startups in the UK are benefiting from a growing pool of "angel" investors, who put in small amounts, typically a few thousand pounds, to kickstart a company, many are struggling to secure their first institutional investment rounds, known as Series A and B.Industry sources say this is because many venture capital funds that have seen low returns from past Series A and B investments are turning to late-stage investment when companies are bigger, depriving funds for medium-sized firms.Spotify raised $100m (£64.2m) from investors in September 2012, in a move that valued the business at $3bn. But the Swedish music-streaming company has not given an indication that it intends to float on the stock market before 2015. UK-based Zoopla is seen as a rival to Rightmove, and is expected to generate interest from institutional investors. Klarna, based in Sweden, provides payment systems for online retailers, and is believed by some analysts to be worth more than $1bn.Manish Madhvani, managing partner for investment bank GP Bullhound, said the environment for venture capital funds and companies had changed significantly, adding that there was an opportunity for new funds from the private equity industry. "Traditional private equity is helping grow the technology sector and is providing liquidity for the VCs, plus there has been strong and welcome demand from later stage private equity for tech, given the growth the sector has shown compared with traditional sectors."He suggested that institutional investors were still wary of investing in the relatively immature and volatile technology sector. "Education is still required for the institutional investors. Tech is a speciality sector with explosive growth potential over a short period of time. But the investment characteristics are very different to traditional sectors."
A British attempt to raise a record $32m (£20.5m) through crowdfunding to build top-end smartphones has raised a unprecedented $12m, but because it failed to hit its target will now return all the money.TheUbuntu Edge crowdfunding projectrun by UK software companyCanonicalbegan 30 days ago, aiming to raise more than triple the previous record, which had been set by thePebblesmartwatch. That raised $10.2m last year.But despite hopes by Canonical founder Mark Shuttleworth of last-minute funding from a handset company to enable him to build 40,000 phones, the scheme ended yesterday morning just under $20m short of its target."It has definitely set a record for the most money raised, but also for the most missed in a campaign," Shuttleworth said.The Ubuntu Edge was to be a top-end smartphone that would be built on a zero-profit basis, offering the ability to run both Google's Android software and Canonical's Ubuntu Touch mobile desktop software. With 128GB of storage, Shuttleworth saw it as combining the capabilities of a smartphone and desktop PC: by attaching it to a screen, it would in effect offer a desktop PC replacement.The high funding target was necessary because of the device's specification and the cost of tooling to build it, even for a comparatively small production run. But in the end only around 11,000 people pledged to buy a total of 17,230 phones. Only one company, Bloomberg, pledged to buy one of the 50 "enterprise" allocations of 115 phones for $80,000 – and that came on the 17th day, when independent statistical analysis had already suggested the project would fail.On the fundraising page, Shuttleworth said "Thousands of you clearly want to own an Ubuntu phone and believe in our vision of convergence, and rest assured you won't have much longer to wait." He said a number of handset manufacturers have tested prototypes of the Ubuntu phone software, and that carriers are interested in deploying it.
Google is celebrating the 151st anniversary of the birth of French composer Achille-Claude Debussy with an animated doodle set to one of his best-known pieces, Clair de lune (Moonlight).The doodle features a moonlit riverside scene which progresses to the sound of the piece, the third movement of his most famous piano suites, Suite bergamasque (1890–1905). Lights in the streets and houses flicker on and off in time to the music as the silhouettes of cars, boats and cyclists pass by, smoke rises from chimneys and rain begins to fall.The animation ends with two people in different boats crossing paths on the river and sharing a red umbrella.Debussy's compositions are considered a seminal force in the music of the 20th century. He developed a system of harmony and musical structure that has been compared to the work of Impressionist and Symbolist painters. His style was reflected in his best known quote: "Music is the space between the notes."His other major works include Prélude à l'après-midi d'un faune (Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun, 1894), the opera Pelléas et Mélisande (1902), and La Mer (The Sea, 1905).Debussy was born in Saint-Germain-en-Laye, France, on 22 August 1862. In 1884, aged just 22, he won the Grand Prix de Rome with his cantata L'Enfant prodigue (The Prodigal Child).He died of colon cancer at his home in the Bois de Boulogne in Paris on 25 March 1918 when he was only 55.
My daughter is off to university to do a finance degree, which will involve a lot of serious spreadsheet and database work. She's outgrown her otherwise excellent four-year-old Asus netbook and is taken with various Chromebooks and the recently reduced Microsoft Surface. But in practical terms, are we still better getting a Windows laptop with the student edition of Microsoft Office? Our budget is £300-£400.SteveIn a word, yes.Chromebooks are small and reasonably priced, but they depend on having continuous access to Wi-Fi, unless you buy one that takes a mobile phone Sim as well. Chromebooks may run packaged apps offline, but they don't run Microsoft Office, which makes them a non-starter for serious Microsoft Office work.Your daughter would be able to use the free web-based Office applications in Microsoft SkyDrive, but these have limited functionality compared with the desktop versions. They're great for casual work, and can handle files created in the full Microsoft Office, but they're not a serious replacement.A Microsoft Surface Pro tablet with Type cover/keyboard would be a viable option, particularly if your daughter wanted to use the pen-based digitiser. However, it has limited storage space and is expensive if you don't need all the functionality. I reviewed a Surface Pro in some depth for Technophile. I liked it, but I wouldn't spend my own money on the first version. The next one – with a Haswell fourth-generation Intel Core processor and Windows 8.1 – might tempt me, but I don't expect it to appear in the UK much before Christmas.Mainstream Windows laptopsWhen it comes to mass-market Windows 8 laptops, there are plenty of options with very similar specifications. That often includes a 15.6in screen, a third-generation 2.4GHz Intel Core i3-3110M processor with integrated graphics, 4GB of memory, a 500GB hard drive, and a built-in DVD drive. You can save a little money by dropping down to a Pentium B980 processor, but it's probably not worth it. Paying for a slightly faster Core i3-3120M or Core i3-3130M isn't worth it for your daughter's purposes either, unless the price difference is small. Avoid Intel Celerons and low-end AMD processors for serious Office work.The main cheap laptops in this bit of the market include the Acer Aspire V3-531 and the Lenovo G580. An Acer Aspire V3-531 with a 750GB hard drive currently costs£319.99 at Amazon.co.uk, though you could save £10 by dropping the processor down to the slower B980. Unfortunately, I can't find a G580 equivalent at a reasonable price at the moment, though Amazon has one with a Pentium B960 and 1TB hard drive for£319.99. The B960 is slower than the B980 and B970, though not by much.However, if your daughter likes pink, PC World has the Samsung Series 3 NP350V5C for£329.99, which is a bargain compared with Amazon's£450 in pinkor£429.99 in silver. The pink version has a Core i3-3110M processor with 6GB of memory and 500GB hard drive, which is a good spec for the price.The main problems with all these machines are that they don't have touch screens for Windows 8, and they are too heavy to carry around. They'd be fine for use in her room, preferably with an external mouse, but she wouldn't want to take them to many lectures. If she did, she'd need to handle them with some care: they're not designed for bashing around.Ultrabooks and touchIt would therefore be better to go for a light, touch-screen Ultrabook with a 13.3in or smaller screen and better battery life. Ultrabooks leave out the DVD drive and often swap the hard drive for a smaller solid state drive (SSD). The problems are that touch screens and SSDs are expensive and put Ultrabooks out of your price range – unless you can pick one up at a discount.One option would be the Acer Aspire S3-391 13.3-inch Ultrabook with a Core i3- 3217U processor, 4GB of memory, and 500GB hard drive, which Amazon has for £100 off at£399.97. (Search for NXM1FEK007 to find alternative sources.) However, this does not have a touch screen. A similar and probably better alternative is the Toshiba Satellite U940 - 100, currently reduced from £549.99 to£399.Perhaps the best compromise would be one of the well-established Asus VivoBook models. These are not Ultrabooks but they are ultraportable, and they do have touch-sensitive screens. The most portable version is the Asus VivoBook S200E, which has an 11.6in touchscreen, 1.40GHz Core i3-2365M  processor, 4GB of memory and 500GB hard drive for£388.97.The drawback is the slow second-generation Core processor. It would be better to get the same machine with a third-generation Core i3-3217U. That would bust your budget at the Amazon price,£457.74, but PC World Business will order one on request for£407.97. You may be able to get one cheaper by searching for S200E CT158H, but suppliers with very low prices may not have any in stock.Asus also does a version of the same machine with a larger 14in touchscreen, though the definition is the usual 1366 x 768 pixels (it will show exactly the same stuff, but slightly bigger). Amazon has the Asus VivoBook S400CA with a Core i3-2365 for£414.34.When it comes to portability, the Asus VivoBook S200E weighs 1.3kg (2.9lbs), whereas the Acer Aspire V3-531 weighs 2.6kg (5.7lbs).The VivoBook range does have one missing feature, which is that you can't detach the screen from the keyboard and use it separately as a tablet. This is possible with the 10.1in Acer Iconia W510, 11.6in HP Envy x2 and similar machines. These are very versatile, and the Iconia W510 offers up to 18 hours of battery life. Alas, there are two problems from your daughter's point of view. First, they are underpowered for serious Microsoft Office work, because they have power-efficient Intel Atom Z2760 processors and only 2GB of memory. Second, they're well beyond your budget. But for a university student who has cash to spare, an Iconia W510 would make a great portable companion to a fast desktop PC.Shop aroundI've used mainly Amazon prices as this makes comparisons easier, and Amazon also has user reviews and star ratings. Of course, there are many other sources online, includingPlay.comandLaptops Direct. However, it's really worth going to PC World, Currys, John Lewis or similar store to get hands-on experience. It's particularly important to compare keyboards and screens, which are extremely variable at the low end of the market.You will also see laptops with processors that I haven't mentioned above. For safety's sake, always look up their benchmark scores by searching the table atNotebookCheck. You don't need to look at the scores, just their position in the table. The reason some laptops are really cheap is because they use slow processors....Microsoft Office choiceI'm assuming you will buy a copy of Microsoft Office Home and Student separately, and while the 2013 edition goes best with Windows 8, the 2010 version is fine. For more information on buying Office, see my previous answer,Microsoft Office: which version should I buy?However, get your daughter to contact her university to see if they have any special deals that apply to students, not just staff.At the moment, the best deal for UK students isOffice 365 University, which costs £59.99 for four years (£15 per year). This includes the seven programs in the Home Premium version of Office, a proper email service, and 20GB of SkyDrive cloud storage. Also, it covers two PCs or Macs, so your daughter could also use Office Mobile for Office 365 on her Apple iPhone, if she has one. Office Mobile is a standard part of Windows Phone phones, and is also available forAndroid phones.
Jose Mourinho iswinding up Manchester United. Arsenalaren't spending any money. Bets are already being taken on the exact time Harry Redknapp will be interviewed leaning out of a car window on transfer deadline day. Football is back, Back, BACK!Smartphones and tablets are providing an increasing number of ways for fans to keep ourselves informed and entertained in between matches – and during them. Here are some of the best football apps available for the 2013-14 season: click on the platform name (e.g. iOS or Android) to visit their app store listings.WATCHINGSky GoSky GoSky's official mobile app includes the ability to watch live broadcasts from all its sports channels, including Premier League and lower tiers in England and cup matches. The cost is bundled into the price of your Sky subscription at home, with up to two devices able to be registered to watch on the go.iOS/AndroidBT SportThis year's other Premier League broadcaster is BT Sport, whose app launched just in time for the new season. It'll be screening 38 Premier League matches over the course of the season, with the app also acting as a second-screen "companion" when watching on a bigger screen.iOS/AndroidEurosport PlayerFeeling cosmopolitan? Sample some of the live football on Eurosport's two channels in the UK, with the app free to existing Eurosport subscribers, and £2.99 a month through in-app purchase.iOS/AndroidSun+ GoalsThis is News International's big new app for the 2013-14 season, having bagged the rights to show mobile video highlights of Premier League goals while the matches are still playing. These "near-live" clips are accompanied by other videos, scores and a full-time highlights package on Saturday evening. It requires a subscription to the Sun+ paywall service.iOS/AndroidSOCIAL / SECOND-SCREENFanatixSky Sports Pub ChallengeSky is hitting football fans from all angles this year, apps-wise. This is designed to be used while watching matches on TV (yes, in pubs) with a football trivia quiz running before, during and after games. The twist being you have to check in to an official Sky Sports venue to play.iOS/AndroidFanatixThis app has evolved somewhat from its early days as a social app for football fans to chat about matches. Now it's "re-imagining the back page" too, with a mixture of news, social media feeds and video highlights. It's still a handy companion for watching live matches too.iOS/AndroidNEWS / SCORESTHE Football AppTHE Football AppThis excellent app has 4.5m active users, apparently. It offers news, scores, tables and a host of other data from more than 100 leagues and competitions well beyond the UK. Minute-by-minute commentaries, videos and tweakable push notifications add to its usefulness.iOS/AndroidSky Sports Live Football Score CentreSky's other football app is focused on news, scores, fixtures and other stats, although its Sky Sports News Radio feature is particularly handy on Saturdays if you're marooned somewhere without a TV to hand. As with other apps, push notifications are part of the offering too.iOS/AndroidESPN UKESPN's brand new sports app covers more than football, with an emphasis on personalisation so you can set the sports, teams and tournaments you want news on in your feed. It pulls in news, scores, videos, photos, tweets and Facebook status updates, with filters to turn as many of those on or off as you want.iOS/AndroidFourFourTwo Football Stats ZoneThis spin-off from FourFourTwo magazine is one for the footballingStattosof the world. It serves up in-depth statistics from Opta on matches in the top European leagues plus the Champions League, with live match stats and the ability to dig deep into any player's performance.iOSFootball League – Official Clubs' AppBecause not every English team can be in the Premier League. This covers news for those a bit lower down, with free updates, player profiles and other stats, plus live commentary, match highlights and TV news reports for subscribers.iOS/AndroidSHAMELESS PLUG:The Guardian's official app (iOS/Android) isn't just for football, but it does offer minute-by-minute liveblogs and push-notification goal alerts for your favourite team.GAMESNew Star SoccerNew Star SoccerThe best football game for mobile devices doesn't look like FIFA, it looks like an Amiga game from the 1990s. Don't let New Star Soccer's old-school graphics put you off though: they're part of the charm of this game, where you take control of a single player's career. Simple touchscreen controls combine with ferociously addictive gameplay.iOS/AndroidFIFA 13EA is preparing for the release of FIFA 14 as a free-to-play mobile game, but until it arrives sometime in the Autumn, there's last year's version on iOS. It looks spiffing, includes a host of licensed players and teams, offers online multiplayer and – good for fans of the console version – the Ultimate Team mode. Android owners missed out on this, butFIFA 12 is available on the Google Play store.iOSFootball Manager Handheld 2013On PC, it's the game that spawned a national obsession. But Football Manager is just as suited to smartphone and tablet play, as this latest version shows. Transfers, training and tactics, with the ability to play on the go giving less likelihood of divorce (possibly) for hardcore football management fans.iOS/AndroidFlick Kick Football KickoffTalking of obsession, this is the joint-top game (with Triple Town) in my league table of "missing-my-tube-stop" addiction. The game involves you swiping the screen to curl in free kicks from a variety of angles, past different configurations of defenders. Developer PikPok got the all-important feel just right.iOS/AndroidFluid Football VersusIf you've ever moved salt and pepper pots around a table to explain football tactics, the Fluid Football games are well worth a look. This one's brand new: and sees you challenging friends and strangers alike over the network. The gameplay involves drawing lines to send your players on runs, then flicking for goal.iOS/AndroidTop ElevenSocial football management game Top Eleven has been a huge hit on Facebook, and now on mobile too. It's a similar mix of tactics, transfers and training to other games in the genre, but with millions of real people to pit your wits against.iOS/AndroidReal Football 2013Gameloft's Real Football series has been slugging it out with FIFA and Pro Evo on mobile since the days before the App Store and Google Play. Its latest version adopted a free-to-play model, so besides playing matches you'll be developing your club funded (partly) by in-app purchases of cash and coins.iOS/AndroidI AM PLAYRLike New Star Soccer, this sees you taking control of a single player in a football-meets-roleplaying game. And like Top Eleven, it's plumbed into Facebook for social features. The gameplay is mainly focused on mini-game challenges.iOS/AndroidChamp ManSquare Enix has just revived the Championship Manager franchise on mobile with this free-to-play game, with 21 playable leagues in 11 countries, stripped-down gameplay that aims to get back to some of the classic Champ Man titles, and purchases of in-app credits funding your ambitions.iOSYou Are The RefIf you're a fan of the You Are The Ref cult cartoon strip that appears in The Guardian, definitely pick up this mobile game version. It sees you making refereeing decisions from perusing a variety of situations, drawing on 50 years of artwork from the strip.iOSFANTASY FOOTBALLIn truth, what fantasy football app you choose will depend which game you're already playing: most are companions for online and/or newspaper games rather than standalone experiences. So, there'sSky Sports Fantasy Football(iOS),Telegraph Fantasy Football(iOS/Android),The Sun Dream Team 2013/2014(iOS) andFantasy Football from Metro(iOS) among others.Also worth a look if you're signing up from scratch is the Betfred-affiliatedFantasy iTeam 13-14(iOS/Android) with two separate competitions: one for the Premier League and one for the Champions League.
From the outside looking in, Disney Infinity appears to be a calculated bid by the House Of Mouse to seize a chunk of the audience won over by Skylanders.Like Activision's mega-selling IP, Disney Infinity is a game where players plonk a plastic toy onto a hub-peripheral and a version of it appears on their screen. At first glance it looks like a game built around collectible toys and the 'nag-factor'; while its starter-pack comes bundled with three toys, a hub, the game and a couple of accoutrements, there is also a line of toys sold-separately toys in the retail pipeline, so parents, get ready with those wallets.However, once you spend several hours in the company of Disney Infinity, you realise that it's a game of quite astounding ambition. What Avalanche has tried to do is build a video game that replicates the experience of playing with children's toys in real-life. All the more impressively, for the most part they've been incredibly successful.Disney Infinity is divided between the two modes of Play Set and Toy Box. The former are essentially campaigns set in the different universes of the Disney Infinity toys. Plonk Sulley from Monsters, Inc. on the hub, select his adventure and off to Monsters Universty you go. Switch out for Captain Jack Sparrow and you'll find yourself hunting treasure in the Caribbean.The Play Set adventures themselves aren't exactly compelling. For the most part, they involve the player's character picking up missions from NPCs, accomplishing tasks and unlocking collectibles for the Toy Box mode. The gameplay itself is fairly reminiscent of the Lego series of games, where players engage in the odd spot of platforming and bash practically everything in their environment for shiny swag – here it takes the form of fairy dust XP and coins to buy new toys.There's a decent variety in the Play Sets and they introduce players to the mechanics of each character. Sulley, for example, can sneak up on characters and scare them and, in his quest to pay out the mean folk at Fear Tech (Monsters University's rival uni) he gains access to a gun that fires loo-roll early on.Mr Incredible can smash his fists into the ground to send foes flying and his adventure involves rounding up villains and tossing them in to his super prison.Captain Jack Sparrow is on a quest to stop Davy Jones bagging some buried treasure and his quest contains some rather fun naval battles.It should be pointed out that Play Sets only allow characters from the same universe to play together. This means that if you want to play co-op with a mate, say, in Mr Incredible's campaign, you need to buy a figurine from that movie.Since figurines are £15 a pop, this seems a bit cheeky, and may put some players off the Play Set mode altogether. To be honest, the main reason to play the Play Sets – apart from familiarising oneself with the game mechanics – is to unlock stuff for the Toy Box. You can also play co-op in Toy Box with any characters you like and it's really here, in this marvellous creative tool, that players will truly see what Disney Infinity is capable of.In essence, Toy Box is a 3D game level designer, but to describe it as such feels like I'm woefully underselling the unbridled fun you can have with it. Think of it as a cross between Minecraft, Lego and LittleBigPlanet and you're starting to get the idea.In Toy Box there's a decent selection of component parts and pre-built sets, and any item you find in the Play Sets is automatically available. The pieces themselves are component parts – roads, ramps, houses, castles – but even though you can't build original items from scratch there's still a lot of room for creativity here.It's like virtual play-dough; you can lose several hours crafting an intricate race track filled with pressure pads that miniaturise and then supersize cars as they roll over them. You can lose several more hours positioning cannons around the same racetrack that will fire endless streams of beach balls at the race participants. You can sink an entire afternoon chasing your friend around the amusement park you both built, picking each other up and punting each other into space. The sense of fun in this mode is so childlike it seems to bend time.There are, unfortunately, a couple of stumbling blocks. The platforming, for example, lacks agency and sometimes the characters the player is controlling feel like they're floating on a cushion of air. There's the odd visual glitch here and there and frame rate can slow to a crawl.The fact that players will need to buy an extra figurine before a mate or a family member can join them in a Play Set game feels unnecessarily miserly as does the fact that some content and missions in the Play Sets require more characters to access them. But the biggest fault here is that the game locks away a lot of the content for Toy Box needlessly, demanding players level up before giving them the chance to 'spin' for new items in the Toy Box vault.But, in spite of these concerns, Disney Infinity is a bright, shining gem of a game.It comes as close as any video game can to recreating that starry-eyed sense of fun that comes from simply playing with toys and creating worlds with one's imagination. There's probably a closing comment to be made here about children of all ages, but I'm too dignified to make it. Now if you'll excuse me, I'm off to sail my pirate ship…• The game was reviewed on an Xbox 360.
Sony has put its cards on the table. The PlayStation 4 release date is 15 November in North America and 29 November in Europe.At a packed press conference earlier this week in Cologne, where the monstrous Gamescom event is being held, the company laid out its final pre-release vision for the machine. And it's all about games. Sure, there's a roster of video services (with LoveFilm and BBC iPlayer heading up the UK offering), but whether we're talking discs or digital distribution, triple-A publishers or one-person teams, it is and always has been about games.On the opening day of Gamescom, I'm sitting with Andrew House, the president of Sony Computer Entertainment. At the conference the night before, in front of a global online audience, he had berated Microsoft for the mixed, confused positioning of its Xbox One console launch. At first it was going to be a digital-focused machine, with discs relegated to a secondary position; there would be no traditional pre-owned game sales, there would be a requirement for near-constant internet connection. But in a historic mea culpa the then-president of interactive entertainment, Don Mattrick, backtracked on the harshest of the DRM measures. Sony wasn't going to let this go."While others have shifted their message and changed their story," said House during the press event, "we were consistent in maintaining a message that is fair and in tune with consumer desires."I'm going to get this over with early, I tell him. "Oh no," he says, in mock horror, "when a journalist says that to you, you know it's bad." I bring up the Xbox One dig.Andrew House, Sony Computer Entertainment president and CEO.  Photograph: Jae C Hong/AP"Yeah, I did reference it last night, I did open the door to the question," he admits. And it all goes back to that initial Xbox One proposition, unveiled at the Microsoft campus back in May – that the console would be a digital-media machine, that everything was shifting, that game discs were all but obsolete. The whole thing has been warped and misrepresented since, but the message coming from Redmond was that gamers would have to get used to a new way of purchasing and playing games. We tend to stay away from over analysing what the competition is up to," continues House. "But I'll characterise it this way: I was surprised … we constructed our E3 presentation because there was somehow a suspicion that the policies and approaches taken by our competition would create an industry trend in that direction. The reason we made such a strong statement at E3, and continue to do so, is because we were surprised by that."We thought perhaps slightly naively that the current model worked quite well and was consumer friendly – and our goal was to be consistent on that. But given the speculation that was happening there, it apparently became necessary for us to make a statement and say what our intent was."So, as it was euphorically proclaimed at Sony's E3 press show, PlayStation 4 supports pre-owned game sales and doesn't require online authentication.There are limits to this system, and there was intriguing potential in the Xbox One proposition, but for House the key thing is consistency: "As I said in my presentation last night, we have some very clear and defined goals about what we want this next generation of gaming to be, and what a new platform should deliver; we feel right now that we're on track to deliver that."We also wanted people to tangibly assess how much pent up demand there seems to be for a new generation of games. It's even taken us a little bit by surprise, but I've been hearing it consistently from retailers and publishers."Maybe it's just that the current lifecycle has been rather more prolonged than it has been previously, but there does seem to be this demand. The fact that we've got in excess of a million pre-orders at this stage is a very strong testament to the fact that people are really interested in games, they're interested in new and more powerful consoles and what those can deliver. But also there's an interest in different experiences, which is why we feel embracing the independent developer community is so important to this generation."That has, of course, come across with resounding effect. At both E3 and Gamescom, Sony has given a considerable amount of its conference time to indie titles. This week, amid the Triple A announcements, the company has revealed Everybody's Gone to the Rapture, a spooky apocalyptic adventure from experimental UK studio The Chinese Room. It has revealed a new PS4 title from cult shoot-em-up developer Housemarque – the visually gorgeous Resogun. It shouted about the new Vambleer title, Wasteland Kings; about how indie faves The Binding of Isaac, Guns of Icarus and Rogue Legacy are coming to PS4 in various revamps.Microsoft is now touting its very promising ID@XBox programme, which aims to support smaller studios, but the word at Gamescom has been "It's too late, guys. Sony has land-grabbed the indie scene."But, really, isn't this all about vanity and messaging? Isn't it a seductive wink at those hardcore early adopters? Can indie really make a difference?"I draw an analogy with movies," says House. "There are parallels in the sense that the film business has remained vibrant over the decades because it is characterised both by expensive high-end content from Hollywood, and also by quirky arthouse films with new emerging talent."Two things have changed since the last hardware generation. One is the shift to digital distribution, which has just completely reduced some of those inherent barriers to entry. The second is mobile platforms, which have provided an onramp for developers, a very easy platform on which to engage with small teams."Our goal is to be the platform that embraces both ends of the spectrum; our role should be to offer a creative palette that's equally as engaging to a team of seven people who are just emerging with their first console game as it is to a team of many hundreds backed by a large publisher, working on the latest instalment of a high-end blockbuster. The consumer wants both."The parallel you see is also in TV content: there were theories that the emergence of YouTube would ring the death knell for quality content – but now we have House of Cards and Game of Thrones. Consumers still want these engaging, long-form experiences. The same is true of games."Microsoft has yet to reveal the Xbox One launch date, but it will be in November, at least for North America. It's the closest console face-off for many years, perhaps since the concept of console wars began. For House, this is a good thing – or at least that's what he says."At the risk of sounding over-optimistic, I think there is a huge benefit for the industry overall in having two platforms launch very close together," he says. "It creates a large focus on our form of entertainment that wouldn't exist unless there were these two powerful organisations, both playing in the same space."I think it's already happening in that there's so much strong interest, so much excitement and demand – I mean, over a million pre-orders for PS4 at this stage before launch I think says something very powerful. Competition is a good thing for this industry, offering choice is a good thing. These are all positives."Coming next:Phil Spencer, corporate vice president of Microsoft Studios, gives his take on the console wars – and what Xbox One has in store …
Right from the moment Phil Spencer asks if I picked my jumper to match my shoulder bag, I like him. He has that easy confident charm that plenty of American executives exude – we're sitting in a cramped Gamescom meeting room, a couple of months before the release of his multimillion-dollar games console and yet he is relaxed and affable, slouching back on a low arm chair with calm detachment. Maybe it's a front – we haven't met before, and he must have faced plenty of identikit games journalists prying into Microsoft's Xbox One mistakes, looking for their click-bait headlines.But right now, we're both just sort of looking between my red bag and red jumper."I also accidentally packed a green jumper that matches my trainers," I shrug. "I look like a children's television presenter." He nods damningly.So far, Gamescom has gone well for Microsoft. The day before the conference, the company held a low-key hands-on event for the press; development teams showed off their games, everyone got hands-on time – and then there were the announcements of Fifa and Call of Duty deals, and exclusive content in games like The Division. Plus, the most talked about game at the show so far is Titanfall, a sci-fi shooter that will not be appearing on PS4 – at least for a while.Titanfall: will not be appearing on PS4 – at least for a whileBut I want to find out more about what Microsoft hopes to achieve here and in the weeks leading to the launch of Xbox One. And can the company really put all the negativity behind it?What were your aims at Gamescom this year? What message did you want to get across?The games lineup we're going to have at launch is the strongest we've ever had. There are also more games in development than we've ever had. And you really have to look at what we've done with Fifa – football has a home on Xbox now, and I think that's critical, especially here in Europe. As well as the day one edition pre-order that comes with Fifa 14, the Ultimate Team Legends mode is important.And also there's the independent developer program which we've been working on for two years. If you look at our plan to turn every retail Xbox One into a dev kit – it's not something you turn on late in the development cycle, you have to build the platform with that concept in mind. And we've had a great reception based on our conversations with hundreds of developers over the last few months.What do you really need to tell people outside of this event about Xbox One, especially in the next two months?The critical thing is, what games am I going to be able to play? What will they feel like? The nice thing about Gamescom is that gamers get their hands on the games. It's different from E3, which is more press and retail. In the end, this generation will be defined by great games and great experiences, none of us should get confused about that. It's not really about the hardware itself, or even the controller, it's about what's gonna be on screen. That's why people  buy a gaming console.We focus on a broad entertainment vision – television, gaming, music, video, movies – all in one box, but when you're at Gamescom, you're going to talk about games … and games are critical. We know that the people who are going to line up at midnight to get their box from GameStop are gamers – this is a gaming message. We'll have more entertainment beats in our story between now and launch, but I feel that the gaming promise that we deliver – that's just got to be there.Looking back to the announcement event in Redmond, you led with an entertainment beat ...That was on purpose.But was it the right idea? Was there anything you could have done differently?Sure. Am I going to say everything perfectly to you during this 20-minute interview? No. But we knew right after the announce event that we had E3 coming, and we wanted E3 to be about games. We knew we had a lot of gaming content from first and third parties to show, but [at Redmond] we wanted to announce Xbox One, show the hardware, talk about its full entertainment capabilities, following up days later at E3 with the full games line-up. When you combined those two, you had a more complete picture on what the box was. People say, 'Why didn't you talk about the indie developer programmer?', 'Why didn't you give us a launch date?' You can't give 15 different messages simultaneously. You want to make sure you're telling the complete story at the right time. And I feel good about where we are now … but it is a journey.It's weird because there are two stories that came out of E3: one that Sony won with its very aggressive press conference, and then another, where Xbox One took a huge number of E3 Games Awards… Do you feel that one interpretation got overlooked in favour of the other?I guess I just have a fundamental belief that gamers buy games consoles to play games, and they don't buy them for press events. We're going to lead with the content that we think gamers want – and all of the people on stages, myself included, that's just part of a show. When you land it, the questions people ask are: what am I going to be able to play? What does this console do for me? What are my friends playing? What games are coming? And you know, we have Titanfall coming, we have Halo coming, we have our relationships around Fifa and Call of Duty, and our exclusive games. Those experiences, what the box is capable of … in the end, that's what it is. All of this, this is for people who look inside the business. That's great, I love feedback – and our ability to listen to the feedback and respond has to be a strength while building this platform, it has to be, I can't see it any other way.Gamescom: visitors play Fifa 14 on the Xbox One. Photograph: Ina Fassbender/ReutersOne thing that's really coming across from both Xbox One and PS4 is that ideas and creativity are important rather than technical specifications. No one seems to be counting polygons anymore ...When I stood on the stage at E3 last year announcing Minecraft for the Xbox 360, I had no idea we'd be pushing close to 9m units. But yes, it's really about entertainment. I mean the Blair Witch Project is some guy running around with a handheld video camera – ideas from all over the place become very important. We started indie development with XNA and Live Indie Games – and we didn't do everything perfectly with those two programs, but we learned a lot and we listened a lot and when we wanted to release the independent developer program on Xbox One we wanted to make sure we had all the feedback and learning from them. Then we talked to hundreds of developers and they said it's about discoverability, it's about cost, it's about access to the full platform including cloud and Kinect – they want full access and a team to support them. We're going to listen and come up with the complete program.There are plenty of pundits out there who say all console wars are won on price. You have the more expensive console because you've refused to remove Kinect from the equation. So how do you respond to those people?I think it's always about experience in the end. I'm not discounting price at all, the economy is tough, and buying into the next generation, whether it's us or someone else, is not an insignificant amount of money. I get that. What I say is, we're committed to Xbox One in the long run – we have a long roadmap of features, of games that we're going to bring – and Kinect is critical. We've given Kinect to the biggest developers on the planet and they've integrated it in some very interesting ways; along with Smart Glass which has created some really compelling scenarios.And now we're going to unlock those same creative capabilities in the independent developers. You may remember, when the original Kinect got into the hands of the Windows development community, there was this explosion of creativity. I've really been excited by the number of indies coming to me as part of ID@Xbox and telling me what they want to do with cloud and Kinect – they can only rely on that if they know Kinect is a consistent part of the platform.Gamescom: a gamer tries out Kinect Sports Rivals on the Xbox One. Photograph: Oliver Berg/DPA/CorbisPundits have also been predicting the death of consoles for a couple of years now – we're all supposed to be playing on tablets and smartphones now.I start from the perspective of whether the television in your house is a relic. I love playing games on my Surface, I play games on my iPad and on my phone, but when I come home, I want to play games on my plasma TV, I want those games to be immersive, with sound and visuals that are commensurate to where I am. We've probably got more gamers on the planet now than we've ever had, which I think is great for us. And when you think about how fast you switch between apps and games on your phone – we want to bring that same capability to a television set through Xbox One. That was core to us when we started designing it: how do we make your TV screen a smart screen like any other screen you interact with?In a year's time do you think games will look fundamentally different from how they are now?The part I'm really excited to see is the use of the cloud, and how that changes. Think back to when the Xbox 360 first came out with the blade interface, and look at it now – well that's dramatically changed. Now we're putting hundreds of thousands of servers behind the capabilities of Xbox One which is going to allow game developers of all sizes to really think differently about how they deliver their products and their services, and frankly how we architect the platform as well. That union of the capability of the box and what's behind the box will mean we'll see an even more dramatic change in this generation than we did in the last, as the years go by.Can we ever have a console as successful as PS2 again, one that achieves that level of omnipotence?Omnipotence? I like it.I meant omnipresence! I got the wrong omni word!Absolutely. If you look at the smartphone markets, you have huge scale – they sell these numbers every year. Look at the growth in the console business, the amount of profit that's created – it's a vibrant business. And I'll say again, the influx of more gamers through all these different devices just creates more opportunities. We want to be a platform that enables that.You may disagree on how much of the Xbox One proposition has changed since Don Mattrick issued that statement and reversed some of the digital concepts …Which concepts did he reverse?Well, the idea of daily online authentication, the control and restriction of pre-owned game sales …Okay, so those two specifically.Yes. And the idea of being able to share digital games …We didn't reverse that.But they're in the background now. I wonder how much of that proposition, which was very Steam-like, will come back?We're committed to the digital ecosystem that we talked about at the beginning of Xbox One. Absolutely. That's why I wanted to be clear on what you were referring to with the word 'reversal'. Other people have tried to twist this a little bit, but it's important that we remain in a two-way dialogue with gamers and potential customers about what they would like to see. Consoles today are as much a service as they are an individual purchase – our commitment through Xbox Live and updating the software and keeping the games coming is a long-term service commitment. The service gets better through direct feedback with the people who are using it.What we heard from gamers is that they enjoyed the physical DRM they had with the 360 ecosystem and they wanted to add that to Xbox One. So we added physical DRM to the digital DRM plan that we had. When we did that, maths takes over and some things had to move out. But the core of that digital ecosystem is absolutely something that we believe in, and we haven't reversed it. You'll be able to buy games as physical and digital goods, you'll be able to share games with everybody in your house, and other features that we talked about will definitely be coming down the line.Do you see a future that is purely digital?Well I'm a big Steam fan; you talk about your phone, your tablet, those are all digital ecosystems – it's not like, as consumers, digital ecosystems are foreign to us. But we heard from consumers that they wanted us to also support a physical system as well. So our plan was to continue to grab a lot of the advantages of a digital system while adding in physical. Now, there are some differences that you need to understand: in a digital world, we know which games are yours – as you purchase them online, the license is associated with your account and that gives us unique capabilities in terms of what we can do with that content. When the DRM is on the disc, we don't know that you own that disc and so the capabilities are different. If you're a digital customer and you're comfortable with that, you should invest in being a digital customer on Xbox One, because those advantages will be coming, some at launch and some later. But we're giving you a choice. It's like movies: I happen to be more of a digital customer, through Netflix and pay-per-view, but you can still go and buy Blu-rays and DVDs.What do you think about the idea of pervasive games – are we heading toward a future where there's no such thing as multiplayer and single player, where everything is seamless and organic? I'm really interested in that.Yeah, I share a similar hope. I know not everybody does. I get feedback all the time when any game that was once natively offline gets any kind of online addition. I'm a big Clash of Clans player, a big Dota 2 player – those games are natively online. In the world you're talking about, which I think is very compelling, I want to play a game across every screen I have, wherever I am, and have it all matter. In many service-based games today, the gamers are creating as much of the content as the developers – I think that is extremely compelling. I'm very excited to see Project Spark – it's putting that creativity in your hands. And I want to see that across platforms, I want to play the worlds I create in Spark on my smartphone. I think that whole concept is going to lead to a ton of games that just blow people away.And lets talk about November – the prospect of two consoles going head-to-head. Is that scary? Exciting? Is it good for the industry?I love it. If you think back a couple of years, there were questions about whether big shows like this were meaningful and about where the business was going. I think about E3 this year as one of the most exciting I've been too, and 300,000 people will come through here! It's good for the industry that there's such high awareness – and competition is good for gamers. Head to head in the same month? It's going to be exciting. Maybe you and I could meet in a few years and see what happened?!--And with that, I'm whisked out of the meeting room and Phil waves me away politely and with that insouciant charm. I would very much like to meet him again, after the launch, and see what happened. Microsoft has made some mistakes, but you know, so has Nintendo, so has Sony. Maybe we'll laugh about all this in a few years. But I'll wear a different jumper next time we meet.
